  Case Number:  20STCV36066    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
            Cross-Complainant
Pashyans now move this court for an order continuing trial to February 5, 2024.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED. Trial is continued to March 11, 2024, at 9:00 am. Final Status
Conference is set for February 29, 2024, at 10:00 am. All counsel are to appear
IN PERSON at the Final Status Conference. All expert discovery deadlines will
track the new date, as well as the deadlines for motions in limine and the
preparation of trial documents.
 
            Additionally,
the court sets an OSC re: Dismissal of DOES 1-25 from the Complaint for October
30, 2023, at 8:30 am.
 
            The court
also sets an OSC re: Dismissal of ROES 3-50 from the Pashyan Cross-Complaint for
January 5, 2024, at 8:30 am.
 
            Should the
parties voluntarily dismiss the DOES and ROES before their respective OSC dates,
the OSCs will come off calendar and no appearance will be necessary.
 
            Further,
the court sets an OSC re: Entry of Default as to Cross-Defendants Magic, GV,
and C&C for January 5, 2024, at 8:30 am. Should Cross-Complainant Pashyans enter
the defaults of those three cross-defendants before that date, the OSC will
come of calendar and no appearance will be necessary.
 
            Finally,
the court sets an OSC re: Proof of Service for February 14, 2024, at 8:30 am.
Cross-Defendant Pashyans are directed to file a compliant proof of service on
Cross-Defendant JMB by that date. Cross-Complainant MCR is also directed to file
a compliant proof of service on Cross-Defendant Amyan by that date. Should both
of those tasks be accomplished in advance of the hearing, that OSC will come
off calendar and no appearance will be necessary.
 
Discussion
 
Housekeeping
 
            Before
addressing the request for continuance, there are some case management issues
the parties need to spend some time on.
 
            First, Cross-Complainant
Pashyans have served Cross-Defendants Magic, GV, and C&C. No responsive
pleading from any of those three entities is on file. Yet no move to enter
their default has been made. This issue needs to be taken care of sooner rather
than later.
 
            Second, Cross-Complainant
Pashyans have named Cross-Defendant JMB but have not filed proof of service for
them. If they wish Cross-Defendant JMB to be part of this case, they must do so
immediately. 
 
            Third,
Cross-Complainant MCR has named Cross-Defendant Amyan but has not filed proof
of service for them. If they wish Cross-Defendant Amyan to be part of this
case, they must do so immediately.
 
            Fourth, every
party who brings a complaint or cross-complaint has a time limit of three years
from the date they initially filed their pleading to identify and serve DOE
defendants. Code of Civil Procedure § 583.210(a); Inversiones Papaluchi
S.A.S. v. Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1061. If a
party fails to meet this deadline, the court is obliged to dismiss those
defendants “on its own motion” and “after notice to the parties.” Code of Civil
Procedure § 583.210(a). 
 
Plaintiff’s initial pleading was
filed on September 21, 2023 – Plaintiff’s deadline to identify and serve DOES
has already passed. The Pashyan Cross-Complaint was initially filed on December
24, 2020 – their deadline is coming up in two months. Plaintiff needs to
dismiss the DOES named in the complaint immediately. Cross-Complainant Pashyans
need likewise to either name or dismiss the ROES named in their cross-complaint
soon.
 
Continuance
 
California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1332(a) provides that trial dates are to be treated as
firm. However, Rule 3.1332(c) provides that, although continuances are “disfavored,”
requests should be considered on an individual basis. That subsection also
includes a non-exhaustive list of possible grounds for a continuance.
 
            Defendants base
their motion on Rule 3.1332(c)(1) & (5). Rule 3.1332(c)(1) provides for a
continuance if an essential lay or expert witness is unavailable. Rule 3.1332(c)(5)
provides for a continuance if a new party has been added to the case. Both
subdivisions apply here.
 
            Defendant
Pashyans’ expert witness abandoned the representation almost exactly two weeks
before his scheduled deposition. Finding a replacement expert has proven
difficult, especially since this is an expert-driven, construction defect
matter. 
 
            Further,
Defendant Pashyans have recently brought a new party into the case;
Cross-Defendant California Construction, a subcontractor who they allege failed
to do work for which it was paid. The deadline for that Cross-Defendant to file
its responsive pleading is October 20, 2023. 
 
            The court
currently has 6 other trials scheduled for December 4. Of those, two are older
than this case and one of those absolutely must be tried. Therefore, a
continuance of this case is appropriate. However, the parties’ requested date
of February 5, 2024, is too impacted on the court’s calendar. The next available
date on the court’s calendar is March 11, 2024.
 
            Finally,
Defendant Pashyans have asked that the deadlines for preparing Final Status
Conference documents go with the new dates. That request is reasonable.
Defendant Pashyans have also asked that the expert discovery deadlines track
the new trial date. This request is also reasonable, given that the departure
of an expert forms one of the bases for the continuance.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because
Defendant Pashyans were suddenly abandoned by their expert, because a new party
has recently been brought into the case, and because the court’s own calendar
is impacted, the motion for a continuance is GRANTED. Trial is continued to
March 11, 2024, at 9:00 am. Final Status Conference is set for February 29,
2024, at 10:00 am. All counsel are to appear IN PERSON at the Final Status
Conference. All expert discovery deadlines will track the new date, as well as
the deadlines for motions in limine and the preparation of trial documents.
 
            Additionally,
the court sets an OSC re: Dismissal of DOES 1-25 from the Complaint for October
30, 2023, at 8:30 am.
 
            The court
also sets an OSC re: Dismissal of ROES 3-50 from the Pashyan Cross-Complaint for
January 5, 2024, at 8:30 am.
 
            Should the
parties voluntarily dismiss the DOES and ROES before their respective OSC dates,
the OSCs will come off calendar and no appearance will be necessary.
 
            Further,
the court sets an OSC re: Entry of Default as to Cross-Defendants Magic, GV,
and C&C for January 5, 2024, at 8:30 am. Should Cross-Complainant Pashyans enter
the defaults of those three cross-defendants before that date, the OSC will
come of calendar and no appearance will be necessary.
 
            Finally,
the court sets an OSC re: Proof of Service for February 14, 2024, at 8:30 am.
Cross-Defendant Pashyans are directed to file a compliant proof of service on
Cross-Defendant JMB by that date. Cross-Complainant MCR is also directed to file
a compliant proof of service on Cross-Defendant Amyan by that date. Should both
of those tasks be accomplished in advance of the hearing, that OSC will come
off calendar and no appearance will be necessary.