 Case Number:  24STCV08103    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July
30, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Concepcion Morales Ledesma v. Ford Motor Company, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV08103
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Ford Motor Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Concepcion
Morales Ledesma
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND 
 
            On March 29,
2024, Plaintiff Concepcion Morales Ledesma filed this Song-Beverly action
against Defendants Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) and Galpin Ford (“Galpin”).  In 2023, Plaintiff purchased a 2020 Ford
Explorer (the “Vehicle”) with an express warranty.  As alleged, Ford failed to repair defects in the
Vehicle, and further, concealed defects in the Vehicle at the time of
Plaintiff’s purchase.  The Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Breach of
Express Warranty - Civil Code Section 1793.2(b), (3) Breach of Express Warranty
- Civil Code Section (a)(3), (4) Breach of Implied Warranty, (5) Fraudulent
Inducement - Concealment, and (6) Negligent Repair.  The Sixth Cause of Action is the only cause
of action asserted against Galpin.
 
            On May 20,
2024, Ford filed this Demurrer to the Complaint.  
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Ford replied.
            
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte
v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) 
“Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can
only refer to matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial
notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc.
(2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.) 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
A.   
Meet and
Confer  
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  Defense counsel has
complied with the meet and confer requirement.¿ (See Declaration of Chen Fei
Liu, ¶ 2.)  
 
B.    
Analysis 
 
            Ford
advances two principal arguments in supports of its demurrer: (1) Plaintiff’s statutory
claims (1st-4th) fail because Song-Beverly applies only
to new vehicles and the Complaint does not allege that she purchased a new
vehicle; (2) Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment claim (5th) is not
sufficiently pleaded and barred by the economic loss rule.  The court addresses each challenge in turn.
 
1.     
Plaintiff’s
Statutory Claims Are Sufficiently Pleaded
 
Plaintiff’s first four causes of action are breach of express
warranty, breach of express warranty - Civil Code section 1793.2(b), breach of express
warranty - Civil Code section (a)(3), and breach of implied warranty.  Ford argues that the Song-Beverly Act’s
express warranty provisions apply only to “new motor vehicles,” not Plaintiff’s
used vehicle.  (Demurrer, p. 10.) Ford relies on Rodriguez v. FCA US,
LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez).  As Ford notes, the
California Supreme Court granted review of Rodriguez and, when doing so,
stated that the Court of Appeal opinion “may be cited, not only for its
persuasive value, but also for the limited purpose of establishing the
existence of a conflict in authority that would in turn allow trial courts to
exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court [citation],
to choose between sides of any such conflict.”  (Rodriguez v. FCA US
(Cal. 2022) 295 Cal.Rptr.3d 351.)  Rodriguez has been fully
briefed, but no oral argument date has been set. 
 
A “new motor vehicle” includes “a dealer-owned vehicle and a
‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty.”  (Civ. Code, § 1793.22, subd. (e)(2).)  The Rodriguez
court “acknowledge[d] that in isolation the phrase ‘other motor vehicle sold
with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ could arguably refer to any car sold
with a manufacturer’s warranty still in force,” but it agreed “that context
clearly requires a more narrow interpretation.”  (Rodriguez, supra,
77 Cal.App.5th at p. 220.)  The court noted that “the phrase appears in a
definition of new motor vehicles,” strongly suggesting that “the
Legislature did not intend the phrase to refer to used (i.e., previously sold)
vehicles.”  (Ibid.)  The court also noted that “more
importantly, the phrase is preceded by ‘a dealer-owned vehicle and
demonstrator,’ which comprise a specific and narrow class of vehicles.”  (Ibid.) 
The Rodriguez court therefore concluded that “the phrase ‘other motor
vehicles sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty’ refers to cars sold with
a full warranty, not to previously sold cars accompanied by some balance of the
original warranty.”  (Id. at p. 225.) 
On the other hand, the Court of Appeal in Jensen v. BMW
of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112 (Jensen) previously
concluded that “cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer’s new
motor vehicle warranty are included within its definition of ‘new motor
vehicle.’”  (Id. at p. 123.)  The court determined that “the
words of section 1793.22 are reasonably free from ambiguity” because “[t]he use
of the word ‘or’ in the statute indicates ‘demonstrator’ and ‘other motor
vehicle’ are intended as alternative or separate categories of ‘new motor
vehicle’ if they are ‘sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty.’”  (Ibid.) 
The court also considered the legislative history of the statute due to the
“peculiar grammatical structure” of the section.  (Ibid.) 
After reviewing the amendments to former section 1793.2, documents relating to
those legislative proceedings, and the statutory scheme as a whole, the court
“conclude[d] the plain meaning and the legislative intent are one and the
same.”  (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff also points out that the Second Appellate District
in Stiles v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 913 (Stiles)
likewise held that a previously owned motor vehicle bought with the
manufacturer’s new car warranty still in effect is a “new motor vehicle” as
defined by Civil Code section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2). Thus, the replace or
refund remedy of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d)(2) applies. (Id.)
 The California Supreme Court granted
review of Stiles because “of a related issue in Rodriguez v. FCA US,
LLC, S274625 …”  (Stiles v. Kia Motors
Am. (Cal. July 24, 2024) No. S285433, 2024 WL 3532507, at *1.)  
 
The High Court’s disposition of Rodriguez may very
well be dispositive of Plaintiff’s first four causes of action.  Accordingly, the court is inclined to stay
this action for 180 days to allow the Supreme Court to render an opinion which
may clarify the viability of Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly claims.
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s Fraud
Claim is Deficient
 
The Fifth Cause of Action is for Fraudulent Inducement –
Concealment.  Fraud based on concealment
requires that “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311 (Bigler-Engler);
CACI No. 1901.)  An essential element of intentional concealment includes
the duty to disclose, which must be based upon a transaction, or a special
relationship, between plaintiff and defendant.  (Id. at p. 314.)
“[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure or concealment of facts, it is
necessary to show the defendant¿‘was under a legal duty to disclose
them.’”  (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC World Markets Corp.¿(2007)
157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845 (OCM Principal).) 
 
Ford lodges several attacks to Plaintiff’s fraud claim.  Because the court finds that Ford’s argument
as to the second element, duty to disclose, is dispositive, the court does not
address Ford’s other challenges to the fraud claim.  Ford argues it had no duty to disclose
because there was no direct transactional relationship between Plaintiff and
Ford.  
 
In Bigler-Engler, the plaintiff, Engler, injured her
knee and had surgery.  After the surgery,
the doctor recommended use of an “ice” machine. 
The doctor prescribed the Polar Care 500 ice machine which was
manufactured by defendant Breg, Inc (Breg). 
The ice machine made things worse and caused additional injuries.  Engler sued Breg for intentional concealment.  The jury returned a verdict in plaintiff’s
favor.  The Court of Appeal reversed
finding that Breg did not owe Engler a duty of care. The Bigler-Engler
Court described the circumstances that give rise to a duty of care as follows:
 
 
“There
are¿four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute
actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with
the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts
not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.] Where, as
here, a fiduciary relationship does not exist between the parties, only the
latter three circumstances may apply. These three circumstances, however,
presuppose the existence of some other relationship between the plaintiff and
defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise. [Citation.] A duty to disclose
facts arises only when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the
duty, such as seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and
patient, or parties entering into any kind of contractual arrangement.  [Citation.]” 
 
(Bigler-Engler, supra,¿at p. 311 [cleaned
up].) “Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between
the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the
public at large.”  (Id. at p. 312.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff does not point to any allegation showing or
otherwise suggesting direct dealings between Ford and Plaintiff.  Indeed, Plaintiff appears to concede as much
by arguing that a direct transactional relationship is not required to give
rise to a manufacturer’s duty to disclose material facts.  For this proposition, Plaintiff cites OCM
Principal, supra, 157 Cal.App.4th 835.  Plaintiff misstates OCM Principal.  There, the Court of Appeal stated, “Where . .
. there is no fiduciary relationship, the duty to disclose generally
presupposes a relationship grounded in “some sort of transaction between the
parties.”  (OCM Principal, 157
Cal.App.4th at p. 859.)  This principle
is consistent with Bigler-Engler.  
¿ 
Plaintiff next relies on Dhital v. Nissan North America,
Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828 (Dhital) to argue that strict privity
is not required.  The argument is
undeveloped.  Plaintiff merely quotes the
following passage from Dhital:
 
At
the pleading stage (and in the absence of a more developed argument by Nissan
on this point), we conclude plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient. Plaintiffs
alleged that they bought the car from a Nissan dealership, that Nissan backed
the car with an express warranty, and that Nissan’s authorized dealerships are
its agents for purposes of the sale of Nissan vehicles to consumers. In light
of these allegations, we decline to hold plaintiffs’ claim is barred on the
ground there was no relationship requiring Nissan to disclose known defects.
 
(Dhital, supra, at p. 944.)  Plaintiff then states, without explanation,
that her allegations are sufficient. 
Yet, Plaintiff does not cite any allegations in her Complaint that would
align her case with Dhital. 
Plaintiff does not state whether she purchased the Vehicle from an
authorized dealership or whether the sellers of the Vehicle were Ford’s agents
for the purpose of selling Ford vehicles.  The court is therefore inclined to sustain Ford’s
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action. 
However, given that Plaintiff’s other claims will likely be impacted by
the Supreme Court’s opinion in Rodriguez, the court is inclined to stay
this matter.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Based on the foregoing, the court is inclined to stay this
case for 180 days pending resolution of Rodriguez.  The court will hear from the parties.
 
            Clerk of
the court to give notice.
 
Dated:   July 30, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            