 Case Number:  22STCV36102    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Arthur Little’s Motion to Amend or
Supplement the Third Amended Complaint
Plaintiff Arthur Little moves for leave to
file a fourth amended complaint.
Requests for Judicial Notice
Defendant Regents of the University of
California requests judicial notice of three documents.  The first document is a letter dated August
21, 2024, regarding plaintiff’s whistleblower complaint to UCLA.  (RJN, Ex. A.) 
Judicial notice of this letter is unnecessary because plaintiff
submitted it as an exhibit in support of his motion.  (Gil Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. 3.)  
The other two documents are the University of
California Whistleblower Protection Policy (WPP) (RJN, Ex. B) and UCLA
Procedure 620.1: Whistleblower Retaliation Complaints (RJN, Ex. C).  These records are subject to judicial notice
as regulations issued by a public entity under Evidence Code section 452(b) and
as official government acts under section 452(c).  (See Lachtman v. Regents of University of
California (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 187, 207 [“The Regents of the
University of California have rulemaking and policymaking power, and their
policies and procedures have the force and effect of statute”].)
Defendant’s requests for judicial notice of
Exhibits B and C are granted.
Discussion
            Plaintiff
moves for leave to amend or supplement his complaint to renew his cause of
action for whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5.  On August 20, 2024, the court granted
defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of that cause of action.  The court ruled plaintiff could not succeed
on that claim because, though he began the process of exhausting his internal
remedies as required, that process was incomplete.  
Plaintiff argues he has now completed the
process of exhausting his internal remedies. 
He relies on a letter from UCLA’s Compliance Office dated August 21,
2024.  (Gil Decl., Ex. 3.)  The letter states the Compliance Office
accepted and would investigate several portions of plaintiff’s internal
whistleblower retaliation complaint, but “dismiss[ed] UCLA as a respondent as
entities cannot be a respondent under the WPP.” 
(Id., p. 4.)  In this case,
the defendant is an entity, the Regents of the University of California.  Plaintiff thus contends that the internal
grievance process is over as against any entity, so he may proceed in this
action against this entity defendant.
That the WPP and UCLA’s policy apply only to complaints
against individual employees does not mean plaintiff has now exhausted his
administrative remedies against defendant.  The WPP policy is analogous to the policy in Campbell
v. Regents of University of California (2005) 35 Cal.4th 311 (Campbell),
which provided, “ ‘Any UC employee ... may file a written complaint against
a University employee.’ ”  (Id.
at p. 318, italics added.)  The court
held, “[A]n employee of the Regents of the University of California … must
exhaust university internal administrative remedies before filing suit in
superior court for” whistleblower retaliation under “Labor Code section
1102.5.”  (Id. at p. 317.)
            UCLA
procedure 620.1 policy applies the standards of “the University’s Whistleblower
Protection Policy (WPP)” (RJN, Ex. C, § I), which means the policy applicable
to the entire University of California (RJN, Ex. B).  The WPP defines “Retaliation Complaint” as a
complaint “that includes a Sworn Statement and alleges that a University
employee retaliated by taking an Adverse Personnel Action against the
Complainant.”  (Id., § II, italics
added.)  It prohibits retaliation by “a
University employee” and provides for “appropriate action against employees who
violate th[e] policy.”  (Id., §
III.A.)  The WPP also repeatedly refers
to the “accused employee.”  (Id.,
§§ III.B.3, III.D.2, III.D.4.a-e, III.F.1, III.H.3.)  As in Campell, plaintiff must exhaust
his internal administrative remedy as against individual employees before he
can sue the Regents of the University of California.      
Though UCLA is investigating plaintiff’s complaint as
against specified employees instead of the University itself, it is
investigating the same events for which plaintiff alleges defendant Regents of
the University of California is liable. 
“Even when an administrative remedy does not
resolve all issues or provide complete relief, it still may reduce the scope of
litigation.  [Citation.]  Requiring a party to pursue an available
administrative remedy aids judicial review by allowing the agency to draw upon
its expertise and develop a factual record for the court’s consideration.”  (Plantier v. Ramona Municipal Water Dist.
(2019) 7 Cal.5th 372, 383.)  Finding that
plaintiff has completed the internal exhaustion process in these circumstances
would undermine the policy behind the requirement.
Permitting plaintiff to renew his cause of
action for whistleblower retaliation while his internal grievance process is
ongoing would be futile.  Granting this
motion would therefore not serve the interests of justice.  (See Foroudi v. Aerospace Corp. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 992, 1000 [“ ‘leave to
amend should not be granted where, in all probability, amendment would be
futile’ ”].)
Disposition
            Plaintiff
Arthur Little’s motion for leave to amend or supplement his third amended is denied.