 Case Number:  24STCV22887    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
OriginPoint, LLC and Guaranteed Rate, Inc.’s Motion to Stay Action
Defendants
OriginPoint, LLC and Guaranteed Rate, Inc. move to stay this action by
plaintiff Felix Shiels.    
Request
for Judicial Notice
            Defendants request judicial notice
of two documents.  Both are court records
whose existence and legal effects
are subject to judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(d).  (Steed v. Department of Consumer
Affairs (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 112, 120.)  Defendants’ request for judicial notice is granted.
Background  
On
September 3, 2024, OriginPoint filed a petition in United States District Court
for the Central District of California to compel arbitration under the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) against Shiels. 
(RJN, Ex. 1.)  The petition
asserts that Shiels and OriginPoint agreed to arbitrate claims arising from
their employment relationship.  (Id.,
¶¶ 7-11.)  It further asserts OriginPoint
terminated Shiels for cause within two years of hiring (id., ¶ 24), so
he must repay his $135,000 signing bonus (id., ¶¶ 26-29).  OriginPoint thus seeks to compel arbitration
of its claims against Shiels for breach of contract.  (Id., ¶ 29.)  
On
September 5, 2024, Shiels filed this action against defendants OriginPoint,
LLC, Guaranteed Rate, Inc., and Justin Purpero. 
Plaintiff alleges 13 causes of action arising from his employment,
including whistleblower retaliation, wrongful termination, and violations of
the Fair Employment and Housing Act and the Labor Code.  He specifically alleges, “Months after the termination,
Defendants demanded that Plaintiff repay his ‘signing bonus’ plus interest and
fees, notwithstanding that he did not leave voluntarily and they did not have
cause to terminate him.”  (Comp., ¶ 20.) 
Stay
of Action
            This court has inherent authority to
stay the action.  “It is black letter law
that, when a Federal action has been filed covering the same subject matter as
is involved in a California action, the California court has the discretion but
not the obligation to stay the state court action.”  (Caiafa Prof. Law Corp. v. State Farm Fire
& Cas. Co. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 800, 804.)  “ ‘In exercising its discretion the court
should consider the importance of discouraging multiple litigation designed
solely to harass an adverse party, and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the
courts of other jurisdictions.  It should
also consider whether the rights of the parties can best be determined by the
court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the subject matter,
the availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the proceedings in the
other court have already advanced.’ ”  (Ibid.)  “The California Supreme Court also has
isolated another critical factor favoring a stay of the state court action in
favor of the Federal action, a factor which happens to be present in this
case—the Federal action is pending in California not some other state.”  (Ibid.)
            Before Shiels filed this action, OriginPoint
filed a petition in federal court in California.  Both proceedings include a common, critical
issue: whether OriginPoint properly fired Shiels for cause.  In the federal proceeding, OriginPoint seeks
to arbitrate its claims that it fired Shiels for cause and is therefore
entitled to recover the signing bonus. 
In this action, Shiels alleges he was terminated for retaliatory and
discriminatory reasons—i.e., not for cause.
            The two proceedings will also likely
include another overlapping issue: enforceability of the parties’ arbitration
agreement.  The federal proceeding is a
petition to compel Shiels to participate in arbitration of OriginPoint’s claims
against him.  In this action, defendants assert
they reserve the right to move to compel arbitration of Shiels’s claims if the
court denies this motion.  (Memo., p. 2,
fn. 1.)    
            Litigating this action during the
pending federal proceeding will be inefficient and could result in inconsistent
rulings on the same issues.  The Central
District of California can adequately determine the parties’ rights.  Staying this action serves the interests of
justice.
This
court also has authority to stay this action under the California Arbitration
Act.  Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.4 provides, “If an application has been made to a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, for an order to arbitrate a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State and such application is undetermined, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the application
for an order to arbitrate is determined.” 

OriginPoint,
LLC petitioned the United States District Court for the Central District of
California for an order to arbitrate controversies between it and Shiels.  (RJN, Ex. 1.) 
That controversy includes issues involved in this action for the reasons
discussed above.  
Disposition
            Defendants OriginPoint, LLC and
Guaranteed Rate, Inc.’s motion to stay action is granted.  The court hereby stays the entire
action pending resolution of OriginPoint, LLC’s petition to compel arbitration
in the Central District of California, case No. 8:24-cv-01909.