  Case Number:  22STCV32334    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Lee Ouye’s Motion to Compel
Production of Partnership Books and Records of Mertz Del-Amo
 Plaintiff Lee Ouye, Trustee of the Lee and
Lorraine Ouye Trust Dated June 8, 1994, moves to compel defendant Mertz Del-Amo
(Mertz) to produce all partnership books and records.  Plaintiff contends Mertz agreed to produce
documents in response to his requests for production but has not produced all
responsive documents.  
Plaintiff purports to move for an order
compelling production under Code of Civil Procedure sections 128 and 187 rather
than the Civil Discovery Act.  Plaintiff served
inspection demands under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010, et seq.  To compel production, the relevant statute is
section 2031.320, subdivision (a), which provides: “If a party filing a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling … thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party’s statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance.”  The court
can only grant such a motion if plaintiff shows that Mertz failed to permit the
inspection or produce all responsive documents in its possession, custody, or
control.   
Plaintiff does not meet his burden.  He provides no evidence that Mertz possesses
responsive documents that it has not produced or made available for inspection.  Plaintiff’s only evidence in support of this
motion is the declaration of his counsel, John S. Manzano, who merely
authenticates various documents (Manzano Decl., ¶¶ 5-18) and makes a conclusory
statement that Mertz “has failed to produce all its partnership records
requested” (¶ 19).  Plaintiff submits no
evidence about the documents Mertz possesses and did not produce.  Mertz, meanwhile, presents evidence detailing
the efforts its agents took to search for and produce documents and attesting
that they produced all responsive documents they could find.  (Hegge Decl., ¶¶ 4-12; Joffe Decl., ¶¶ 5-7;
Tanner Decl., ¶¶ 2-18.)
Disposition
Plaintiff Lee Ouye’s motion to compel
production of partnership records is denied.Defendants William J. Beverly, Trustee of the Mertz Living Trust Dated April 7, 1983, and Kenyuen Leung’s Demurrer to Second Amended ComplaintDefendants William J. Beverly, trustee of the Mertz Living Trust dated April 7, 1983, and Kenyuen Leung demur to the second amended complaint’s sixth cause of action for partition.  They demur on the basis that plaintiff Lee Ouye has no standing because he has no direct interest in the real property he seeks to partition.  Rather than owning a direct interest in the property, plaintiff is a general partner of Mertz Del-Amo (SAC, ¶ 2), a partnership that owns a large interest in the subject property (¶ 12).  Generally, only “[a] co-owner of property” may bring an action for partition.  (LEG Investments v. Boxler (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 484, 493.)  But Code of Civil Procedure section 872.730 provides, “To the extent that the court determines that the provisions of this title are a suitable remedy, such provisions may be applied in a proceeding for partnership accounting and dissolution, or in an action for partition of partnership property, where the rights of unsecured creditors of the partnership will not be prejudiced.”  (Accord Brown v. Fairbanks (1953) 121 Cal.App.2d 432, 439.)  Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action seeks dissolution of partnership and accounting against Mertz Del-Amo, the partnership that owns most of the real property subject to the partition claim.  If he succeeds on that cause of action, he may also be able to show that partition is a suitable remedy.  Plaintiff thus alleges sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for partition of the subject real property.  DispositionDefendants William J. Beverly, trustee of the Mertz Living Trust dated April 7, 1983, and Kenyuen Leung’s demurrer to the second amended complaint is overruled.  Defendants shall answer within 15 days.