 Case Number:  22STCV20297    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Martinez v. Winfield
22STCV20297
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Subpoena
Tentative
The motion is granted
BACKGROUND
This case arises out of a motor vehicle accident on January 16,
2021, near the intersection of South Western Avenue and West 89th Street in Los
Angeles.  
On June 21, 2022, Uriel Calzada Martinez (“Plaintiff”) and Aracely
De Los Santos filed the Complaint in this action, asserting causes of action
for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against Defendants Jerome
Winfield (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50.  
On April 19, 2023, Defendant filed his Answer to the Complaint.
On June 29, 2024, Defendant issued a deposition subpoena for
testimony and the production of documents to the Workers’ Compensation Appeals
Board (“WCAB”).  (Taban Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. 1.)
 
On July 1, 2024, Defendant noticed the deposition of the Whates
Law Firm, the law firm that had represented Plaintiff in a workers’
compensation matter.  (Id., ¶ 8 & Exh. 3.)  No
subpoena to the Whates Law Firm was served on Plaintiff.  (Id.,
¶ 8.)
 
On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash the
subpoena issued to WCAB and the subpoena that was presumably issued to the
Whates Law Firm.  Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.  Plaintiff
filed an amended motion on July 18.
 
The motion came on for hearing on August 14.  The Court continued the hearing to September
6 and ordered a briefing schedule for the opposition and reply.
 
Defendant filed
an opposition on August 21.  Plaintiff
filed a reply on August 29.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 1987.1(a) states:  
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.“
 
“[I]n making
an order pursuant to motion made … under Section 1987.1, the court may in its
discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or
opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds
that the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was
oppressive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff argues the subpoenas are improper
for at least three reasons: (1) the discovery cut-off date has passed; (2)
Defendant failed to serve a copy of the subpoena with the notice of deposition
on Whates Law Firm; and (3) the notice of deposition failed to specify the
matters to be discussed during the deposition. 
The first ground asserted by Plaintiff is
dispositive.  Fact discovery closed on April
3, 2024. (See Minute Order dated August 8, 2024.)  Fact discovery has remained closed.  (Ibid.)  There was no basis for Defendant to issue
deposition subpoenas or notice depositions for fact witnesses in June and July
2024.  
In opposition, Defendant concedes that a deposition
subpoena was issued and served on WCAB after the discovery cutoff.  (See Capell Decl., ¶ 16.)  Counsel states that the “it does not appear”
that the subpoena issued to Whates Law Firm was ever served.  (Ibid.)  Nonetheless, Defendant argues that the motion
should be denied because the subpoenas seek relevant information.
The relevance, or importance, of the
information sought is not the issue.  The
issue is the timing.  Fact discovery must
be completed prior to the discovery cutoff. 
Defendant moved to extend the cutoff, but the motion was denied.  No matter how important Defendant may believe
the information sought to be, there is no justification for issuing subpoenas or
noticing depositions more than two months after the discovery cutoff.
Accordingly, the motion to quash is
granted.
Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendant under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a).  The request is granted in part.  The Court rejects the argument of Defendant
that he acted in good faith and with substantial justification because there was,
at the time, a motion pending to reopen discovery.  If the motion had been granted, then, and
only then, Defendant could at that time have issued and served the subpoenas.  But there was no justification for, and no
good faith, in issuing these subpoenas and noticing the depositions when discovery
was closed.  Moreover, the Court finds that issuing
subpoenas months after the fact discovery cutoff is oppressive conduct that
supports an award of sanctions under the statute, and that a number of the
requirements of the subpoena issued to WCAB are oppressive.  
The Court sets sanctions in the amount of $1,561.65,
based on five hours of attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s reasonable
billing rate of $300 per hour, plus the $61.65 reservation fee.  (See
Taban Decl., ¶ 11.)
CONCLUSION
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Uriel Calzada Martinez’s motion to
quash the subpoenas issued to Workers Compensation Appeals Board and the Whates
Law Firm.
 
The Court QUASHES the subpoena issued by Defendant on June 29,
2024 to Workers Compensation Appeals Board.
 
The Court QUASHES the subpoena issued by Defendant to Whates Law
Firm on or about July 1, 2024.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
The Court ORDERS Defendant’s counsel Gates, Gonter, Guy, Proudfoot
& Muench, LLP, to pay monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $1,561.65
within 30 days of notice.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.