  Case Number:  20STCV22758    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  29 Conley v. Thornton
20STCV22758
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Nonparty Witness Spalding Multi-Specialty Surgery
Center, LLC to Appear for Deposition.
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Nonparty Witness Mobin Medical Corporation dba
Mobin Neurosurgery to Appear for Deposition.
Tentative
The motions are denied without prejudice.
Background
On June 16, 2020, Tilton Conley, II, (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Latoya Lynn Tarver Thornton, J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc.
(collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of action
for negligence, negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, negligent
entrustment, and punitive damages arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on July 30, 2018.  
 
On May 14, 2021, Defendants filed an answer.
 
On July 31, 2024, Defendants filed
these two motions, seeking orders compelling nonparties Spalding
Multi-Specialty Surgery Center, LLC (“Spalding”) and Mobin Medical Corporation
dba Mobin Neurosurgery (“Mobin”) to appear for deposition. No opposition has
been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
“Any party may
obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
The process by which a party may obtain discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd.
(b).)  
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
A
nonparty must be personally served with a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd.
(b).)  Service must be completed “a
reasonable time” in advance of the deposition and, when documents are
requested, “a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the
deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce” the documents.  (Id., subd. (a).)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served fails
to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240 [contempt
and an action for civil damages under section 1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60 days after
the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd. (b).)
“If the
court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery,
it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil
Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the
discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.”  Where a
party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery process, the court may
impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order
directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification.”¿ 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer questions or produce documents
“must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty
deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
Discussion
Defendants
file these motions to compel nonparties Spalding and Mobin to comply with
deposition subpoenas.
 
On June
5, 2024, Defendants issued a deposition subpoena to Mobin for testimony and a
deposition subpoena to Spalding for testimony and the production of
documents.  (Wu Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs.
A.)  Both depositions were set for June
26.  (Id., Exhs. A.)  The subpoenas were personally served on both
of the nonparties on June 6.  (Ibid.)
 
Subsequently,
Defendants’ counsel communicated with Ryan Evans, counsel for the nonparties, and
the depositions were rescheduled for July 17, 2024.  (Id., ¶¶ 4-6, 11-13 & Exhs. C-F, J-M.)  Counsel for the nonparties reached out on the
morning of July 17 and stated that the depositions could not go forward due to “unforeseen
circumstances.”  (Id., ¶¶ 8, 15 &
Exhs. H, O.)  Neither Spalding nor Mobin appeared
for deposition on July 17.  (Id., ¶¶ 9,
16 & Exhs. I, P.)  
 
Defendants
filed these two motions on July 31.  According
to the proofs of service, Defendants served Mr. Evans, counsel for the nonparties,
by mail and email.  Defendants also
served an agent for service of process for each nonparty by mail.  
 
That is
not proper service.  Nonparties must be personally
served with a motion to compel.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1346.)  Mail service on
an agent for service of process is not adequate.  Nor is mail or email service on counsel.  Mr. Evans has not appeared in this action for
either of the nonparties, and a statement by counsel that he represents his
clients is not the equivalent of a representation that he is authorized to
accept personal service of a motion to compel on behalf of his clients.
 
Accordingly,
the Court must deny these motions without prejudice.
 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES without prejudice Defendants’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of nonparty witness
Spalding Multi-Specialty Surgery
Center, LLC. 
The Court DENIES without prejudice Defendant’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of nonparty witness
Mobin Medical Corporation dba Mobin
Neurosurgery. 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.