 Case Number:  21STCV17395    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 7, 2021, Plaintiff Deborah Russell (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Oscar Castillo (“Castillo”), Deming Antonio Ingles (“Ingles”), D
Exports LSR (“D Exports”), and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
December 16, 2021, Defendants Castillo, Ingles, and D Exports (“Defendants”)
filed an answer. 
On
August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed (1) a notice of motion to quash Defendants’
deposition subpoenas for Plaintiff’s employment records from the Law Offices of
Karen P. Donahoe and for sanctions and (2) a notice of motion to quash
Defendants’ deposition subpoenas for Plaintiff’s employment records from Alan
Matkins and for sanctions.  The motions
were set for hearing on October 20, 2023. 
The Court continued the hearing to January 4, 2024.  
On
October 9, 2023, Defendants filed oppositions. On October 13, 2023, Plaintiff
filed replies. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to quash the deposition subpoenas for her employment records
from Law Offices of Karen P. Donahoe and Alan Matkins. 
Defendants
ask the Court to deny the motions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g),
provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records. 
* * * 
“No witness or deposition officer shall be required to
produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been
brought by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action is
pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . .
.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides: 
“(a) Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making
an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements
of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
As a
general rule, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action is discoverable if it would be admissible evidence at
trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.) 
When
a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to privacy,
limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and financial
matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the litigant’s
right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to maintain
reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is discoverable. (Ibid.) 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following. 
On
or about April 5, 2021, at the 105 East Freeway and Garfield Avenue in
Paramount, California, Castillo, an employee of Ingles and D Export, crashed his
vehicle into the back of Plaintiff’s vehicle while Plaintiff was at a complete
stop. 
The
collision was caused by Castillo’s recklessness, carelessness and negligence.  Castillo violated Vehicle Code section 22350,
drove at an unsafe speed, failed to observe due care and precaution, failed to
maintain proper and adequate control of the motor vehicle, and failed to keep a
proper lookout for other vehicles.  As a direct and proximate result of Castillo’s
negligence and carelessness, Plaintiff suffered serious, painful and permanent
bodily injuries, great physical pain and mental anguish, severe and substantial
emotional distress, and loss of the capacity for the enjoyment of life.  Plaintiff has been and will be required to
undergo medical treatment and to incur medical costs and expenses in order to
alleviate injuries, pain and suffering, has been and will be precluded from
engaging in normal activities and pursuits, and has lost earnings and earning
capacity. 
B.   Subpoenas 
On
July 26, 2023, Defendants served deposition subpoenas on Law Offices of
Karen P. Donahoe and
Alan Matkins requesting Plaintiff’s employment records. The subpoena served on Law
Offices of Karen P. Donahoe included a request for “incident reports, including
disciplinary action taken.”  The Court
did not receive a copy of the deposition subpoena served on Alan Matkins but it
evidently also asked for records involving disciplinary actions and incident
reports. 
C.   Analysis 
Plaintiff
has filed notices of motion asking the Court to quash deposition subpoenas
served on Law Offices of Karen P. Donahoe and Alan Matkin for Plaintiff’s
employment records.  Plaintiff argues the
deposition subpoenas’ requests for records involving incident reports and
disciplinary action violates Plaintiff’s privacy rights, is overbroad, and is
not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
Although
Plaintiff’s notices of motion refer to a “forthcoming motion” and “forthcoming
Memorandum of Points and Authorities; the forthcoming Declaration of Gonzalo
Morales, Esq.; [and] the forthcoming Separate Statement of Issues,” Plaintiff
did not file these motions and supporting documents with the Court.  Plaintiff served a motion to quash the
deposition subpoena served on Law Offices of Karen P. Donahoe and supporting
documents on Defendants, who have included copies of these documents in their
opposition to that motion.  However,
Plaintiff did not serve a copy of a motion to quash the deposition subpoena
served on Alan Matkins on Defendants and the Court does not have a
copy of that motion.  (See Mermelstein
Dec. ¶ 8.) 
Nonetheless,
Defendants have addressed Plaintiff’s arguments on the merits, waiving the
procedural defects in the motions. 
Defendants
argue that records involving incident reports and disciplinary action “are
relevant because they are records that have a tendency to identify prior injury”
and “documents of this sort have a high likelihood of containing information
regarding prior injuries.”  Defendants
provide no further argument or support for this assertion. 
“Confidential
personnel files at a person’s place of employment are within a zone of
privacy.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:308, p. 8C-110.) 
Having
weighed Plaintiff’s privacy interests against Defendants’ right to conduct
discovery, the Court grants the motion and quashes the deposition subpoenas to
the extent they seek records concerning disciplinary action or incident
reports. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Deborah Russell’s motion to
quash the deposition subpoena served by Defendants Oscar Castillo, Deming
Antonio Ingles, and D Exports LSR on Law Offices of Karen P. Donahoe.  The Court quashes the deposition subpoena’s request for “incident
reports, including disciplinary action taken.” 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Deborah Russell’s motion to quash the deposition
subpoena served by Defendants Oscar Castillo, Deming Antonio Ingles, and D
Exports LSR on Alan Matkins.  The Court
quashes the deposition subpoena’s request for records of incident reports and disciplinary
action. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Deborah Russell’s requests for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.