 Case Number:  23TRCV03240    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 1, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03240
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Lowell Barber;
Sharon Goodlow v. Los Angeles World Airports, et al.        
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, Lowell Barber and Sharon
Goodlow
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants,
City of Los Angeles (which includes Los Angeles World Airports, a department
within the City of Los Angeles)
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set.
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Leave to File First Amended Complaint 
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED; Plaintiff shall file the FAC within 10 days as a
stand-alone pleading rather than as an attachment to the motion.  Court to discuss CMC scheduling at the
hearing.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs, Lowell
Barber and Sharon Goodlow (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Defendants, Los Angeles World Airports, a municipal entity, City of Los
Angeles, a municipal entity, 9139249 Canada, Inc., a California corporation dba
Bus.com, Pacific Coast Sightseeing Tours and Charters, Inc., a Florida
corporation, and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint alleges causes of action
for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Hiring/Retention/Supervision and Training;
and (3) Vicarious Liability of Public Entity for Negligent Hiring, Training,
Retention, and/or Supervision – Gov. Code § 815.2
 
Now, Plaintiffs move on a Motion for
Leave to File a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On July 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Motion for Leave to Amend and file First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). On July 24,
2024, Defendant, City of Los Angeles (which includes Los Angeles World
Airports, a department within the City of Los Angeles) (collectively “City”) filed
an opposition brief. To date, no reply brief has been filed. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            Along with their moving papers, Defendant City filed a
request for judicial notice, requesting this Court take judicial notice of the
following: 
 
1.     
Claim for Damages Form of Plaintiff Sharon
Goodlow;
2.     
Claim for Damages Form of Plaintiff Lowell
Barber.
 
The Court GRANTS this request and takes judicial notice of the
above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The
policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so
strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.     Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
seek leave to file their FAC to add a newly discovered Plaintiff and factual
allegations. Plaintiffs contend that during discovery, they discovered another
company was also involved in the day-to-day operation of the Fly Away Bus
service. Accordingly, Plaintiff seeks to add Four Seasons, LLC, to the subject
lawsuit. Further, in compliance with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,
subds., (a) and (b), Plaintiffs filed: (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment (Declaration of Erik Harper (“Harper Decl.”), ¶ 3, Exhibit A); (2) specifications
by reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be deleted and added
(Motion, p. 2.) 
 
            In
City’s opposition brief, it argues that Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for
vicarious liability of public entity for negligent hiring, training, retention,
and/or supervision – Government Code section 815.2 fails. City contends that
Plaintiffs seek to hold them and LAWA vicariously liable for the conduct of
independent contractors, but no such liability exists under the Government Tort
Claims Act. City argues that in their motion, and in the proposed FAC,
Plaintiffs cite to no relevant statute imposing an obligation on the City’s or
LAWA’s employees to oversee the hiring, training, retention, and/or supervision
regimes of any of the independent contractor defendants. This Court notes that
City’s opposition does not appear to be an opposition a motion for leave to
file FAC, but instead appears to be raising points that would be typically
addressed in a demurrer or motion to strike. Plaintiffs are not adding the
third cause of action – it was already present in their original complaint – and
thus, raising issues of its insufficiency are not proper on this motion. 
 
            Because
the City filed an Answer rather that a demurrer to the original Complaint,  the grounds for the City’s opposition to a
motion to change one defendant and add an allegation against another party is
curious, but the changed allegation does seem to implicate the City’s vicarious
liability concerns because of the allegation in paragraph 10 of the proposed
FAC that City contracts with Fly Away Buse Service and that the proposed new
defendant is “involved” in the operations of the Fly Away Bus service.  By making these amended allegations,
Plaintiff accepts the risk that a party who previously answered would be given
the opportunity to demur to the amended complaint.  With that understanding, the Court’s
tentative ruling is to GRANT the motion for leave to file the FAC, to order Plaintiff
to file the FAC within 10 days as a stand-alone pleading rather than as an
attachment to the motion, and to anticipate a demurrer shortly thereafter.  The Court thus will continue the CMC and
discuss scheduling at the hearing.  
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File her First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED, Plaintiff shall file the FAC within 10 days as a
stand-alone pleading rather than as an attachment to the motion, and to discuss
future CMC scheduling at the hearing.
 
            Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice. 
 
 
 
 