 Case Number:  24TRCV00354    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 1, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00354
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        IZ
& Co., Inc. v. Vinh Automobile Services, Inc., et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, IZ &
Co., Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Vinh Automobile Services, Inc. dba Next Level Auto
Center, et al.  
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not
Set.
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Deny.  However, the Court will offer counsel at the hearing the option of orally arguing
the very newly decided Quach case or having a brief continuance to
consider and brief its effect.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
February 1, 2024, Plaintiff, IZ & Co., Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants, Vinh Automobile Services, Inc., a California corporation
doing business as Next Level Auto Center, Ken Chang, Vinh Hoang, and DOES 1
through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Conversion; (2)
Fraud (Deceit); (3) Breach of Written Contract; (4) Restitution for Unjust
Enrichment/Quasi-Contract; (5) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing; (6) Money Had and Received; and (7) Unfair Business Practices –
Business & Professions Code § 17200. 
 
Before
the Court now is Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants, Vinh Automobile
Services, Inc., dba Next Level Auto Center, Vingh Hoang, and Ken Chang
(collectively, “Defendants”) to submit Plaintiff’s complaint and Defendants’
cross-action to arbitration pursuant to the parties’ contractual arbitration
provision. 
 
B.
Procedural 
 
On June 26, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this motion to compel arbitration. On July 18, 2024, Defendants filed an
opposition brief. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections to
Defendants’ Declaration of Scott Adrian and Ken Chang 
Sustain: None – only because supplemental,
signed declarations were subsequently filed. 
 
Overrule: all.
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law incorporates many
of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, which (until
a 2024 SCOTUS decision) included a policy favoring arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  Until last week, “California law,
‘like [federal law], reflect[ed] a strong policy favoring arbitration
agreements and requires close judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner
Const. Co. v. Pacific Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
The continuing viability of Wagner Construction
in cases where the party opposing arbitration raises a waiver defense is now in
question, in light of the California Supreme Court’s decision a few days ago in
Quach v. California Commerce
Club, Inc. (Cal., July 25, 2024, No.
S275121) 2024 WL 3530266.  In that very
recent decision, filed after the briefing on this motion was completed, the
California Supreme Court ruled that “in determining whether a party to an
arbitration agreement has lost the right to arbitrate by litigating the
dispute, a court should treat the arbitration agreement as it would any other
contract, without applying any special rules based on a policy favoring
arbitration.”  (Quach, supra, 2024
WL 3530266, at *9.)  The Quach Court
also instructed trial courts that “there is no requirement that the party
opposing enforcement of the contractual right demonstrate prejudice or
otherwise show harm resulting from the waiving party's conduct.”  (Id at *10.) 

If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.   
Arbitration
Agreement 
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts
that it has brought this motion to compel arbitration on the grounds that the
subject Retail Installment Sales Contract contains an Arbitration provision.
The parties do not disagree that an arbitration agreement is present in a
contract between them. However, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has waived
arbitration, and that not all of the claims contained in the lawsuit are
subject to the arbitration agreement, and thus, the case is subject to the
possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues if others
are forced into arbitration.
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (a), Defendants argue this Court
should deny Plaintiff’s motion on the grounds that the right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner. Defendants contend that Plaintiff
is the first party to bring this lawsuit which was the first act inconsistent
with an intent to invoke arbitration. Next, Defendants assert that Plaintiff
also propounded seven (7) different types of discovery requests, with dozens of
individual requests, and one (1) subpoena for bank records, Plaintiff
threatened motions to compel discovery – all argued by Defendants as
substantial engagement in the litigation process inconsistent with a party
wishing to invoke arbitration. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff
unreasonably delayed seeking arbitration and thus, engaged in gamesmanship by
seeking arbitration only after a cross-complaint was filed and only after several
discovery issues arose. Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s actions constitute
the type of situation in which courts have found prejudice to exist – when the
petitioning party uses/participates in litigation to get information and then
petitions for arbitration when it faces having to give discovery responses. 
 
            In
its reply brief, Plaintiff argues that although there is no single test for the
type of conduct which may waive arbitration rights, the conduct must have
caused prejudice to the opposing party. Plaintiff asserts that Defendants have
not suffered any prejudice, and that the discovery previously propounded by it
was scant, and Defendants did not respond to the Requests for Production of
documents. Plaintiff emphasizes that it has not even filed a responsive
pleading to the Cross-Complaint because the instant motion is pending and the
case is still in its infancy. 
 
            Applying the Quach case to
fact presented here, one might argue that Plaintiff finds itself in the same
position as defendant Commerce Club did in Quach, i.e., “Rather
than moving to compel arbitration at the outset of the case, Commerce Club
answered the complaint and propounded discovery requests, suggesting it did not
intend to seek arbitration.”  (Quach,
supra, 2024 WL 3530266, at *11.)  Here,
Plaintiff had the option of selecting its chosen forum “at the outset.”  Given that the word “arbitration” appears in
the very caption of the subject retail installment sales contract, Plaintiff
can hardly claim now that it failed to realize that there was an arbitration
provision when Plaintiff selected the court system to resolve its dispute with
defendants rather than selecting an arbitration forum.  Not only did Plaintiff eschew arbitration at
the outset, it deployed a series of discovery procedures available in the court
system, like the moving party in the Quach case.  The parties briefed and argued the claimed
prejudice or lack of prejudice suffered by Defendants, but under Quach the
purported prejudicial impact of delaying to move to compel arbitration is no
longer a factor for the Court to consider. 
Arbitration agreements are now on the same footing as any other contract
for purposes of considering a waiver defense to arbitration of a litigated
dispute, with no special rules for arbitration contracts as had been the directive
of many published decisions before last week’s. 

 
            The
Court will offer counsel at the hearing the option of orally arguing this newly
decided case or having a brief continuance to consider and brief its effect, particularly
since the Court’s tentative after considering Quach is to find waiver by
conduct and deny the motion.
 
            Next,
Plaintiff also argues that the allegations and causes of action in the
complaint are each bound by arbitration. Here, the arbitration agreement
provides that the parties are to arbitrate “any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute or otherwise…which arises out of or relates to
[Plaintiff’s] credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle…” (Plaintiff’s
Motion, Exhibit A.) In opposition, Defendants argue that the claims contained
in this lawsuit are not all subject to the arbitration agreement and that since
some of the causes of action would remain out of arbitration, the case is
subject to the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual and legal
issues. 
 
For example, Defendants
note that though Defendant Ken Chang signed the arbitration agreement on behalf
of Next Level Auto Center, Defendant Vinh Houng did not, and is therefore arguably
not subject to being ordered into arbitration. Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure § 1281.2(c), “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also
a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party,
arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there
is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. For
purposes of this section, a pending court action or special proceeding includes
an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to arbitrate after the
petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or before the date of the
hearing on the petition.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2(c).) This issue is not
addressed by Plaintiff in its reply brief. As such, the Court requires oral
argument on this topic during the hearing. The Court has jurisdiction to send
some of the defendants to arbitration and stay the case pending that
resolution. However, the Court would like to hear Plaintiff’s arguments as to
severing the arbitrable issue/parties or keeping everything together. 
 
 