 Case Number:  23TRCV00346    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 1, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00346
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Cecilia
Tapia De Ulloa, et al. v. Michael K. Newman, M.D., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D. and Association
of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group (incorrectly named and served as
South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc. 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Cecilia Tapia De Ulloa
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        April 28, 2025
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Summary Judgment,
or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication 
(2)
Continued hearings on the RFA motion and the motion to compel plaintiffs’
depositions
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Continue.  The
parties were recently in front of the Court on an ex parte application to
continue the hearing on this same MSJ, which the Court granted but without the
benefit of knowing when several depositions were scheduled, i.e., within days
of Plaintiff’s opposition deadline. 
Further, there are correctible problems with moving defendants’
objections to evidence and Plaintiff’s opposing expert witness declaration that
appear to justify a postponement of the MSJ hearing as well.     
                                                (2) The Court awaits
a report on counsel’s meet-and-confer efforts since the prior hearings on these
discovery motions
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiffs, Cecilia Tapia De
Ulloa and Edwin J. Ulloa, as individuals and as successors in interest to
Natalia C. Ulloa filed a Complaint against Defendants, Michael K. Newman, M.D.,
South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc., Jason K. Ho, M.D., Michael Mercado, M.D.,
Providence Medical Institute Manhattan Beach Urgent Care, and DOES 1 through
100. The Complaint alleges a cause of action for Medical Malpractice/Wrongful
Death and Survival Action. 
 
Defendants, Michael K.
Newman, M.D. and Association of South Bay Plastic Surgeons Medical Group
(incorrectly named and served as South Bay Plastic Surgeons, Inc. (“Moving
Defendants”) now files a Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
B.    
Procedural¿¿ 
On April 11, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a
Motion for Summary Judgment. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition
brief. On July 25, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply brief. 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections to Moving Defendant’s Evidence: 
Overrule: all
 
Sustain: none.
 
Moving Defendant’s
evidentiary objections to Plaintiffs’ Evidence: Discuss
 
            The moving
defendants list 5 objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence submitted in opposition to
the MSJ, including wholesale objection to the entirety of Dr. Schusterman’s
declaration, a wholesale objection to “all documentary evidence” submitted by
Plaintiffs, and then objections to each of paragraphs 11, 12, and 13 of the
Schusterman Declaration.  Presenting the
objections in this wholesale way makes it challenging for the trial court since,
as a general rule, objections must be made to specific exhibits, specific paragraphs
of a declaration, or pages and lines from cited deposition testimony.  These challenges are correctible if the Court
continues the MSJ hearing.   
For example, moving
defendants object to the entirety of the Schusterman Declaration on hearsay and
foundation grounds, but less than all of the declaration is objectionable.  Surely even moving defendants would agree
that an expert witness has foundation to testify about his education, areas of
practice, and a list of the records on which she or he relies in giving
opinions.  The Court thus would not
sustain Objection No. 2, the wholesale attack on the Schusterman Declaration, because
it lacks sufficient specificity to enable an accurate ruling.  Moving defendants’ wholesale Objection no. 1 suffers
form a similar problem, as again the objection lacks the requisite specificity
as to which documentary evidence is being referenced.  Do defendants object to the excerpted transcript
of the deposition testimony of Dr. Newman or is that transcript not
“documentary evidence” embraced by objection no. 1?  Defendants included in the wholesale
objection another item of documentary evidence, i.e., another transcript of a
deposition, that of Dr. Del Vecchio.  The
stated ground for that sub-objection is that the transcript is a rough,
uncertified, and unsigned transcript.  As to the Del Vecchio deposition, Mr. Rogari’s declaration
indicates it was only taken on July 15, 2024 and thus a certified copy was not
yet available when the Plaintiff’s opposition to the MSJ was due.  Again, the problem
is a correctable one so the Court tentatively intends to discuss whether the
MSJ hearing should be continued until a signed, certified copy could be
provided instead of the rough transcript. 

            It appears to the Court that the
thrust of the defense evidentiary objections are to the “publication” by Dr.
Schusterman of LCOM and South Bay Plastic Surgeons records, based on the Second
District’s decision in Garibay v. Hemmat (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 735, and
to Dr. Shusterman’s opinions contained in paragraph 11, 12 and 13 to the extent
that those opinions are predicated on the medical records because of the
holding in Garibay.  In Garibay,
the Court reversed a trial judge’s granting of a motion for summary judgment in
a medical malpractice case where the “sole support for the summary judgment
motion was Dr. Frumovitz's medical expert witness declaration.”  (Id. at pp. 741–742.)  The Second District’s concern was that none of
the medical records, nor the operative note reviewed and relied upon by the
standard of care expert there, “were in evidence,”  i.e., properly authenticated to be admissible
under the business records exception to the hearsay rule.  Because Dr. Frumovitz’s declaration purported
to state the facts of medical procedures that he had not performed or witnessed
himself, and because the chronology of events and procedures stated in the
medical records were the bedrock of his opinion testimony, the Garibay
Court found most of the expert witness declaration to be objectionable hearsay
and lacking foundation.  
            The instant case is not a carbon
copy of the fact pattern in Garibay, which was decided nearly a decade
before the seminal expert-publishing-hearsay decision of People v. Sanchez (2016)
63 Cal.4th 665.  Here, plaintiff does not
rely exclusively on the expert declaration but rather there is other evidence
cited by Plaintiff’s opposition including the declaration of percipient witness
Nicollette, a certified copy of the death certificate per Mr. Rogari’s
declaration, excerpts from the moving defendant Dr. Newman’s own deposition, exhibits
to the Newman deposition which he authenticated, and other evidence.   Moving
defendants properly object to Dr. Schusterman’s declaration to the extent that
he purports to state under penalty of perjury matters of which he obviously
lacks personal knowledge.  While an
expert can give opinions after reviewing hearsay, she or he cannot “publish”
the hearsay as their own facts when the relied-upon material is case-specific
rather than background, general knowledge. 
(See Sanchez, supra, 63 Cal.4th at p. 685-86.)  An expert can “publish” case-specific facts
as long as there is a hearsay exception that lays the foundation for the expert
to relate those facts in her or his declaration or trial testimony.  Because Plaintiff has not provided the
medical records much less the custodian of record certification of the
authenticity of the medical records, a number of passages in Dr. Schusterman’s
declaration, including his “Review fo Case” section of his declaration, are
objectionable in its current form under both Garibay and Sanchez.  Whether Garibay’s rule that an expert
who relies on hearsay for her or his medical opinion has “no evidentiary value”
in light of the California Supreme Court’s decision in Sanchez will be a
point for counsel to discuss in oral argument.
Tentative Ruling
            The Court’s intended ruling is to
continue the hearing on the MSJ, giving plaintiff the opportunity to prepare a
revised declaration of Dr. Schusterman, giving both side the opportunity to
await the receipt of a final, certified transcript from Dr. Del Vecchio, giving
moving Defendants the opportunity to prepare revised objections to evidence, and
giving the Court the opportunity to prepare a substantive tentative ruling on
the merits.  With the trial nearly nine
months away, a continued hearing would still give all parties ample time to
prepare for trial and to pursue settlement discussions if the motion is denied
on the merits, or giving Plaintiff a much cleaner record for appeal if the Court
were to grant the dispositive motion. 
The Court does not believe additional briefing is required but will hear
from counsel as to whether each side would prefer to file an updated opposition
and reply brief in light of the Court’s views on the Schusterman declaration
and the objections to the opposition evidence by moving defendants.
      