 Case Number:  22STCV04326    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  B  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



LIZZA SCHLUMBRECHT,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KAREN SOLOMON and DOES 1 to 50,
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


Case No.: 22STCV04326
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL 
 
Dept. B
1:30 p.m. 
July 8, 2024



 
 
1. Background
            On
February 3, 2022, Plaintiff Lizza Schlumbrecht (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants Karen Solomon and DOES 1 to 50 (“Defendants”), alleging
causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle and (2) General Negligence.   
Defendant Solomon,
at this time, moves for an order continuing the trial to March 4, 2025 and continuing
all trial-related dates. The motion has been fully briefed by the parties. 
2. Preliminary Issues 
            Plaintiff argues the motion should be denied on
procedural grounds because the deadline to serve the motion was June 10, 2024
but she was served on June 12, 2024. Although the motion was not served on
Plaintiff 18 days prior to the scheduled hearing date in accordance with Code
of Civil procedure Section 1005(d), Plaintiff was served only two days late and
has opposed the motion on the merits. 
            Therefore,
the Court will exercise its discretion and rule on the merits below. 
3. Motion to Continue Trial 
a. Legal
Standard
            Pursuant
to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c): the court may grant a continuance
for “good cause,” which includes: (1) unavailability of an essential lay or
expert witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; (2)
unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; (3) unavailability of trial counsel due to death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances; (4) substitution of trial counsel required in
the interests of justice; (5) addition of a new party or other parties in
regard to a new party’s involvement hasn’t had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; (6) party’s excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or (7) significant, unanticipated change in the status of the
case as a result of which indicates the case is not ready for trial. (Cal.
Rules Ct., Rule 3.1332(c).)¿¿ 
¿¿           Other
relevant factors to be considered may include: “(1) the proximity of the trial
date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or
delay of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested;
(4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; (5) the prejudice that parties
or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; (6) if the case is
entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; (7) the
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; (8) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial; (9) whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; (10) whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and (11) any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application” (Cal. Rules Ct., Rule
3.1332(d).)¿¿ 
¿¿           “A
trial court has great discretion in the disposition of an application for a
continuance. Absent a clear abuse of discretion, the court’s determination will
not be disturbed.” (Estate of Smith v. Atkinson (1973) 9 Cal.3d 74, 81.)
“Such discretion is abused, however, where the lack of a continuance results in
the denial of a fair hearing.” (Rankin v. Curtis (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d
939, 947.)¿
b. Discussion
 Here, the trial is currently set for September
18, 2024, which is two months away. Defendant Solomon requests a seven-month
continuance to allow the motions to quash subpoenas filed by Plaintiff to be
heard, to get depositions completed, and to conduct/compel medical examination
of Plaintiff regarding new alleged injuries. The Court notes that the parties
have previously stipulated to three continuances since the commencement of this
instant lawsuit. However, the interests of justice supports a continuance of
the trial date as currently set. First, the discovery cut-off date is August
19, 2024 and two of Plaintiff’s motion to quash subpoenas are not set to be
heard until August 2, 2024. The outcome of these motions will determine whether
Plaintiff needs to produce the requested records or Defendant Solomon needs to
reissue subpoenas. Furthermore, there are depositions of witnesses they have
not been completed due to scheduling issues. Moreover, Plaintiff has placed her
medical condition at issue in this case, thus complete records for her surgery
and other treatment related to the alleged injuries are relevant to determine
the veracity of her claims. As such, Defendant Solomon has shown good cause for
the proposed continuance in that it will allow for a trial on the merits. 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant Karen Solomon’s Motion to Continue Trial is GRANTED. The
trial is continued to March 4, 2025.
Moving Defendant is
ordered to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated this 8th day of July,
2024







 


 




 


Hon. Karen
  Moskowitz
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 