  Case Number:  21STCV19154    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  B RICHARD CABRERA-LARA V. ARBOL
GRADING, INC., ET AL.
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date of Hearing:          July 8, 2024                             Trial
Date:       August 16, 2024
Department:               B                                              Case
No.:         21STCV19154
 
Moving Party:             Defendant
Arbol Grading, Inc. dba Arbol Construction (“Arbol”) 
Responding
Party:       Unopposed
  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from Plaintiff Richard
Cabrera-Lara (“Plaintiff”) allegedly sustaining injuries while working on a construction
project on May 12, 2020 at 2451 Summitridge Drive, Beverly Hills, California. Plaintiff
alleges that he sustained injuries while assisting with the cleaning of a
heavy-duty drill.
 
On May 20, 2021, Plaintiff filed a
Complaint against Defendants Arbol Grading, Inc. dba Arbol Construction
(“Arbol”), Melt De La Paz, Inc. (“Melt”), Miguel Mitchell (“Mitchell”), and
Does 1 to 100, inclusive (collectively, the “Defendants”), alleging a single
cause of action for General Negligence. 
 
On April 15, 2022, State Farm Fire and
Casualty Company (“State Farm”) filed a Motion for Leave to File a Complaint-in-Intervention.

 
On June 24, 2022, Defendant Melt filed
its Answer to the Complaint. Also, on such date, Defendant Melt filed a
Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action
for: (1) Indemnity; (2) Contribution; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On July 29, 2022, Defendant Arbol filed
its Answer to the Complaint. 
 
On September 7, 2022, the Honorable
Audra Mori sitting in Department 31 at Spring Street Courthouse granted State
Farm’s Motion for Leave to Intervene. (09/07/22 Minute Order.)  
 
On September 9, 2022, State Farm filed
a Complaint-in-Intervention against Defendants Arbol, Melt, and Mitchell
alleging causes of action for: (1) General Negligence; and (2) Products
Liability.  
 
On September 22, 2022, Defendant Melt
filed its Answer to the Complaint-in-Intervention. 
 
On October 6, 2022, Defendant Arbol
filed its Answer to the Complaint-in-Intervention. 
 
On April 12, 2024, Defendant Arbol
filed and served the instant Motion for Summary Judgment as to the Complaint
(the “Motion”).[1]
The Motion is made on the grounds that Defendant Arbol is not the proper entity
defendant; Defendant Arbol did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care under the
circumstances and did not breach any alleged duty; and Defendant Arbol’s
conduct was not the actual or legal cause of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. 
 
On June 5, 2024, this action was
reassigned from the Honorable Michelle C. Kim to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz
sitting in Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East effective June 24, 2024. 
 
As of July 2, 2024, no opposition brief
has been filed. Any opposition brief was required to have been filed and served
at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.
(b).) Given that the Motion is unopposed, an inference is created that the
motion is meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th
1403, 1410.) 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
The Motion
for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”) filed by Defendant Arbol Grading, Inc. dba
Arbol Construction is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
The function of a motion
for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether
an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and
to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67.) 
A cause of action has no
merit if “[o]ne or more of the elements of the cause of action cannot be
separately established, even if that element is separately pleaded.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1).) A defendant has met its burden in showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the defendant “has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) Once the defendant has met its burden, “the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)

“As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense.” (Scalf v. D.
B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the defendant
has met its burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25
Cal.4th 826, 849.)  
“The summary judgment
statute [is] not intended nor can it be used as a substitute for existing
methods in the trial of issues of fact.” (Travelers Indemn. Co. v. McIntosh (1952)
112 Cal.App.2d 177, 182.) The summary judgment “procedure is drastic and should
be used with caution.” (House v. Lala (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d 412, 415.)
“Any doubt in granting summary judgment should be exercised against the moving
party.” (Ibid.) 
Judicial Notice
The Court GRANTS Defendant
Arbol’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code §§ 452, 453.)  
Issue No.1: Negligence
Cause of Action  
“Actionable negligence
is traditionally regarded as involving the following: (1) a legal duty to use
due care; (2) a breach of that duty; and (3) the breach as the proximate or
legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Suarez v. Pacific Northstar
Mechanical, Inc. (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 430, 437.) “The threshold element
of a cause of action for negligence is the existence of a duty to use due care
toward an interest of another that enjoys legal protection against
unintentional invasion.” (Ibid., citations omitted.) “Whether this
essential prerequisite to a negligence cause of action has been satisfied in a
particular case is a question of law to be resolved by the court.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted.) 
“A tort, whether
intentional or negligent, involves a violation of a legal duty, imposed
by statute, contract or otherwise, owed by the defendant to the person
injured.” (Romero v. Superior Court (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078,
emphasis in original.) “Absent a legal duty, any injury is an injury without
actionable wrong.” (Ibid.) “While it is the province of the jury, as
trier of fact, to determine whether an unreasonable risk of harm was
foreseeable under the particular facts of a given case, the trial court must
still decide as a matter of law whether there was a duty in the first place,
even if that determination includes a consideration of foreseeability.” (Ibid.,
citations omitted.) “Duty, being a question of law, is particularly amenable to
resolution by summary judgment.” (Ibid., citation omitted.) 
In determining the
existence of a duty, the trial court evaluates “the foreseeability of harm to
the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the
closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury
suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, the policy of
preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.” (Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d
108, 112-13.) 
Defendant Arbol’s Evidence

Given that the Motion is
unopposed, all the facts set forth in Defendant Arbol’s Separate Statement of
Undisputed Facts are undisputed. 
Defendant Arbol presents
the following undisputed material facts: Defendant Arbol was founded by
President Alexander Shvartsman in 2017 and was a licensed general contractor
that specialized in grading construction sites. (UMF Nos. 1-2.) On or about
October 7, 2022, Defendant Arbol was completely and formally wound up and
dissolved, in part, because the company was no longer being used and no longer
had any contracts. (UMF No. 3.) Defendant Melt is an excavation contractor and,
at all times relevant in the Complaint, Defendant Mitchell was an employee and
drill operator for Defendant Melt and not Defendant Arbol. (UMF Nos. 4-5.) 
At all times relevant,
Plaintiff was an ironworker for Cruz Concrete Stone, Inc. (“Cruz”), a masonry
and rebar contractor on the Project. (UMF No. 6.) Plaintiff generally alleges
that, on May 12, 2020, he was working on a home construction site located at or
near 2451 Summitridge Drive, Beverly Hills, CA (the “Property”). (UMF No. 7.)
Plaintiff alleges that, on the date of the subject accident, Defendant
Mitchell, who was allegedly drilling large holes in the ground for Defendant
Melt, asked Plaintiff to assist with measurements and to help him clean an
auger drill that Defendant Mitchell was operating. (UMF No. 8.) While Plaintiff
was helping to clean the drill, the auger drill allegedly turned on and crushed
two of Plaintiff’s fingers. (UMF No. 9.) Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges one
cause of action for general negligence against Defendants. (UMF No. 10.) 
Defendant Arbol presents
the undisputed material fact that it did not have any involvement in the subject
construction project. (UMF No. 11.) Defendant Arbol did not own, lease, occupy,
or control the Property or the project site in any manner, including at the
time of the alleged accident. (UMF No. 12.) Defendant Arbol did not have any
employees at the time of the subject accident and did not employ, train,
provide, supervise, direct, control, or undertake for the safety of any of the
workers at the project site, including Defendant Mitchell or Plaintiff. (UMF
Nos. 13-14.) Defendant Arbol did not own, supply, lease, maintain, service,
control, or operate any equipment or machinery at the project site, including
the drill/auger machine that Plaintiff claims caused or contributed to his
alleged injuries in connection with the subject accident. (UMF No. 15.) At the
time of the accident, the drill/auger machine that Plaintiff claims caused or
contributed to his alleged injuries was owned by Commercial Credit Group, LLC
and leased by Defendant Melt. (UMF No. 16.) Defendant Arbol was not hired to
and did not perform any work in connection with the project and did not have
any active contracts at the time of the project and subject accident. (UMF Nos.
17-18.) 
Analysis
The
Court finds that Defendant Arbol has met its burden in showing that it did not
owe Plaintiff a duty of care. Defendant Arbol has presented evidence that it was
not involved at all in the subject project; did not have any affiliation or
association with the equipment that allegedly injured Plaintiff; and did not
own, lease, operate, or control the Property. 
 
Given
that Plaintiff has failed to oppose the Motion, Plaintiff has not met his
burden in showing a triable issue of material fact as to the issue of duty of
care. Thus, as a matter of law, the Court finds that Defendant Arbol did not
owe Plaintiff a duty of care.
 
The
Court also finds that Defendant Arbol has shown that it did not breach a duty
of care or cause Plaintiff’s injuries. “[I]f a defendant’s negligence was a
substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm, then the defendant is
responsible for the harm.” (Yanez v. Plummer (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 180,
187.) “[C]onduct is not a substantial factor in causing harm if the same harm
would have occurred without that conduct.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant
Arbol has presented evidence that it did not breach a duty of care and that it was
not a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. (UMF Nos. 1-18.) Given
that Plaintiff has failed to oppose the Motion, the Court finds, as a matter of
law, that Defendant Arbol did not breach a duty of care or cause Plaintiff’s
injuries. (See Thompson v. Sacramento City Unified School Dist. (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1352, 1366; see also Whiteley v. Philip Morris Inc. (2004)
117 Cal.App.4th 635, 694.)  
 
The
Court also finds that Defendant Arbol has presented evidence that it cannot be
held vicariously liable for Plaintiff’s injuries. “Under the doctrine of
respondeat superior, an employer is liable for the torts of his employees
committed within the scope of their employment.” (Halliburton Energy
Services, Inc. v. Department of Transportation (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 87,
93-94, citations omitted.) Defendant Arbol has presented evidence that it did
not have any employees at the time of the subject accident and had no
association whatsoever with the subject construction project. Defendant Arbol
has also presented evidence that it did not employ, train, provide, supervise,
direct, control, or undertake for the safety of any of the workers at the
project site. As such, there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether
Defendant Arbol can be held vicariously liable. Defendant Arbol has presented
evidence showing that Defendant Mitchell was not its employee or agent.
Plaintiff, as stated above, has failed to oppose the Motion. Thus, Plaintiff
has presented no evidence to show the existence of a triable issue of material
fact as to the issue of vicarious liability. 
 
Given
Plaintiff’s lack of opposition to the Motion, Plaintiff has conceded all of the
arguments raised therein as “[c]ontentions are waived when a party fails to
support them with reasoned argument and citations to authority.” (Moulton
Niguel Water Dist. v. Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215.) 
 
Accordingly,
the Motion is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the Motion
is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 


