  Case Number:  22TRCV01549    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
BERNICE
  BELL, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01549




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DON’S
  FROZEN EXPRESS, INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 9,
2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Don’s Frozen Express, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Non-Party Anphon Medical Center to Comply with Deposition Subpoena
for Production of Business Records
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Non-Party Medvantage Orthocare, LLC to Comply with Deposition
Subpoena for Production of Business Records
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motions are GRANTED.  
The court orders that Anphon
Medical Center comply with the deposition subpoena issued by defendant Don’s
Frozen Express, Inc. on May 8, 2023 within 15 days. 
The court orders that Medvantage
Orthocare, LLC comply with the deposition subpoena issued by defendant Don’s
Frozen Express, Inc. on May 8, 2023 within 15 days.
BACKGROUND
On December 21, 2022, plaintiffs
Bernice Bell and Daniel Bell filed a complaint against Don’s Frozen Express,
Inc. and James Gibson Olay for motor vehicle negligence and negligence based on
a motor vehicle accident that occurred on December 22, 2020, at 134th
Street and Western Avenue, in Gardena. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 1987.1(a) states, “[i]f a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders.  In addition, the court may make
any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable
or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of
privacy of the person.” 
CCP § 1985.3(b) states that, prior
to the date called for in the subpoena duces tecum for the production of
personal records, the subpoenaing party shall serve or cause to be served on
the consumer whose records are being sought a copy of the subpoena duces tecum,
of the affidavit supporting the issuance of the subpoena, if any, and of the
notice described in subdivision (e) (notice to consumer), and proof of service
as indicated in paragraph (1) of subdivision (c). 
            “[U]pon motion reasonably made by
the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compelling
compliance with, subpoenas.”  Lee v.
Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal. App. 4th 575,
582-83.  Either the nonparty witness who
has been subpoenaed or any party to the action may challenge the deposition
subpoena.   Weil & Brown, Civ.
Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:597.   
DISCUSSION
Defendant Don’s Frozen Express,
Inc. requests an order compelling non-party deponents Anphon Medical Center and
Medvantage Orthocare, LLC to comply with defendant’s subpoenas demanding
production of plaintiff Daniel Bell’s medical records.
Defendant asserts that in
plaintiff’s response to form interrogatories served on June 30, 2023, plaintiff
identified as having received treatment related to the incident from Anphon
Corporation in Inglewood on February 2, 2022, March 30, 2022, May 26, 2021,
June 28, 2021, and October 1, 2022. 
Plaintiff also identified Medvantage Orthocare for a walking cane on
October 14, 2021.  See Abel Rugamas
decl., Exh. B (Form Interrogatory No. 6.4).
On May 8, 2023, defendant issued deposition
subpoenas on Anphon Medical Center and Medvantage Orthocare, LLC, for
production of medical records.  Anphon
was served on May 22, 2023.  Medvantage
was served on June 21, 2023.
Defendant asserts that Lexitas
(subpoena service) called Anphon multiple times as to the status of production
and sent a check for $25 for costs. 
Defendant further asserts that Lexitas attempted to contact Medvantage
several times after the production date but did not receive a response.  Defendant contends that as of the filing of
the motions, neither Lexitas nor defense counsel has received any records from
Anphon or Medvantage.  
            Medical records are protected by the
right to privacy.  Although relevance is
typically construed liberally (see Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior
Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 169), the standard is more stringent when a
party is attempting to discover documents which are constitutionally protected
by the right to privacy, such as consumer records:   
[E]ven when discovery of private
information is found directly relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it
will not be automatically allowed; there must then be a careful balancing of
the compelling public need for discovery against the fundamental right of
privacy.  . . . [I]f an intrusion on the
right of privacy is deemed necessary under the circumstances of a particular
case, any such intrusion should be the minimum intrusion necessary to achieve
its objective . . . [meaning] the least intrusive means to satisfy the
interest.  Mere convenience of means or
cost will not satisfy that test for that would make expediency and not the
compelling interest the overriding value. 
Lantz
v. Superior Court
(1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854-1855 [internal quotes and citations omitted].  This is true even where the party asserting
the right to privacy is the party who brought the suit.  See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 842 (“While the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a
partial waiver of one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the
scope of such waiver must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so
that plaintiffs will not be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits . . . .
[A]n implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only
discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.”.)  The burden
is on the party seeking the constitutionally-protected information to establish
direct relevance.  Harris v. Superior
Court (1992) 3 Cal. App. 4th 661, 665. 
The court finds that the subpoenas were
properly served, and that deponents failed to respond.  Defendant has also shown good cause.
The motions are GRANTED.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.