 Case Number:  23TRCV00381    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 December 6, 2023¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00381
(related to Case No. 23IWUD02179)
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        (1)
Juanita Canche Pech v. Lucila Parra, et al.; 
(2) Antonio Trujillo v. Lucila Parra,
et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Lucila Parra 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant/Plaintiff Antonio Trujillo
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        23TRCV00381
– Not Set.
23IWUD02179 – March 13, 2024 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Consolidate  
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Motion to Consolidate is
DENIED, without prejudice.  Given the status
of the quiet title action, it is premature to seek consolidation 
 
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Factual¿¿ 
 
This motion
involves two cases. First, Case No. 23TRCV00381, Juanita Canche Pech v. Lucila Parra
and the Second case No. 23IWUD02179, Antonio Trujillo v. Lucila Parra, et
al.
 
            Defendant
Lucila Parra filed this Motion to Consolidate contending each case arises from
a common question of law and fact. Parra argues that the action for unlawful
detainer should not be decided until after the Quiet Title action has been
decided, as the latter action will determine who holds title to the Subject
Property – and subsequently who has the immediate right of possession for the
unlawful detainer purposes. 
 
B.    
Procedural 
 
On November 8, 2023, Lucila Parra filed this Motion to
Consolidate. On November 21, 2023, Antonio Trujillo filed an opposition. On November
27, 2023, Lucila Parra filed a reply brief. 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            In
opposition, Antonio Trujillo requested this Court take judicial notice of the
following: 
 
1.      Grant
Deed recorded on October 14, 2016. (Exhibit 1). 
2.      Deed
of Trust recorded on October 14, 2016 (Broker Solutions Deed of Trust)(Exhibit
2)
3.      Deed
of Trust recorded on December 13, 2022 (Skyline Deed of Trust) (Exhibit 3)
4.      Full
reconveyance of the Broker Solutions Deed of Trust, recorded on December 16,
2022 (Exhibit 4.)
 
The Court GRANTS Antonio Trujillo’s request and takes
judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part: 
 
(1) A notice of motion to consolidate must: 
(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of those
who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; 
(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and 
(C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated. 
 
(2) The motion to consolidate: 
(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of
determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case; 
(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
(C) Must have a proof of service
filed as part of the motion. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350,
subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section
1048, states in relevant part: 
 
(a)  When actions involving a common question of law
or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of
any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. 
 
(b)  The court, in furtherance of convenience or to
avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).)  
 
The granting or denial of the
motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will
not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner
v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)  
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Preliminarily, the Court notes that
the Lucila Parra has complied with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.350 as her
notice of motion: (1) listed all of the named parties in each case, the names
of their respective attorneys, and the names of those who have appeared; (2)
filed their motion containing the captions of both cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and (3) is filed in
each case sought to be consolidated. Moreover, the
motion itself is a single motion, including memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers are filed in the lowest numbered case, served on all
attorneys of record and all non-represented parties in all cases, and Lucila
Parra has filed a proof of service. 
 
            Here, Lucila Parra
argues that an unlawful detainer action mandates that all issues of title and
fraud must be resolved before a homeowner can be removed from their home by an
unlawful detainer action. The Court disagrees; the general rule is that only a
limited inquiry into the landlord or UD plaintiff’s title is made in an
eviction lawsuit.  However, there are
some limited exceptions.  Parra argues
that a UD action not only assumes these issues have been resolved, but also,
that it is mandatory that the issues in an unlawful detainer be only about mere
possession and damages. Parra also argues that the instant Quiet Title case is
far from straight forward as none of the issues have been resolved. However,
this Court has indicated in its November 15, 2023, minute order that it does
not believe Plaintiff can maintain a cause of action for quiet title against
Defendant Trujillo as he appears to be a bona fide purchaser and the title of
the home does not appear to be in question. Lucila Parra relies on Martin-Bragg v.
Moore (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 367 and Asuncion v. Superior Court (1980) 108 Cal.App.3d 141 . 
 
            In Martin-Bragg, the plaintiff brought an unlawful
detainer action against the defendant, alleging the plaintiff's ownership of
the property; the defendant subsequently filed suit against the plaintiff
seeking quiet title to the property, alleging that the parties were longtime
domestic partners, that the property was rightfully his and had been in his
family before his relationship with the plaintiff, and that the title had been
held by a third party and transferred to the plaintiff in 2004 in trust as a
business arrangement for the benefit of the defendant and his corporations. (Martin-Bragg,
supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at
p. 371.) The Martin-Bragg trial court ended up insisting upon a summary trial of the
parties' title dispute. (Id. at p. 387.) The appellate court reversed
the trial court, finding that the defendant's rights were compromised by the
summary nature of UD proceedings that were designed only to determine the
straightforward issue of a landlord's right to possession. (Id. at p.
395.) 
 
Further, in Asuncion, the plaintiff
brought an unlawful detainer action against the defendant homeowners, who filed
a complaint alleging fraud against the plaintiff. (Id. at pp. 142-43.)
The Asuncion court provides: "[i]t is generally
recognized the summary unlawful detainer action is not a suitable vehicle to
try complicated ownership issues involving assertions of fraud and deceptive
practices such as the Asuncions allege here." (Id. at p. 144.) The court
ultimately held that "homeowners cannot be evicted, consistent with due
process guaranties, without being permitted to raise the affirmative defenses
which if proved would maintain their possession and ownership" and raised
several options to move forward, including staying the unlawful detainer action
until the issue of title is resolved in the accompanying unlimited action, or
consolidation of the actions. (Id. at pp. 145-47.) 
 
            The Court notes that Lucila Parra’s
answer in the unlawful detainer case does not allege any affirmative defenses
indicating that title is in question. Although the Court does see that Juanita
Canche Pech does indicate that she is raising some sort of issue of title in
her answer in the unlawful detainer case, Juanita Canche Pech is not the
individual bringing this Motion to Consolidate the cases. Moreover, as
indicated above, this Court has sustained the demurrer indicating that Trujillo
is likely a bona fide purchaser. As such, the civil action for quiet title
currently has no causes of action at issue until the potential filing of the
Second Amended Complaint. Thus, this motion is premature. Because of each of
these issues, this Court DENIES the Motion to Consolidate, without prejudice to
the motion being renewed when there is a pending quiet title case.
 
¿¿¿ 