 Case Number:  24AHCV00017    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR  PRELIMINARY INJUNCTIONI.        INTRODUCTION
          On January 3, 2024, Plaintiffs Geoffrey Hanes Wall and Kang
Seung Lee filed a complaint against Defendants Maria Manuela Florez and Gustavo
Adolfo Florez. On July 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a first amended complaint
(FAC), alleging causes of action for Nuisance, Trespass, Violation of the Ralph
Civil Rights Act, Violation of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act, Assault, Battery,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Negligence. The FAC claims
that Defendant Gustavo, the son of Defendant Maria, has a well-documented
history of violent and threatening behavior towards his family and neighbors
which predates Plaintiffs’ move into the neighborhood. Gustavo is alleged to
have a reputation for using his large dogs to follow, chase, threaten, and
intimidate neighbors, prompting multiple police reports and complaints to city
representatives. 
The
FAC alleges that upon moving onto their property, Plaintiffs immediately
noticed multiple dogs in Defendants' backyard, which allegedly barked, howled,
and yelped excessively for several hours at all times of day. The FAC also
claims that animal control visited Defendants’ property multiple times and
removed dogs for being unlicensed or exceeding the allowable limit of four dogs
as per L.A. County Code § 10.20.038, subd. (A). Despite these actions, the dog
noise reportedly persists. Additionally, the FAC alleges that Defendants threw
rocks and other objects at Plaintiffs' property and shouted derogatory epithets
at Plaintiffs, who are gay men. Furthermore, Plaintiffs allege that on May 26,
2024, Defendants sprayed them with water while shouting, “You’re not getting a
dime out of me!”
The
Court is now considering a motion by Plaintiffs for preliminary injunction. The
motion is granted but the requested relief is modified.
 
          II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
          Plaintiffs’ Objections to Defendants’ Evidence:
                    SUSTAINED: 10, 27
                    OVERRULED: 1-9, 11-26, 28-46
 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
An
injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to refrain from a particular
act; it may be granted by the court in which the action is brought, or by a
judge thereof; and when granted by a judge, it may be enforced as an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc., §525.) An injunction may be more completely
defined as a writ or order commanding a person either to perform or to refrain
from performing a particular act. (See Comfort v. Comfort (1941) 17
Cal.2d 736, 741; McDowell v. Watson (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1155, 1160.)
It is an equitable remedy available generally in the protection or to prevent
the invasion of a legal right. (Meridian, Ltd. v. City and County of San
Francisco, et al. (1939) 13 Cal.2d 424.)
The
purpose of a preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final
resolution upon a trial. (See Scaringe v. J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc. (1988)
205 Cal.App.3d 1536; Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th
1313, 1316; Major v. Miraverde Homeowners Assn. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
618, 623.) The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable,
uncontested status which preceded the pending controversy. (Voorhies v.
Greene (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 989, 995, quoting United Railroads v.
Superior Court (1916) 172 Cal. 80, 87; 14859 Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn.
v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.)
A
preliminary injunction is issued after hearing on a noticed motion. The
complaint normally must plead injunctive relief. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§526(a)(1)-(2).) Preliminary injunctive relief requires the use of competent
evidence to create a sufficient factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See
e.g. Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150.)
Injunctive relief may be granted based on a verified complaint only if it
contains sufficient evidentiary, not ultimate, facts.  See CCP §527(a). For this reason, a pleading
alone rarely suffices. (Weil & Brown, California Procedure Before Trial,
9:579, 9(ll)-21 (The Rutter Group 2007).) The burden of proof is on the
plaintiff as moving party. (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)
A
plaintiff seeking injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate
damages remedy at law. (Code Civ. Proc., §526(4); Thayer Plymouth Center,
Inc. v. Chrysler Motors (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307; Department of
Fish & Game v. Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation Dist (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1565.) The concept of “inadequacy of the legal remedy” or
“inadequacy of damages” dates from the time of the early courts of chancery,
the idea being that an injunction is an unusual or extraordinary equitable
remedy which will not be granted if the remedy at law (usually damages) will
adequately compensate the injured plaintiff. (Department of Fish & Game
v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist. (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 1554, 1565.)
In
determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction, the trial court
considers two factors: (1) the reasonable probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the merits at trial, and (2) a balancing of the “irreparable harm”
that the plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared
to the harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a
preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc., §526(a)(2); 14859 Moorpark
Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402; Pillsbury,
Madison & Sutro v. Schectman (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1279, 1283; Davenport
v. Blue Cross of California (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446; Abrams v.
St. Johns Hospital (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 628, 636. Thus, a preliminary
injunction may not issue without some showing of potential entitlement to such
relief. (Doe v. Wilson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 296, 304.) The decision to
grant a preliminary injunction generally lies within the sound discretion of
the trial court and will not be disturbed on appeal absent an abuse of
discretion. (Thornton v. Carlson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1255.)
A
preliminary injunction ordinarily cannot take effect unless and until the
plaintiff provides an undertaking for damages which the enjoined defendant may
sustain by reason of the injunction if the court finally decides that the
plaintiff was not entitled to the injunction. (See Code Civ. Proc., §529(a); City
of South San Francisco v. Cypress Lawn Cemetery Assn. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th
916, 920.)
 
IV.     ANALYSIS 
The
Court notes that Defendants’ opposition was untimely filed, but given
Plaintiffs’ reply and the lack of any showing of prejudice, the Court will
consider all the papers filed. 
          A.      Plaintiffs
Are Likely to Prevail
To state a claim for private nuisance, a plaintiff
must plead (1) that the defendant interfered with plaintiff’s use and enjoyment
of the plaintiff’s property; (2) that “the invasion of the plaintiff's interest
in the use and enjoyment of the land was substantial, i.e., that it cause[d]
the plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage”; (3) “the interference was
unreasonable, i.e., it must be ‘of such a nature, duration or amount as to
constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land.” (Chase
v. Wizman (2021) 71 Cal. App. 5th 244.)  
Plaintiffs argue they are likely to prevail on their
first cause of action for nuisance, which is ongoing and has not been abated.
They claim that the excessive and constant noise from Defendants’ multiple
large dogs constitutes a nuisance under Civil Code section 3479, which defines
a nuisance as “[a]nything which is injurious to health . . . or is indecent or
offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as
to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.” They cite Oliver
v. AT&T Wireless Servs. (1999) 76 Cal. App. 4th 521, 534 and San
Diego Gas & Elec. Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 13 Cal.4th 893, 938, to
assert that a private nuisance interferes with the use and enjoyment of land, causing
substantial actual damage and constituting an unreasonable interference with
property use. Plaintiffs also reference Mendez v. Rancho Valencia Resort
Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 264, to support their argument that
offensive noises can constitute a nuisance, including noise from dogs. In Wilms
v. Hand (1951) 101 Cal. App. 2d 811, the court restrained defendants from
allowing dogs to disturb their neighbors’ peace. Plaintiffs further assert that
a nuisance can exist even without a violation of an ordinance, as established
in Chase v. Wizmann (2021) 712 Cal. App. 5th 244, 257. 
Plaintiffs assert that they can establish these
elements, arguing that Defendants knowingly keep four large dogs, which bark,
howl, yelp, and whine excessively, disturbing Plaintiffs' peace and quiet.
(Decl. Wall ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. A; Decl. Lee ¶ 5; Decl. Dicecca ¶ 4, Exh. 1.)
Plaintiffs emphasize that the dogs, all Belgian Malinois, are known for
frequent barking due to their hyper personalities, which creates conflict with
neighbors. Plaintiffs contend that reasonable persons would find the dog noise
from Defendants’ property to be unreasonable in both amount and duration.
(Decl. Wall ¶ 6, Exh. A.) The ongoing noise allegedly interferes substantially
with Plaintiffs’ property use, preventing rest, sleep, opening windows, outdoor
use, and work from home. (Decl. Wall ¶ 7; Decl. Lee ¶ 6.) The nuisance has
reportedly caused severe emotional distress, loss of property use, and loss of
earnings, and remains unabated despite the lawsuit. (Decl. Wall ¶¶ 7, 10; Decl.
Lee ¶¶ 6, 9.)
In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
claims are unsubstantiated because they allegedly fabricated evidence by
provoking the dogs to bark, thereby making any evidence presented by Plaintiffs
unreliable. Defendants contend that Plaintiffs’ nuisance claim, based on noise
from barking dogs, is weakened because the noise originated from two litters
born just before Plaintiffs moved in. By mid-November, eleven of the dogs were
removed, leaving only four dogs, which substantially reduced the noise.
Defendants argue that this demonstrates a significant reduction in noise,
making Plaintiffs’ continued claims less credible. They note that Plaintiffs
did not inform Defendants that the remaining dogs were still causing a
disturbance before filing the complaint. Furthermore, Defendants assert that
Mr. Florez has taken steps to mitigate the issue by agreeing to incur the cost
and time to have the remaining four dogs professionally trained to stop
barking, which would resolve the problem underlying Plaintiffs’ claim.
In reply, Plaintiffs argue that they have presented
sufficient evidence to meet the elements required for a nuisance claim,
including that Defendants’ dogs create excessive and continuous noise that
interferes with Plaintiffs’ peace and comfort. Plaintiffs cite Wilms v. Hand
(1951) 101 Cal. App. 2d 811, where the court granted an injunction due to the
barking, howling, and whining of dogs, which disturbed neighbors’ rest and
sleep. Plaintiffs assert that their case is similar, as Defendants’ dogs also
bark incessantly for several hours at all times, causing significant disruption.
(Decl. Wall ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. A; Decl. Lee ¶ 5.) Plaintiffs also refute Defendants’
argument that the noise was “substantially abated” after the removal of
puppies, pointing out that even the noise from the remaining four mature and
untrained dogs still constitutes a nuisance. They argue that Defendants’ claim
of being unaware of the ongoing disturbance does not negate the evidence of a
persistent noise nuisance. Plaintiffs also emphasize that there is no
declaration from Maria Manuela Florez disputing their evidence of incessant
barking during the day, and the declarations from Mr. Florez and Mr. Miller are
merely argumentative and inadmissible hearsay, failing to counter the evidence
of a continuous and unabated nuisance.
In support of their motion,
Plaintiffs submitted two USB drives containing fifty-four video clips.  These videos strongly support Plaintiffs’
contentions.  Most of the videos, filmed
on different days from September 9, 2023, to July 31, 2024, depict loud,
ongoing barking, howling and whining during both day and night.  Two other videos are worth noting.  Video file ending in 3924 depicts a male
individual, apparently Defendant Gustavo Florez, spraying water on Plaintiffs’
home then pulling up the front of his shirt and stating “step outside,
motherfucker.”  A second video file ending
in 0452 also depicts water being sprayed at the front of Plaintiffs’ home
followed by a male individual uttering “motherfucker.”

The Court finds that Plaintiffs are likely to
prevail on their first cause of action for nuisance. Plaintiffs have shown that
the ongoing and excessive noise from Defendants’ dogs constitutes a nuisance
under Civil Code section 3479, and they have provided evidence that the noise
from Defendants’ multiple large dogs is injurious to health, offensive to the
senses, and interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of their property. This
meets the legal standard for nuisance. The Court also notes that Plaintiffs
have presented declarations showing that the dogs bark, howl, yelp, and whine,
disturbing Plaintiffs’ peace and quiet and interfering with their property use.
(Decl. Wall ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. A; Decl. Lee ¶ 5.) 
In Wilms v. Hand, the court upheld a
preliminary injunction against the defendants, restraining them from allowing
the dogs at their pet hospital to disturb the plaintiffs and their guests at a
nearby motor hotel. (Wilms, supra, 101 Cal.App.2d at 811.) There,
the plaintiffs alleged that the noise from 80 to 100 dogs at the defendants’
business disturbed their peace, rest, and sleep, causing guests to leave the
hotel, which affected their business adversely. (Id. at 813-814.) To
substantiate these claims, the plaintiffs provided numerous affidavits and
witness testimonies. One of the plaintiffs, Stephanie S. Shea, testified that
she could hear the dogs barking from a distance of 1,000 feet, describing the
noise as “absolutely terrific” and akin to “perfect bedlam,” occurring
consistently in the morning, afternoon, and sometimes at night. (Id. at 813.)
This testimony was further supported by a sound recording made by plaintiff
Earl Wilms, which was played in court to demonstrate the noise’s volume and
persistence. Despite objections from the defendants, the court admitted the
recording, which showed that the noise level was typical of an average day at
the defendants’ pet hospital. (Id. at 815.) The plaintiffs also
presented additional witness statements describing the noise’s intensity and
its impact on their well-being and business. They argued that the noise was so
disruptive that it caused substantial discomfort to residents and guests,
further leading to financial loss for the motor hotel due to departing guests.
(Id. at 811.) The court found this evidence compelling, concluding that
the continuous noise constituted a serious nuisance rather than a minor
inconvenience. The court stated, that the “evidence in support of plaintiffs’
complaint [wa]s so overwhelming that [it] deem[ed] it unnecessary to detail it
further.” (Id. at 813.) 
The Court finds Wilms to be similar to this
case. Where in Wilms, the plaintiffs provided substantial
evidence—including affidavits, witness testimonies, and a sound recording
demonstrating the severity and persistence of the noise— here, Plaintiffs have
submitted declarations, video recordings, and other documentation to show that
Defendants’ dogs bark, howl, yelp, and whine, causing severe emotional distress
and significant disruption to Plaintiffs’ use and enjoyment of their property.
(Decl. Wall ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. A; Decl. Lee ¶ 5.) The Court finds that Plaintiffs
have sufficiently demonstrated that the noise from Defendants’ dogs is not a
minor inconvenience but a substantial interference with their daily lives and
property rights. As in Wilms, here, the disturbance is continuous and
intense, causing harm beyond mere annoyance, which supports the argument for
injunctive relief. Thus, the Court concludes that Plaintiffs have shown a
likelihood of success on the merits of their nuisance claim.
          B.       Balance of Harms Weighs in Plaintiffs’
Favor
Plaintiffs argue that the balance of equities favors
granting the preliminary injunction because they would suffer significant harm
without it, while Defendants would suffer little to no harm. Plaintiffs contend
that denying the injunction would result in irreparable harm, including severe
emotional distress, loss of property use, and loss of earnings due to the
continuous noise from Defendants’ dogs, which interferes with their daily life
and work. (Decl. Wall ¶ 7; Decl. Lee ¶ 6.) They assert that Mr. Wall is
experiencing physical effects from stress, and Mr. Lee requires medication and
has been sleeping separately from his husband to escape the noise, straining
their relationship. (Decl. Wall ¶ 7; Decl. Lee ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs also claim they
are unable to use their backyard without immediate barking and that both
Plaintiffs’ businesses are suffering due to the noise. Mr. Wall has had to
decline business opportunities, and Mr. Lee’s ability to host visitors for his
art career is hindered. (Decl. Wall ¶ 7; Decl. Lee ¶ 6, 9). Plaintiffs argue
there is no adequate legal remedy other than a preliminary injunction to
address these injuries. (Decl. Wall ¶ 11; Decl. Lee ¶ 10.)
On the other hand, Plaintiffs claim that granting
the injunction would not harm Defendants. They argue that Ms. Florez, who is 82
years old and unable to care for the dogs, would benefit from not having the
burden of managing them. (Decl. Dicecca ¶ 4, Exh. 1 [Decl. Gustavo Adolfo
Florez ¶¶ 6 & 15].) Mr. Florez, the sole caretaker, who works long hours,
would also benefit from the injunction as it would relieve him from the
obligation of managing the dogs. (Id.) Furthermore, the
injunction would benefit the dogs, who currently live in unsuitable conditions
due to their size and breed and lack of care from the Defendants. (Decl. Wall ¶
8; Decl. Lee ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs cite sources indicating that Belgian Malinois
dogs require extensive exercise and engagement, which they are not receiving in
their current environment, leading to behavioral issues and unsuitability for
absentee owners like Mr. Florez. (See Mot. p. 5, 7-8.) 
In opposition, Defendants argue that the balance of
interim harms does not favor Plaintiffs and that granting the preliminary
injunction would cause more harm than denying it. They contend that denying the
injunction would allow for a less intrusive alternative—training the dogs by a
professional trainer to prevent barking. Defendants assert that the costs of
kenneling the four dogs are exorbitantly high, negating any perceived benefit
of removing them. Defendants claim that removing the dogs would inflict significant
harm on them, particularly on Mr. Florez, who views the dogs as his children
and would suffer severe emotional trauma if they were removed. They argue that
Plaintiffs’ suggestion that Mr. Florez would benefit from the dogs’ removal is
baseless and desperate. They also maintain that removing the dogs would violate
Defendants’ constitutional rights to own property, potentially giving rise to a
due process claim. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have an adequate remedy at
law and that injunctive relief is unnecessary. Defendants also highlight that
Plaintiffs are already seeking monetary damages and that alternatives, such as
professional dog training, are less intrusive. 
Additionally, Defendants argue that if the Court
considers removing the dogs, Plaintiffs should be required to post a bond
sufficient to cover the potential costs associated with housing the dogs during
the trial, which could exceed $100,000. They claim that the cost of kenneling
four fully grown dogs ranges between $10,000 and $12,000 per month, depending
on whether the dogs need to be isolated, which could increase the cost to over
$12,000 per month. Given that a trial date has not yet been set, and their
responsive pleading is not due until August 2, 2024, Defendants estimate that
the total cost of housing the dogs during the pendency of this action could
exceed $100,000. Defendants object to Plaintiffs’ request for a minimal bond of
only $1,000, arguing that this amount is insufficient given the potential costs
involved and noting that Plaintiffs have already incurred significant
attorney's fees. 
In reply, Plaintiffs argue that the balance of harms
favors them, not Defendants, and that they are suffering irreparable harm due
to the ongoing noise from Defendants’ dogs. They claim that the Defendants’
opposition does not dispute that the noise will cause continued harm if not
stopped. Plaintiffs also point out that the opposition fails to provide any
evidence that removing the dogs would harm Maria Manuela Florez and does not
counter the argument that she might benefit from such removal. Although Defendants
argue that removing the dogs would cause emotional trauma to Mr. Florez,
Plaintiffs counter that his contact with the dogs is limited due to his long
work hours and that he could still visit the dogs elsewhere, making any
emotional harm less significant than the distress Plaintiffs are enduring. (Decl.
Wall ¶ 7; Decl. Lee ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs dispute Defendants’ claim that removing
the dogs would violate constitutional rights, arguing that the injunction would
not prevent Mr. Florez from owning the dogs but only require them to be kept
elsewhere during the litigation. Plaintiffs assert that there are no due
process issues because the injunctive relief is being sought through a properly
noticed motion. (Opp. at 9:6-13.)
Plaintiffs also reject Defendants’ suggestion of dog
training as a viable alternative, stating it is unproven, unsubstantiated, and
proposed too late. They argue that Defendants could have trained the dogs
voluntarily at any time but did not do so and instead escalated matters, as
evidenced by violent and threatening behavior from Mr. Florez. (Decl. Wall ISO
App for Default Judgment, 04-10-24, ¶ 13, Exh. B.) Furthermore, Defendants
present no evidence from a qualified dog trainer to support the feasibility or
effectiveness of training at this stage. Plaintiffs maintain that monetary
damages are not an adequate remedy because they would not stop the dogs from
barking and do not provide a solution for the ongoing nuisance. They argue that
the injunction is necessary to prevent irreparable harm, as detailed in their
First Amended Complaint, which seeks both preliminary and permanent injunctive
relief for the nuisance caused by the barking dogs. (FAC ¶ 21-22.) They contend
that Defendants have not shown any viable alternative remedy.
          The Court finds that the balance of
harms weighs in favor of Plaintiffs, and they have sufficiently demonstrated
that they would suffer irreparable harm absent Court intervention. However, the
relief proposed by Plaintiffs—removing the dogs from Defendants’ possession—is a
step that this Court is not currently willing to take. The Court finds that there
are less intrusive alternatives, including but not limited to (1) dog training;
(2) housing the dogs in the garage and sound proofing the garage; and (3) using
muzzles or bark collars. These alternatives would arguably address the noise
nuisance without causing undue harm or expense to Defendants.  The Court further finds that these solutions would
allow Defendants to retain their property rights while providing Plaintiffs
with the relief to which they are legally entitled.
Therefore, borrowing the language set forth in Wilms,
the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for preliminary injunction as follows: the
Court orders Defendants restrained from permitting the dogs on their property
"from annoying and disturbing the peace and comfort of Plaintiffs” at all
times of the day and night.  The Court at
present declines to dictate which measure Defendants shall implement to comply
with this ruling.  However, the Court
intends to set a future hearing date for status re compliance with this order.
          C.      Bond Amount
Defendants claim that the cost of housing the four
dogs ranges from $10,000 to $12,000 per month, with total costs potentially
exceeding $100,000, depending on whether the dogs need to be isolated based on
compatibility assessments at the kennel. In reply, Plaintiffs point out that
there is no declaration from a kennel owner or any supporting documentation to
substantiate these costs. The only evidence provided consists of declarations
from Mr. Florez and Mr. Miller, which Plaintiffs contend are inadmissible
hearsay. Given that the Court has declined to order the dogs off the property,
the Court finds that the bond amount requested by Defendants is not warranted. The
Court sets a bond amount of $1,000.
 
V.      CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiffs have presented sufficient evidence that
they are likely to prevail on the merits of their nuisance claim and that the
balance of harm weighs in their favor. The Court therefore grants injunctive
relief as set forth above.  There is currently
a future court date of October 29, 2024, for case management conference,
demurrer and OSC re answer or default. 
Given that Defendants’ demurrer was filed on July 8, 2024, and
Plaintiffs filed their First Amended Complaint on July 18, 2024, the Court
takes the demurrer off calendar. 
However, the Court sets a hearing re status of Defendants’ compliance with
preliminary injunction for October 29, 2024.
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of this ruling.      
 
Dated:  September 6, 2024             JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT