 Case Number:  24NNCV00353    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND DISMISS PLAINTIFF'S PAGA CLAIMSI.        INTRODUCTION
This is a PAGA action in which Plaintiff Ramirez alleges
that Defendant Merchants Building Maintenance, LLC, and Does 1 through 10,
committed multiple violations of California labor laws, specifically wage and
hour requirements. The claims are made on behalf of Plaintiff and other current
or former non-exempt employees of Defendants in California, referred to as
“Aggrieved Employees.” The allegations include:
1.     Failure
to maintain accurate records: Defendants did not keep accurate time and payroll
records, including records of hours worked and meal periods.
2.     Non-compliant
meal periods: Defendants failed to provide compliant meal periods, often
providing late, shortened, interrupted, or no meal periods. They also failed to
pay an additional hour of pay at the regular rate for each missed meal period.
3.     Non-compliant
rest periods: Similar violations occurred with rest periods, with shortened,
interrupted, or missed rest periods. Defendants did not consistently pay the
required premium for missed rest periods or paid at incorrect rates.
4.     Failure
to pay minimum wages: Defendants did not pay the minimum wage for all hours
worked, including work performed off the clock due to interrupted meal periods
and unlawful time-shaving or rounding practices.
5.     Failure
to pay overtime wages: Defendants failed to pay the correct overtime wages,
including failing to account for all non-discretionary pay in the regular rate
calculations.
6.     Failure
to reimburse business expenses: Defendants did not reimburse employees for
necessary business expenses, such as using their personal cell phones.
7.     Failure
to provide accurate wage statements: Wage statements provided by the defendants
were inaccurate, failing to correctly list total hours worked and the correct
rates of pay.
8.     Failure
to pay all due wages: Defendants did not pay all wages owed each pay period,
including minimum wages, overtime, and meal and rest period premiums.
9.     Failure
to pay wages upon termination: Defendants did not timely pay all wages due to
former employees upon their separation from employment.
The
complaint contains one cause of action for Violation of the Private Attorneys
General Act (Labor Code sections 2698 et seq.).
Defendant
Merchants Building Maintenance, LLC this motion on May 17, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an opposition on August 23, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on August 29,
2024. 
The
motion is granted.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
Code
Civ. Proc. §1281 provides: “A written agreement to submit to arbitration an
existing controversy or a controversy thereafter existing is valid,
enforceable, and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the
revocation of any contract.” (CCP § 1281.)
Paraphrased,
Code Civ. Proc. §1281.2 provides that upon petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate and a party’s refusal to submit to arbitration, the court shall
order the parties to arbitrate the controversy if it determines (1) that an
agreement exists, (2) unless it determines that the right to arbitrate
has been waived, that grounds exist for revocation, or that a party
to the agreement is also party to a pending litigation arising out of the same
facts and there exists a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue
of fact or law. (CCP § 1281.2.)
 
IV.     ANALYSIS
A.
Labor Code section 2699.8 Applies
Labor Code section 2699.8 exempts from PAGA janitorial
employees covered by a valid Collective Bargaining Agreement (“CBA”) that
contains a binding grievance and arbitration procedure. The relevant provision
exempts a janitorial employee from certain requirements if they are represented
by a labor organization that has represented janitors since before January 1,
2021, and is employed by a janitorial contractor who registered as a property
service employer in 2020. This exemption applies to work performed under a
valid collective bargaining agreement (CBA) effective before July 1, 2028, that
specifies wages, hours, and working conditions and meets the following
criteria:
1.     The
CBA requires the employer to pay non probationary workers at certain worksites
a total hourly compensation, including wages, health benefits, pension,
training, vacation, holiday, and other fringe benefits, that is at least 30%
above the state minimum wage.
2.     The
CBA prohibits all labor code violations covered by this section, provides for a
grievance and binding arbitration procedure to address those violations, and
allows the labor organization to file grievances on behalf of all affected
employees.
3.     The
CBA explicitly waives the requirements of this part in clear and unambiguous
terms.
4.     The
CBA authorizes the arbitrator to award any remedies available under the code, except
for penalties payable to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency.
(Labor Code § 2699.8(a).) Here,
it is undisputed that Plaintiff is a janitorial employee of MBM, LLC, a
registered janitorial company with the Department of Industrial Relations and
MBM is a party to a CBA that provides for arbitration of PAGA claims. (AO Decl.
¶ 2, WR Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Exhib. 6; LM Decl. ¶ 3, Exhs. 1, 2; WR Decl. ¶ 3, Exh.
6.) However, Plaintiff argues that Labor Code Section 2699.8 does not apply to
him because he was not “represented by a labor organization,” as required by
the statute. Plaintiff emphasizes that he was not a member of the Service
Employees International Union (SEIU) and did not authorize SEIU to act on his
behalf or deduct union dues from his wages. (Wallace Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff
argues that the statute’s language requires that a janitorial employee be
represented by a labor organization that meets specific criteria, such as
having represented janitors before January 1, 2021, and being employed by a
registered janitorial contractor under a valid CBA. Plaintiff contends that there
is no legal authority clarifying what it means to be “represented by a labor
organization,” but dictionary definitions suggest it involves legal
authorization or acting on behalf of someone. (See https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/represent.) 
          Plaintiff further attempts to distinguish legal authorities
relied upon by Defendant to support the claim that an employee who is not a
member of a local union can still be “represented” by that union. Plaintiff
points out that during the meet and confer process, defendant failed to provide
any legal authority supporting this proposition. (Pulmanova Decl., Ex. 10.) However,
the Court finds that the cases cited by Defendant are sufficient to support the
claim that Plaintiff was represented regardless of his lack of union
membership. The Court discusses the cases in turn.
In Steele
v. Louisville & N.R. Co. (1944) 323 U.S. 192, 200, the U.S. Supreme
Court held that a labor organization designated as the exclusive bargaining
representative must represent all employees within the craft or class,
including those who are not union members, without discrimination. “The labor
organization chosen to be the representative of the craft or class of employees
is thus chosen to represent all of its members, regardless of their union
affiliations or want of them.” (Id.) Plaintiff argues that Steele dealt
with whether the Railway Labor Act required a labor organization, acting as the
exclusive bargaining representative, to represent all employees in the craft
without discrimination based on race, but this case did not establish that a
non-union member is “represented” by a union in the context of PAGA claims. (Steele,
supra, 323 U.S. at 193, 202.) While it may be in another context, the
Court finds that this case nevertheless affirms the broader principle that a
union’s duty extends to all employees within a defined group.
Defendant
also properly relies on Trs. of S. Cal. IBEW-NECA Pension Trust Fund v.
Flores (9th Cir. 2008) 519 F.3d 1045, 1047, where the Ninth Circuit stated
that a CBA that defines covered employees by job classification generally
includes all employees within those classifications, regardless of union
membership. There, the court found that “the collective bargaining agreements
cover both union and nonunion employees.” (Id.) While Plaintiff argues
that Flores primarily addresses employer obligations regarding trust
fund contributions, the case still supports the principle that union
representation under a CBA can extend to all employees in a particular job
classification, reinforcing Defendant’s position that Plaintiff, as a “waxer” covered
by the CBA, was represented by the union.
Additionally,
Queen Mary Rests. Corp. v. N.L.R.B. (1977) 560 F.2d 403, 409, supports
the argument that a certified union serves as the exclusive representative for
all employees in a bargaining unit, including those who did not vote for the
union or are not members. Plaintiff claims this case is irrelevant because it
focuses on an employer’s duty to bargain, but the Court finds that it still
confirms that union representation is comprehensive for all unit employees,
regardless of membership status.
Finally,
Defendant’s reliance on Florio v. City of Ontario (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th
1462, 1466 further supports its argument by demonstrating that an employee need
not affirmatively sign a CBA to be bound by its terms. Plaintiff acknowledges
this legal principle but argues it does not apply to his situation. However, the
Court finds that Florio supports the broader notion that employees can
be bound by the terms of a CBA, even without formal union membership or direct
agreement, aligning with Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff is subject to the
CBA.
          Defendant argues that the CBA satisfies each of the
requirements in Labor Code section 2699.8(a). First, the CBA complies with
Section 2699.8(a)(1) by requiring that all non-probationary employees at
specified worksites receive total hourly compensation, including wages, health
insurance, pension, training, vacation, holiday, and other benefits, that is at
least 30% above the state minimum wage. (W.R. Decl. ¶ 3, 10, Exh. 6; Appendix
G-2.) Second, the CBA prohibits any violations of the California Labor Code
that are redressable under PAGA and establishes a binding grievance and
arbitration procedure to resolve such disputes, meeting the requirements of
Section 2699.8(a)(2). (Appendix G-2, Section 4(c).) Third, the CBA clearly and
unambiguously waives the requirements of PAGA, authorizing the arbitrator to
award all remedies available under the Labor Code, except for PAGA penalties
payable to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency, which satisfies Section
2699.8(a)(3) and (4) (Appendix G-2). Finally, the CBA mandates that all claims
alleging violations of wage and hour laws, meal and rest period laws, and
similar claims must be resolved through binding arbitration, and it waives the
right to a jury trial and any representative proceeding to the maximum extent
permitted by law. (Appendix G-2.) 
          Plaintiff does not discuss or dispute these points.
Plaintiff also does not oppose arbitration of his individual PAGA claims.
          Thus, the Court finds that pursuant to Labor Code section
2699.8, Plaintiff’s PAGA action must be dismissed and the individual claims
arbitrated. 
 
V.      CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant has presented evidence establishing that
Labor Code section 2699.8 is applicable to Plaintiff and that his PAGA action
should be dismissed and his individual claims arbitrated. Therefore, the Court
dismisses the PAGA action and orders Plaintiff to arbitrate his individual
claims.
Defendant is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.       
          
Dated:  September 6, 2024  
 
 
 
                                                                                      JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     