  Case Number:  22AHCV01340    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDERI.        INTRODUCTION
          Andy Meraz purchased a new
Honda Accord in 2022. He sues Honda for defects he is alleged to have
experienced with the vehicle. The pleading alleges that the vehicle is equipped
with a defective driver-assistance safety system. The Honda Sensing system, also
called Collision Mitigation Braking System (CMBS), includes radar, cameras, and
a computer system. The purpose of the CMBS is to avoid front-end collisions by
detecting and computing things like vehicle speed and objects in the
road.  
Meraz alleges that the CBMS is capable of applying
brakes when it detects a chance of collision. The gist of the complaint is that
the system is defective and frequently malfunctions. It is alleged that system
can be thrown off by things such as bad weather and changes in the light on the
roadway. Meraz alleges that because of these defects, vehicles can be brought
to a sudden stop in the roadway, causing vehicles behind them to have to swerve
to avoid a collision. Meraz himself experienced several occasions when his
Honda braked on its own. He also complained that the speed limit on the
vehicle’s screen is often higher than the actual posted speed limit. Meraz
alleges he took his vehicle to an authorized repair facility a number of times
with these complaints but was told that the technicians were unable to
replicate the issue and that the vehicle was safe to drive.  
The complaint alleges two Song-Beverly cause of
action for breach of express and implied warranties. It also includes a third
cause of action for fraudulent concealment. Meraz alleges that Honda was aware
of the Honda Sensing defect and failed to disclose it.
Before the Court is Honda’s motion for protective
order, filed on July 25, 2024, asking the Court to quash Plaintiff’s notices of
depositions of Honda’s employees Michelle Jongkind (“Jongkind”) and Carol Chin
(“Chin”). Plaintiff filed an opposition to the motion on August 23, 2024. Honda
filed its reply on August 30, 2024.
Because Honda has failed to meet its burden of establishing
good cause to quash the deposition notices, the Court DENIES the motion. 
          
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD 
Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party may promptly move for a protective
order. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (a).) The motion must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration showing a “reasonable and good faith attempt”
to resolve the matter outside of court. 
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2025.420, subd. (a), 2016.040.)  
“The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (b).) “This protective order may
include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions: ¶ (1)
That the deposition not be taken at all. ¶ (2) That the deposition be taken at
a different time.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (b).)
The
court shall impose monetary sanctions against whichever party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances render sanctions unjust. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd. (h).)
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court …,
any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
“For discovery purposes, information is relevant if
it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for
trial, or facilitating settlement.…’ [Citation.] Admissibility is not the test
and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead
to admissible evidence.” (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)
“To testify, a witness must have personal knowledge
of the subject of the testimony, based on the capacity to perceive and
recollect.” (People v. Montoya (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1139, 1150.)
          
III.     ANALYSIS
Honda
asks the Court to quash the deposition notices of Jongkind and Chin, arguing
the following. On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff unilaterally served notices of those
depositions, both to occur on July 26, 2024. (Motion, p. 3:15-17; Declaration
of Theodore Dorenkamp, ¶¶ 3-4; Exhibits A and B – copies of the deposition
notices.) California Evidence Code section 702, subdivision (a), states that a
witness must have personal knowledge of a matter to testify on that matter and
the knowledge of the witness must be shown before the witness may testify.
(Motion, p. 4:15-17.) Here, “Plaintiff has not and cannot show that these
individuals have any personal involvement, or personal knowledge of plaintiff,
plaintiff’s vehicle, any alleged defect in plaintiff’s vehicle, or of plaintiff’s
communications with AHM or any authorized Honda dealer, and as such it would be
unreasonable and burdensome to force these individuals to suffer
interrogation.” (Motion, p. 5:17-22.) In addition, “the testimony of the
persons identified is not relevant to this case.” (Motion, p. 6:12-13.)
“Neither has been identified in discovery responses or document production and
neither can be shown to have ever been involved in this case and or possessing
any personal knowledge of plaintiff’s vehicle or claims.” (Motion, p. 6:13-16.)
To
understand the parties’ positions, it is helpful to review the relevant
procedural history in this case. 
On December 11, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s
request to compel Honda’s further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, No. 55 (“RPD No. 55”). (See Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement in Support of Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production Set One, filed July 31, 2023, p. 17:7-11 – RPD No. 55 [asking
Honda to produce “All DOCUMENTS produced by [the defendant] in discovery in the
matter of Kathleen Cadena, et al., v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et
al, United States District Court, Central District of California Case No.
2:18-cv-04007-MWF-PJW [“Cadena”]”].) 
On December 21, 2023, Honda filed a motion for
reconsideration of the Court’s order granting the request to compel further
response to RPD No. 55, arguing (among other things) that the RPD requested
irrelevant information. (Motion for Reconsideration, p. 6:17-19 [arguing that
RPD No. 55 “is … targeting entirely irrelevant information regarding other
vehicles and other model years”]; Order Denying Defendant’s Motion for
Reconsideration, filed February 6, 2024 (“February 6 Order”), p. 2:18-21
[“Before the Court is Honda’s motion for reconsideration …. Honda argues that:
… the documents requested … are irrelevant in this action”].)
In its order denying Honda’s motion for
reconsideration, the Court found RPD No. 55 sought relevant information. The
Court explained that even though the Cadena case did not concern
“defects specifically as to Plaintiff Meraz’s vehicle, a 2022 Honda Accord, it
does allege that earlier models, the 2018-2019 Honda Accords and 2017-2019
Honda CRVs, had defects with the Honda sensing system. [Citation.] Information
as to the same or similar system entitled ‘Honda Sensing’ is potentially part
of what is at issue in this case.” (February 6 Order, p. 6:9-13.)
In his opposition to the instant motion for
protective order, Plaintiff argues that Honda produced documents in response to
RPD No. 55 that show that Jongkind and Chin were involved in reporting and
investigating defects in the Honda sensing system. “Specifically, Ms. Chin
authored several emails [produced in response to RPD No. 55], and is directly
involved in investigations into the Honda Sensing Defect by Defendant to comply
with its obligations to report known defects to National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration. [Therefore,] Plaintiff seeks to depose Ms. Chin about the
documents that she authored that are relevant to the prosecution of Plaintiff’s
Song-Beverly Act and fraud claims. Additionally, Plaintiff’s [sic] seek [sic]
to depose Ms. Chin regarding her involvement in and knowledge of information
related to the Honda Sensing Defect.” (Opposition to the Motion for Protective
Order (“Opposition”), p. 2:7-13.) “Similarly, Ms. Jongkind authored or was the
direct recipient of several emails in this production relating to Honda’s own
internal investigation into the Honda Sensing Defect.” (Opposition, p. 2:13-14.)
“Any details of Ms. Chin or Ms. Jongkind’s direct involvement in or knowledge
of any internal investigations is crucial for both Plaintiff’s Song Beverly Act
and Fraudulent Concealment claims. Any communications, investigations, or work
product by Ms. Chin or Ms. Jongkind would necessarily show the extent of their,
and by extension Honda’s, knowledge of the defect, and would directly support
both Plaintiff’s claim for civil penalties and Fraudulent Concealment.”
(Opposition, p. 2:19-24.)
“[A]
party seeking a protective order to
prevent the taking of a deposition in a civil action has the burden of
establishing good cause for such an order.” (Department of Health Services
v. Superior Court (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 80, 83–84; Nativi v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 318.)  
Here,
the Court finds that Honda has failed to meet its burden. Indeed, its reply, Honda has not disputed Plaintiff’s
contentions that (1) Jongkind and Chin are involved in reporting and
investigating defects in the Honda sensing system, and (2) those deponents
authored several documents that were produced in response to RPD No. 55. Therefore,
Honda’s relevance and personal
knowledge arguments are unpersuasive. Honda has also failed to convince this
Court that the depositions will cause the defendant “unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense” within
the meaning of the protective order statute. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420, subd.
(b).)
          The
Court denies the motion.
 
V.       CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The motion for protective is
denied. 
Plaintiff Meraz is ordered to give notice of ruling.  
 
         Dated:  September 6, 2024                               
 
 
                                                                                  JARED D. MOSES
                                                                     JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT