 Case Number:  23GDCV01540    Hearing Date:   January 4, 2024    Dept:  1 23GDCV01540          MICHAEL
RICHARD BROWN, et al. vs MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC
Defendant’s Unopposed Motion to Transfer Venue
TENTATIVE RULING: 
Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s Motion to Transfer Venue is GRANTED
and 23GDCV01540 is ordered reassigned to the Pomona Courthouse South in the
East District of the Los Angeles Superior Court.  Notice of the case reassignment shall issue
shortly.  Moving party to give notice.
            The
Local Rules of the Los Angeles Superior Court govern the assignment of cases
between its districts and departments. (Code Civ. Proc. § 402.) LASC Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) authorizes Department 1 to transfer civil cases from one judicial
district to another via a noticed motion on three enumerated grounds: (1) when
the case was filed in an improper district; (2) for the convenience of
witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of justice.
(LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).) 
 
Considering that the same language appears in both LASC
Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) and Code of Civil Procedure § 397(c), the Court finds that
a party acting under the authority of Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rule
2.3(b)(2) should bear the burden of proof if it seeks a district transfer out
of a presumptively correct forum, just as in motions for change of proper venue
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 397(c). (See Lieberman v. Superior Court (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 396, 401.) That
burden of proof should, moreover, call for affidavits that contain more than
generalities and conclusions. (See Hamilton v Superior Court (1974) 37 Cal.
App.3d 418, 424.) Such affidavits or declarations, like those for change of
venue under Code Civ. Proc. section 397(c), should show the name of each witness,
the expected testimony of each witness, and facts showing why the attendance of
said witnesses at trial would be inconvenient or why the ends of justice would
be served by a transfer. (See Stute v. Burinda (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d
Supp. 11, 17.) Convenience to non-party witnesses, not the convenience of
parties or of the parties’ own employees, is generally the relevant
consideration.  (Ibid. See also J. C. Millett Co. v. Latchford-Marble
Glass Co. (1959) 167 Cal.App.2d 218, 227 (“While generally the
convenience of the employees of either party will not be considered
[Citations], when such employees are being called by an adverse party, the
court may properly consider their convenience.”).) Additionally, “the convenience of a former employee may be considered.” (Edwards v. Pierson (1957) 156 Cal.App.2d
72, 76.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks to transfer this action from the North Central
District to the East District and argues the case has no connection to the
North Central District or Glendale.
 
On the Civil Case Cover Sheet Addendum and Statement of
Location, Plaintiffs’ counsel certified that the Glendale Courthouse was the
proper filing location based upon the address 330 N. Brand Blvd., Glendale, CA
91203 and the stated reason that it is the “[l]ocation where cause of action
arose.”
 
The complaint alleges “Plaintiffs purchased a 2022
Mercedes-Benz M2PV4G, having VIN No.: W1Z40FHY9NT098456” on May 26, 2022.
(Compl. ¶ 9.) Defendant’s counsel provides the Retail Installment Sale Contract,
which indicates Plaintiffs entered into the purchase agreement with Walters
Auto Sales & Service, Inc. in Riverside, California. (Dobberstein Decl. ¶
Ex. 1.) The complaint alleges Plaintiffs had the vehicle serviced at
Mercedes-Benz of West Covina on numerous occasions. (Compl. ¶ 46.) 
 
The complaint does not demonstrate any basis for filing the
action in the Glendale Courthouse. Pursuant to Los Angeles Superior Court Local
Rule 2.3(a)(1)(A), “[t]he filing court locator on the Los Angeles Superior
Court website (www.lacourt.org) should be used to determine the appropriate
filing location.” Defendant notes “Mercedes-Benz of West Covina, located in
West Covina, performed repairs on the Vehicle. These repairs form the basis for
Plaintiffs’ claims under the Song-Beverly Act and for negligent repair. . . . Put
simply, there is no connection between the basis of this action and Glendale.”
(Mot. at 4:18-23. See also Compl. ¶ 46.) The parties’ stipulation received on
September 15, 2023 states “the parties have met and conferred regarding the
most appropriate and convenient venue for the instant action, and thereupon
have agreed to transfer venue of this action from Glendale Courthouse to Pomona
Courthouse.” 
 
The allegations in the complaint and evidence before the
Court demonstrate Plaintiffs entered into the purchase agreement in Riverside County
and the relevant repairs were attempted at Mercedes-Benz of West Covina in Los
Angeles County. Entering the city of West Covina into the court filing locator
provides that all unlimited civil actions arising out of that location should
be filed in the Pomona Courthouse South. Defendant has demonstrated the case
was filed in an incorrect location and the Pomona Courthouse South is a proper
filing location.
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.