  Case Number:  20STCV37759    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
12, 2023                                            TRIAL DATE: April 9, 2024.
                                                           
CASE:                         SANDRA KIM AND
SARAH KIM v. GARFIELD MEDICAL CENTER; JAMES T. LIN, M.D., and DOES 1 through
50, inclusive.
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV37759
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
DISCOVERY
MOTIONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Garfield Medical Center
moves for summary judgment.
Defendant James
T. Lin, M.D., moves to compel a response to his 
discovery requests.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Sandra Kim and Sarah Kim
 
SERVICE:                              Motion for Summary Judgment filed June 1,
2023
                                                Discovery
motions filed August 15, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
filed September 28, 2023
 
REPLY:                                   Reply to Motion for Summary Judgment filed
October 6, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             GMC moves for summary judgment as
to Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint.
 
            Dr. Lin moves to compel
a response to his interrogatories and requests for the production of documents.
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Sandra Kim
and Sarah Kim’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Garfield Medical Center
(“GMC”) and James T. Lin, M.D. (“Dr. Lin”) provided inadequate medical
treatment to their father Samuel Kim (“Decedent”), resulting in Decedent’s
death on August 9, 2019. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent was suffering from
Parkinson’s Disease but was taking medicine to control his diagnosis.
Plaintiffs allege that on July 22, 2019, Decedent suffered a fall while at home
and was taken to the emergency room of GMC. Plaintiffs allege that Decedent
died at GMC, where he died from complications due to sepsis and aspiration
pneumonia. 
 
            Plaintiffs filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on December 23, 2020, alleging three causes of action for (1)
wrongful death – medical malpractice, (2) negligent infliction of emotional
distress, and (3) elder abuse and neglect.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
             
            GMC’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
            Dr. Lin’s
motions to compel discovery responses is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to provide responses to Dr. Lin’s interrogatories and requests for
production of documents within 10 days of the date of this order.
 
            Dr. Lin’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED.
 
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE 
 
Plaintiffs’ objections are
overruled.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party
may move for summary judgement in an action or proceeding if it is contented
that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for
summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section
473c subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in
ruling on motions for summary judgment. First, the court identifies the issues
framed by the pleadings. Next, the court determines, when the moving party is
the defendant, whether it has produced evidence showing one or more of the
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
that cause of action or defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1369, 1373.) The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see also Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment must show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense. The defendant can
satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that negates an element of the cause
of action or evidence that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably expect to obtain evidence needed to establish an essential element.
(Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC, (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            First
Cause of Action for Medical Malpractice
 
            GMC moves
for summary judgment. GMC first argues that Plaintiffs’ cause of action for
medical malpractice fails because Plaintiffs are unable to establish that GMC
breached the relevant standard of care or that any action by GMC or its staff
caused Decedent’s harm. 
 
“California courts have
incorporated the expert evidence requirement into their standard for summary
judgment in medical malpractice cases. When a defendant moves for summary
judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell
within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment
unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro
v. Regents of University of California, (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-85.)
 
To establish it complied with the
standard of care, GMC submits the declaration of Samantha Miller, RN, BSN
(“Miller”). Miller is a Registered Nurse and licensed by the State of
California. (Miller Decl. ¶ 1.) Miller provides she has reviewed the medical records and
court documents related to this case. (Id. ¶ 3.) 
 
Decedent, an 86-year-old with Parkinson’s disease, was admitted to
GMC’s emergency department on July 22, 2019, after falling at home. (Miller
Decl. ¶ 5.) A rehabilitation program was formulated for Decedent and Dr. Lue
entered an order for aspiration precautions. (Id. ¶ 6.) Nurse Zhang
(“Zhang”) attempted to give Decedent his medicine, but Decedent had difficulty
swallowing. (Id. ¶ 9.) Dr. Lin ordered a nasogastric tube (“NGT”), which
was placed by Zhang. (Id. ¶ 10.) A chest x-ray verified placement of the
NGT. (Ibid.) Nurse Mendoza (“Mendoza”) noted that the NGT was in place
and secured and took steps to ensure the NGT was secured. (Id. ¶¶
12-13.) After Decedent complained of pain, he was transferred to the telemetry
department. (Id. ¶ 14.) Decedent was later transferred to the intensive
care unit. (Id. ¶ 18.) Despite various interventions, Decedent continued
to have shortness of breath, developed cardiac arrest, and was pronounced dead
on August 9, 2019. (Id. ¶¶ 19-24.)
 
Miller opines that GMC staff
properly placed the NGT and ensured it was secured. (Miller Decl. ¶ 26-27.) Miller opines that GMC staff
properly secured the IV line and that there is no indication that the IV line
was not providing adequate hydration to Decedent. (Id. ¶ 29.) Miller
opines that GMC staff complied with the relevant standard of care while
treating Decedent. (Id. ¶ 25.) GMC has met its initial burden of
establishing it complied with the standard of care.
 
            GMC also argues that Plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate
causation. 
 
“In a medical malpractice action the
element of causation is satisfied when a plaintiff produces sufficient evidence
‘to allow the jury to infer that in the absence of the defendant's
negligence, there was a reasonable medical probability the
plaintiff would have obtained a better result.’” (Espinosa V. Little Co. of
Mary Hospital (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1304, 1314-15.) “[C]ausation must be
proven within a reasonable medical probability based upon competent expert
testimony.” (Dumas v. Cooney, (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1593, 1603.) The summary
judgment standard “is not satisfied by laconic expert declarations which
provide only an ultimate opinion, unsupported by reasoned explanation.”
(Kelley v. Trunk, (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 525.)
 
            To
meet its burden, GMC relies on the declaration of Robert A. Winters, M.D. (“Dr.
Winters”), a physician licensed to practice medicine in California. (Winters
Decl. ¶ 1.) He is board certified in internal medicine and infectious
diseases. (Ibid.) Dr. Winters opines that no act or omission by GMC
staff caused or contributed to Decedent’s death. (Id. ¶ 33.) He opines
that Decedent likely had intermittent aspiration events prior to his admission
to GMC resulting from his advanced Parkinson’s disease. (Id. ¶ 34.)
Dr. Winters opines that based on Decedent’s age and condition, Decedent was
susceptible to aspiration pneumonitis. (Id. ¶ 39.) Dr. Winters opines that Decedent
died from sepsis and pneumonia as a result of his condition, which includes
advanced Parkinson’s Disease. (Id. ¶ 43.)
 
            GMC
has met its initial burden of demonstrating Plaintiffs are unable to establish
causation. The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to raise a triable issue of
fact.
 
            Plaintiffs
first argue that there is a triable issue of fact as to the issue of breach of
the standard of care. Plaintiffs submit the declaration of Stephanie Iseri,
R.N. (“Iseri”), a Registered Nurse licensed by the State of California. (Iseri
Decl. ¶ 1.) Iseri opines that GMC staff breached the standard of care by
failing to recognize Decedent had Parkinson’s Diseases during the first days at
GMC, failing to recognize that Decedent was at risk of aspiration, failing to
utilize aspiration precautions for Decedent, and failing to confirm proper
placement of the NGT after it was taken out and reinserted. (Id. ¶ 5.)
Plaintiffs have raised a triable issue of fact as to whether GMC staff breached
the standard of care for their treatment of Decedent.
 
            Plaintiffs
also argues that they are able to raise a triable issue of fact as to
causation. Plaintiffs submit the declaration of Jonathan Marehbian, M.D. (“Dr.
Marehbian”), a board-certified neurologist licensed to practice in California.
(Marehbian Decl. ¶ 2.) Dr. Marehbian opines that to a reasonable degree of
medical probability, failure to put aspiration precautions in place for
Decedent caused Decedent to develop aspiration pneumonia, which led to sepsis
and death. (Id. ¶ 6.) The court observes that Dr. Marehbian does not
provide his reasoning for reaching his ultimate conclusion. However, Plaintiffs
are entitled “to all favorable inferences that reasonably may be derived
from” Dr. Marehbian’s declaration. (Powell v. Kleinman (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 112, 129.) Thus, Plaintiffs have met their burden of demonstrating
a triable issue of fact as to causation. 
 
            GMC’s
motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative for summary adjudication, as
to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is denied.
 
            Second
Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
            GMC
moves for summary judgment as to Plaintiffs second cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
            “ ‘ “[T]o state a
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant's
intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing
emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ ” (Vasquez v. Franklin Management
Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819, 832.)
 
            GMC
argues that there is no triable issue of fact as to whether any of its staff
acted negligently while treating Decedent. However, as discussed above, there
is a triable issue of fact as to whether GMC staff breached the standard of
care. Thus, GMC’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative for
summary adjudication, as to Plaintiffs second cause of action is denied.
 
            Third
Cause of Action for Elder Abuse
 
            GMC argues that Plaintiffs’ third
cause of action for elder abuse fails. 
 
            Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15610.07, subd. (a), provides that abuse of an elder means any of the
following: “(1)
Physical abuse, neglect, abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment
with resulting physical harm or pain or mental suffering. [¶] (2) The deprivation by a care
custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering. [¶] (3) Financial
abuse, as defined in Section 15610.30.” Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15610.57, subdivision (b)(2), provides that neglect
includes “[f]ailure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration.” 
 
            GMC asserts that Plaintiffs
are unable to demonstrate that any act or omissions constitutes elder abuse.
GMC’s arguments here are repetitive of its arguments in the two previous
causation of action and are similarly unavailing here. GMC relies on Dr. Winters’
opinion that there was no elder abuse because Decedent was adequately treated.
(Winters Decl. ¶¶ 44-47.) However, Dr. Winters
does not provide a reasonable explanation for reaching his conclusion and, as
previously stated, there is a triable issue of fact as to whether GMC provided
Decedent with proper care and treatment. GMC has failed to meet its initial
burden. GMC’s motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative for summary
adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is denied.
 
            Discovery
Motions
 
            Dr.
Lin also separately moves for an order compelling Plaintiffs to provide
discovery responses to his requests for the production of documents and
interrogatories. 
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling a response to the interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc. section
2030.290, subd. (b).) The same applies to a party that fails to respond to a
request for document production. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2031.300, subd. (b).)
 
            Dr. Lin provides that he separately
served each Plaintiff with interrogatories and requests for the production of
documents on January 20, 2023. (James Decl. ¶ 3.) Dr. Lin provides that he has not received any discovery
responses. (Id. ¶ 5.) Dr. Lin has demonstrated that he served discovery
requests on Plaintiffs but Plaintiffs’ failed to provide responses. Dr. Lin’s
motions to compel discovery responses is granted.
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            GMC’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
            Dr. Lin’s
motions to compel discovery responses is GRANTED.
 
            Plaintiffs
are ordered to provide code complaint, verified responses to Dr. Lin’s
interrogatories and requests for production of documents within 10 days of the
date of this order.
 
            Dr. Lin’s
requests for sanctions are DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 12,
2022                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit. 
Parties intending to appear are strongly encouraged to appear remotely.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
