  Case Number:  22AHCV00963    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PERLA MAGENO, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PEI WEI
   ASIAN DINER, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00963
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT’S ANSWER 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   13, 2024




 


)


 



 
On October 31, 2022, plaintiff Perla
Mageno (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Pei Wei Asian Diner,
LLC (“Defendant”) alleging violations of the Unruh Civil Rights Act. 
On March 11, 2024, the Court issued a
minute order granting defense counsel’s motion to be relieved, to be effective
upon filing a proof of service of “this Order on Defendant and all parties who
have appeared.” 
On June 21, 2024, defense counsel filed
a notice of ruling attaching the minute order. 
On August 7, 2024, Plaintiff file this
motion to strike Defendant’s answer on the grounds that Defendant is a
corporation which cannot be self-represented. 
CRC rule 3.1362 requires that an order
relieving counsel must be prepared on Form MC-053 and “specify all hearing
dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if
known.” (CRC rule 3.1362, subd. (e).) A proposed order on Form MC-053 was lodged
with defense counsel’s motion, but it was not signed by the Court as it had in
it a date that needed correcting. The Court has corrected the proposed order, revised
the trial and final status conference dates, and inserted the October 10, 2024,
date of the continued hearing on Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike.
Therefore, although defense counsel
filed a notice of ruling attaching the Court’s minute order, the minute order
was ineffective to relieve defense counsel as Defendant’s counsel of record. 
Accordingly, the Court has revised and
signed the proposed order, as indicated above, and CONTINUES Plaintiff’s motion
to strike in order to give defense counsel an opportunity to serve the signed
Order on Form MC-053 and file proof of service. The hearing on Plaintiff’s
motion to strike is continued to October 10, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3
of the Alhambra Courthouse.
Defense counsel is ORDERED to serve the
signed Order on Form MC-053 and file proof of service. 
Dated this 13th day of September,
2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 