 Case Number:  23AHCV01453    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIBEL ARREOLA-GONZALEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AHMC
   SAN GABRIEL VALLEY MEDICAL CENTER LP, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01453
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LI CUI, M.D.’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY
   RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE)  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
September
   13, 2024




 


)


 



 
Defendant Li Cui, M.D. (“Defendant”)
moves to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One) Nos. 1,
17, and 18 from plaintiffs Maribel Arreola-Gonzalez, Saul Gonzalez Arreola, and
Eva Gonzalez Arreola (collectively, “Plaintiffs”). Defendant argues that
further responses are required because Plaintiffs’ untimely responses were
incomplete and included objections which were waived. 
 
SROG No. 1 asks Plaintiffs to “set
forth specifically and in itemized form all medical specials incurred by YOU or
decedent which YOU claim were necessitated or caused by the allegations in YOUR
Complaint herein. Plaintiffs responded that they “[did] not understand the
meaning of medical specials because it is not defined and therefore is unable
to respond to this interrogatory without guessing.” (Motion, Ex. C.)  
Plaintiffs’ response effectively
asserts an objection on the grounds that the interrogatory is vague and
ambiguous. However, objections have been waived. Accordingly, a further
response is required. The term “medical specials” was clarified during the meet
and confer process to refer to “special damages”, the definition of which is
not difficult to determine. 
SROG Nos. 17 and 18 ask Plaintiffs to “[s]tate
the amount of the original bill for each healthcare provider from whom YOU
received medical services” and the “amount[s] actually paid to fully resolve
every bill for each healthcare provider from whom YOU received medical services
as a result of the subject incident.” In response, Plaintiffs referred to
“forthcoming documentation.” However, a party who fails to serve a timely
response “waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
[CCP] Section 2030.230.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) Therefore, a
further response is required. If Plaintiffs did not receive any bills from healthcare
providers, Plaintiff should state so. 
The Court notes that even if the
special interrogatories propounded to each plaintiff were identical, Defendant
should have filed three motions and paid three filing fees because Defendant
seeks orders compelling three plaintiffs to each serve further responses.
Therefore, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED on the condition that two additional
filing fees are paid. Plaintiffs’ further responses are due no later than 20
days after Defendant files proof that the two filing fees have been paid. 
Monetary sanctions are imposed on
Plaintiffs and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $585,
consisting of 2 hours at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $205 and $180 in
filing fees. Like further responses, sanctions must be paid no later than 20
days after Defendant files proof that the additional filing fees have been
paid. 
Dated
this 13th
day of September, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 