 Case Number:  24VECV00907    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Nafiseh
  Arjomand,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
 
Mercedes-Benz
  USA, LLC, et al.,
        
  
          Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
24VECV00907                           107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
Compel
  Arbitration



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
 
Defendant Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC moves to compel arbitration of the complaint brought by plaintiff
Nafiseh Arjomand. This court grants defendant’s motion to compel arbitration
and stays all proceedings pending the outcome of arbitration. This court denies
plaintiff’s request for judicial notice.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On November 24,
2023, plaintiff Nafiseh Arjomand (“Plaintiff”) leased a certain vehicle (the
“Vehicle”) warrantied by the Vehicle’s manufacturer, defendant Mercedes-Benz
USA, LLC (“Defendant”). To do so, Plaintiff executed a motor vehicle lease
agreement (the “Agreement”) that contained an arbitration clause (the
“Arbitration Clause”). (Motion p. 3; Ameripour Decl. Exh. 2.) The Arbitration
Clause provides, in relevant part,
 
Any claim or
dispute, whether in contract, tort or otherwise (including any dispute over the
interpretation, scope, or validity of this lease, arbitration section or the
arbitrability of any issue), between you and us or any of our employees, agents
, successors, assigns, or the vehicle distributor, including Mercedes-Benz USA
LLC (each a “Third Party Beneficiary”), which arises out of or relates to a
credit application, this lease, or any resulting transaction or relationship
arising out of this lease (including any such relationship with third parties
who do not sign this contract) shall, at the election of either you, us, or a
Third Party Beneficiary, be resolved by a neutral, binding arbitration and not
by a court action.
 
…
 
This lease
evidences a transaction involving interstate commerce. Any arbitration under
this lease shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 USC 1, et seq).
 
(Motion pp. 3–4;
Ameripour Decl. Exh. 2.)
 
On February 28,
2024, Plaintiff initiated this action by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act—breach of express warranty, (2) violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act—breach of implied warranty, and (3) negligent repair.
 
On May 17, 2024,
Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration (the “Motion”). On June 17,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion, to which
Defendant replied on June 24, 2024.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings

 
Per
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers
should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing,
oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set
hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court
days before the set hearing.
 
We are
satisfied that all filings made in connection with the Motion are timely.
 

Page Limits

 
Per California Rules of Court rule 3.1113(d), “no opening or
responding memorandum may exceed 15 pages,” which limit “does not include the caption
page, the notice of motion and motion, exhibits, declarations, attachments, the
table of contents, the table of authorities, or the proof of service.” 
 
The Opposition is 18 pages in length and therefore exceeds
the page limit imposed by California Rules of Court rule 3.1113(d). Although we
do not decline to consider any part of the Opposition on this ground, we remind
Plaintiff of the existence of and the importance of abiding by the California
Rules of Court. 
 

Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
     Notice

 
Plaintiff requests that this court take judicial notice of
the Complaint. The Complaint is already in the record in the instant action and
therefore this court does not need to take judicial notice of it.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for
judicial notice.
 
III. DISCUSSION
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract. (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the
party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there should be no
enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to
reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio v. WMA
Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) “In determining whether
an¿arbitration¿agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine
only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party
refusing¿arbitration.” (Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350,
353.)  
 
This court is empowered by California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an
agreement to do so. “The court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿1281.2.) Thus, “Section 1281.2
requires a court to order arbitration if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836, 841.)¿ 
¿ 
California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general
rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance
that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)¿The party opposing arbitration bears the
burden of showing that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
claims at issue. (EFund Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th
1311, 1321.) 
 

Defendant’s
     Standing to Compel Arbitration

 
“The general rule
is that only a party to an arbitration agreement may enforce it.” (Ronay
Family Limited Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 837.)
However, “the law recognizes exceptions to the general rule and allows a
nonparty to enforce an arbitration agreement provided the nonparty has a
sufficient ‘identity of interest’ with a party to the agreement.” (Id.
at 838.)
 
1.     
Equitable Estoppel
 
“The doctrine
of equitable estoppel is an exception to the general rule that a
nonsignatory to an agreement cannot
be compelled to arbitrate and cannot invoke an agreement
to arbitrate, without being a party to the arbitration agreement.
Under that doctrine, as applied in both federal and California decisional
authority, a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause
to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims
when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in
and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations. By relying on
contract terms in a claim against a nonsignatory defendant, even if not
exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably estopped from
repudiating the arbitration clause contained in that agreement.” (Kielar
v. Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, 619, internal quotation marks
omitted.) “Merely ‘making reference to’ an agreement with an arbitration clause
is not enough. The plaintiff's actual dependence on the underlying contract in
making out the claim against the nonsignatory is always the sine qua non
of an appropriate situation for applying equitable estoppel. Even if a
plaintiff's claims ‘touch matters’ relating to the arbitration agreement,
the claims are not arbitrable unless the plaintiff relies on the agreement to
establish its cause of action. ‘But-for causation” alone is insufficient.” (Ibid.)
 
In Kielar v.
Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, 620–21 (hereafter, Kielar),
the plaintiff brought a cause of action for breach of express and implied
warranties under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, but the express
warranty “was not part of his sales contract with the dealership. Indeed, the
sales contract acknowledges this separate warranty and disclaims any implied
warranties by the dealership.” On the basis that “manufacturer vehicle warranties
that accompany the sale of motor vehicles without regard to the terms of the
sale contract between the purchaser and the dealer are independent of the
sale contract,” the court in Kielar found that “a manufacturers’ express
or implied warranties that accompany a vehicle at the time of sale”
do not “constitute obligations arising from the sale contract, permitting
manufacturers to enforce an arbitration agreement in the contract
pursuant to equitable estoppel.” (Ibid.)
 
Like the sales
contract that contained no warranties in Kielar, supra, 94
Cal.App.5th at 620–21, the Agreement contains no express warranties and
contains a provision that disclaims and implied warranties. (Ameripour Decl.
Exh. 2.) As Plaintiff points out in the Opposition, the warranties under which
Plaintiff brings her Song-Beverly causes of action create “statutory
obligations under the Song-Beverly Act to adequately repair, replace,
or repurchase the defective car.” (Opposition p. 5, emphasis original.) And, as
the court in Kielar found, Defendant’s express and implied warranties
that accompanied the Vehicle at the time it was leased do not constitute
obligations arising from the Agreement, which would permit Defendant to enforce
the Arbitration Clause pursuant to equitable estoppel. 
 
Thus, we find that
Defendant may not enforce the Arbitration Clause on an equitable estoppel
basis.
 
2.     
Third-Party Beneficiary
 
“A third party beneficiary is
someone who may enforce a contract because the contract is made expressly for
his benefit. The test for determining whether a contract was made for the
benefit of a third person is whether an intent to benefit a third person
appears from the terms of the contract. The mere fact that a contract results
in benefits to a third party does not render that party a
‘third party beneficiary.’” (Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co.
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 973, internal citations omitted.) “[I]n
considering third party beneficiary contract claims, a
court should carefully examine the express provisions of the contract at issue,
as well as all of the relevant circumstances under which the contract was
agreed to, in order to determine not only (1) whether
the third party would in fact benefit from the contract, but
also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide
a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting
a third party to bring its own breach of contract action
against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. All three elements
must be satisfied to permit the third party action to go
forward.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendant is named
in the Arbitration Clause as a third-party beneficiary who may elect to have
controversies arising out of the Agreement resolved by arbitration and not by
court action. We find that Defendant may therefore enforce the Arbitration
Clause because the Agreement was made expressly for its benefit. We also
consider that (1) Defendant indeed benefits from the Arbitration Clause by
being given the option to elect to have controversies involving it resolved by
arbitration; (2) per the text of the Arbitration Clause and the context in
which Plaintiff was entering the Agreement to lease the Vehicle, which was
manufactured by Defendant and which made Defendant therefore a likely third
party to be involved in any controversies arising out of the Agreement,
Plaintiff and the dealer/lessor intended for Defendant to benefit from the
Arbitration Clause and this benefit to Defendant motivated them to enter into
the Arbitration Clause; and (3) permitting Defendant to enforce the Arbitration
Clause against Plaintiff is consistent with the objectives of the Agreement and
the reasonable expectations of Plaintiff and the dealer/lessor. Because all
three elements of this test are satisfied, we find that Defendant may enforce
the Arbitration Clause.
 
Plaintiff argues
in the Opposition that “the ‘Parties’ definition provision, found on the first
page of the Lease, expressly sets forth which delineated parties have agreed to
be bound by ‘the terms and conditions’ of the Lease.” However, Defendant does
not seek to bind some non-signatory third party by the terms of the Agreement.
Rather, it seeks to bind Plaintiff, a signatory to the Agreement. Additionally,
the Agreement’s identification of the parties to the Agreement does not
preclude the existence of third-party beneficiaries.
 
Thus, we conclude
that Defendant has standing to enforce the Arbitration Clause as a third-party
beneficiary of the Agreement.
 

Scope of the
     Arbitration Clause

The Arbitration
Clause describes its own scope as covering, in relevant part, “[a]ny claim or
dispute, whether in contract, tort or otherwise… which arises out of or relates
to a credit application, this lease, or any resulting transaction or
relationship arising out of this lease (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract).” (Ameripour Decl. Exh. 2.)
 
The Agreement
reads, in relevant part, “[i]f the vehicle is new, it is covered by a standard
new vehicle warranty from the manufacturer…. We assign to you all rights we
have under any of these warranties. You acknowledge that you have received a
copy of the indicated warranties. (Ameripour Decl. Exh. 2.)
 
By assigning to
Plaintiff all rights under Defendant’s warranties, the Agreement thus created a
relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant arising out of the warranties and
the Agreement. All of the Complaint’s causes of action arise out of or relate
to the warranties that the Agreement assigned to Plaintiff. Therefore, all of
the Complaint’s causes of action are claims or disputes that arise out of or
relate to the relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant arising out of the
warranties and the Agreement.
 
Thus, we find that
the causes of action alleged by the Complaint fall within the scope of the
Arbitration Clause.
 

Stay of
     Proceedings

 
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4 provides,
in relevant part, “[i]f a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this
State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier
time as the court specifies.” “In accordance with choice-of-law
principles, the parties may limit the trial court's authority to stay or deny
arbitration under the CAA by adopting the more restrictive procedural provisions
of the FAA.” (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
“Absent such an express designation, however, the FAA's procedural provisions
do not apply in state court.” (Id. at 174.) 
 
The Arbitration
Clause specifies that the FAA shall govern any arbitration under the Agreement,
but it does not specify that the FAA’s procedural provisions should apply to a
motion to stay or deny arbitration. Thus, this being a state court, the CAA applies.
Following California Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.4, this action should therefore be stayed pending the
outcome of arbitration.
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion and STAYS all
proceedings pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
 
 
Dated:             July
1, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court