  Case Number:  23VECV05649    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Laura
  Ramirez,
 
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Tesla
  Motors, Inc.,         
          Defendant.


   Case
  Number             Department
23VECV05649                         107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING RE: 
(1) Demurrer
(2) Motion to
  Strike 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE
CASE]:        
 
Defendant Tesla
Motors, Inc. demurs to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action and moves
to strike portions of plaintiff Laura Ramirez’s complaint. This court grants
the motion to strike as to the first
sentence of paragraph 8 and all references to “plaintiff’s” or “her” vehicle of
paragraphs 53, 64, and 91 of the complaint. This court overrules the demurrer
as to the third and fifth causes of action and sustains the demurrer as to the
fourth cause of action. This court grants plaintiff leave to amend the
complaint. Defendant’s request for judicial notice is denied.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On December 23,
2021, plaintiff Laura Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) was driving a certain vehicle (the
“Vehicle”) manufactured by defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) when the
Vehicle malfunctioned and caused a collision with a highway median divider and
injuring Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶¶ 9–10.)
 
On December 21,
2023, Plaintiff initiated this action by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) strict products liability, (2)
negligence—products liability, (3) breach of implied warranty of
merchantability, (4) breach of implied warranty of fitness for a particular
purpose, and (5) breach of express warranty.
 
On March 18, 2024,
Defendant moved to compel arbitration, which Plaintiff opposed on March 25,
2024. Concurrently with her opposition to Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration, Plaintiff filed a declaration (the “Ramirez Declaration”). On
April 5, 2024, Defendant withdrew its motion to compel arbitration.
 
On May 31, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant demurrer (the “Demurrer”) and motion to strike (the
“Motion”), in response to which Plaintiff filed an opposition (the
“Opposition”) on June 17, 2024.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings

 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿430.40, subdivision (a), a demurrer to a complaint should be filed within 30
days after service of the complaint. Similarly, per California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to strike should be filed “within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading,” which is 30 days. (See Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. §¿412.20, subd. (a)(3).) Per California Code of Civil Procedure
§¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be filed at least 16 court days
before they are set for hearing, oppositions thereto should be filed at least
nine court days before the set hearing, and replies to any oppositions should
be filed at least five court days before the set hearing. Judges have
discretion as to whether to consider or strike an untimely demurrer or
pleading. (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253,
281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved on other
grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6
Cal.3d 176.)¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff filed a
proof of personal service indicating that the Complaint was personally served
on Defendant on February 1, 2024. In light of the withdrawn motion to compel
arbitration, this court will consider the Demurrer and Motion, although they
appear untimely. The Opposition is
timely.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a)
and §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in good
faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to strike, respectively, to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer or the
motion to strike. Each section requires that such meet and confer be done “in
person or by telephone.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§¿430.1, subd. (a), 435.5,
subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Defendant submits a declaration by its counsel describing his
efforts to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel. (Bruce Decl.
¶¶ 7–11.) He indicates that he and Plaintiff’s counsel discussed but were
unable to resolve the issues raised by the Demurrer and the Motion at a case
management conference. (Id. at ¶ 11.) He also indicates that Plaintiff’s
counsel did not respond to a number of Defendant’s counsel’ attempts to meet
and confer with him. (Id. at ¶¶ 7–10.) We are therefore satisfied that
this requirement has been met, though we remind Plaintiff’s counsel of his
obligation to meet and confer with Defendant’s counsel in good faith.
 

Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice

 
Defendant requests that this court take judicial notice of
the Complaint. The Complaint is already in the record in the instant action and
therefore this court does not need to take judicial notice of it.
 
Accordingly, this court DENIES Defendant’s request for
judicial notice.
 
III. DISCUSSION
 

The Motion to Strike

 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id. at § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. at §
437.)¿“[J]udges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as
a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
In the Ramirez Declaration, Plaintiff states that her mother
Ana Maria Amarales (“Amarales”) purchased the Vehicle and that she only
assisted her mother with creating an online account on Defendant’s website to
do so. (Ramirez Decl. ¶¶ 6–7.) Plaintiff declares that her mother, and not
she, placed the order for the Vehicle, signed the Motor Vehicle Purchase
Agreement and binding arbitration agreement “on her own,” and was “indicated as
a buyer and receiving party of the said Vehicle in the invoice issued by Defendant.”
(Id. at ¶¶ 7–9.) Plaintiff further declares that “I have not signed any
document related to the purchase of the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement… nor have
I authorized my mother to sign any document on my behalf.” (Id. at ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff declares, “[s]tarting from the date of the purchase of the Vehicle my
mother has been the registered owner of the Vehicle.” Plaintiff also certifies
the copies of the Motor Vehicle Purchase Agreement and the invoice for the
Vehicle’s purchase that are attached to her opposition to the motion to compel
arbitration. (Id. at ¶¶ 8–9.) The Motor Vehicle Purchase Agreement
attached to the opposition is unsigned by the buyer but indicates that only
Amarales was the buyer of the Vehicle. (Opposition Exh. A.) The invoice
attached to the opposition similarly indicates that the Vehicle was “sold to”
Amarales. (Id. at Exh. B.)
 
Defendant moves to strike paragraphs 8, 53, 64, and 91 of the
Complaint. 
 
Paragraph 8 reads, “[o]n or around July 2021, Plaintiff
purchased her [Vehicle] from [Defendant] in Los Angeles County, California. The
failed autopilot feature is the original equipment that came with the initial
purchase of the [Vehicle].”
 
Paragraph 53 reads, “[h]ad Defendants, and each of them,
performed those tests and studies necessary to determine that the autopilot
feature was not safe to use as designed, Plaintiff’s autopilot feature would
not have malfunctioned causing Plaintiff’s [Vehicle] to forcefully strike the
median divider during a late-night drive on December 23, 2021 causing her to
sustain significant injuries.”
 
Paragraph 64 reads, “Plaintiff, in using her [Vehicle] to
operate under the autopilot feature, reasonably relied upon the skill and
judgment of Defendants, and each of them, as to whether the [Vehicle] was of
merchantable quality and safe for its intended, reasonably foreseeable and/or ordinary
use.”
 
Paragraph 91 reads, “Plaintiff reasonably relied upon
Defendants’ warranty that the autopilot feature was safe and effective when it
came with the purchase of her [Vehicle] and put the autopilot to normal and
proper use.” 
 
The first sentence of Paragraph 8 is contradicted by the Ramirez
Declaration. While Plaintiff, in the Opposition, avers that she “does not
consider that any paragraphs from the complaint shall be stricken,” she does
not dispute that the statement in the Ramirez Declaration that Amarales and not
she purchased the Vehicle. The Ramirez Declaration, being based on personal
knowledge and signed under penalty of perjury, meets the requirements of an
affidavit and therefore is considered submitted evidence. Because this court
may strike any false matter from the Complaint, we agree that the first
sentence of Paragraph 8 may be struck.
 
Paragraphs 53, 64, and 91 each refer to the Vehicle as “Plaintiff’s”
Vehicle or “her” Vehicle, and Paragraph 53 refers to “Plaintiff’s autopilot
feature.” We agree that because Plaintiff has submitted evidence and does not
in the Opposition contest that the Vehicle does not belong to her, these
paragraphs are false and may be properly subjected to a motion to strike. 
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion as to the first sentence of
Paragraph 8 and all references to the Vehicle being “Plaintiff’s” or “her”
vehicle in Paragraphs 53, 64, and 91.
 

The Demurrer

 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint’s third cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of merchantability, fourth cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, and fifth cause of action for
breach of express warranty. Defendant contends that these three causes of
action all require privity of contract, which Plaintiff does not have with
Defendant. Defendant additionally contends that the Complaint does not plead
the terms of any express warranty.
 
“The general rule
is that privity of contract is required in an action for breach of either
express or implied warranty.” (All West Electronics, Inc. v. M–B–W, Inc.
(1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 717, 725.) “Privity of contract is a prerequisite in
California for recovery on a theory of breach of implied warranties of fitness
and merchantability.” (Blanco v. Baxter Healthcare Corp. (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1058.) 
 
Plaintiff cites Hauter
v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104 (hereafter, Hauter) to support her
assertion that family members of a purchaser of a defective product are
excepted from the privity requirement for warranty claims. (Opposition pp. 4–5,
7.) In Hauter, supra, at 114, fn. 8, the “fact that [the
plaintiff] [was] not in privity with defendants [did] not bar recovery”
because “[p]rivity is not required for an action based upon an express warranty,”
and “[a]lthough privity appears to remain a requirement for actions based upon
the implied warranty of merchantability, [the plaintiff] [came] within a
well-recognized exception to the rule: he [was] a member of the purchaser's
family.” (see also Rodriguez v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d
494, 500 [“[P]rivity is not a requirement for actions based upon an express
warranty.”].) Hauter’s assertion that privity is not required for
actions based on express warranties is limited to only “when a consumer relies
on representations made by a manufacturer in labels or advertising
material.” (Fundin v. Chicago Pneumatic Tool Co. (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d
951, 957; see also Burr v. Sherwin Williams Co. (1954) 42 Cal.2d 682,
696 [“Another possible exception to the general rule is found in a few cases
where the purchaser of a product relied on representations made by the
manufacturer in labels or advertising material, and recovery from the
manufacturer was allowed on the theory of express warranty without a showing of
privity.”].)
 
The Complaint
alleges that “[t]hrough aggressive marketing and advertising campaigns,
Defendants, and each of them, expressly warranted that the [Vehicle’s]
autopilot feature was sale and effective to members of the consuming public,
including Plaintiff” and that “Plaintiff reasonably relied upon Defendants' warranty
that the autopilot feature was safe and effective when it came with the
purchase of her [Vehicle] and put the autopilot to normal and proper use.” (Complaint
¶ 87, 91.) Although the reference to the Vehicle being “her” Vehicle was
struck by this court, the portion of Paragraph 91 quoted above about
Plaintiff’s reasonable reliance remains in the Complaint. Thus, the Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff relied on representations made by Defendant in its
advertising materials in her decision to operate the defective Vehicle. These
allegations adequately put Plaintiff’s cause of action for breach of the
express warranty within the exception to the general rule that privity is
required between parties for express warranties. And, they adequately plead the
existence of an express warranty. As stated above, they plead that the
advertisements published by Defendant created an express warranty. Although
Defendant argues that the allegations of the Complaint “do no more than set
forth a ‘commendation of the goods’ of the sort found wanting” by the court in Keith
v. Buchanan (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 13, 20, this case cited by Defendant does
not deal with a demurrer but with a motion for judgment at the close of a
party’s evidence, which has a higher standard of proof than the pleading
standard to overcome a demurrer.
 
The third and
fourth causes of action relate to the implied warranty of merchantability and
the implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, respectively, in the Motor Vehicle Purchase Agreement between
Amarales and Defendant. Following Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d
104, the Ramirez Declaration states “[m]y mother’s name is [Amarales].”
(Ramirez Decl. ¶ 2.) Amarales similarly submitted a declaration signed
under penalty of perjury that declares that she is the mother of Plaintiff.
(Amarales Decl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff, as Amarales’ daughter, falls within the
exception to the rule that privity is required for a cause of action based upon
the implied warranty of merchantability for members of the purchaser’s family.
We do not, however, see authority establishing that the same exception applies
to a cause of action based upon the implied warranty of fitness for a
particular purpose.
 
Accordingly, this
court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the third and fifth causes of action and
SUSTAINS the Demurrer as to the fourth cause of action.
 

Leave to
     Amend

 
“Where the defect raised by a¿motion¿to¿strike¿or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave¿to¿amend¿is routinely
and¿liberally¿granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in
question.” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120
Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) “[An order granting a motion to strike] is analogous
to an order sustaining a demurrer.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 761, 768.) “If the plaintiff has not had an opportunity to amend
the complaint in response to the demurrer, leave to amend is liberally allowed
as a matter of fairness, unless the complaint shows on its face that it is
incapable of amendment.” (City of Stockton v. Superior Court (2007) 42
Cal.4th 730, 747.) Courts generally allow at least one time to amend a
complaint, after sustaining a demurrer, even without any request for leave to
amend. (McDonald v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal. App. 3d 297, 303.)¿ 
 
We note that this
is the first time the Complaint has been subject to a motion to strike or
demurrer and believe that the defects in the Complaint that are struck are reasonably
capable of cure.
 
Accordingly, this
court GRANTS leave to amend.
 
Dated:             July
1, 2024                                                    _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court