  Case Number:  22PSCV01744    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Frances
Gundlach v. Frank Flores, et al. 
1.      Motion to
Compel Responses to Request for Production and Identification of Documents;
2.      Motion to
Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories; and
3.      Motion to
Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motions to compel responses to
Request for Production and Identification of Documents, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff must
serve complete and verified responses, without objection, to Defendants’
Request for Production and Identification of Documents, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, and produce all
responsive documents, within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ requests for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $684.95. Plaintiff and her counsel of record must pay
said monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendants within 20 days of the Court’s
order. 
             Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a cat bite case. On November 9, 2022, plaintiff Frances
Gundlach (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Frank Flores, Lydia
Flores and Does 1 through 100 (collectively, Defendants). On October 18, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
Defendants, alleging causes of action for strict liability, negligence,
premises liability, and negligence per se. On January 3, 2024, the Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for negligence per
se with leave to amend. Plaintiff did not amend the FAC. On February 2, 2024,
Defendants filed an answer to the remaining causes of action in the FAC. 
On March 26, 2024, Defendants moved to compel responses to Request
for Production and Identification of Documents, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. The motions are
unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
When a party
fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives
any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id., §
2030.290, subd. (a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd.
(c).) 
When a party
fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party making the
demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection demand.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely
response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a
monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)     
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Although meeting and conferring is not required for a motion to
compel initial responses or a motion to deem requests for admissions admitted,
(see Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411), the Court appreciates Defendants’ efforts to
meet and confer with Plaintiff before bringing these motions, (Kraft Decls., ¶¶
4-7; see also Dept. 6 Courtroom Information [“Parties are required to meet and
confer prior to filing any motion.”]) 
            Analysis 
Defendants
move to compel responses to Request for Production and Identification of Documents, Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Defendants
contend they served these discovery requests on Plaintiff on November 21, 2023,
but they have not received any responses, despite having granted Plaintiff multiple
extensions. (Kraft Decls., ¶¶ 2-8.) The Court finds Defendants’ motions to be
well taken and GRANTS them. Plaintiff must serve complete and verified
responses to each set of discovery requests on Defendants, without objection, and
produce all responsive documents, within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
With respect to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS the requests
in the reduced amount of $684.95, comprised of 2.0 hours preparing the motions
to compel, multiplied by the hourly rate of $250.00, for a total of $500.00,
plus $184.95, comprised of three filing fees of $61.65 for each motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motions to compel responses to
Request for Production and Identification of Documents, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff must
serve complete and verified responses, without objection, to Defendants’
Request for Production and Identification of Documents, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One, and produce all
responsive documents, within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ requests for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $684.95. Plaintiff and her counsel of record must pay
said monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendants within 20 days of the Court’s
order. 
             Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.