 Case Number:  22STCV23707    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT





MARIYA
  CHERNYAVSKAYA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LOS ANGELES
  COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
) 
) 
) 
) 
) ) )


     CASE NO.: 22STCV23707
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT
  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY’S MOTION TO COMPEL
  PLAINTIFF TO RESPOND TO (1) FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE; (2) SECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES; AND (3) REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
 
SANCTIONS  
 
 
 
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
December 4,
  2023



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
On July 22, 2022, Mariya Chernyavskaya (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“LACMTA”), City of Los Angeles (“City of LA”), California Department of
Transportation (“CDT”), Onyx Tower LLC. (“Onyx”), and Does 1 to 50 (collectively,
“Defendants”) arising out of a fall on November 4, 2021. Plaintiff alleges causes
of action for general negligence and premises liability.  
On September 15, 2023, Defendant LACMTA filed the instant motions
to compel Plaintiff to provide responses to: (1) Form Interrogatories, Set One; (2) Special Interrogatories, Set One; and (3) Requests for
Production of Documents; Defendant also moved for sanctions for each motion to
compel.  
On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Opposition to each motion,
contending that she provided discovery responses, albeit late.  She contends that Defendant should have withdrawn
its motions given that she provided responses and now requests her own sanctions.

On November 27, 2023, Defendant LACMTA filed a Reply to each Opposition.
 It argues that Plaintiff’s late
responses do not absolve her of responsibility to pay sanctions.  
Thus, these motions come down to the issue of sanctions, as now the
issue of responses, at least in relation to initial responses, has been
resolved.  Both parties seek sanctions
against the other.
II.               
LEGAL
STANDARDS
Sanctions
Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030 authorizes the Court to impose discovery sanctions
for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a
variety of conduct.  Here, the late
responses after motions had to be filed to obtain responses, particularly after
Plaintiff was provided with multiple extensions, is appropriately deemed a “misuse
of the discovery process.”  Plaintiff seeks
to excuse her failure to abide by the discovery process because she does not
have technological access and because of her age.  Those arguments are unpersuasive: she was able,
despite her age and lack of technological access, to bring this action.  Upon bringing it, she is responsible for abiding
by the rules – those rules apply equally to all litigants.  
Frankly, Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions because Defendant refused to take the motions off calendar is the
height of “chutzpah.”  She failed to
respond timely, forced Defendant to bring motions and now seeks sanctions because
Defendant then refused to take the motions off calendar so that Defendant could
be reimbursed for expenses Plaintiff caused it to incur.  In a word: ridiculous!
Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly
and severally, are hereby ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant in the
reasonable amount of $1,800, for the cost of having to bring three different
motions and then reply to oppositions, which instead should have been simple
arguments against sanctions (or, even more appropriately, arguments to reduce
sanctions) rather than requests for sanctions, after having been provided with
multiple extensions to provide responses. Sanctions are to be paid within 30
days of this order. 
Moving parties to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email
to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
                                                                                                Dated
this 4th day of December 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 