 Case Number:  24BBCV00455    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B



 
lena
  mestrandrea,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
nancy ming ling
  chen, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00455
 
Hearing
  Date:  August 16, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel further responses 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Lena Mestrandrea (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on August 22, 2023 at approximately 1 P.M. at or near 4041 Whitset
Avenue in Studio City, she was attacked and bit by Defendant Nancy Ming Ling
Chen’s (“Defendant”) German Shepherd Mix dog. 
Plaintiff alleges that she was jogging past Defendant on a public street
when Defendant was unable to control her dog and, without warning or
provocation, the dog viciously attacked and bit Plaintiff.  
The complaint, filed February 23, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; and (2) strict liability. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On June 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed 3
motions to compel Defendant’s further responses to: (1) Form Interrogatories,
set one (“FROG”); (2) Requests for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”);
and (3) Requests for Admissions, set one (“RFA”).        
On July 8, 2024, Defendant filed
objections to the motions on the grounds that the motion was not timely served.

On July 19, 2024, the Court continued the
hearing on the motions to August 16, 2024, in order to provide time for
Defendant to file substantive opposition briefs. 
On August 1, 2024, Defendant filed
opposition briefs.
On August 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed reply
briefs. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves to compel
Defendant’s further responses to FROG Nos. 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 12.4, 16.3-16.5, and
17.1(b); RPD Nos. 17 and 18; and RFA Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10-13, 15, 17-19,
and 23-29. 
A.   
Timeliness and Opposition Arguments
In opposition, Defendant argues that the
motions were not timely served within 45-days of the time limitation to bring
the motion.  
Defendant argues that the motions were not
timely served before the initially set hearing date of July 19, 2024.  Defendant argues that the motions were
untimely because they were filed with the Court and served by electronic
service on June 28, 2024.  To be timely,
the motions were required to be filed 16 court days before the hearing (or June
26, 2024) and served at least 2 days prior to account for electronic service
(or June 24, 2024).  (CCP §§ 1005(b),
1010.6(a)(3)(B).)  The Court addressed
this issue by continuing the hearing on the motions to August 16, 2024 so that
Defendant could file substantive opposition briefs. 
Defendant additionally argues that the
motion was not timely served within the 45-days required under CCP §§
2030.300(c), 2031.310(c), and 2033.290(c). 
For example, CCP § 2030.300(c) states: “Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.”  
Defendant argues that she served her
responses to the FROG on May 16, 2024, such that Plaintiff was required to file
and serve the motions by July 8, 2024.  According
to Exhibit B of the motion papers regarding the FROG, Defendant served her
responses to the FROG by electronic service on May 16, 2024.  (See also RFA Mot., Ex. B; RPD Mot., Ex.
B.)  Thus, the time for Plaintiff to give
notice of the motion was within 45 days of receiving the responses from May 16,
2024, plus an additional 2 days for service by electronic mail—or by latest July
2, 2024.  The motions were filed on June
28, 2024 and served electronically that same day.  As such, the motions were timely filed and
served on Defendant within the 45-day (plus time for electronic mailing)
jurisdictional limitation.   The motions
will not be denied on procedural grounds for untimeliness.  
To the extent that Defendant objects to
the separate statements and that the notices of motion did not provide which
discovery requests were at issue, the Court notes that while Plaintiff’s moving
papers are not the model of perfection, the papers are sufficient to apprise
Defendant regarding what discovery is at issue. 
This is evidenced by Defendant’s ability to substantively respond to the
merits of the motions in the opposition memorandum of points and
authorities.  (The Court notes that
Defendant did not file a responsive separate statement.)  
As such, the Court will consider the
substantive merits of the motions. 
B.    
RFA
            Plaintiff moves to compel
Defendant’s further responses to RFA Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10-13, 15, 17-19,
and 23-29.
            RFA No. 1 asks Defendant to
admit that her inactions or failure to act caused the incident.  RFA No. 17 asks Defendant to admit
that Plaintiff was acting with vigilance and care at the time of the
incident.  Defendant objected that the
RFA was vague, compound, not full and complete in and of itself, and imprecise
due to the definition of “incident.”  The
term “incident” is defined as “the August 22, 2023, dog bite and dog attack
DEFENDANT NANCY MING LING CHEN and PLAINTIFF LENA MISTRANDREA and referenced in
Plaintiff’s complaint that is the subject-matter of this lawsuit.”  (Mot., Ex. A at p.2.)  It appears that the definition of “incident”
is missing a word, such as “including/involving” (i.e., “the August 22, 2023,
dog bite and dog attack [including/involving] DEFENDANT NANCY MING LING CHEN
and PLAINTIFF LENA MISTRANDREA…”).  Nevertheless,
this could have been resolved easily through meet and confer efforts and based
on the context of the definition, it is apparent that the term was referring to
the August 22, 2023 dog bite and attack as referenced in the complaint.  Here, the RFAs are not vague nor
compound.  Plaintiffs should specify
whether they intend to use the word “including” or the word “involving.” A
further response is warranted.  The
motion is granted as to RFA Nos. 1 and 17. 
 
            RFA No. 2 asks Defendant to
admit that her negligence was a substantial factor in causing injuries to Plaintiff
on the day of the incident.  RFA No. 7
asks Defendant to admit that her dog was responsible for causing Plaintiff
injuries on the day of the incident.  RFA
No. 12 asks Defendant to admit that Plaintiff suffered injuries as a result
of the incident.  Defendant objected on
the same grounds as above, including that the term “injuries” was ambiguous and
included multiple (plural) injuries such that the RFAs were compound.  The term “injuries” is not so vague that
Defendant cannot respond as this action involved an alleged dog bite on
Plaintiff’s person.  As such, a further
response should be provided to RFA Nos. 2, 7, and 12.  
            RFA No. 4 asks Defendant to
admit that Plaintiff could not have done anything differently to avoid the
incident.  RFA No. 5 asks
Defendant to admit that there was no contributory negligence on the part of
Plaintiff with regard to the incident. 
Defendant objected that the RFAs were vague, compound, not full and
complete in themselves, and imprecise due to the definition of “incident.”  For the same reasons discussed above, the
motion is granted as to RFA Nos. 4-5.  
            RFA No. 8 asks Defendant to
admit that her dog attacked Plaintiff on August 22, 2023.  Defendant objected that the RA was overbroad
and burdensome as “you” was defined to include multiple people (i.e.,
Defendant, her agents/employees/insurance companies, their agents/employees,
her attorneys/accountants/investigators, or anyone acting on her behalf), and
that the term “attacked” was vague.  To
the extent that the term “you” was vague, Defendant should have provided a
response that complied with CCP § 2033.220 or admitted or denied the matter to
the extent she could have.  The Court
will limit RFA No. 8 so that the term “you” (or “your”) will be limited to
Defendant (or “Defendant’s” dog).  The
motion is granted as to RFA No. 8.   
            RFA Nos. 10-11 asks Defendant
to admit that she breached her duty of care to restrain her dog from Plaintiff,
so it would not (10) endanger Plaintiff and (11) bite Plaintiff.  Defendant objected similarly as she did to RFA
No. 8, as well as on the grounds that the RFAs are irrelevant and do not seek
to prove or disprove a dispositive fact, and the term “restrained” was not
defined.  However, the RFAs seek
information directly regarding the elements of the causes of action in the
complaint, such that they seek relevant information.  Further, the term “restrained” may be defined
and construed in the general sense and definition of the term as defined by a
dictionary.  The RFAs are not vague.  The motion is granted as to RFA Nos.
10-11.  
            RFA No. 13 asks Defendant to
admit that she created a dangerous condition which caused the incident.  Defendant objected that the RFA was vague,
incomplete, overbroad, burdensome as to the term “you,” irrelevant, and
undefined as to the term “dangerous condition.” 
For the same reasons discussed above, the objections are overruled.  The motion is granted as to RFA No. 13.
            RFA No. 15 asks Defendant to
admit that she violated Civil Code, § 3342 at the time of the incident in
question.  Defendant responded that one
cannot violate section 3342.  Section
3342 states that a dog owner may be liable for damages suffered by a person who
is bitten by a dog while in a public place or lawfully in a private place, with
certain exceptions.  Technically, section
3342 provides when a dog owner will be liable for a dog bite but does not
necessarily state the rules for preventing a dog from biting another
person.  As such, the motion is denied as
to RFA No. 15.  
            RFA No. 18 asks Defendant to
admit that the medical treatment received by Plaintiff for her injuries from
the incident were reasonable and necessary. 
Defendant objected that the RFA was vague, incomplete, and compound, and
did not define “incident,” “injury,” or “medical treatment” properly.  For the same reasons discussed above, the
motion is granted as to RFA No. 18.  
RFA No. 19 asks Defendant to
admit that she was walking her dog at the time Plaintiff was attacked by her
dog.  Defendant objected to the term
“attack” but responded that she was walking her dog at the time Plaintiff was
bitten.  As Defendant provided a
response, the motion is denied as to RFA No. 19. 
RFA Nos. 23-24 ask Defendant to
admit that she did not warn Plaintiff (23) about her dog being violent and (24)
that she had a dog with violent propensities, on the date of the incident in
question.  Defendant objected that the
terms “being violent” and “violent propensities" were not defined and the
RFAs seek irrelevant information.  Again,
these terms are not so vague or subject to various interpretations that
Defendant is unable to respond.  As such,
the motion is granted as to RFA Nos. 23-24. 

RFA No. 25 asks Defendant to
admit that her dog bit and attacked Plaintiff on the date of the incident.  Defendant objected that the terms “attacking”
and “biting” were not defined and are compound. 
Without waiving objections, Defendant admitted that her dog bit
Plaintiff on August 22, 2023.  Defendant
has admitted the RFA to extent that it was true and may qualify the admission
in FROG No. 17.1(b).  Thus, the motion is
denied as to RFA No. 25.  
RFA No. 26 asks Defendant to
admit that she failed to exercise reasonable or ordinary care, allowing the dog
to charge at, attack, and bite Plaintiff on a public street.  Defendant objected to the RFA on the grounds
that the terms used in the RFA were not clearly defined.  Again, the terms should be understood as
their usual definitions.  The motion is
granted as to RFA No. 26.  
RFA No. 27 asks Defendant to
admit that her dog never received any obedience training prior to the incident.
 RFA No. 28 asks Defendant to
admit that she was negligence in not providing her dog obedience or behavioral
training prior to the incident.  Defendant
objected that the RFAs were compound, sought irrelevant information, and
amounted to an attempt to redefine the duty owed by Defendant to
Plaintiff.  The information sought
appears to be relevant regarding whether Defendant knew about her dog’s alleged
violent propensities and took steps to either prevent them or train her
dog.  The Court will allow the discovery
on these RFAs to go forward.  As such,
the motion is granted as to RFA Nos. 27-28. 

RFA No. 29 asks Defendant to
admit that she knew her dog was a danger to society prior to the incident.  Defendant objected that the term “danger to
society” was vague and the RFA was irrelevant. 
The Court does find the RFA vague without any clarification.   As such, the motion is denied as to RFA No.
29.  
Plaintiff seeks $1,325 in
sanctions against Defendant (= [0.5 hour on the meet and confer efforts + 2
hours to prepare the motion papers + 0.25 hour to prepare the proposed order +
3 anticipated hours to review the opposition, prepare a reply, and attend the
hearing, at $220/hour], + $60 filing fee). 
(Aydin Decl., ¶8.)  In light of
the issues presented in the motion and opposition papers, the Court declines to
award sanctions on this motion.  This
type of objection may draw sanctions if asserted again. Where terms are vague,
the parties should meet and confer and further refine terms that appear to be
vague. 
C.    
FROG
Plaintiff moves to
compel Defendant’s further responses to FROG Nos. 2.2, 2.3, 2.5, 12.4,
16.3-16.5, and 17.1.  
FROG
No. 2.2
asks Defendant to state the date and place of her birth.  Defendant responded: “New York; New
York.”  This response is incomplete as it
only provides the state of her birth and not the date.  FROG
No. 2.3 asks at the time of the incident if she had a driver’s license and
information thereto.  Defendant objected
that the FROG was irrelevant as this action did not involve a vehicle and
therefore violates her privacy rights.  FROG No. 2.5 asks Defendant to state her
present residence address, addresses for the past 5 years, and dates he lived
at each address.  Defendant provided a
Studio City address (from 2022 to the present) and a Glendale address (from
2019 to 2022).  Plaintiff argues that her
address and license information is relevant so that she can request and
subpoena records pertaining to Defendant and her dog, and determine her place
of residence in light of the fact that she has resided in different
states.  Plaintiff also argues that while
Defendant has provided a response to FROG No. 2.5, her Certificate of Rabies
Vaccination and invoice dated December 21, 2021 shows that Defendant’s address
was located in Peoria, Arizona, but Defendant did not disclose this address in
her responses.  These are routine FROG
requests that do not seek invasive information that would violate Defendant’s
privacy rights.  The motion is granted as
to FROG Nos. 2.2, 2.3, and 2.5. 
FROG
No. 12.4
asks if Defendant or anyone acting on her behalf knew of any photographs,
films, or videotapes (“media”) depicting any place, object, or individual
concerning the incident or Plaintiff’s injuries and, if so, to state: (a) the
number of photographs or feet of film/videotape; (b) the places, objects, or
persons photographed, filmed, or videotaped; (c) the date the media was taken;
(d) the contact information of the individual who took the media; and (e)
contact information of persons who have originals or copies.  Defendant responded affirmatively and stated
there were 10 photographs and describes the photographs, but states that the
exact dates and locations are unknown. 
However, to be a code-complaint response, Defendant should state the
following if she lacks information or knowledge: “If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”  (CCP § 2030.220(c).)  As such, a further response will be compelled
as to FROG No. 12.4.  
FROG No. 16.3 asks
if Defendant contends that the injuries or the extent of the injuries claimed
by Plaintiff as disclosed in discovery proceedings thus far were not caused by
the incident and, if so, for each injury: (a) identify it; (b) state all facts
upon which the contention is based; (c) state the contact information of all
persons who have knowledge of the facts; and (d) identify all documents that
support the contention and state the contact information of the person who has
each document.  FROG No. 16.4 asks
if Defendant contends that any of the services furnished by any health care
provider claimed by Plaintiff in the discovery proceedings thus far were not
due to the incident and, if so: (a) identify each service; (b) state all facts
upon which the contention is based; (c) state the contact information of all
persons who have knowledge of the facts; and (d) identify all documents that
support the contention and state the contact information of the person who has
each document.  FROG No. 16.5 asks
if Defendant contends that any of the costs of services furnished by any health
care provider claimed as damages by Plaintiff in the discovery proceedings thus
far were not necessary or unreasonable and, if so: (a) identify each cost; (b)
state all facts upon which the contention is based; (c) state the contact
information of all persons who have knowledge of the facts; and (d) identify
all documents that support the contention and state the contact information of
the person who has each document. 
Defendant objected that she has not yet obtained all of Plaintiff’s
medical records, not yet deposed necessary treating doctors, and not yet
obtained appropriate experts, such that she cannot respond to the FROGs.  Defendant stated: “To the extent
defendant can respond, I do not have personal knowledge sufficient to know
whether the incident giving rise to this action caused any, some, and/or all of
plaintiff’s claimed injuries because I am not a medical or biomechanical expert
and cannot answer or explain the question(s) of medical causation presented by
this interrogatory. I am not required to inquire of other natural persons or
organizations because the information is at least equally – and in fact more –
available to the propounding party than to responding party.”  
Plaintiff seeks a further response to FROG
Nos. 16.3-16.5, arguing that Defendant’s responses are evasive as Plaintiff has
provided medical records, billing records, photographs, and investigate
reports.  Again, the discovery sought
includes routine FROGs that are ordinarily allowed in the discovery process. A party's contention may be the subject of
discovery, but not the legal reasoning or theory behind the contention.  (Sav-On
Drugs, Inc. v. Superior Court (1975)
15 Cal.3d 1, 5.)  Defendant should provide
further responses.  If Defendant has not
yet formulated contentions because the information has only recently been
received, the response should say so. The motion is granted as to FROG Nos.
16.3, 16.4, and 16.5.  
Plaintiff seeks a further
response to FROG No. 17.1(b).  FROG No. 17.1 asks if Defendant’s
response to each RFA served with the FROGs is an unqualified admission and, if
not, for each response that is not an unqualified admission: (a) state the RFA
number; (b) state all facts upon which the response is based; (c) state the contact
information of all persons with knowledge of those facts; and (d) identify all
documents that support the response and contact information of persons who has
each document/thing.  With respect to RFA
Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10-13, 15, 17-19, and 23-29, Defendant responded:
“Objection(s) as stated.”  (The Court
notes that Defendant also responded to FROG No. 17.1 with respect to RFA Nos.
3, 14, 16, 21, 22, 30, and 31, but the responses to these do not appear at
issue in Plaintiff’s separate statement.) 
Defendant’s response to FROG No. 17.1(b) as to these RFAs do not state
all the facts upon which the response is based. 
As such, the motion is granted as to FROG No. 17.1(b) with respect to
RFA Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10-13, 15, 17-19, and 23-29 only.  
Plaintiff seeks $1,875 in
sanctions against Defendant (= [2 hours on the meet and confer efforts + 3
hours to prepare the motion papers + 0.25 hour to prepare the proposed order +
3 anticipated hours to review the opposition, prepare a reply, and attend the
hearing, at $220/hour], + $60 filing fee). 
(Aydin Decl., ¶8.)  The Court will
award reasonable sanctions in the amount of $500, plus $60 in filing fees, or
$560 total.   
D.   
RPD
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s
further responses to RPD Nos. 17 and 18.
RPD No. 17 seeks any and all
health records of the dog in question.  RPD
No. 18 seeks any and all veterinarian records for any time period of the
dog in question.  Defendant objected that
the request is overbroad without a reasonable limitation in its scope.  Without waiving objections, Defendant
responded that she would produce in part all documents or things that were
within her possession, custody, or control and provided copies of the subject
dog’s health records in her possession from 3 years prior to the subject
incident (which occurred on August 22, 2023). 

Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
limitation of 3 years prior to the subject incident is incomplete and
evasive.  Plaintiff argues that
information about the dog’s potentially dangerous propensity is relevant to
this action.  Plaintiff argues that the
subject dog was born on December 11, 2017 and thus she seeks records from the
dog’s birth to the present.  Defendant
argues in opposition that while she is not asserting privacy rights for her
dog, Plaintiff’s request for a lifetime of veterinary/health records for her
dog is overbroad in time and scope and is needlessly vexing, harassing, and
annoying as the documents do not have to do with the instant dog bite
case.  
The parties acknowledge that the subject
dog does not have the same privacy rights as an individual.  Here, the subject dog was born in December
2017.  The records from December 2017 to
the present are not so burdensome that Defendant is unable to gather these
documents and provide them to Plaintiff to ascertain whether the subject dog
has exhibited or has a propensity towards violence.  As such, the motion is granted as to RPD Nos.
17-18.  
Plaintiff seeks $1,545 in
sanctions against Defendant (= [0.5 hour on the meet and confer efforts + 3
hours to prepare the motion papers + 0.25 hour to prepare the proposed order +
3 anticipated hours to review the opposition, prepare a reply, and attend the
hearing, at $220/hour], + $60 filing fee). 
(Aydin Decl., ¶8.)  The Court will
award reasonable sanctions in the amount of $300, plus $60 in filing fees, or
$370 total. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff Lena Mestrandrea’s motion to
compel Defendant Nancy Ming Ling Chen’s further responses to RFA Nos. 1, 2, 4,
5, 7, 8, 10-13, 17-18, 23-24, and 26-28 is granted, and the motion is denied as
to RFA Nos. 15, 19, 25 and 29.  No sanctions shall be awarded on the RFA motion.  
Plaintiff Lena Mestrandrea’s motion to
compel Defendant Nancy Ming Ling Chen’s further responses to FROG Nos. 2.2,
2.3, 2.5, 12.4, 16.3-16.5, and 17.1 is granted. 
Defendant and her counsel of record, jointly
and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $560 to Plaintiff,
by and through counsel, within 20 days of notice of this order.
Plaintiff Lena Mestrandrea’s motion to
compel Defendant Nancy Ming Ling Chen’s further responses to RPD Nos. 17-18 is
granted.  Defendant
and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $360 to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 20
days of notice of this order.
Defendant is ordered to provide further
responses within 20 days of notice of this order. 
 
The Case Management Conference is
continued to October 3, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED: August 16,
2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  