 Case Number:  23BBCV02407    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
EPICURUS GOURMET,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HILLARY HIRSCH, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02407
 
  Hearing Date:  August 16, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses and
  for evidentiary, issue, and terminating sanctions; request for monetary
  sanctions   



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiff Epicurus Gourmet
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that it is in the business of selling gourmet food
products and is located at 12140 Sherman Way, North Hollywood, California
91605.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Hillary Hirsch was an employee of Plaintiff from 2016 until March 17, 2023 and
was the secretary of the Board of Directors. 
Defendant Eric Gitter is alleged to have conspired with Hirsch by
directing, encouraging, ratifying, and approving Hirsch’s unlawful
conduct.  
            In January 2016, Kevin Jones (president
and sole shareholder of Plaintiff) formed Plaintiff.  In March 2016, Hirsch began working to start
Plaintiff’s business as a manager and secretary for the Board of Directors, ,
such that she owed fiduciary duties and had job responsibilities to order
products, keep financial books, pay bills, etc. 
However, she was employed by Jones through his company Liquid Assets
Cellars since Plaintiff did not yet have capital.  At that time, Plaintiff was running its
business from the premises leased by Liquid Assets Cellars located at 12134
Sherman Way.  Plaintiff alleges that as a
part of her duties, Hirsch had access to Plaintiff’s Sales Order System
(“SOS”), a proprietary database with confidential trade secrets, customer
lists, and sales data.  She also had
access to confidential business passwords for bank accounts, QuickBooks
accounting, social media, payroll, and credit card processing.  
            Plaintiff alleges that in December
2016, Jones approached the landlord of Liquid Assets Cellars’ to lease another
unit for Plaintiff and notified Gitter of the terms.  Plaintiff alleges that in January 2017, Jones
entered the lease for the 12140 Sherman Way premises and in May 2017, the
premises was opened by Plaintiff for business. 

            Plaintiff alleges that Jones had
discussed with Gitter about whether Gitter was interested in investing in
Plaintiff, but Gitter never committed to any of Jones’ offered terms and
instead began loaning money to Plaintiff through Gitter’s company Chickie the
Cop Entertaining for repayment, regarding the construction of the
premises.  On February 3, 2018, Gitter
filed his own Articles of Incorporation for Epicurus Gourmet LA, LLC and
thereafter Defendants conspired to convert Plaintiff’s confidential proprietary
information.  Plaintiff alleges that in
August 2018, Hirsch opened a Wells Fargo account in Plaintiff’s name, made
herself the sole signatory, and began depositing all proceeds from Plaintiff
into the account in September 2018. 
Hirsch also allegedly changed all passwords for Plaintiff.  
            Plaintiff alleges that it pays all
local, state, and federal taxes from Jones’ personal funds and that Jones
renegotiated and extended Plaintiff’s lease at the premises.  On March 23, 2023, Hirsch was removed as
secretary and on October 10, 2023 was terminated from employment.  Upon her termination, Plaintiff demanded
Hirsch provide Jones with the passwords and access to the bank account, but
Defendants contacted Plaintiff’s vendors and customers, instructing them to
discontinue conducting business with Plaintiff. 
            The second amended complaint (“SAC”),
filed June 6, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty;
(2) conversion; (3) intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage; (4) unfair competition; (5) misappropriation of trade secrets; and
(6) declaratory relief.   
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On July 17, 2024, Defendants Eric Gitter
and Hillary Hirsch filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to
the Request for Production, set one (“RPD”), for evidentiary, issue, and
terminating sanctions, and for monetary sanctions.  
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
brief. 
On August 9, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply brief. 
DISCUSSION


RPD 

Defendants move to compel further
responses to RPD Nos. 1-9, 19, 22-23, 30,
32, 34-35, 38-39, 42-43, 48-50, 64, 66-68, 75-76, 86, 89-90, 120, 121, 123,
129-132, 137, 142, 145, 152-153, 154-156, 159-168.  
In opposition, Plaintiff provides the declaration of counsel John E.
Carlson.  Mr. Carlson states that the
parties met and conferred on June 26, 2024 about further responses and
Plaintiff agreed to provide supplemental responses pursuant to a protective
order.  (Carlson Decl., ¶¶2-5.)   He states that he drafted supplemental
responses, but as he was waiting for defense counsel to send over alternate
language for a protective order, Defendants filed this motion on July 17, 2024.  (Id., ¶6.)  Mr. Carlson states that on August 5, 2024
(the same day as the filing of the opposition), Plaintiff served supplemental
responses to Defendants RPD.  (Id.,
¶7.) 
As supplemental responses were provided, the motion to compel Plaintiff’s
further responses is denied as moot.  If
Defendants find the supplemental responses to be insufficient or inadequate,
the parties should again meet and confer prior to the filing of a subsequent
motion.  

Evidentiary, Issue, and
     Terminating Sanctions

CCP § 2023.030 permits the Court to impose
terminating sanctions for discovery misuses, which are defined by CCP § 2023.010
to include the failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery and the
failure to comply with a Court discovery order. 
The Court weighs the following factors when considering the present
motion: (1) defendants’ conduct, indicating whether their actions were willful;
(2) the detriment to the party seeking discovery; and (3) the number of formal
and informal unsuccessful attempts to obtain discovery.  (Lang
v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)  Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified
where there is a willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and
evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules.  (Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.)
Under CCP § 2023.030, the Court may impose
issue sanctions ordering that designated facts be taken as established in the
action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process.  (CCP § 2023.030(b).)  The Court may impose an evidence sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from introducing designated matters in evidence.  (CCP § 2023.030(c).)  Evidence or issue sanctions may be imposed
only after parties violated discovery orders compelling further responses,
except in exceptional circumstances, including where there was sufficiently
egregious misconduct regarding a failure to respond to discovery, or a prior
discovery order would be futile. (New
Albertsons, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1426.)  Two prerequisites for the imposition of
non-monetary sanctions are: (1) there must be a failure to comply; and (2) the
failure must be willful.  (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)  The party
requesting sanctions under CCP §2023.030 and §2023.010(g) must establish that
the other party has failed to comply or disobeyed a court order to provide
discovery.  (CCP §2023.010(g); Miranda v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2004)
117 Cal.App.4th 913, 929 [first requirement of failure to comply].)  To avoid sanctions, the burden of proving
that a discovery violation was not willful is on the party on whom the
discovery was served. (Cornwall v. Santa
Monica Dairy Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252- 253.) 
Defendants move for evidentiary,
issue, and terminating sanctions against Plaintiff, including but not limited
to: 
a. The Court deems it an established fact, of
which the jury can be apprised, that plaintiff engaged in misuse of the
discovery process for the purpose of prejudicing defendants’ ability to present
the true facts at trial;
b. The Court deems it an established fact, of
which the jury can be apprised, that plaintiff committed spoliation of evidence
for the purpose of prejudicing defendants’ ability to present the true facts at
trial;
c. The Court deems it an established fact, of
which the jury can be apprised, that the reason plaintiff engaged in misuse of
the discovery process and spoliation of evidence was to prejudice defendants’
ability to present the true facts at trial, which facts it can be inferred are
contrary to the story plaintiff is attempting to present at trial;
d. The Court deems it an established fact, of which
the jury can be apprised, that plaintiff violated the Court’s Order Re
Preliminary Injunction dated December 18, 2023, to produce all of its
QuickBooks records by no later than January 12, 2024;
e. The Court deems it an established fact, of
which the jury can be apprised, that plaintiff violated the Court’s Order Re
Preliminary Injunction dated December 18, 2023, to provide
defendants with access to Rightworks, QuickBooks, Go Daddy,
and any email or social media account.
f. The Court deems it an
established fact, of which the jury can be apprised, that plaintiff
violated
the Court's
Order Re Preliminary Injunction dated December 18, 2023, in
order to prejudice defendants' ability to present the true facts at trial, which
facts it can be inferred are contrary to the story
plaintiff is attempting to present at trial;
g. Plaintiffs
Complaint should be stricken because plaintiff has engaged in intentional misuse of
the discovery process for the purpose of prejudicing defendants' ability to
present the true facts at trial;
h. Plaintiff shall be barred
from presenting any evidence at trial because plaintiff has engaged in intentional
misuse of the discovery process for the purpose of prejudicing
defendants' ability to present the true facts at trial;
(Notice of Motion at pp.1-2.)  
            On
December 18, 2023, the Court issued an order on Plaintiff’s and Defendants’ respective
motions for preliminary injunction.  The
Court ordered a preliminary injunction as follows: 
Both Plaintiff (Epicurus Gourmet, including its agent Kevin Jones), and
Defendants (Hillary Hirsch, Eric Gitter and their agents) are enjoined from,
1. Withdrawing any funds from any bank account
in the name of Epicurus Gourmet or distributing any assets of Epicurus Gourmet
for any purpose other than the ordinary business of Epicurus Gourmet. All
parties must provide evidence of the previous week’s deposits and withdrawals
from these accounts on a weekly basis by the following Wednesday. Thus, for
example, the report for this week, October 16-22 is due by Wednesday October
25. Beginning on the date of this Preliminary Injunction, Defendants are
enjoined from making any distributions from any bank account associated with
Epicurus Gourmet for any purpose. 
2. Both parties are to provide informational
access to the other parties with respect to the Citibank and Wells Fargo
accounts identified in the papers. Access to the Wells Fargo account for
business purposes appears to be moot, but all records of that account and
distributions that have been made from it should be provided to Plaintiff by
Defendants. 
3. There are to be no distributions of any
asset of Epicurus Gourmet to Kevin Jones, Hillary Hirsch or Eric Gitter or any
party related to them. 
4. There are to be no payments on the SBA loan
identified in the papers pending further order of the Court. 
5. Both sides must provide any QuickBooks
files related to the business to the other parties by October 25. The parties
must provide sufficient passwords for access to any other party.  If this has not yet been complied with, the
parties have until the end of the business day on January 12, 2024. 
6. No party is to encourage any employee of
Epicurus Gourmet not to work at the business. 
7. The parties are to
provide each other with informational access to Rightworks, QuickBooks, Go
Daddy, and any email or social media account. The parties are to exchange
passwords and any other information necessary (including methods of double
authentication) to give Plaintiff access to these accounts. Defendants are
enjoined from using these accounts other than for monitoring purposes pending
trial or further order of this Court. If this has not yet been complied with, the
parties have until the end of the business day on January 12, 2024.
8. The parties are
enjoined from making disparaging remarks about Plaintiff’s business, Kevin
Jones,
Hillary Hirsch, Eric Gitter,
and their agents, or representations about ownership in Plaintiff to customers,
vendors, and employees. 
9. Defendants may enter the
premises on a mutually agreeable date after business hours to retrieve their
belongings with the supervision of representatives of each parties’
counsel.  
10. Plaintiff and its
agents are enjoined from making sales of alcoholic beverages that would be
illegal under applicable law. 
(12/18/23 Order re: Motion for Preliminary
Injunction at pp.10-11.)  
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has not complied with the Court’s order to provide access
to emails in the hillary@epicurusgourmet.com and info@epicurusgourmet.com email
accounts, claiming that the emails were deleted by GoDaddy, QuickBooks, or
Hirsch, and then claiming that it did not want to produce the documents.  Defendants cite to Exhibit K, which is a
letter from Mr. Carlson to Plaintiff’s counsel Merak Eskigian, dated June 21,
2024.  (Mot., Ex. K [7/21/24
Letter].)  In the letter, Mr. Carlson
explained that he was mistakenly under the impression that QuickBooks staff had
inadvertently erased some emails at the time QuickBooks accounts were being
switched over, but his discussions with Jones revealed that 12,440 filed had
been erased by Hirsch 9 days after she was terminated and 2 days after Hirsch
was sent the summons and complaint.  (Id.)  Mr. Carlson stated that Epicurus has gone to
great lengths to ensure Defendants had access as ordered by the Court and that
all of the old files have been preserved and are accessible to Defendants.  (Id.) 

            In
opposition, Plaintiff provides the declaration of Warren Ngeouyang, an
independent contractor who works in IT. 
He states that he was tasked with restoring access to all of Plaintiff’s
computer system, including data stored in QuickBooks Enterprise, Right
Networks, and GoDaddy email access, which took several days as Hirsch was
listed as the QuickBooks owner. 
(Ngeouyang Decl., ¶¶2-3.)  He
states that the process took several days to obtain informational access to the
accounts.  (Id., ¶¶3-5.)  He states in the process of doing all of
this, he discovered Hirsch had copied over 12,000 files from Plaintiff to a
Dropbox account, and then those files were deleted or moved to another location
on October 11, 2023.  (Id.,
¶6.)  Mr. Ngeouyang states that after
completing the process of gaining access to Plaintiff’s records, he contacted
Hirsch to instruct her how to use the new license accounts to access all of
Plaintiff’s records and she was given information access to Plaintiff’s files
and to her previous email address.  (Id.,
¶7.)  He states that in November 2023,
Plaintiff contacted him about setting up a point-of-sale system and QuickBooks
online application, such that the new records only kept records back to January
1, 2024 and the old system contained records prior to January 1, 2024; he set
up a meeting with Hirsch to instruct her how to access this data.  (Id., ¶8.)  He states that after Hirsch had access to the
new online QuickBooks, he was informed that Hirsch complained that she only had
access to the new system but not the old system.  (Id., ¶¶10-11.)  He states that on June 28, 2024, he went into
the old system with the user information and passwords that he had set up for
Hirsch and everything was working correctly, such that Hirsch had not been
removed from access.  (Id., ¶11.)  Despite his
confirmation, he was notified on July 1, 2024 that Hirsch still could not
access Plaintiff’s old files, so he set up a meeting with Hirsch on July 5,
2024 to see what was preventing her access. 
(Id., ¶12.)  He states that
he discovered that Rightworks had improperly removed Hirsch’s license (though
it had been instructed to remove Sunlyn’s account), and Rightworks was able to
reestablish Hirsch’s ability to sign into Plaintiff’s pre-January 1, 2024
records.  (Id., ¶13.)  
            While
there has been a delay in providing access to the email accounts to Defendants,
the Court does not find that the delay was a willful failure to comply with the
Court’s preliminary injunction order. 
Based on the papers provided by the parties, Plaintiff was attempting to
comply with the preliminary injunction order, but faced several IT hurdles in
obtaining access to the accounts itself. 
There does not appear to be a spoliation of evidence nor an intentional
obstruction of access to the documents sought. 
In addition, based on the meet and confer letters between counsel, it
does not appear that Plaintiff was denying or intentionally delaying access of
the emails or the QuickBooks to Defendants. 
While the delay in providing responses and access to accounts was beyond
the time ordered by the Court in the preliminary injunction order, the Court
does not find that the delay warrants evidentiary, issue, or terminating
sanctions.  
As such, the request
to impose evidentiary, issue, or terminating sanctions against Plaintiff is
denied.  

Monetary Sanctions 

Defendants request monetary sanctions in
the amount of $10,350 against Plaintiff (= 15 hours to prepare the motion and 3
anticipated hours to prepare the reply and attend the hearing at
$575/hour).  
While the Court declines to impose
evidentiary, issue, or terminating sanctions against Plaintiff, the Court will
impose monetary sanctions against Plaintiff for the delay in providing
responses to the RPD and the delay in providing access to the computer
accounts.  Sanctions shall be imposed in
the reasonable amount of $3,000.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendants Hillary
Hirsch and Eric Gitter’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to the
RPD is denied as supplemental responses were provided.   The
request for evidentiary, issue, and terminating sanctions is denied.  Plaintiffs and its
counsel of record, jointly and severally, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions
in the amount of $3,000 to Defendants, by and through counsel, within 20 days
of notice of this order.
Defendants shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
August 16, 2024                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 