 Case Number:  24NNCV00766    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B



 
christopehr
  mirabueno,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
max’s glendale,
  
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24NNCV00766
 
Hearing
  Date:  August 16, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Christopher M. Mirabueno (a
self-represented litigant, “Plaintiff”) filed a complaint on April 5, 2024,
alleging that he is bringing a claim against Defendant Max’s Glendale
(“Defendant”) for wrongful termination.  The
form complaint is two pages in length and includes exhibits, but no facts are
alleged. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On July 12, 2024, Defendant Max’s of
Manila, Inc. dba Max’s Glendale (“Defendant”) filed a demurrer to the
complaint. 
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant demurs to the complaint
and the sole cause of action for wrongful termination.  
            First, Defendant argues that the
action is time-barred by the statute of limitations.  According to the exhibits attached to the
complaint, Plaintiff last worked on March 13, 2020 at Defendant and was
terminated based on a temporary layoff. 
(Compl., Ex. 5.)  Plaintiff filed
this action on April 5, 2024.  Defendant
argues that if the wrongful termination was based on a written or oral
contract, then the statute of limitations would be 4 years (for a written
contract) or 2 years (for an oral contract) from the termination date pursuant
to CCP §§ 337 and 339.  If based on a
contract, then the claim would be time-barred under either of these statute of
limitations periods based on the termination date.  Defendant also argues that if the wrongful
termination claim was based on a violation of public policy, then the statute
of limitations would be 2 years pursuant to CCP § 335.1, which again would have
elapsed.  (In addition, Defendant argues
that the claim would be time barred under FEHA’s 3-year statute of limitations
period under Government Code, § 12956 and under the WARN Act’s 3-year statute
of limitations period under CCP § 338(a). 
Defendant also provides the statute of limitations for other scenarios
based on the possible types of wrongful termination Plaintiff may be alleging
in his complaint.  [Dem. at
pp.4-6].)  Based on the sparse allegations
and exhibits of the complaint, the action appears to be time-barred, which is a
basis to sustain the demurrer.  
Second, Defendant argues that the
complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to support a cause of action and is
uncertain.  Most of Defendant’s arguments
are premised upon guesswork at what Plaintiff’s claims could possibly be based
on—i.e., whether the employment was at-will or not, whether the termination was
based on retaliation or discrimination under FEHA, etc.  This lack of certainty regarding the basis of
the termination shows that the allegations are uncertain.  A review of the complaint shows that Plaintiff
has not alleged any actual factual allegations to support his claim for
wrongful termination.  He has not alleged
any facts regarding the context of the wrongful termination, such that the
complaint is uncertain and lacks sufficient facts.  As such, the demurrer is sustained on these
grounds as well. 
The demurrer to the complaint is
sustained.  As this is Plaintiff’s first
attempt at the pleading, the Court will allow Plaintiff an opportunity to amend
the complaint, if possible.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant Max’s of
Manila, Inc. dba Max’s Glendale’s demurrer to the complaint is sustained with
20 days leave to amend. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED: August 16,
2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  