 Case Number:  24PSCV00219    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT, EMANATE HEALTH MEDICAL CENTER DBA QUEEN OF THE VALLEY
HOSPITAL’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend to allege the injury-producing event. 
Meet and Confer: Plaintiffs’ Counsel is to meet and confer at
length with Defense Counsel by squarely addressing the cases raised by
Defendant in the instant demurrer. Should a subsequent demurrer be filed, the
court requests Defendant to attach copies of the meet and confer emails between
the parties. 
 
Background
 
This is a negligence case. Plaintiff Angela Tapias
(“Plaintiff”), by and through her Guardian ad Litem Hortencia Tapias, and
Hortencia Tapias (“Plaintiff’s Mother”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) allege the
following against Defendants CARE AMBULANCE SERVICE, INC (the “Ambulance”).;
FALCK USA;[1]
LOS ANGELES COUNTY FIRE DEPARTMENT (the “Fire Department”); COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES (the “County”); EMANATE HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL (“Emanate”
or “Hospital”) (collectively, “Defendants”): On January 23, 2023, Plaintiff,
then a 5-year-old, started to have symptoms consistent with an upper
respiratory infection. On January 28, 2023, she was diagnosed with pneumonia,
but later that day, Plaintiff’s mother called 911 as Plaintiff started to have
fevers and chills. Neither the Fire Department nor the Ambulance took
Plaintiff’s body temperature or implemented treatment modalities to lower
Plaintiff’s body temperature, which, upon arrival at the Hospital, was 108
degrees Fahrenheit. “It was felt that she likely had an aspiration event during
seizure which led to the cardiac arrest” (Complaint ¶18) and she had a second
longer seizure. She was transferred to Miller Children’s Hospital PICU for
further care where she tested positive for human metapneumovirus, and
entero/rhinovirus and her scans showed anoxic brain injury. (¶¶19-20.)[2]
She the time of her discharge,[3]
she was doing better, but due to the global anoxic brain injury, she currently
has the intellectual capacity of a 2-year-old and will require indefinite
around-the-clock care. As for Plaintiff’s mother, she suffered by way of
experiencing and witnessing the foregoing.  
 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed suit against
Defendants for: 1.     Professional
Negligence 2.     Violation
of Government Code section 815.2 3.     NegligenceOn February 15, 2024, Emanate filed the instant demurrer.
 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to the
demurrer. 
 
On March 20, 2024, Emanate filed its reply to Plaintiffs’
opposition to the demurrer.
 
Discussion
 
Emanate (hereinafter, “Defendant”) demurs to the 3rd
COA for negligence on the grounds that the COA fails to state sufficient facts
to constitute the COA (CCP Section 431.10(e)) and that the COA is uncertain
(CCP section 431.10(f).)
 
The 3rd COA is asserted by Plaintiff’s Mother and
asserts the following:
 
Plaintiff Ms. Tapias repeats and
realleges each and every allegation set forth in Paragraphs 1 through 29,
inclusive as though fully set forth herein. As a result of the incident
described above, and Defendants’ negligent conduct, Ms. Tapias suffered severe
emotional distress. Defendants’ negligence was a substantial factor in causing
Ms. Tapias’ severe emotional distress. (Complaint ¶49-51.) 
 
Effectively, the COA is one for the negligent infliction
of emotion distress (NIED) under a bystander theory. (See also Opp. p. 3:4-5
[Plaintiffs do not contest that direct theory does not apply].)
 
California
courts have repeatedly recognized that NIED is not an independent tort, but the
tort of negligence such that the traditional elements of duty, breach of duty,
causation, and damages apply. (See, e.g., Spates v. Dameron
Hospital Association
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213; Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.) A plaintiff may make a
bystander NIED claim if he or she:
 
1.    
Is
present at the scene of the injury-producing event at the time it occurs,
2.    
Witnesses
the physical injury of someone closely related to him or her, and
3.    
Suffers
emotional distress beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested
witness. (Thing v. La Chusa (1989) 48 Cal.3d 644, 666.)
At issue in this demurrer is the second element.
(See Demurrer p. 7:12-13 [“Tapias did not contemporaneously perceive the injury-producing
event and its traumatic consequences until well after Angela was transferred
from EH.”].) 
 
As clarified by the Supreme Court
of California in the seminal case of Bird v. Saenz (2002) 28 Cal.4th
910, 916, “[a]
plaintiff may recover based on an event perceived by other senses
so long as the event is contemporaneously understood as causing
injury to a close relative.” (emphasis added and underline added.) As for understanding the
injury-producing event, in most cases, a plaintiff cannot meaningfully perceive
the injury-producing event (i.e., such as failing to make a diagnosis or treat
an injury) because “misdiagnosis is beyond the awareness of lay bystanders.”
(Id. at p. 917, emphasis added.) Put differently, even if plaintiffs
believe, based upon their senses (e.g., sound or visual) that their relative is
in pain or in distress, absent medical expertise or but for the most obvious
cases (e.g., “layperson who watched as a relative's sound limb was
amputated by mistake” (id. at p. 918), there is “no reason to know that
the care she was receiving to diagnose and correct the cause of the problem was
inadequate.” (Id. at p. 917.) 
 
The only allegations related to what
happened at Emanate are the following:
 
Upon arrival to the hospital, while still in
triage Baby Tapias[4]
was noted to become less responsive and then had an episode of stiffening, eyes
rolling back then became limp.  She had a
fever of 105F at that time but reportedly her temperature went up as high as
108F.  She was noted to be pulseless
after her seizure and CPR was initiated and she was promptly intubated.  It was felt that she likely had an aspiration
event during seizure which led to the cardiac arrest.  19. After Baby Tapias had a ROSC, according
to Ms. Tapias, Baby Tapias had a second longer seizure. An LP was performed and
was negative with only 1 WBC noted.  A
Respiratory Virus Panel (RVP) was reportedly positive for adenovirus, human
metapneumovirus, and human coronavirus. 
Ultimately, after stabilizing Baby Tapias, she was transferred to Miller
Children's Hospital PICU for further care. (Complaint ¶¶18, 19.) 
 
The court cannot reach the merits of the demurrer because Plaintiffs
improperly incorporate allegations by reference leaving the court (and
defendants) to determine what facts pertain to what COAs. A civil
plaintiff may, for the sake of convenience, incorporate by reference previous
portions of the pleading for informational purposes only. (Cal-West Nat.
Bank v. Superior Court (1986) 185 Cal. App. 3d 96, 101.)[5]

 
Here, however, the COA contains no relevant facts as
to the disputed element of whether Plaintiffs’ Mother was present during the
injury-producing event and was aware of what was causing harm to Plaintiff. While the court presumes that
the alleged negligent injury-producing event is Emanate’s alleged failure to
implement measures to control Plaintiff’s body temperature, it is not stated in
the complaint. (Demurrer p. 6:8-9.) 
 
Thus, as a court is bound by the pleadings on a demurrer and
not statements made in papers, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend so
that Plaintiffs to plead sufficient and clear facts as to (1) the exact injury-producing
event and (2) Plaintiff’s Mother’s sensory perception of the injury-producing
event. 
 
While Plaintiff’s Mother’s has
alleged that she was distressed witnessing her daughter endure serious symptoms
(going stiff and pulseless), a mother’s anguish is but one of three elements of
the COA, and Plaintiff has failed to allege the second element of the COA. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the
demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. The parties are to meet and confer
at length. 


