 Case Number:  24STCV19559    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SANTOS HERNANDEZ, by and through her
  Successor in Interest Sonia Hernandez, et al. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
ALAL, LLC, et al.
 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV19559 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: November 15, 2024



 
 
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This action is stayed pending the
completion of arbitration.
 
            On
8/5/2024, Plaintiffs Santos Hernandez by and through her
Successor in Interest Sonia Hernandez, Sonia Hernandez, Sergio Hernandez, and
Junior Hernandez (collectively, Defendants) filed suit against ALAL, LLC, Aspen
Skilled Healthcare Inc., and Aspen Healthcare Services, LLC (collectively, Defendants),
alleging: (1) elder abuse; (2) negligence; (3) wrongful death; (4) violations
of Health & Safety Code section 1430(b); and (5) violations of the Consumer
Legal Remedies Act. 
 
            On
10/17/2024, Defendants moved to compel Plaintiffs to arbitrate their Complaint,
and stay this action pending the completion of arbitration.  
 
Legal Standard
 
“Where
the Court has determined that an agreement to arbitrate a controversy exists,
the Court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy …unless it determines that… 
grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support rescission are fraud, duress, and
unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky
Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The Court may also decline
to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
1.      Defendants’
Burden
 
The party
moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving [the] existence [of
an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party also bears the burden
of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of the arbitration
agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
            
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendants
submitted evidence that an Arbitration Agreement was executed on behalf of
resident Santos Hernandez, by and through his surrogate decision maker and
successor-in-interest daughter Plaintiff Sonia Hernandez. (Diaz Decl., Exh. A.)

 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff’s execution on behalf of Mr. Hernandez is binding because
she was acting as an authorized agent to contract on his behalf. 
 
Under
California law, "[a]gency 'can be established either by agreement between
the agent and the principal, that is, a true agency [citation], or it can be
founded on ostensible authority, that is, some intentional conduct or neglect
on the part of the alleged principal creating a belief in the minds of third
persons that an agency exists, and a reasonable reliance thereon by such third
persons." "The principal must in some manner indicate that the agent
is to act for [him], and the agent must act or agree to act on [his] behalf and
subject to [his] control." ... ' [Citations.] Thus, the 'formation of an
agency relationship is a bilateral matter. Words or conduct by both principal
and agent are necessary to create the relationship. (Warfield v. Summerville
Senior Living, Inc. (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 443, 448, italics omitted.)
 
Here, as
evidence of an agency relationship, Defendants point to the fact that Ms.
Hernandez expressed and represented to Kei-Ai that she had the authority to, and
was acting as, Santos Hernandez’ authorized agent, when Ms. Hernandez signed
the Arbitration Agreement. Ms. Hernandez signed the line of the Arbitration
Agreement expressly set out just above the signature line which states:
 
The Resident
and/or the person executing this Agreement certifies that he/she has read this
Agreement and has been given a copy of this agreement, and affirmatively
represents that he/she is duly authorized, by virtue of the Resident’s consent,
instruction and/or durable power of attorney, to execute this Agreement and
accept its terms on behalf of the Resident and acknowledges that the Facility
is relying on the aforementioned certification.”
 
            (Diaz
Decl., Exh. A.) 
 
            As
such, Defendants contend that Ms. Hernandez specifically certified that she was
authorized to act as Santos Hernandez’ agent/surrogate decision maker in the
execution of the Arbitration Agreement and Advanced Directives Acknowledgment
form and acknowledged that Kei-Ai relied on her representation.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff cite the recently decided Harrod v. Country Oaks
Partners, LLC (2024) 15 Cal.5th 939. There, Plaintiff Charles Logan
appointed his nephew Mark Harrod to be his health care agent. Two years after
executing this authorization, the 76-year-old Logan broke his femur, and
ultimately required skilled nursing care to help with his recovery. Harrod
enrolled Logan at defendant County Oaks skilled nursing facility, signing a
state-mandated admission agreement and a separate, optional, arbitration
agreement, presented to him at the same time. Thereafter, following what he
alleged to be negligent treatment during his one-month stay, Logan sued Country
Oaks, and Country Oaks moved to compel Logan to arbitration based on the
arbitration agreement signed by Harrod. The trial court denied the motion,
holding that Harrod lacked authority to sign the arbitration form on behalf of
Logan, a holding which was then affirmed by both the Court of Appeal and the
California Supreme Court. In setting forth its reasoning, the Court explained:
 
Under
California's Health Care Decisions Law (Prob. Code, § 4600 et seq.),1 a
principal may appoint a health care agent to make health care decisions should
the principal later lack capacity to make them. In this case, a health care
agent signed two contracts with a skilled nursing facility. One, with
state-dictated terms, secured the principal's admission to the facility. The
other made arbitration the exclusive pathway for resolving disputes with the
facility. This second contract was optional and had no bearing on whether the
principal could access the facility or receive care. The issue before us is
whether execution of the second, separate, and optional contract for
arbitration was a health care decision within the health care agent's
authority. It was not, and the facility's owners and operators may not,
therefore, rely on the agent's execution of that second agreement to compel
arbitration of claims arising from the principal's alleged maltreatment that
have been filed in court. We affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeal and
remand for further court proceedings.
 
(Harrod v.
Country Oaks Partners, LLC, supra, 15 Cal.5th at pp. 946–947.)
 
In other
words, the Supreme Court found that the plain language of California’s Health
Care Decisions Law limited the authority of a health care agent to only those
matters directly related to the physical and mental health care of the
principal. The Court found that the execution of an arbitration agreement does
not constitute a health care decision, and therefore exceeded the scope of an
appointed health care agent. The Court expressly rejected the argument that a
health care agent has implied authority to enter into arbitration agreements on
behalf of their principal so long as the agreement is “connected” to healthcare
decisions. 
 
As such, based on Harrod, this
Court must conclude that Plaintiff Sonia Hernandez lacked actual agency
authority to enter into the purported arbitration agreement on behalf of Mr.
Hernandez based on her status as a health care agent. This is also true given
that Civil Code section 2309 provides that a principal may orally confer
upon the agent authorization to act “for any purpose, except that
an authority to enter into a contract required by law to be in writing
can only be given by an instrument in writing.” (Civil Code § 2309,
italics and underscoring added.) An arbitration agreement is a contract
required to be in writing to be enforceable under either the Federal
Arbitration Act or the California Arbitration Act. (See 9 U.S.C. § 2 [“an
agreement in writing to submit to arbitration …. shall be valid…”]
 
However, in Harrod, the Court expressly did not
address “the possibility that Logan, through
this form or by any other act, led defendants to believe Harrod had
authority to act under a theory of ostensible agency.” (Harrod, supra,
14 Cal.5th, fn 3.) This was because the
admissions paperwork also included a one-page form stating, “I, Logan Charles,
am able to sign for myself but would to like [sic] authorize Harrod Mark
my nephew to sign the following documents on my behalf.” Below this statement,
six categories of documents are listed and next to each is a line with a check
mark. The checked categories of documents are: temporary consent to treat,
advance directive acknowledgement, influenza vaccine/pneumonia vaccine consent, POLST (Physician Orders for
Life-Sustaining Treatment), informed consent for use of device, and California
admission packet. As such, here there, was no reasonable basis for the
facility to have believed that Harrod had the authority to act on Logan’s
behalf to behind him to an arbitration agreement.  
 
Here, by contrast, Ms. Hernandez specifically certified
that she was authorized to act as Santos Hernandez agent/surrogate decision
maker in the execution of the Arbitration Agreement and Advanced Directives
Acknowledgment form and acknowledged that Kei-Ai relied on her representation.
Moreover, at no such time did Ms. Hernandez subsequently seek to revoke the
Arbitration Agreement or disclose to Kei-Ai that Ms. Hernandez did not have the
authority to sign on behalf of Santos Hernandez.
(See Civ. Code, § 2300 [“An agency is ostensible when the
principal intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, causes a third person to
believe another to be his agent who is not really employed by him.”].) 
 
The Court
agrees with Defendants that Ms. Hernandez’ claim that she lacked the authority
to act on Decedent’s behalf is inconsistent with Ms. Hernandez’ actions. Ms.
Herandez electronically signed the Arbitration Agreement on the line marked
“Surrogate Decision Maker,” and just above which states “The Resident and/or
person executing this Agreement certifies he/she has read this Agreement, by virtue
of the Resident’s consent, instruction and/or durable power of attorney, to
execute this Agreement and accept its terms on behalf of the Resident and
acknowledges that the Facility is relying on the aforementioned certification.”
(Exh. A.) Moreover, Ms. Hernandez at no time acted to rescind the Arbitration
Agreement. Specifically, the Arbitration Agreement on its face provided Ms.
Hernandez with the opportunity to rescind within thirty (30) days of execution.
Article 4 provides that the Arbitration Agreement “may be rescinded by written
notice within thirty (30) days of signature.” 
 
As such, Ms.
Hernandez engaged in conduct on the part of Decedent that reasonably created in
a belief in the minds of Defendants the Ms. Hernandez had agency to act on behalf
of Decedent, and Defendants reasonably relied on this belief. (Warfield,
supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at p. 448.)
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is granted. This action is
stayed pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 