  Case Number:  24STCV18999    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



PETER STONE, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
GREEN PASTURES GROUP, INC., et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV18999
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 15, 2024



 
 
            Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            On
7/30/2024, Plaintiffs Peter Stone, individually and as Trustee of the Stone
Family Trust, and Barbara Stone, individually and as Trustee of the Stone
Family Trust (collectively, Plaintiffs), failed suit against Green Pastures
Group, Inc. and John M. Cohen (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 7159; (2) negligence; (3)
unfair business practices; and (4) breach of contract. 
 
            On
9/30/2024, Defendant John Cohen (Defendant or Cohen) demurred to Plaintiffs’
Complaint. 
 
Both Defendants
moved to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs cannot state a claim against him because Business and
Professions Code section 7159 does not confer a private right of action, and
because Plaintiffs do not have standing to assert claims against him in his
personal capacity. 
 
            As
for the first contention, Defendant has not sufficiently established that
Business and Professions Code section 7159 does not confer a private right of
action. Indeed, the Court was able to locate a number of cases wherein parties
maintained claims based on Business and Professions Code section 7159. (See
e.g. Hinerfeld-Ward, Inc. v. Lipian (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 86, 94.) 
 
            As
for the second contention, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants are alter-egos. (See
Complaint ¶¶ 7-9.) As such, Plaintiffs have alleged a sufficient basis, at
the pleading stage, to show that Defendant Cohen is personally liable for the
conduct of Defendant Green Pastures Group, Inc. under the Parties’ contract. 
 
            Moreover,
after review, the Court finds Plaintiffs’ allegations to be sufficient to
support each of the claims. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants contracted to
provide renovation services, performed highly defective work, repeatedly failed
to appear to remedy the work, and then caused more damage during their attempts
at repair. (See Complaint.) Taken together, the allegations are more than
sufficient at the pleading stage to support Plaintiffs’ claims. To the extent
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred by the Agent’s Immunity
Rule, Plaintiffs do not allege a conspiracy here, and thus this rule is not
implicated.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient facts to support their
punitive damages prayer. As set forth above, the Court overruled the demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ Complaint. As such, Plaintiffs’ allegations are sufficient at
this stage to show malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code §3294.)
 
            Defendants’
motion to strike is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 