 Case Number:  24STCV12237    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




neena dass

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
netflix, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV12237




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   13, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and
  stay proceedings
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Netflix, Inc.      
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Neena Dass
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Netflix, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order (1)
compelling plaintiff Neena Dass (“Plaintiff”) to arbitrate her claims in this
action, and (2) staying this action pending completion of arbitration.
1.    
Applicability of the Ending Forced Arbitration
of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act 
As a threshold matter, the parties dispute the application of the
Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (9 U.S.C.
§§ 401-402) (the “EFAA”) to this action. 
For the reasons set forth below, the court finds that the EFAA does not
apply. 
“In 2022, Congress amended the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) by
passing the [EFAA].  In general terms,
the EFAA renders arbitration agreements unenforceable at the plaintiff’s
election in sexual assault and sexual harassment cases that arise or accrue on
or after March 3, 2022, the EFAA’s effective date.”  (Doe v. Second Street Corp. (2024) 105
Cal.App.5th 551, 559.)  Thus, under the
Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) (the “FAA”), “[a] written
provision in . . . a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to
settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or
transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract or as
otherwise provided [by the EFAA].”  (9
U.S.C. § 2.)  
Because the EFAA is part of the FAA, the court finds that it is
applicable to arbitration proceedings, including motions to compel arbitration,
that are governed by the FAA.  (Doe,
supra, 105 Cal.App.5th at p. 559 [explaining that Congress amended the
FAA by passing the EFAA]; 9 U.S.C. § 2 [providing that arbitration agreements
are valid and enforceable except as otherwise provided by the EFAA],)  However, the parties did not submit evidence
or present argument establishing that the FAA applies to the subject
arbitration agreement and the pending motion.[1]
“The party asserting the FAA applies to an agreement has ‘the burden
to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other evidence.’”  (Evenskaas v. California Transit, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292.)  “‘The FAA’s
basic coverage provision, section 2, makes the FAA applicable to contracts
“evidencing a transaction involving commerce.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
Courts broadly construe section 2 to “provide for the enforcement of
arbitration agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause.” 
[Citation.]  “Accordingly, in most cases, the FAA mandates arbitration
when contracts involving interstate commerce contain arbitration provisions.”
’  [Citations.]”  (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75
Cal.App.5th 748, 761-762; 9 U.S.C. § 2.)  “The United States Supreme Court
has identified ‘three categories of activity that Congress may regulate under
its commerce power: (1) “the use of the channels of interstate commerce”; (2)
“the instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or persons or things in
interstate commerce, . . .”; and (3) “those activities having a substantial
relation to interstate commerce, . . . i.e., those activities that
substantially affect interstate commerce.” ’  [Citations.]”  (Evenskaas,
supra, 81 Cal.App.5th at p. 293.) 
Neither Plaintiff nor Defendant submitted evidence establishing that
the subject employment agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant is a contract
that evidences a transaction involving commerce.  (9 U.S.C. § 2.)  The parties did not, for example, submit
declarations to show that (1) Defendant is engaged in activities that have a
substantial relation to interstate commerce, or (2) Plaintiff, in her
employment with Defendant, carried out her job duties by engaging in such
activities.  (Evenskaas, supra,
81 Cal.App.5th at p. 293; Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153,
174-174 [“if a contract involves interstate commerce, the FAA’s substantive provision
(9 U.S.C. § 2) applies to the arbitration”] [emphasis in original].)  The court further notes that the parties did
not agree to incorporate the substantive (or procedural) provisions of the FAA
into their arbitration agreement. 
Specifically, the parties’ “Agreement Regarding Your Netflix Employment
(Including Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate)” (the “Arbitration Agreement”) states
that the parties have “agree[d] to arbitrate under California law (including
California’s arbitration rules) . . . .” 
(Sotomayor Decl., Ex. B, Arbitration Agreement, p. 2, ¶ 8.)  Thus, the Arbitration Agreement does not
incorporate by its terms the FAA.  
The court therefore finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
show that the EFAA applies to the pending motion to compel arbitration.  (Compare with Doe, supra, 105
Cal.App.5th at p. 563 [applying the EFAA when the parties’ arbitration
provision “stated that the arbitrability of any claim shall be determined
according to the substantive provisions of the FAA and the procedural
provisions of the CAA”]; Liu v. Miniso Depot CA, Inc. (2024) 105
Cal.App.5th 791, 801 [applying the FAA to the parties’ dispute because the
parties’ arbitration agreement provided that the interpretation, applicability,
validity, and enforceability thereof is governed by the FAA].) 
 
 
2.    
Existence of Agreement to Arbitrate 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists[,]” unless the court
finds that the right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner or
that grounds exist for rescission of the agreement.¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿1281.2.)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
“‘ “The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the
petition bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s
enforcement.” ’”¿ (Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292,
302.)¿ To determine the existence of an arbitration agreement, the court uses
“a three-step burden-shifting process.”¿ (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023)
87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)¿ “The arbitration proponent must first recite verbatim,
or provide a copy of, the alleged agreement.¿ [Citations.]¿ A movant can bear
this initial burden ‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration agreement
purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.’”¿ (Ibid. [internal
citations omitted].)¿ “If the movant bears its initial burden, the burden
shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual dispute as to
the agreement’s existence . . . .”¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the opposing party meets
its burden to “submit sufficient evidence to create a factual dispute” as to
the existence of the agreement, the burden shifts back to the arbitration
proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.¿ (Ibid.; Gamboa v. Northeast Community
Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.)¿¿ 
First, the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show that
there exists an agreement to arbitrate this controversy.  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at p. 755.)
Defendant has submitted the Arbitration Agreement, which (1) was
electronically signed by Plaintiff on December 25, 2018, and (2) provides that
the parties agreed to arbitrate “any claim for breach of this Agreement and all
employment related disputes, including claims under state or federal law.”  (Sotomayor Decl., Ex. B, Arbitration
Agreement, ¶ 8, and p. 2.)  Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has met its initial burden to produce prima facie
evidence of an agreement to arbitrate. 
The court further finds that the claims alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint, which arise from her employment with Defendant and, specifically,
the alleged harassment, discrimination, and retaliation of Plaintiff,
Defendant’s failure to prevent the harassment, discrimination, and retaliation
of Plaintiff, and Defendant’s violation of the Labor Code based on its failure
to pay Plaintiff the same rate as her counterparts, are encompassed by the
Arbitration Agreement since they arise from “employment related disputes”
between the parties.  (Ibid.;
Compl., ¶¶ 31, 39, 44, 50-51, 57, 64, 69, 76, 80-82.) 
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff did not meet her burden (1) to
identify a factual dispute as to the authenticity of the Arbitration Agreement
or her electronic signature thereon, or (2) to establish a defense to the
enforcement of the Arbitration Agreement. 
(Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) 
Plaintiff did not submit evidence, such as her declaration, asserting
that she did not sign the Arbitration Agreement or that it is inauthentic or
invalid for any other reason.  Thus, the
court finds that Plaintiff did not meet her burden to identify a factual
dispute as to the authenticity of the Arbitration Agreement.  The court further finds that Plaintiff has
not met her burden to present a defense to the enforcement of the Arbitration
Agreement because (1) as set forth above, Plaintiff did not show that the EFAA
applies to this motion, and (2) Plaintiff did not present evidence and argument
to establish that the Arbitration Agreement is unenforceable for any other
reason, such as unconscionability.  (Beco,
supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at p. 302 [the opposing party bears the burden of
establishing a defense]; OTO, LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 126 [“The
burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party asserting it”].) 
Thus, the court finds that (1) Defendant has met its burden to prove
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy in Plaintiff’s Complaint exists,
and (2) Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that the Arbitration Agreement
is invalid or should not be enforced. 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
ORDER
            The court grants defendant Netflix,
Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings. 
            The court orders (1) defendant
Netflix, Inc. and plaintiff Neena Dass to arbitrate the claims alleged in
plaintiff Neena Dass’s Complaint, and (2) this action is stayed until
arbitration is completed. 
The court sets an Order to Show Cause re completion of arbitration for
hearing on August 12, 2025, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 53. 
            The court orders defendant Netflix,
Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 13, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


