  Case Number:  18STCV04021    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




paul ramos, in his capacity as trustee of the Paul Ramos
   Trust dated June 21, 2018

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
belinda candelaria

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV04021




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   13, 2025




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for order apportioning
  costs of partition, including reasonable attorney’s fees
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Belinda
Candelaria  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Robert del Real, in his capacity as successor trustee
of the Paul Ramos Trust dated June 21, 2018
Motion for Order Apportioning Costs of Partition, Including Reasonable
Attorney’s Fees
The court considered the moving and opposition papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
The court notes that defendant Belinda Candelaria served and filed her
reply papers on January 8, 2025 and therefore did not serve and file the reply
at least five court days before the hearing on this motion as required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)  The court, however, exercises its discretion
to consider the reply papers and therefore overrules plaintiff Robert Del Real,
in his capacity as successor trustee to the Paul Ramos Trust dated June 21,
2018’s objections to the reply brief. 
The court, however, has not considered the second declaration since new
evidence is not permitted with reply papers. 
(Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.)
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendant
Belinda Candelaria’s request for judicial notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Belinda Candelaria (“Defendant”) moves the court for an
order apportioning to Defendant attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $48,544.  Plaintiff Robert Del Real, in his capacity as
successor trustee to the Paul Ramos Trust dated June 21, 2018 (“Plaintiff”)
both (1) opposes Defendant’s request for attorney’s fees, and (2) requests that
Plaintiff be apportioned a total amount of $38,996.96 in attorney’s fees and
costs.  (May 13, 2024 Stip. & Order,
pp. 1:24-2:5 [stipulating that Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s motion for
attorney’s fees may include Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees, and that
the court shall simultaneously rule on both requests].) 
1.    
Defendant’s Request for Attorney’s Fees
“[T]he court shall apportion the costs of partition among the parties
in proportion to their interests or make such other apportionment as may be
equitable.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿874.040.)  “The costs of partition
include: [¶] (a) Reasonable attorney’s fees incurred or paid by a party for the
common benefit.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿874.010, subd. (a)(1).)  “[T]he
‘common benefit’ in a partition action is the proper distribution of the ‘
“respective shares and interests in said property by the ultimate judgment of
the court.” ’”  (Orien v. Lutz (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 957,
967.)   
The court finds that Defendant has shown that the attorney’s fees that
she incurred, which were incurred to present Defendant’s defense of this action
(in which Plaintiff asserted that the proceeds of partition should be divided
equally between the parties), were incurred for the common benefit.  (RJN Ex. B, Pl. First Amended Trial Brief, p.
7:4-7 [“it will be Plaintiff’s position that (1) the subject REAL PROPERTY be
ordered sold and that the proceeds be divided equally between the
parties after reimbursing Defendant for her legitimate claims of necessary
expenses . . . .”]; Code Civ. Proc., § 874.040.)  The court, however, finds that Defendant has
not submitted evidence sufficient to allow the court to make a lodestar
determination. 
“[T]he fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the
‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate. . . . .¿ The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing
in the community for similar work.¿ The lodestar figure may then be adjusted,
based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee
at the fair market value for the legal services provided.”¿ (PLCM Group v.
Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095 (internal citations omitted).)¿ “[T]he
verified time statements of the attorneys, as officers of the court, are
entitled to credence in the absence of a clear indication the records are
erroneous.”¿ (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of California State Univ.
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 396.)¿¿ 
In support of her motion, Defendant has submitted the declaration of
attorney Noah McCall (“McCall”).  Although
McCall has stated that he has 11 years of experience and bills at the hourly
rate of $300, McCall did not attest to the education, qualifications, and experience
of the other attorneys and legal staff that performed work on this matter.  (McCall Decl., ¶ 9.)  Further, the court has reviewed the invoices
attached to McCall’s declaration and finds that the invoices do not set forth
sufficient information to allow the court to determine the reasonable hourly
rates and reasonable hours expended in this action.  For example, the invoices do not specify the
attorney or legal staff that performed the work described in each billing entry,
and it appears that multiple attorneys and/or legal staff members billed work
in connection with this action since there are multiple hourly rates set forth
therein.  (See, e.g., McCall Decl., Ex.
B, Invoice, pp. 1 [billing at the hourly rates of $325 and $200], 3 [billing at
the hourly rates of $200 and $300].)  Moreover,
the invoice appears to include both the attorney’s fees incurred as well as
costs.  (McCall Decl., Ex. B, Invoices,
pp. 1, 3, 5, 7 and PDF p. 19.) 
Thus, the court has not been presented with sufficient evidence to
establish the reasonably hourly rates of the attorneys and legal staff who
performed work on this action and the hours that each attorney and timekeeper
expended in performing work on this action. 
The court finds that it is appropriate, and therefore exercises its
discretion, to continue the hearing on this motion to give Defendant an
opportunity (1) to submit a declaration that includes evidence that (i)
establishes the education, qualifications, and experience of each of the
attorneys or other timekeepers who billed time for this action for which
Defendant is seeking the recovery of attorney’s fees, and (ii) the total number
of hours billed by each attorney or timekeeper and their respective hourly
rates, and (2) to file billing statements that identify the timekeeper that
performed the work described for each billing entry.  The court also expects that any request for
costs (e.g., filing fees) be clearly labeled in the invoices or set forth in
the supporting declaration of counsel.  
2.    
Plaintiff’s Request for Attorney’s Fees
As set forth above, “the court shall apportion the costs of partition
among the parties in proportion to their interests or make such other
apportionment as may be equitable.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿874.040.) 
“The costs of partition include: [¶] (a) Reasonable attorney’s fees incurred or
paid by a party for the common benefit.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §¿874.010,
subd. (a)(1).)  
In ruling on Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees, the court has
considered Plaintiff’s arguments, Plaintiff’s position in this action that the
proceeds of the subject property should be divided equally between Plaintiff
and Defendant, and the court’s determination after trial that Plaintiff has a
right to partition the property and that Plaintiff and Defendant own the
subject property as tenants in common with Plaintiff holding a 5.51 percent
ownership interest therein and Defendant holding a 94.94 percent ownership
interest.  (Jan. 26, 2023 Statement of
Decision, p. 10:1-6.)  Upon consideration
of such evidence, the court finds that the attorney’s fees incurred by
Plaintiff in litigating this partition action were incurred for purposes that
unduly exacerbated the parties’ dispute, were not incurred for the common
benefit, and should, as a matter of equity, be borne by Plaintiff.  (Orien, supra, 16 Cal.App.5th
at p. 968 [“under section 874.010 a court may find that fees incurred
‘advocat[ing] a position of limited merit’ are not for the common benefit and
should be borne by the party ‘pressing’ such ‘spurious matters[;]’” further, “a
court may achieve a similar result through an exercise of its equitable discretion
under section 874.040 and require a party to bear its own fees”]; Lin v.
Jeng (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1026 [the broad language of section
874.040 does not limit the trial court’s equitable discretion].) 
The court therefore exercises its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s
request to award to him the attorney’s fees and costs that he incurred in this
action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 874.040.) 
ORDER
            The court orders that the hearing on
defendant Belinda Candelaria’s motion for attorney’s fees is continued to April
30, 2025, at 10:00 a.m., in Department 53. 
            The court orders that (1) defendant
Belinda Candelaria may, no later than March 28, 2025, file a supplemental
declaration in support of her request for attorney’s fees that includes the
information set forth in this ruling, and (2) plaintiff Robert Del Real, in his
capacity as successor trustee to the Paul Ramos Trust dated June 21, 2018 may,
no later than April 16, 2025, file a supplemental opposition brief to defendant
Belinda Candelaria’s supplemental declaration.
The court denies plaintiff Robert Del Real, in his capacity as
successor trustee to the Paul Ramos Trust dated June 21, 2018’s request for an
order apportioning attorney’s fees and costs in his favor. 
            The court orders defendant Belinda
Candelaria to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 13, 2025
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court