  Case Number:  21CMCV00214    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  A 
21CMCV00214
 Tabitha Patton v. Ramona King
Thursday,
 June 6, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
 [TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING THE HEARING ON PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES 
 
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The verified, first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleges that
Defendant, Ramona King (“Ramona”), forged Plaintiff’s signature on a quitclaim
deed purporting to transfer Plaintiff’s 50 percent interest in real property to
Ramona, leaving Ramona as the sole owner of the property. Plaintiff alleges
claims for (1) forgery, (2) cancellation of instrument, (3) quiet title, (4)
slander of title, (5) fraudulent concealment, (6) theft (Penal Code § 496), (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (8) declaratory and
injunctive relief and (9) negligence.      
      At a non-contested, non-jury trial held on April 17, 2024, the Court
found in Plaintiff’s favor specifically against Ramona on the claims for (1) forgery,
(2) cancellation of instrument, (3) quiet title, (4) slander of title, (6) theft
(8) declaratory and injunctive relief. The Court cancelled the quit claim deed
at issue and quieted each of Defendants’ respective title to the real property.
The Court declared that Plaintiff and Ramona have a 50 percent interest in the
property as tenants in common. Otherwise, the Court found that Plaintiff did
not prove compensatory or punitive damages.  
II.      PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES 
      Plaintiff argues that the Court found in favor of Plaintiff and
found that Ramona committed forgery and filed a false quit claim deed. Ramona
forged Plaintiff’s signature and forged Plaintiff’s thumb print. Plaintiff argues
she is entitled to attorney’s fees under Penal Code § 496 and § 484 governing
theft by any false or fraudulent misrepresentation. 
      Plaintiff timely served the motion on Ramona, who did not file
an opposition.
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
      A
prevailing party in any action or proceeding is entitled to costs, including
attorney’s fees, if such fees are authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a) (4) and (b); Code
Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10(B).) If a statute refers to the award of
costs and attorney’s fees, attorney’s fees are an “item and component of the
costs to be awarded and are allowable as costs pursuant to subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (10) of subdivision. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(5)(A).) If any party recovers other than
monetary relief, the “prevailing party” shall be determined by the court, and
in its discretion, the court may award costs or not.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1032 subd. (a)(4).)
      In
pertinent part, Penal Code, section 496 imposes criminal liability on a person
who buys or receives any property obtained "in any manner constituting
theft or extortion, knowing that property is so stolen or obtained.” (Pen.
Code, § 496, subd. (a).) Moreover, any person injured by a violation of
section 496 subd. (a) or (b) "may bring an action for three times the
amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit,
and reasonable attorney's fees." (Pen.
Code, § 496, subd. (c).) (Switzer
v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 119 ["Although section 496
defines a criminal offense, it also provides an enhanced civil remedy in the
event there has been a violation of the statute—that is, where a person has
knowingly received, withheld or sold property that has been stolen or that has
been obtained in any manner constituting theft."].)
      For
purposes of the statute “property” means real or personal property. (Pen.
Code, § 450, subd. (c).) A person is guilty of “theft” if the person "shall
knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or
pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or personal property
… .” (Pen.
Code, § 484, subd. (a).) A criminal conviction of Section 496 is not a
prerequisite to recovering civil remedies. (Lacagnina
v. Comprehend Systems, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 955, 970 [acknowledging
entitlement to civil treble damages under section 496, subd. (c)].)  
      Accordingly,
Plaintiff has established entitlement to an award of attorney’s fees as the Court
found in Plaintiff’s favor on the sixth cause of action for theft pursuant to
Penal Code, section 496. Plaintiff requests an award of $12,084 dollars in fees
which counsel charged Plaintiff as a flat fee. However, an award of fees as an
element of costs under Civil Procedure, section 1033.5 “shall be reasonable in
amount and necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely
convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1033.5 subd. (c).)  Fees
may be fixed by noticed motion or by other enumerated means. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd (b)(5)(A).) 
      To
determine whether fees are reasonable, the court begins with the lodestar,
which is the number of hours reasonably spent multiplied by the reasonable
hourly rate. (PLCM
Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) The court
considers several factors including "the nature of the litigation, its
difficulty, the amount involved, the skill required in its handling, the
skill employed, the attention given, the success or failure, and other
circumstances in the case.’” (PLCM
Group at 1096.) The lodestar figure can be adjusted based on the
factors specific to the case. (Id.)
      To
determine a reasonable market rate, "the courts will look to equally
difficult or complex types of litigation.” (Syers
Properties III, Inc. v. Rankin (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 691, 700.)
The “market rate” is generally based on the rates prevalent in the community
where the court is located. (Id.) The trial court is in the best
position to value the services rendered by the attorneys in his or her
courtroom for the type of litigation at issue. The prevailing party is entitled
to “’compensation for all the hours reasonably spent‘ in
litigating the action to a successful conclusion. (Ibid., italics in
original.) ‘Reasonably spent’ means that time spent ‘in the form of inefficient
or duplicative efforts is not subject to compensation. (Horsford
v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 394).
       The invoice submitted by counsel is
insufficient to carry counsel’s burden of proof that attorney’s fees were
reasonably incurred. The factors to be considered by the Court are not
supported by the Declaration of Mark Bruce, who does not establish that his
rate of $400 per hour is a reasonable rate. Plaintiff did not provide a
declaration by Arlene Aguilera or Brianna Pena attesting that the hourly rate
of $185.00 is reasonable under the circumstances.
IV.   
CONCLUSION
      While
Plaintiff has shown that an attorney fee award is authorized, the motion is
incomplete as it is not supported by facts necessary for the Court to consider
whether fees were reasonably incurred. The Court continues the hearing date to July 9, 2024,
  at 8:30 a.m. in Department A of
the Compton Courthouse. Ten days before the hearing, Plaintiff is ordered to
submit the required declarations and other evidence as well as a reformatted spreadsheet
separately identifying the date and activity by each “user”, and separately calculating
time and fees incurred by each “user.”  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice to Defendant.  