  Case Number:  24TRCV00744    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ANDREW
  LEE,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV00744




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September 12,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Andrew Lee 
Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of
action in the FAC.
BACKGROUND
            On March 13, 2024, plaintiff Lee filed
a complaint against American Honda Motor Co., Inc. for (1) violation of Civil
Code §1793.2(d), (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b), (3) violation of Civil
Code §1793.2(a)(3), and (4) breach of implied warranty of merchantability based
on the purchase of a 2015 Honda Odyssey.
            On May 29, 2024, plaintiff filed a
FAC. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant American Honda demurs to each
of the causes of action in the FAC on the ground that they fail to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The FAC alleges that on December
13, 2014, plaintiff entered into a warranty contract with Honda, regarding a
2015 Honda Odyssey.  FAC, ¶6.  The warranty contract contained various
warranties, including bumper-bumper, powertrain, and emission.  The warranty contract is attached as Exhibit
A to the FAC.  Id., ¶7.  Defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves within the applicable express warranty period, including transmission
defects, engine defects, and electrical defects.  Id., ¶11. 
Defendant has failed to either promptly replace the subject vehicle or
to promptly make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.  Id., ¶15.
The FAC also alleges that on July
19, 2018, with 24,662 miles, plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s
authorized repair facility with various concerns, including the transmission, engine,
and/or electrical concerns having harsh, rough upshifting and downshifting with
a noise when accelerating and decelerating. 
The authorized repair facility performed warranty repairs and
represented to plaintiff that the vehicle had been repaired.  Id., ¶22. 
On September 10, 2018, with 25,493 miles, plaintiff presented the
vehicle to an authorized repair facility with various concerns, including
transmission and/or engine concerns when accelerating, the transmission bangs
into gear, has a harsh shift, and jerks. 
The repair facility performed repairs and represented to plaintiff that
the vehicle had been repaired.  Id., ¶23.  On October 25, 2018, with 25,760 miles,
plaintiff presented the vehicle to an authorized repair facility with
transmission and/or engine concerns while driving on city streets the
transmission bangs into gear and jerks.  The
repair facility performed warranty repairs and represented to plaintiff that
the vehicle had been repaired.  Id., ¶24.  On November 15, 2018, with 25,803 miles,
plaintiff presented the vehicle to an authorized repair facility with
transmission and/or engine concerns while driving 25-30 mph and decelerating,
and vehicle bangs.  The repair facility
performed warranty repairs and represented to plaintiff that the vehicle had been
repaired.  Id., ¶25. Thereafter,
plaintiff continued to experience symptoms of the defects despite defendant’s
representation that the defects were repaired. 
Id., ¶26.
The FAC further alleges that to the
extent there are any statutes of limitations applicable to plaintiff’s claims,
the running of the limitations periods have been tolled by the following
doctrines or rules:  equitable tolling,
the discovery rule, the fraudulent concealment rule, equitable estoppel, the
repair doctrine, and/or class action tolling. 
Id., ¶29.
Statute of limitations
Defendant argues that the first,
second, and third causes of action are barred by the four-year statute of
limitations under Commercial Code §2725(2) and accrues when the breach occurs,
regardless of the “aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach” and that
the “breach’ occurs “when tender of delivery” is made, which is December 13,
2014.  See FAC, ¶6.  Defendant further argues that plaintiff does
not allege facts as to the time and manner of discovery or the reason why
plaintiff could not have discovered the alleged defects with due
diligence.  Defendant asserts that of the
four repair visits “vaguely described,” all occurring after the majority of the
appliable warranty periods expired.  As
to the fourth cause of action, defendant argues that the implied warranty
period expires after one year from date of tender of delivery, which in this
case occurred no later than December 13, 2015. 
Defendant contends that unless plaintiff pleads a sufficient tolling
theory, plaintiff’s breach of implied warranty claim expired at the latest on
December 13, 2019.  Defendant argues that
plaintiff has not alleged a sufficient tolling theory.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the FAC does not affirmatively show a statute of limitations defense.  Plaintiff disputes that the first through
third causes of action accrued and ran from the date of sale of the vehicle;
rather they arose when the issues related to the engine, transmission, and/or
electrical system continued to manifest, which was shortly before plaintiff
filed the complaint.  As to the fourth
cause of action, plaintiff argues that the defects were latent and thus the
statute of limitations runs at discovery and not at tender.
The Court finds that it appears
that the first, second, and third causes of action are barred by the four-year statute
of limitations and that the fourth cause of action is barred by the one-year
statute of limitations.  Civil Code
§1791.1(c) extends that time in which an implied warranty exists to be breached
by no more than one year beyond the date of sale.  Comm. Code §2725(2) states:  “A cause of action accrues when the breach
occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach.  A breach of warranty occurs when tender of
delivery is made, except that where a warranty explicitly extends to future
performance of the goods and discovery of the breach must await the time of
such performance the cause of action accrues when the breach is or should have
been discovered.”
 Plaintiff alleges that the sale occurred on December
13, 2014.  The claims must have accrued
on or before December 13, 2015, and the four year statute of limitations under
Comm. Code §2725 expired no later than December 13, 2018.  The complaint was filed on March 13,
2024.  The allegations are conclusory as
to tolling and/or estoppel.
 
First cause of action for violation
of Civil Code §1793.2(d)
Civil Code §1793.2(d) states, “Except
as provided in paragraph (2), if the manufacturer or its representative in this
state does not service or repair the goods to conform to the applicable express
warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either
replace the goods or reimburse the buyer in an amount equal to the purchase
price paid by the buyer, less that amount directly attributable to use by the
buyer prior to the discovery of the nonconformity.”
The FAC alleges defendant and its
representatives in this state have been unable to service or repair the vehicle
to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
opportunities.  Despite this fact, defendant
failed to promptly replace the vehicle or 
make
restitution to plaintiffs as required by Civil Code §1793.2(d) and Civil Code §1793.1(a)(2).  FAC, ¶41.
Defendant argues that the FAC
identifies only four repair attempts commencing almost four years after
plaintiff purchased the vehicle, and plaintiff does not identify the specific
express warranty that was not conformed with, or any other defects pertaining
to the vehicle, or any other repair attempts. 

In the opposition, plaintiff does not
address.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient that the vehicle was not conformed to the
“applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of
opportunities.”  Rather, the allegations
are conclusory and vague. “Simply parroting the language of [a statute] in the
complaint is insufficient to state a cause of action under the statute.”  Hawkins v. TACA Internat. Airlines, S.A.
(2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 466, 478.  “[S]tatutory
causes of action must be pleaded with particularity.”  Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Second cause of action for
violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b)
Under Civil Code §1793.2(b), “[w]here
those service and repair facilities are maintained in this state and service or
repair of the goods is necessary because they do not conform with the
applicable express warranties, service and repair shall be commenced within a
reasonable time by the manufacturer or its representative in this state.  Unless the buyer agrees in writing to the
contrary, the goods shall be serviced or repaired so as to conform to the
applicable warranties within 30 days.  Delay
caused by conditions beyond the control of the manufacturer or its
representatives shall serve to extend this 30-day requirement.  Where delay arises, conforming goods shall be
tendered as soon as possible following termination of the condition giving rise
to the delay.”
The FAC alleges that although plaintiff
presented the vehicle to defendant’s representative in this state, defendant
and its representative failed to commence the service or repairs within a
reasonable time and failed to service or repair the vehicle to conform to the
applicable warranties within 30 days, in violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b).  Plaintiff did not extend the time for
completion of repairs beyond the 30-day requirement.  FAC, ¶47.
Defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient because the FAC identifies only four repair
attempts with the first commencing almost four years after plaintiff purchased
the vehicle and fails to identify the number of days it took to repair the
vehicle at that visit or any other repair visit.  Defendant contends that plaintiff does not
identify the specific express warranty that was not conformed within thirty
days and the number of days the vehicle was under repair.
In the opposition, plaintiff does not
address.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to show that defendant “failed to commence the
service or repairs within a reasonable time and failed to service the vehicle
to conform to the applicable warranties within 30 days.”  Further, the allegations are conclusory and
not plead with the required specificity.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Third cause of action for violation
of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(2)
            Under Civil Code §1793.2(a)(2),
“[e]very manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state and for which the
manufacturer has made an express warranty shall:  In the event of a failure to comply with
paragraph (1) of this subdivision, be subject to Section 1793.5.”  
            The FAC alleges that in violation of
Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3), defendant failed 
to
make available to its authorized service and repair facilities sufficient
service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during the express
warranty period.  Plaintiff has been
damaged by defendant’s failure to comply with its obligations pursuant to Civil
Code §1793.2(a)(3), and therefore brings this cause of action pursuant to Civil
Code §1794.  FAC, ¶52.
Defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient because the FAC fails to identify the authorized
service and repair facilities that did not have sufficient service literature
and replacement parts, the express warranty applicable to this cause of action,
what alleged defect was not addressed by defendant’s authorized repair facilities
to necessitate further service literature and replacement parts, or what
service literature and replacement parts were necessary so as to repair the
alleged nonconformities with the subject vehicle and that were not provided by
or to Honda’s authorized repair facility that was visited by plaintiffs.  
In the opposition, plaintiff does not
address. 
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as they are conclusory and not plead with the
required specificity for the reasons argued by defendant, including identifying
the service and repair facilities, the applicable express warranty, what service
literature and/or replacement parts were necessary.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Fourth cause of action for breach
of implied warranty of merchantability
The FAC alleges that at the time of
sale, the subject vehicle contained one or more latent defect(s) set forth
above.  The existence of the said
defect(s) constitutes a breach of the implied warranty because the vehicle (1)
does not pass without objection in the trade under the contract 
description,
(2) is not fit for the ordinary purposes for which such goods are used, (3) is
not 
adequately
contained, packaged, and labelled, and (4) does not conform to the promises or 
affirmations
of fact made on the container or label. 
FAC, ¶57.
Defendant argues that the FAC fails
to plead specific facts to support the allegation that the vehicle was not
merchantable, as defined under Civil Code §1792.1, at the time of purchase or
within one year thereafter.  Rather the
FAC identifies only four repair attempts, none of which occurred during the
implied warranty period.
            In the opposition, plaintiff does
not address. 
            The Court finds that the allegations
are insufficient.  They are conclusory
and not plead with the required specificity.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND.
 
ORDER

            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of
action in the FAC.
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.