 Case Number:  24TRCV01748    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
EUNICE
  VIRGEN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01748




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CHANCE
  BERMAN, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          September
12, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Chance Berman
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Eunice Virgen
Motion
for Protective Order
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  [Does the granting of this motion mean that
the Motion to Compel scheduled for October 2, 2024 will become moot?  If so, notify the Court immediately so that
the Court does not devote time to preparing that motion.]
BACKGROUND
            On May 22, 2024, plaintiff Eunice
Virgen filed a complaint against Chance Berman, American Skating Entertainment
Centers, LLC, and Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. for (1) negligence and (2)
negligence – premises liability.  The
complaint alleges that on April 27, 2024, plaintiff was on the premises of
Toyota Sports Performance Center.  At
that place and time, the rubber flooring near the exit of the ice rink located
at the subject premises was damaged, and a section of it had been removed,
leaving a hole.  Defendants had placed a
loose piece of rubber flooring over the hole. 
This action was negligent, unreasonable, ineffective, and insufficient
and created an unreasonable risk of harm on the floor of the premises.  While attempting to exit the ice rink at the
premises in a reasonable and foreseeable manner, plaintiff slipped and fell on
the loose piece of rubber flooring and as a result has suffered serious
damages.
            On July 16, 2024, plaintiff filed an
amendment designating L.A. Ice Venture Company, LLC as Doe 1.
            On July 18, 2024, plaintiff filed a
request for dismissal as to Anschutz Entertainment Group.
            On July 26, 2024, plaintiff filed an
amendment designating Polar Ice Ventures LLC as Doe 2.
            On August 14, 2024, plaintiff filed
an amendment designating Polar Ice Enterprises California, LLC as Doe 3.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Under
CCP §2025.420, “(a) Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”    
            Under
CCP §2031.060, “(a) When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has
been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other
party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
            “[T]he
burden is on the party seeking the protective order to show good cause for
whatever order is sought.”  Fairmont
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to CCP §§2025.420 and
2031.060, defendant Chance Berman requests a protective order in such form in
line with the “Los Angeles Model Stipulation and Protective Order –
Confidential Designation Only” (“LA Model Protective Order”). 
            Defendant argues that a protective
order is necessary to cover corporate policies, internal incident reports,
guidelines, interior premises video surveillance footage depicting minors, and
other confidential business records in Berman’s possession and belonging to
Berman’s employer, Polar Ice Enterprises California, LLC (Doe 3), which has not
been served or appeared.
            Defendant asserts that the parties
have met and conferred and that defendant has responded to discovery and will
respond further subject to a protective order given its confidential nature,
including surveillance footage which bears proprietary systems stamps,
interfaces, and software and depicts a private, interior property where
numerous minors are present.
            In opposition, plaintiff asserts
that she opposes the motion as to the video footage only and that plaintiff
“will be prejudiced by refusing discovery and granting a protective order for
matter that is clearly discoverable and imperative to plaintiff’s cause of
action for premises liability.”
            In reply, defendant argues that
plaintiff’s opposition is “misplaced” because it “spends pages arguing an issue
not presently before the court, to wit: 
whether a singular piece of evidence should be designated as confidential.”  Defendant contends that the Court need only
rule whether good cause exists to grant the herein motion and enter the
proposed model protective order. 
Defendant argues that plaintiff’s complaints concerning the surveillance
footage are unavailing and that plaintiff does not provide any argument or
authority for the proposition that her “disagreement over one item negates good
cause for the other confidential information presented.”  Defendant asserts that the proposed order
contains a mechanism for challenging designations, which plaintiff does not
address.  Defendant points out that the
proposed model protective order is “routinely used,” “affords the parties the
normal course for the designation and challenging of confidential information,”
and “is the model order because it functions well.” 
            The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that defendant has shown good
cause for a protective order.  Plaintiff
does not dispute defendant’s good cause in general but only refutes a
protective order as to the surveillance video. 
It is not before the Court as to what specific discovery should be
governed or covered by the protective order. 
Further, defendant does not dispute that the surveillance video is
discoverable and has agreed to produce it once a protective/confidentiality
order is in place.  The Court notes that
the proposed LA Model Protective Order contains a definition for “confidential”
as “any information which is in the possession of a Designating Party who
believes in good faith that such information is entitled to confidential
treatment under applicable law” and a procedure to challenge such
designation.  Both sides agree that a protective
order is appropriate for at least some of the discovery.  The model protective order is sufficient to
protect defendants’ confidential information without unduly burdening
plaintiff.  
            The motion is thus GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.  
The Court
enters a protective order – confidential designation based on the Los Angeles
Model.
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.