 Case Number:  21STCV40831    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of  California County  of Los Angeles        PETRA    AMAYA DE GARCIA, an Individual,                                Plaintiff,                                 vs.   IRENE    LUNA, an Individual; ARACELI LEON, an Individual; and Does 1-50, Inclusive,                                 Defendants.   Case No.:    21STCV40831   DEPARTMENT    45       [TENTATIVE] RULING       Action    Filed: 11/05/2021   [1st    Amended Complaint Filed: 08/08/2022] Trial    Date: None      Hearing Date:             Friday, March 1, 2024   Moving  Party:             Defendants  Irene Luna and Araceli Leon Responding  Party:      Plaintiff  Petra Amaya De Garcia Motion:  Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike      The Court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in part and OVERRULED  in part. The Demurrer is  sustained as to the second cause of action but is overruled as to the first and  third cause of action. Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s  First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to  amend.     BACKGROUND Procedural  History -              Petra  Amaya De Garcia (Plaintiff) filed an initial Complaint against two of her  daughters Irene Luna and Araceli Leon (Defendants) on November 5, 2021. It was  followed by a First Amended Complaint (FAC) filed on August 8, 2022. The FAC  contains three causes of action aimed at both Defendants: (1) Elder Financial  Abuse, (2) Fraudulent Concealment, and (3) Conversion.             The  motions before the Court are Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions  of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (collectively, the Motions). Both Motions  were filed on October 28, 2022. On September 11, 2023, Defendants filed a  notice of non-opposition to both motions[1]  noting that based on the initial hearing date of September 19, 2023, Plaintiff  was required to serve Defendants an opposition no later than September 6, 2023.  The initial hearing for the Motions was continued once to October 10, 2023 (see  Notice Re: Continuance of Hearing and Order filed on September 18, 2022). After  the notice regarding the first continuance was filed, Plaintiff late-filed her  oppositions to the Motions on September 27, 2023. The hearing was continued a  second time (see Notice Re: Continuance of Hearing and Order filed on November  6, 2023) to March 1, 2024. Defendants then filed replies for both Motions on  October 3, and then again for both Motions on October 31, 2023.      Factual  Background -              This case stems from accusations of  fraud arising out of the management of Plaintiff’s finances by Defendants.  Defendants began managing Plaintiff’s finances in 2007. (FAC, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff  alleges that during this time, Plaintiff executed various legal documents  without truly understanding the nature of the documents as they were presented  to her in English, and Plaintiff is a monolingual Spanish-speaker. (FAC, ¶ 7.)             Plaintiff alleges that due to neglect  from Defendants, Plaintiff turned to her daughter and son-in-law Graciela Melendez  and Angel Melendez (Graciela and Angel, respectively) for assistance with her  medical and financial matters. (FAC, ¶ 8,) It was then that Graciela discovered  finances had been mismanaged, particularly, the withdrawal of large amounts of  money Plaintiff was unaware of. (FAC, ¶¶ 9-10.) Plaintiff alleges that over  $87,000.00 was withdrawn in 2021 alone and transferred to the accounts belonging  to Defendants. (FAC, ¶ 11.) When no satisfactory explanation of these withdrawals  was provided to Plaintiff by Defendants, Plaintiff filed a police report on  August 22, 2021, then filed suit with this Court. (FAC, ¶ 14.)    DISCUSSION Meet and Confer –  Legal Standard & Analysis for Meet and  Confer             “Before  filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by  telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for  the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would  resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a); see  also CCP § 435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).) Defendants  present the Declaration of Michael J. Armenta (Armenta Decl.)  which states that on October 6, 2022, Defense  counsel spoke with Plaintiff’s counsel and discussed the grounds for demurring,  however, the parties were unable to reach an agreement. (Armenta Decl., ¶ 4.)  Nonetheless, the requirements for both CCP § 430.41(a) and CCP § 435.5 have  been met. Therefore, the Court will turn its attention to the Motions.    Demurrer -  Legal Standard for Demurrer             “[A]  demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235  Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that  appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the  pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in  ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not  subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their  contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a  complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the  truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.  Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Analysis for Demurrer             Upon  Demurrer, Defendants raise two main arguments: first that the FAC must fail  because the statute of limitations on each cause of action has expired, and  second that the FAC does not contain facts sufficient to sustain the causes of  action.              Before  addressing the key arguments on Demurrer, the Court notes that both oppositions  to the Demurrer and Motion to Strike were untimely filed. Nevertheless, the  Court will rule on the merits. California has a strong public policy in favor  of deciding cases on the merits, especially if the opposing party has suffered  no prejudice. (Oliveros¿v. County of Los Angeles¿(2004) 120 Cal.App.4th  1389, 1398-1399. Also see CCP § 583.130.)              As  explained below, each cause of action is within the applicable statute of  limitations. Additionally, the first and third cause of action contain sufficient  facts to survive demurrer, however, the second cause of action for fraudulent  concealment does not meet the heightened pleading requirements, and therefore  falls to demurrer.    Statute of Limitations  –              Upon  Demurrer, the first argument Defendants present is that each cause of action is  outside of their respective statute of limitations. The Court disagrees. The  FAC clearly alleges that although the Defendants began to manage Plaintiff’s  finances in 2007, this only stopped in the middle of 2021 after Plaintiff felt  Defendants were neglecting her needs. (FAC, ¶¶ 6 & 8.) Under the general rule,  a cause of action accrues when the wrongful act is done, not when a plaintiff  discovers they have a cause of action to pursue. (Moreno v. Sanchez  (2003) 106 Cal.App. 4th 1415, 1423.) Here, the wrongful acts are alleged to  have occurred throughout the management of Plaintiff’s finances, which only  stopped in 2021. The statute of limitations for the first cause of action is  four years, and for the second and third cause of action, three years. The initial  Complaint was filed on November 5, 2021, well within the statute of limitations  for all three causes of action.        Causes of Action within FAC  Elder       Financial Abuse              “Financial  abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity takes,  secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an  elder or dependent adult, or assists in so doing, for a wrongful use or with  intent to defraud, or both, or when the taking, secreting, appropriating,  obtaining, or retaining is accomplished by undue influence. (WIC § 15610.30(a).)             Here, the FAC  alleges that in 2021 alone there were over $87,000.00 of transfers from  Plaintiff’s checking and savings accounts to Defendants. (FAC, ¶ 11.) Plaintiff  was unaware of these withdrawals. (FAC, ¶ 10.) There is no dispute that  Plaintiff meets the definition of an elder, here the dispute is whether the FAC  appropriately pleads that these monies were taken for a wrongful use, with the  intent to defraud, or by undue influence. The FAC states that “Defendants further  misappropriated and used said funds for their personal use, benefit, and expenses.”  (FAC, ¶ 26.) This is sufficient to mee the element of wrongful use. Defendants’  Demurrer is silent on this point. Consequently, the first cause of action  survives demurrer as it pleads facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action. The Demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.            Fraudulent Concealment              “The required elements for  fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact;  (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the  defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or  suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not  have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or  suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the  concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners  Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 189 Cal.Rptr.3d 31, at 36, citing Graham v.  Bank of America, N.A., supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 606, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d  218.)             The traditional rule is that fraud  actions are subject to a stricter pleading standard, because they involve a  serious attack on defendant's character. Fairness requires that allegations of  fraud be pleaded “with particularity” so that the court can weed out  nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer. (Committee on Children's Television,  Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983)  35 Cal.3d 197, 216)              The FAC pleads that Plaintiff was  harmed because Defendants concealed information regarding the misappropriation  and misuse of Plaintiff’s funds. (FAC, ¶ 32.) To adequately plead active  concealment, plaintiff must describe defendant's affirmative acts that  concealed information from plaintiff. (Torres v. Adventist Health System/West (2022) 77 Cal.5th 500, 514-515.)              Here, the cause of action fails  because it is unclear how the misappropriation was concealed. There are no  facts indicating that Plaintiff was too ill to review her finances, nor that Plaintiff  was incapable of accessing information regarding her bank accounts.              Additionally, the FAC pleads that  Defendants intentionally failed to disclose to Plaintiff the misappropriation of  Plaintiff’s funds. (FAC, ¶ 34.) If a fraud claim is based upon failure to  disclose, and the duty to disclose arises from the making of representations  that were misleading or false, those allegations regarding representations  should be described. (Morgan  v. AT & T Wireless Services, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.4th 1235, 1262.) The FAC fails to detail what  misrepresentations were made that were misleading or false. On opposition,  Plaintiff argues that Defendants became fiduciaries in 2007 when they started  to manage Plaintiff’s finances. However, there is no indication of a  relationship that would carry fiduciary duties. The FAC does not allege that  Defendants were financial advisors, trustees managing an estate, nor agents of  a principal. Moreover, Plaintiff provides no case law demonstrating that a  relationship where adult children assisting their parents with their finances  carries fiduciary duties, outside of a legally recognized conservatorship.             The heightened pleading requirements  for the second cause of action have not been met, therefore making them  vulnerable to demurrer. The Demurrer to the second cause of action is  sustained.                Conversion              “Conversion  is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements  of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession  of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or  disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)             Here,  the third cause of action survives demurrer because the FAC has alleged facts  that satisfy each element of the cause of action for conversion. The FAC alleges  that the monies transferred belonged to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶¶ 9 & 13.) The  FAC then alleges that the conversion of the monies was wrongful as Plaintiff  did not know nor consent to the transfer of case. (FAC, ¶ 10.) Finally, the  damages are alleged to total $205,032.38             Defendants’  contention against the cause of action for conversion is that monies cannot be  used to form the basis of a conversion claim. With this contention, Defendants  rely on McKell v. Washington Mutual Inc., (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th  1457, 1491 (“McKell”). Defendants go further and argue that if the  evidence is inconsistent and conflicting as to the amount of cash taken, a  cause of action cannot be stated, relying on PCO, Inc. v. Christensen,  Miller, Fink , Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th  384, 395-396 (“PCO”). Reliance on McKell and PCO is  misplaced. McKell stood for the proposition that “Money cannot be the  subject of a cause of action for conversion unless there is a specific,  identifiable sum involved…” (McKell, supra, at 1491, emphasis  added.) Plaintiff here identifies a specific sum, $205,032.38. The PCO Court  mirrored this same proposition when they ruled on the appeal to a summary  judgment motion. However, there was evidence at the summary judgment stage in PCO,  the Court here is at the pleadings stage where evidence to prove or disprove  claims in inappropriate. (See Committee  on Children's Television, Inc, supra, at  213-214. [“It is not the ordinary function of a demurrer to test the truth of  the plaintiff's allegations or the accuracy with which he describes the  defendant's conduct.”])             Accordingly,  the third cause of action survives demurrer, and the Demurrer to the third  cause of action for conversion is overruled.   Motion to Strike –  Legal Standard for Motion to Strike             The  court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any  pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of  any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a  court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a  motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper  matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by  way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)             A motion to strike any pleading must  be filed “within the time allowed to respond to a pleading”—e.g., 30 days after  service of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or  stipulation. [CCP § 435(b)(1)]. This does not affect the court's power to  strike sua sponte. Courts are specifically authorized to strike a pleading upon  a motion or at any time in the court's discretion. (CCP § 436)             The Court notes that motions to  strike punitive damages may be granted, where the alleged facts do not support  conclusions of malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of  Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)   Analysis for Motion to Strike             The  Motion to Strike takes aim at the punitive damages request within the  Complaint, arguing that the Complaint fails to plead its claims with sufficient  specificity. The Court agrees. CIV § 3294 governs punitive damages and provides  the following:              “In an action for the breach of an  obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages  for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (CIV §  3294(a).)               CIV  § 3294(c)(1) provides the following definitions shall apply to this section:   (1) “Malice”  means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff  or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and  conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression”  means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in  conscious disregard of that person's rights. (3) “Fraud”  means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material  fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of  thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing  injury.               As  aforementioned, the second cause of action has been successfully demurred to because  it did not meet the heightened pleading requirements. Additionally, the FAC  failed to specify the alleged misrepresentation or concealment. It also did not  provide facts that support a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud.     Leave to Amend –  Legal Standard and Analysis for Leave to  Amend             Leave  to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful  amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court  shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable  possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there is reasonable  possibility of successful amendment, the Court shall grant Plaintiff 20 days  leave to amend.   CONCLUSION             Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in part  and OVERRULED in part. The  Demurrer is sustained as to the second cause of action but is overruled as to  the first and third cause of action. Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of  Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.                It  is so ordered.   Dated: March 1, 2024   _______________________ Rolf Treu Judge of the  Superior Court     