  Case Number:  21STCV07322    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
SHAHAB
  KHANGHOLI, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
PATRIOT
  HYUNDAI OF EL MONTE, LLC, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV07322
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Complaint
  Filed: 02/24/21
Trial
  Date: 07/01/24
 
 



 
Hearing date:              March 1, 2024 
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Shahab Khangholi 
Responding Party:
     Defendant Patriot Hyundai of El Monte,
LLC 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two and Request for Monetary
Sanctions; Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories,
Set One  
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Requests for Production, Set Two. 
The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One. 
 
Background
            This
is an action arising from Plaintiff Shahab Khangholi (“Plaintiff”) being
wrongfully terminated from his position as a finance manager. On February 24,
2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant Patriot Hyundai of El Monte,
LLC (“Defendant”) and DOES 1 to 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for:
(1) wrongful termination in violation of Labor Code § 1102.5(b), (2) wrongful termination
in violation of public policy, (3) failure to pay wages in violation of Labor
Code sections 201 and 204.1, (4) violation of Business and Professions Code
section 17200, (5) waiting time penalties in violation of Labor Code section
203, (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress, (7) intentional infliction
of emotional distress, and (8) violation of Labor Code sections 1198.5 and 432.

            On
May 3, 2021, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint. 
            On
January 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served a Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two
(the “RPD Motion”) and a Motion to Compel Defendant’s Further Responses to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One (the “Special Interrogatories Motion”)
(collectively the “Motions”). Pursuant to the Motions, Plaintiff requests monetary
sanctions against Defendant. 
            On
February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served reply briefs at 9:44 A.M. concerning
the Motions stating that “Defendants’ deadline to file and serve an opposition
to [P]laintiff’s Motion[s] was due on or before February 16, 2024” and that “no
opposition[s] [have] been received by plaintiffs or can be found within the
Court’s online electronic system.” (Reply Briefs, p. 2:7-10.) 
            On
February 23, 2024, Defendant filed and served a combined opposition to the Motions
and such opposition was filed at 5:39 P.M. The Court notes that Defendant’s
opposition is untimely as “[a]ll papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be
filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days .
. . before the hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Defendant’s
opposition was filed after Plaintiff filed a reply brief concerning the
Motions. Although filed and served late, the Court will consider Defendant’s
untimely opposition. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1300(d).) 
            Defendant
argues that the Motions are moot because verified supplemental responses were
served by Defendant on February 23, 2024. Defendant also argues that monetary sanctions
are inappropriate. 
            The
Court will address both Motions in this one ruling. 
 
Legal
Standard
            In
California, discovery statutes “must be construed liberally in favor of
disclosure unless the request is clearly improper.” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) “Under the discovery statutes, information
is discoverable if it is unprivileged and is either relevant to the subject
matter of the action or reasonably calculated to reveal admissible evidence.” (John
B. v. Superior Court (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1186.) “Discovery may relate
to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to
the action.” (Ibid.)
On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) a statement
of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection to the
response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(a)(1)-(3).) A motion brought pursuant to CCP § 2031.310 “shall set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(1).) 

“To
establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that
is of consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend
in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to prove or disprove the fact.” (Digital Music News LLC v. Superior
Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) “In law and motion practice,
factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224.) 
            A
party may move for an order compelling a further response to interrogatories
where an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(1).) A further response to interrogatories
may also be compelled where an objection is without merit or is too general.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a)(3).) 

Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.  Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a
misuse of the discovery process includes making or opposing, unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery. A
court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct under Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable
monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare
Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.) 
 
The RPD Motion 
            The Meet and Confer Requirement
            A motion made pursuant to CCP §
2031.310 “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2).) “A meet and confer declaration
in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) 
            The Court finds that the meet and
confer requirement has been met as to the RPD Motion. Plaintiff’s counsel,
Michael O. Azat (“Azat”), sets forth meet and confer efforts to resolve the issues
pertaining to discovery at issue in the RPD Motion. (Azat Decl., ¶¶ 4-12.) 
 
            The Procedural Posture of the RPD Motion
            Where responses to discovery are not
verified, such responses are deemed to not be responses to the propounded
discovery. (Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988)
206 Cal.App.3d 632, 635.) “Unsworn responses are tantamount to no responses at
all.” (Id. at p. 636.) 
            Azat declares that on September 16,
2022, Plaintiff served Defendant by mail with Special Interrogatories, Set One,
which contained two separate interrogatory requests, and Request for Production,
Set Two, which consisted of four requests seeking specific categories of
documents or things. (Azat Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) Defendant’s deadline to provide
responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production was on or before October 21,
2022; however, no responses were received by Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id.) On November 4, 2022, Defendant provided
responses via email, but such responses did not include any verifications for
its responses. (Id., ¶ 5; Exhibit C.) The parties met and conferred
over the phone because Defendant’s responses either contained assurances that the
documents would be produced, but were not, or boilerplate objections. (Id., ¶ 6.) The parties then engaged in further meet
and confer efforts regarding defense counsel’s representation that responsive documents
would be produced as to RFP Nos. 44 and 45 and Defendant’s objections to RFP
Nos. 46 and 47. (Id., ¶¶ 7-8; Exhibits D and E.) The parties further met
and conferred and agreed to continue the deadline for Plaintiff to file a motion
to compel further responses to January 27, 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 9-11; Exhibits F
and G.) Azat declares that “[d]espite further efforts, and as of the date of [P]laintiff’s
motion, Patriot Hyundai has not provided any responsive documents to [P]laintiff’s
Request for Production Nos. 44 and 45, nor has it agreed to provide supplemental
responses and documents to Request for Production Nos. 46 and 47.” (Id.,
¶ 12.) 
            In support of the opposition to the
Motions, Defendant’s counsel, Duncan J. McCreary (“McCreary”), states that on
October 21, 2022, Defendant provided full and code-compliant responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (McCreary Decl., ¶ 3.) McCreary states that on
February 23, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with verified supplemental
responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (McCreary Decl., ¶ 7; Exhibit B.) 
            The Court finds that when the RPD
Motion was filed, Defendant had not yet served verified responses to discovery.
As such, Plaintiff should have filed a motion to compel initial responses to his
Request for Production of Documents as unsworn responses are tantamount to no response
at all under Appleton v. Superior Court, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d
632, 636. Irrespective of such fact, as will be explained below, Plaintiff has
not shown good cause to compel further responses to Set Two of his Request for
Production of Documents. 
            The Good Cause Requirement
            The Court finds that Plaintiff has
not met his burden in showing good cause to warrant further responses to his
second set of Requests for Production of Documents. The declaration of Azat in
support of the RPD Motion does not mention good cause or even attempt to
explain “how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that
fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” (Digital
Music News LLC v. Superior Court, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th 216,
224.) Plaintiff has not met his burden in showing good cause to compel further
responses. (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra,
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-24.) The declaration of Azat is essentially a
recitation of meet and confer efforts between the parties and an articulation
of counsel’s qualifications in support of Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.
(Azat Decl., ¶¶ 4-16.)
            Thus, even if the RPD Motion had
been procedurally proper, the Court would have been unable to grant the RPD
Motion due to Plaintiff’s failure to meet his burden in showing good cause. As such,
the Court DENIES the RPD Motion. 
 
 
 
            Monetary Sanctions
            Although not relevant due to the RPD
Motion being procedurally inappropriate and Plaintiff’s failure to show good
cause, the Court will briefly discuss Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions. 
            “A request for sanction shall, in
the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom
the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.” (Sole
Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207.)
Pursuant to the RPD Motion, Plaintiff
requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $7,150. (RPD Motion, p. 9:12-14.) However,
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is procedurally improper as the notice
of motion does not state the amount of sanctions sought. 
In sum, the Court therefore DENIES the RPD
Motion in its entirety. 
 
The
Special Interrogatories Motion 
            Plaintiff seeks “an order to compel further
responses to [P]laintiff’s Special Interrogatories [p]ropounded to Defendant
Patriot Hyundai of El Monte (Set One).” (Special Interrogatories Motion, p. 2:
4-6.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant has provided only objections to the
special interrogatories at issue. 
            The Meet and Confer Requirement
            “The Discovery Act requires that,
prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the moving party declare that he
or she has made a serious attempt to obtain an informal resolution of each
issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1006, 1016.) “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
            The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has not been met
as to the Special Interrogatories Motion. In support of the Special
Interrogatories Motion, Azat sets forth instances of meet and confer efforts to
resolve the issues pertaining to discovery at issue in the Special
Interrogatories Motion. (Azat Decl., ¶¶ 4-12; Exhibits B-D and F.) 
            The
Procedural Posture of the Special Interrogatories Motion 
            Where
responses to discovery are not verified, such responses are deemed to not be
responses to the propounded discovery. (Appleton v. Superior Court, supra,
206 Cal.App.3d 632, 635.) “Unsworn
responses are tantamount to no responses at all.” (Id. at p. 636.) 
            Azat
declares that on September 16, 2022, Plaintiff served Defendant by mail with
Special Interrogatories, Set One, which contained two separate interrogatory
requests. (Azat Decl., ¶ 3; Exhibit A.) Defendant’s deadline to provide responses
to Plaintiff’s Request for Production was on or before October 21, 2022;
however, no responses were received by Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id.) On
November 4, 2022, Defendant provided responses via email, but such responses
did not include any verifications for its responses. (Id., ¶ 5; Exhibit
C.) The parties met and conferred over the phone because Defendant’s responses
either contained assurances that the documents would be produced, but were not,
or boilerplate objections. (Id., ¶ 6.) The parties then engaged in further
meet and confer efforts regarding defense counsel’s representation that responsive
documents would be produced as to RFP Nos. 44 and 45 and Defendant’s objections
to RFP Nos. 46 and 47. (Id., ¶¶ 7-8; Exhibits D and E.) The parties further
met and conferred and agreed to continue the deadline for Plaintiff to file a
motion to compel further responses to January 27, 2023. (Id., ¶¶ 9-11;
Exhibits F and G.) Azat declares that “[d]espite further efforts, and as of the
date of [P]laintiff’s motion, Patriot Hyundai has not provided any further
responses to [P]laintiff’s Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 2.” (Id.,
¶ 12.) 
            In
support of the opposition to the Motions, Defendant’s counsel, Duncan J.
McCreary (“McCreary”) states that on October 21, 2022, Defendant provided full
and code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (McCreary
Decl., ¶ 3.) McCreary states that on February 23, 2024, Defendant served
Plaintiff with verified supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests.
(McCreary Decl., ¶ 7; Exhibit B.) 
            The
Court finds that when the Special Interrogatories Motion was filed, Defendant
had not yet served verified responses to discovery. As such, Plaintiff should have
filed a motion to compel initial responses to the first set of his special
interrogatories as unsworn responses are tantamount to no response at all under
Appleton v. Superior Court, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636. However,
Defendant has now provided what are purportedly code-compliant responses to
Plaintiff’s special interrogatories. The Court will review the sufficiency of such
responses below. 
The Appropriateness
of Compelling Further Responses to the Special Interrogatories  
            Special Interrogatory No.1 states “IDENTIFY
the entity or person(s) who purchased or otherwise acquired HYUNDAI and is
presently holding itself out as Cardinaleway Hyundai of El Monte.” (Separate
Statement in Support of Special Interrogatories Motion, p. 3:2-4.) 
            Special
Interrogatory No. 2 states that “DESCRIBE IN DETAIL the factual basis regarding
the sale/transfer of HYUNDAI and/or its assets to Cardinale Group of Companies,
which includes its affiliates, subsidiaries, parent companies, or any other
related parties.” (Id., p. 4:1-4.)  
            In
its supplemental responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 and 2, which were
served on February 23, 2024, Defendant provides the following identical
response to the special interrogatories at issue:
Responding
Party objects to this request on the grounds that this Request is overbroad,
unduly burdensome, harassing, and oppressive. This Request seeks documents that
are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Responding Party also objects to this Request to the
extent it seeks information or communications that are subject to the
attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine protecting writings containing
the attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions or legal theories. Responding
Party hereby invokes State and Federal Rights to Privacy. Responding Party
hereby invokes State and Federal Rights to Privacy. Responding Party also objects
to this Request on the grounds that it calls for the disclosure of confidential
information, and other sensitive information, and violates the privacy rights
of Responding Party and third parties. Without waiving said objections, Responding
Party responses as follow: Responding Party has no information as to the identity
of the purchasers of the Hyundai franchise because Hyundai corporate, manufacturer
of vehicles, conducted the sale and Patriot Hyundai of El Monte, LLC had no
involvement with the sale. The Hyundai manufacturer would have that information.
(McCreary
Decl., ¶ 7; Exhibit B.) 
               Initially, the
Court notes that set one of Plaintiff’s special interrogatories have not been
provided to the Court. While the Court does have the substance of the actual
interrogatories as they are set forth in the separate statement, the Court
lacks the ability to ascertain the meaning of the defined terms set forth in
the special interrogatories. The declaration of Azat does not attach the
special interrogatories in their entirety thereto. 
            CCP § 2030.210(a) requires that a party
to whom interrogatories have been propounded must respond in writing under oath
separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) an answer
containing the information sought to be discovered; (2) an exercise of the
party’s option to produce writings; or (3) an objection to the particular interrogatory.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.210, subd. (a)(1)-(3).) 
            Here, Defendant’s supplemental
responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, while containing
objections indicate that, without waiving the objections, that Defendant “has
no information as to the identity of the purchasers of the Hyundai Franchise
because Hyundai corporate, manufacturer of vehicles, conducted the sale and
Patriot Hyundai of El Monte, LLC had no involvement with the sale. The Hyundai manufacturer
would have that information.” 
            Thus, Defendant’s supplemental responses
have indicated that they have no information as to the purchase of the Hyundai franchise.
As such, Defendant has provided an answer to the interrogatories at issue.
Defendant has indicated that it lacks the information to answer the
interrogatories. The Court finds that Defendant’s supplemental responses are code
compliant as Defendant has unequivocally stated that it has no information pertaining
to subject of the interrogatories at issue.
            Monetary Sanctions
            As to monetary sanctions, Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions pursuant to the Special Interrogatories Motion
is procedurally deficient as the notice of motion does not set forth the amount
of monetary sanctions sought. (Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges, supra,
128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207.) 
            Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
Special Interrogatories Motion. 
            The Court therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set
One and Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request
for Production of Documents, Set Two. 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
March 1, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court