   [1] The Court’s  docket reflects that although the Notice of Non-Opposition by Plaintiff to  Defendants’ Demurrer is so titled, the actual document is a copy of the  Demurrer filed on 10/28/2022.Superior Court of
CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles Superior
Court of CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles 


 
PETRA
  AMAYA DE GARCIA, an Individual,
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
IRENE
  LUNA, an Individual; ARACELI LEON, an Individual; and Does 1-50, Inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:
  21STCV40831  
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 11/05/2021  
[1st
  Amended Complaint Filed: 08/08/2022]
Trial
  Date: None


 Hearing Date:             Friday, March 1, 2024  Moving
Party:             Defendants
Irene Luna and Araceli LeonResponding
Party:      Plaintiff
Petra Amaya De GarciaMotions
-        (1)   Defendant Araceli Leon’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set 1)(2)    Defendant Araceli Leon’s Motion to Compel
Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set 1)            The
Court considered the moving papers. Defendant
Araceli Leon’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set 1) and Defendant Araceli Leon’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set 1) are both GRANTED. Additionally, the Court will impose sanctions against Plaintiff,
and award them to Defendant Araceli Leon, in the amount of $1,695.00,
inclusive of both Motions.

 

BACKGROUNDProcedural
History -             Petra
Amaya De Garcia (Plaintiff) filed an initial Complaint against two of her
daughters Irene Luna and Araceli Leon (Leon) (collectively, Defendants) on
November 5, 2021. It was followed by a First Amended Complaint (FAC) filed on
August 8, 2022. The FAC contains three causes of action aimed at both
Defendants: (1) Elder Financial Abuse, (2) Fraudulent Concealment, and (3)
Conversion.            The
motions before the Court are Defendant
Araceli Leon’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set 1) and Defendant Araceli Leon’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set 1) (collectively, the
Motions.) No opposition to the Motions has been filed. Leon filed notices of
non-opposition to both Motions and replies to both Motions.   Factual
Background -             This case stems from accusations of
fraud arising out of the management of Plaintiff’s finances by Defendants.
Defendants began managing Plaintiff’s finances in 2007. (FAC, ¶ 6.) Plaintiff
alleges that during this time, Plaintiff executed various legal documents
without truly understanding the nature of the documents as they were presented
to her in English, and Plaintiff is a monolingual Spanish-speaker. (FAC, ¶ 7.)            Plaintiff alleges that due to
neglect from Defendants, Plaintiff turned to her daughter and son-in-law
Graciela Melendez and Angel Melendez (Graciela and Angel, respectively) for
assistance with her medical and financial matters. (FAC, ¶ 8,) It was then that
Graciela discovered finances had been mismanaged, particularly, the withdrawal
of large amounts of money Plaintiff was unaware of. (FAC, ¶¶ 9-10.) Plaintiff
alleges that over $87,000.00 was withdrawn in 2021 alone and transferred to the
accounts belonging to Defendants. (FAC, ¶ 11.) When no satisfactory explanation
of these withdrawals was provided to Plaintiff by Defendants, Plaintiff filed a
police report on August 22, 2021, then filed suit with this Court. (FAC, ¶ 14.)
 DISCUSSIONLegal Standard for Motion to Compel
Response to Interrogatories            If
a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,
the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a
monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to
timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product,
unless “[t]he party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial
compliance” and “[t]he party’s failure to serve a timely response was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 2030.290, subds.
(a)(1), (a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel
where no responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a
party does not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the
moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the
opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of
any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d
902, 905-906.)            If
a motion to compel responses to interrogatories is filed, the Court may impose
a monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) Legal Standard for Motion to Compel
Response to Request for Production            “If
a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall
apply: (a) The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4…(b) The party
making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (c)
Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP §
2031.300)            “The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” (CCP § 2023.030(a).) “Misuses of the discovery process
include, but are not limited to, the following: (d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (CCP § 2023.010.) Analysis            Here,
Leon presents the Declaration of Michael J. Armenta (Armenta Decl.) which states
that on May 16, 2023, Defense counsel served Plaintiff with both Special
Interrogatories (Set 1) and Request for Production of Documents (Set 1). (Armenta
Decl., ¶ 2.) The deadline for responses was June 20, 2023. (Id.) No
extension was ever requested, and no responses were ever received. (Armenta
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Therefore, both Motions are granted, and sanctions are
warranted. Sanctions            Defense
counsel provides the following calculations:
Counsel’s
     hourly rate is $350.00
Counsel
     spent 2.5 hours drafting each Motion
Counsel
     anticipates spending 1 hour drafting a reply to each Motion
Counsel
     anticipates spending 1 hour appearing for the hearing for both Motions
Counsel
     incurred a $60.00 filing fee for each Motion
This
     amounts to $1,635.00 per Motion (4.5 hours x $350.00 per hour + $60 filing
     fee). In total, Defense counsel is requesting $3,270.00 across both
     Motions.
             Considering
that no opposition was filed, and the similarity between the Motions, the Court
will impose sanctions against Plaintiff, and award them to Defendant Araceli
Leon, in the amount of $1,695.00, inclusive of both Motions.CONCLUSION            Accordingly, Defendant Araceli Leon’s
Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set 1) and Defendant
Araceli Leon’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Request for Production
of Documents (Set 1) are both GRANTED,
to be served without objection within 30 days. Additionally, the Court will
impose sanctions against Plaintiff, and award them to Defendant Araceli Leon,
in the amount of $1,695.00, inclusive of both Motions, to be paid within
30 days.             It
is so ordered. Dated: March 1, 2024 _______________________Rolf Treu



































































































Judge of the
Superior Court  