  Case Number:  23CHCV02609    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F49 Date: 7/11/24 Case  Name: Jane Doe v.  Jose  Arriaga, et al. Case No.  23CHCV02609   LOS  ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH  VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT  F49    JULY 11, 2024    MOTION TO STRIKE DEFENDANT MAGIC  MOUNTAIN, LLC’S FIRST, SECOND, FOURTH, AND NINTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV02609    Motion  filed: 4/19/24   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC  (“Magic Mountain” or the “Responding Defendant”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order striking Defendant Magic Mountain’s Affirmative Defenses based on:  Comparative Negligence (First); Assumption of  Risk (Second); Statute of Limitations (Fourth); and Consent (Ninth)   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED IN PART.   BACKGROUND   This case arises from alleged childhood sexual assault and  abuse.   On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff initiated this action against  Defendants Magic Mountain, Jose Arriaga (“Arriaga”), and Does 1 through 50. The  Complaint alleges 12 causes of action: (1) Sexual Battery/Abuse of a Minor  (against Arriaga and Does 31 through 50); (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress (against Arriaga and Does 31 through 50); (3) Sexual Harassment (Civ.  Code §§ 51.9 and 52) (against Arriaga and Does 31 through 50); (4) Negligent Hiring,  Supervision & Retention of an Unfit Employee (against Magic Mountain and  Does 1 through 50); (5) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate (against  Magic Mountain and Does 1 through 50); (6) Negligent Supervision of a Minor  (against Magic Mountain and Does 1 through 30); (7) Negligence (against all  Defendants); (8) Retaliation in Violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act  (“FEHA”) (Gov. Code § 12940(h)) (against Magic Mountain and Does 1 through 30);  (9) Retaliation (Lab. Code §§ 98.6 and 1102.5) (against Magic Mountain); (10) Sexual  harassment in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(k)) (against all Defendants);  (11) Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(a)) (against Magic  Mountain); and (12) Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination in Violation  of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(k)) (against Magic Mountain). Subsequently, on March  27, 2024, Magic Mountain filed its Answer to the Complaint; and on June 25,  2024, the Clerk entered Default against Arriaga.   On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to  Strike (the Motion). Subsequently, Magic Mountain filed an Opposition on June  27, 2024; and Plaintiff replied on July 2, 2024.   ANALYSIS   The court may strike out any  “irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) Motions  may also target pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in  conformity with applicable laws, rules, or orders. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The term “pleading” means a demurrer, answer,  complaint, or cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)(2).)   The  grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way  of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   A.     Meet and  Confer Requirements   “Before filing a motion to strike ... the moving party  shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the  pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining  if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the  motion to strike.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).) If no agreement is  reached, the moving party shall file and serve with the motion to strike a  declaration stating either: (1) the means by which the parties met and  conferred and that the parties did not reach an agreement, or (2) that the  party who filed the pleading failed to respond to the meet and confer request  or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5,  subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Plaintiff’s counsel attests that she discussed with  the counsel for Magic Mountain telephonically on April 3, 2024, regarding the  issues raised in the instant Motion. (Skukry Decl. § 2.) During that  discussion, Magic Mountain’s counsel agreed to withdraw the statute of  limitations defense and requested additional time to respond as to the other  issues. (Ibid.) Subsequently, on April 11, 2024, Magic Mountain’s  counsel responded, asserting their consent, assumption of risk and comparative  fault defenses were sufficient. (Id. § 3; Mot. at p. 6.) Despite these  efforts, the meet and confer efforts have not reached a resolution. (Skukry  Decl. § 4.)   Based on the records provided, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s  meet and confer efforts have been sufficient.   B.      Motion to Strike   Plaintiff  moves to strike portions of Magic Mountain’s Answer as follows:   1.       “Page 1, lines 23-24: ‘FIRST  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Comparative Negligence),’ and the entirety of paragraph 3  (pg. 1, ln. 24-25): ‘Alleges that Plaintiff’s injuries, if any, were caused and  contributed to by Plaintiff’s own negligence.’”   2.       “Page 2, line[s] 23-24 of the Answer:  ‘SECOND AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Assumption of Risk),’ and the entirety of  paragraph 4 (pg. 2, ln. 3-4): ‘Alleges that Plaintiff’s injuries, if any, were  caused and contributed to by Plaintiff’s own assumption of risk.’”   3.      “Page  2, line[s] 11-12 of the Answer: ‘FOURTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Statute of Limitations),’ and the entirety of  paragraph 4 (pg. 2, ln. 3-4): ‘Alleges the Complaint, and each cause of action  thereof, is barred [by] the California Code of Civil Procedure.’”   4.      “Page  3, line[s] 13-14 of the Answer: ‘NINTH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE (Consent),’ and the  entirety of paragraph 11 (pg. 3, ln. 15): ‘Alleges that Plaintiff consented to  all conduct alleged in the Complaint.’”   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 431.30, subdivision (g), “The defenses shall be separately stated, and the several  defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they are intended to answer,  in a manner by which they may be intelligibly distinguished.”  Here, the  affirmative defenses asserted by Magic Mountain in its pleading do not specify  or refer to the cause of action they are intended to answer. Consequently, the  Answer and the affirmative defenses therein are not in compliance with Code of  Civil Procedure section 431.30, subdivision (g).   In the  analysis below, the Court examines the affirmative defenses at issue with  respect to each cause of action against Magic Mountain. Specifically, these  nine causes of action include:    (1) Fourth  Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision & Retention of an Unfit Employee;   (2) Fifth  Cause of Action for Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate; (3) Sixth  Cause of Action for Negligent Supervision of a Minor;  (4) Seventh  Cause of Action for Negligence; (5) Eighth  Cause of Action for Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(h)); (6) Ninth  Cause of Action for Retaliation (Lab. Code §§ 98.6 and 1102.5); (7) Tenth  Cause of Action for Sexual Harassment in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code §  12940(k)); (8) Eleventh  Cause of Action for Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(a));  and  (9) Twelfth  Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination in Violation  of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(k).   C.     First Affirmative Defense - Comparative  Negligence    California  employs the “pure” form of comparative negligence, which apportions liability  in direct proportion to fault. (Li v. Yellow Cab Co. (1975) 13 Cal.3D  804, 808.)    A plaintiff  is subject to the defense of comparative negligence but not to an absolute  defense if he or she “unreasonably undertakes to encounter a specific known  risk imposed by a defendant’s negligence[.]” (Knight v. Jewett  (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 305-306 (Knight).) (Underlines added.)    Comparative  fault is applicable only if the plaintiff’s negligence is a proximate cause of  the injury. (See Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6  Cal.4th 965 (Potter).) In assessing the applicability of comparative  negligence, California courts analyze the existence of a proximate causal link  between the plaintiff’s comparative fault and the specific known risk and outlined  in the pleading. For instance, in Potter, the Supreme Court of  California upheld the Court of Appeal’s ruling that comparative fault  principles were not properly invoked because the defendant failed to establish  a causal link between the plaintiffs’ smoking and the harm they suffered – specifically,  their fear of a significantly increased risk of cancer due to the water supply  being contaminated with the defendant’s toxins. (Id. at pp. 1010-1011.)   1)       Causes of Action - Negligent Hiring, Supervision  & Retention of an Unfit Employee; Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or  Educate; Negligent Supervision of a Minor; Negligence; Sexual harassment in  Violation of FEHA; and Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination in  Violation of FEHA               In its Opposition, Magic Mountain argues that Plaintiff’s  allegations are based on negligence and asserts that comparative negligence is  permitted in actions involving minors, as the standard of care for a minor will  be based on a “reasonably careful child.” (Opp’n. at p. 5.) However, Magic  Mountain fails to provide a legal analysis of the causal link as required by Potter.     Here, as Plaintiff points out all of the above-listed  causes of action are premised on and reference the same specific risk and  injury - the sexual misconduct and abuse of a minor by Magic Mountain’s  employee, codefendant Jose Arriaga. (Reply at p. 2; Compl. ¶¶ 15-27.) As will  be discussed in detail below under Magic Mountain’s Consent defense,  comparative fault has no application in a case involving the sexual abuse of a  minor. (See Civ. Code 1708.5.5.) Consequently, Magic Mountain cannot establish  that Plaintiff’s comparative fault may contribute to the specific risk of  sexual assault and abuse of a minor.   Accordingly, in alignment with established precedents,  including those set in Potter, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Strike the  First Affirmative Defense of Comparative Negligence as to the above-listed  causes of action.   2)       Causes of Action - Retaliation  in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(h)); Retaliation (Lab. Code §§ 98.6  and 1102.5); and Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(a))   “California  principles of comparative fault have never ... authorized the reduction of an  intentional tortfeasor’s liability based on the acts of others.” (B.B. v.  County of Los Angeles (2020) 10 Cal.5th 1, 24.) “It is an unlawful employment  practice ... : (a) For an employer, because of the race, religious creed,  color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability,  reproductive health decision making, medical condition, genetic information,  marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual  orientation, or veteran or military status of any person, to refuse to hire or  employ the person or to refuse to select the person for a training program  leading to employment, or to bar or to discharge the person from employment or  from a training program leading to employment, or to discriminate against the  person in compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment....  (h) For any employer, labor organization, employment agency, or person to  discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the  person has opposed any practices forbidden under this part or because the  person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under  this part.” (Gov. Code §  12940, subd. (a) and (h).)  “A person  shall not discharge an employee or in any manner discriminate, retaliate, or  take any adverse action against any employee or applicant for employment  because the employee or applicant engaged in any conduct delineated in this  chapter, ... or because the employee or applicant for employment has filed a  bona fide complaint or claim or instituted or caused to be instituted any  proceeding under or relating to their rights that are under the jurisdiction of  the Labor Commissioner, made a written or oral complaint that they are owed  unpaid wages, or because the employee has initiated any action or notice  pursuant to Section 2699, or has testified or is about to testify in a  proceeding pursuant to that section, or because of the exercise by the employee  or applicant for employment on behalf of themselves or others of any rights  afforded them.” (Lab. Code § 98.6, subd. (a).)   “An employer, or  any person acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an  employee for disclosing information, or because the employer believes that the  employee disclosed or may disclose information, to a government or law  enforcement agency, to a person with authority over the employee or another  employee who has the authority to investigate, discover, or correct the  violation or noncompliance, or for providing information to, or testifying  before, any public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if  the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a  violation of state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with  a local, state, or federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing  the information is part of the employee’s job duties.” (Lab. Code § 1102.5,  subd. (b).)   The statutory framework clearly delineates that these causes  of action for retaliation and discrimination under the California Labor Code  and Government Code categorically fall within the realm of intentional torts,  as opposed to negligent torts. This distinction arises from the inherent nature  of these actions, which involves deliberate decisions by employers or their  representatives to take adverse actions against employees who have engaged in  protected activities, including, but not limited to, the reporting of sexual  harassment and discrimination, as alleged here.   Accordingly, the principles of comparative fault do  not apply to these causes of actions where Magic Mountain is alleged to be  liable for its intentional retaliation and discrimination against Plaintiff.   Magic Mountain has characterized the risks of harm or  injuries pleaded in these causes of action as “unrelated to sexual conduct,”  specifically asserting that “Plaintiff alleges that her damages arise out of  her termination of employment.” (Opp’n. at p. 10.) While the Court acknowledges  this characterization by Magic Mountain, it emphasizes that the nature of these  three causes of action – Retaliation and Discrimination in violation of  statutory codes – are inherently grounded in intentional conduct, not negligence.  This precludes their application here without necessitating an examination of  the causal link, as previously discussed.   Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Strike the First  Affirmative Defense of Comparative Negligence as to the above-listed causes of  action in this section.   D.     Second Affirmative Defense –  Assumption of Risk   Under California law, there is a distinction between  primary and secondary assumption of risk. (See Knight, supra.) Primary  assumption of risk applies when, by the nature of the activity, the defendant  owes no legal duty to the plaintiff, thereby operating as a complete bar to  recovery. (Id. at p. 314.) Secondary assumption of risk, on the other  hand, applies where the defendant does owe a duty of care, but the plaintiff knowingly  proceeds to encounter a known risk imposed by the defendant’s breach of duty.  This doctrine of secondary assumption of risk is merged into the comparative  fault scheme. (Knight, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 315.)   Here, Magic Mountain has not asserted primary assumption of  risk, and appropriately so. Both Labor Code and Government Code explicitly  establish a duty of care that employers like Magic Mountain owe to their  employees, including Plaintiff. Consequently, a complete bar to recovery under  the primary assumption of risk is inapplicable here.   Since secondary assumption of the risk is merged into the  comparative negligence scheme, and given that the Court has previously  concluded that the comparative negligence is inapplicable to the causes of  action against Magic Mountain in this case, it logically follows that secondary  assumption of risk is also inapplicable.   Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion to strike the Second  Affirmative Defense of Assumption of Risk.   E.      Ninth Affirmative Defense – Consent   The rationale of implied consent, resting on a legal  fiction, “is untenable, at least as applied to conduct that represents a breach  of the defendant’s duty of care to the plaintiff,” such as in negligence-based  claims (Knight, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 311.) For instance, “a  person who voluntarily chooses to drive does not thereby ‘impliedly consent’ to  being injured by the negligence of another ... Instead, the driver reasonably  expects that if he or she is injured by another’s negligence ... the driver  will be entitled to compensation for his or her injuries.” (Id. at p.  312.) Similarly, “a patient who undergoes elective surgery ... does not  ‘impliedly consent’ to negligently inflicted injury or ‘implied agree’ to  excuse the surgeon from a normal duty of care[.]” (Ibid.)   1)       Causes of Action - Negligent Hiring, Supervision  & Retention of an Unfit Employee; Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or  Educate; Negligent Supervision of a Minor; Negligence; Sexual harassment in  Violation of FEHA; and Failure to Prevent Harassment and Discrimination in  Violation of FEHA   Here, Magic Mountain concedes that the above-listed causes  of actions are based on negligence. As discussed above, these causes of action  allege that the risk of injury, in the event of a breach of duty by Magic  Mountain, would be the sexual abuse of a minor. It is untenable to assert that Plaintiff  had “impliedly consent” to such a risk of injury for multiple reasons.    First, under Civil Code section 1708.5.5, subdivision (a), “consent  shall not be a defense in any civil action under Section 1708.5 [including  sexual battery] if the person who commits the sexual battery is an adult who is  in a position of authority over the minor.” For purpose of this section, an  adult is in a “position of authority” including “coworker.” (Civ. Code §  1708.5.5, subd. (b.)) Given that it is uncontested that the alleged tortfeasor,  Arriaga, Plaintiff’s coworker, is an adult in a position of authority over  Plaintiff, a minor, consent as a defense is categorically unavailable.    Second, a risk of sexual abuse of a minor is not an  inherent risk associated with Plaintiff’s employment at Magic Mountain. Following  the rationale in Knight, it is thoroughly unrealistic to suggest that an  individual consents to (or agrees to excuse) a breach of duty by Magic Mountain  that increases the risks inherently posed by the employment itself. (Knight,  supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 311.)    Magic Mountain asserts that “Consent is a defense to both  negligence and intentional torts, when the tortious conduct is within the scope  of the consent provided. [citing Conte v. Girad Orthopedic Surgeons Medical  Group (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1268 (Conte).]    However, the Court finds this conclusion misapplied in the current  context. The Conte court delineated that “[a] physician’s failure to  obtain a patient’s informed consent can give rise to two different causes of  action: negligence and battery. If a patient consents to a procedure  without being informed of all the known risks, the physician’s failure to  disclose these risks is negligence. . . . However, where a physician obtains  the consent of the patient to perform one type of treatment and  subsequently performs a substantially different treatment for which consent was  not obtained, there is a clear case of battery[.]” (Id. at pp.  1261-1262.) (Underlines added.) This statement underscores an issue regarding  the scope of informed consent, particularly in medical negligence scenarios,  and does not conflict with our Supreme Court’s finding in Knight that no  implied consent may give rise to negligence-based claims. (Knight,  supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 312.) Therefore, the Court rejects Magic  Mountain’s broad interpretation of consent as a defense in this context,  emphasizing that consent cannot be implied where the alleged conduct  constitutes a breach of the defendant’s duty of care to the plaintiff.   Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion to Strike the  Ninth Affirmative Defense of Consent concerning the causes of action outlined in  this section.   2)       Causes of Action - Retaliation in  Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(h)); Retaliation (Lab. Code §§ 98.6  and 1102.5); and Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(a))   In contrast, these three causes of action are generally recognized  as intentional torts rather than negligent torts. Additionally, the alleged  injuries from these claims are not based on the sexual abuse of a minor, but encompass  lost wages, employee benefits, emotional distress, and termination of  employment. (Compl. ¶¶ 88, 105.) The risk of such injuries, under the  Retaliation and Discrimination claims, is likely inherent to the employment  itself. Consequently, a defense of implied consent is not barred under the Knight  ruling.    In its Opposition, Magic Mountain contends that “the  anticipated evidence in this case will prove that Plaintiff consented to no  longer being employed by Magic Mountain, LLC, when she decided not to renew her  work permit to continue employment. Plaintiff, hence consented to any decision  not to pursue further employment with Magic Mountain, when she decided not to  renew her work permit.” (Opp’n. at p. 10.)    Magic Mountain’s Answer states, “Alleges that Plaintiff  consented to all conduct alleged in the Complaint.” (Answer ¶ 11.) The Court  finds this affirmative defense meets the pleading requirement outlined in FPI  Development, Inc. v.  Nakashima  (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 368, which state, “[i]n a properly pleaded case this  showing addresses the matters of fact put in issue by the pleadings, which,  properly drafted, aver the ultimate facts that constitute the cause of action  or defense thereto.”])                           Accordingly, the Court DENIES  the Motion to Strike the Ninth Affirmative Defense of Consent as to the Eight  Cause of Action for Retaliation in Violation of the FEHA (Gov. Code §  12940(h)), the Ninth Cause of Action for Retaliation (Lab. Code §§ 98.6 and  1102.5), and the Eleventh Cause of Action for Discrimination in Violation of  FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(a)).   F.      Fourth Affirmative Defense – Statute of  Limitation In its Opposition, Magic Mountain does not address the  Motion’s argument concerning the statute of Limitation defense, effectively  waiving the issue. Furthermore, Magic Mountain’s counsel attests that “[p]rior to  Plaintiff filing her motion to strike Defendant’s answer, Defendant agreed that  Magic Mountain, LLC would voluntarily withdraw its affirmative defense of  statute of limitations.” (Cherazaie Decl. ¶ 1.)             Based on the above records, the  Court GRANTS the Motion to Strike the Fourth Affirmative Defense of Statute of  Limitation as to all Causes of Action against Magic Mountain.   CONCLUSION   The  Motion to Strike Affirmative Defense in Magic Mountain, LLC’s Answer is GRANTED  IN PART.    Magic  Mountain, LLC’s First Affirmative Defense (Comparative Negligence), Second  Affirmative Defense (Assumption of Risk), and Fourth Affirmative Defense  (Statutory Limitation) are STRICKEN in their entirety.   Magic  Mountain, LLC’s Ninth  Affirmative  Defense (Consent) is hereby STRICKEN as to the Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent  Hiring, Supervision & Retention of An Unfit Employee; the Fifth Cause of  Action for Negligent Failure to Warn, Train or Educate; the Sixth Cause of  Action of Negligent Supervision of A Minor; the Seventh Cause of Action for Negligence;  the Tenth Cause of Action for Sexual harassment in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code  § 12940(k)); and the Twelfth Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Harassment  and Discrimination in Violation of FEHA (Gov. Code § 12940(k)).   Moving  party to provide notice.    