 Case Number:  23VECV00091    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  W ROBIN LA DUE vs SHAHE BOYADIJAN, et al.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for an order to deposit and secure funds in the courts registry
 
Date
of Hearing:        October 25, 2023                              Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV00091
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Robin La Due 
Responding Party:     Defendant Shahe Boyadjian   
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
January 9, 2023, Plaintiff Robin La Due filed a complaint against Defendants
Shahe Boyadjian and Maral Boyadjian. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
on August 24, 2023 for Breach of Contract, Stolen Property, and Malicious
Sabotage. 
 
The parties have a history of litigation between them that began
prior to Plaintiffs filing the instant action. In January 2022, Boyadjian filed
a small claims action against Robin La Due to recover unpaid rent. Judgment was
ultimately entered in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due. On June 21, 2022,
Boyadjian filed an unlawful detainer action against Robin La Due stemming from
his longstanding unjustified failure to pay rent at the subject property, in
direct violation of the lease agreement. That matter was also fully litigated
and resulted in another judgment in favor of Boyadjian, against La Due.
Following those two actions by Boyadjian, Plaintiff subsequently brought two
civil actions against the Boyadjians. In
this action, Plaintiff alleges Defendants did not properly give Plaintiff
enough time to vacate the premises upon the Sheriffs arrival and left their
personal property at the unit, which Defendants have refused to return.
Plaintiff also alleges Defendant withheld Plaintiff’s security deposit. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Deposit
and Secure Funds in the Court’s Registry is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff Roin La Due moves the court for an
order to have Defendant Boyadjian pay a security deposit into the court’s
register due to the extensive amount of damages which Defendant Boyadjian is
purportedly responsible for. 
 
Defendant Boyadjian opposes the motion on the
grounds Plaintiff provides no basis of authority for the court to grant
Plaintiff’s request. While varying requests for an order to permit
or compel a party to deposit funds in the Court can be found in the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure and Code of Civil Procedure, these provisions have no
application to the instant action. The court agrees. 
 
The relief requested by Plaintiff
is not based on any legal authority, affidavits, or admissible evidence.
Parties must cite supporting legal authority in briefs submitted to the court.
(See Cal. Rule of Court, rule 3.1113(b) [“The memorandum must contain a
statement of facts, a concise statement of the law, evidence and arguments
relied on, and a discussion of the statutes, cases, and textbooks cited in
support of the position advanced.”].) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s argument is
unsubstantiated and it is unclear what the basis for their request is. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order to
Deposit and Secure Funds in the Court’s Registry  is DENIED. 
 