 Case Number:  24SMCV03640    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
AMERICAN FIRST NATIONAL BANK, a national
  banking association  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
DR. SIMON LAVI, an individual; and DOES
  1 through 20, inclusive
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  24SMCV03640
 
  Hearing Date:  January 14, 2025
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
 APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF 
 ATTACHMENT AND RIGHT TO ATTACH 
 ORDER AGAINST DR. SIMON LAVI
 



 
BACKGROUND
 
               This case
arises from an alleged breach of guaranty between Plaintiff American First
National Bank (“Bank” or “Plaintiff”) and Defendant Dr. Simon Lavi (“Defendant”
or “Dr. Lavi”) pursuant to promissory note, executed by Park View Apt, LLC
(“Borrower”) and Plaintiff Bank whereby Borrower agreed to pay the Bank the
original principal sum of $9,170,000 (“Note”) in exchange for a loan (“Loan”).
Plaintiff alleges Dr. Simon Lavi, as the Manager of the Borrower, signed the
Note which sets forth a maturity date for the Loan of January 31, 2024.
(Compl., ¶ 8, Ex. 1.) As security for repaying of the Note, the Borrower
executed and delivered to the Bank the (1) Loan (Id., Ex. 2); (2) the
Deed of Trust dated January 31, 2019 (“Deed”) (Id., Ex. 3); and (3) as
additional security for the obligations, Borrower’s Indebtedness and
obligations under the Loan (the “Guaranty”) (Id., ¶ 12; Ex. 4.)  The Guaranty provides, in pertinent part, as
follows:
CONTINUING GUARANTY. THIS IS A ‘CONTINUING GUARANTY’
UNDER WHICH GUARANTOR AGREES TO GUARANTEE THE FULL AND PUNCTUAL PAYMENT,
PERFORMANCE AND SATISFACTION OF THE INDEBTEDNESS OF BORROWER TO LENDER, NOW
EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING OR ACQUIRED, ON ANY OPEN AND CONTINUING BASIS.
ACCORDINGLY, ANY PAYMENTS MADE ON THE INDEBTEDNESS WILL NOT DISCHARGE OR
DIMINISH GUARANTOR’S OBLIGATIONS AND LIABILITY UNDER THE GUARANTY FOR ANY
REMAINING AND SUCCEEDING INDEBTEDNESS EVEN WHEN ALL OR PART OF THE OUTSTANDING
INDEBTEDNESS MAY BE A ZERO BALANCE FROM TIME TO TIME.”
 
Plaintiff alleges that the Guaranty further states
that Guarantor waives any right to notice, and that the lender may pursue its
rights under the Guaranty without first exhausting its other remedies against
the Borrower or against the other collateral. (Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff contends
that the Borrower then defaulted under the Loan Documents by (a) failing to pay
the full payment of the principal and interest due on the maturity date of
January 31, 2024; and (b) failing to pay the property taxes due on the
Property. Pursuant to a letter dated February 14, 2024, the Bank then demanded
payment from Borrower and Guarantor, but  Plaintiff maintains both have failed and refuse
to pay such delinquent amounts which Defendant disputes in opposition. Now, in
accordance with the terms of the Loan, Plaintiff asserts the following sums are
delinquent and are now due and payable to the Bank from the Borrower as
follows:
(a)   Principal in the sum of
$8,393,369.07 plus accrued and accruing unpaid interest of $672,944.85 as of
July 9, 2024, and daily interest/per diem of $4,510.1357. 
(b)   Accrued and accruing late charges
of $4,146.14.
(c)   $26,911.98 advanced by the bank
for payment of property insurance. 
(d)   $599,990.41 advanced by the bank
for payment of property taxes;
(e)   Trustee’s fees and expenses, and
foreclosure costs of $30,263.10.
 
Consequently, on July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
underlying action for breach of guaranty, followed by an application of Right
to Attach Order and Order for Issuance of Writ of Attachment (AT-120) on
November 12, 202, as well as a Declaration of Fivan Tang; the Notice of
Application and Hearing (AT-115); and the Order for Issuance of Writ of
Attachment (AT-105). On November 21, 2024, the parties stipulated to set aside
the Default that had been entered on September 24, 2024 against Defendant after
Defendant disputed it on grounds of improper service.
On January 2, 2025, Defendant then filed an Ex
Parte Application for Continuance of Hearing on Plaintiff’s Application for
Writ of Attachment and Right to Attach Order and Related Deadlines, requesting
a 30-day continuance of the January 14, 2025 hearing and related deadlines. On
January 6, 2025, the Court denied Defendant’s Ex Parte Application for
continuance, providing in pertinent part, as follows:
The application is denied because
it does not set forth facts demonstrating exigent circumstances justifying ex
parte relief and because it does not set forth sufficient good cause for
the substantive relief sought. 
 
(See 01.06.25 Min. Order)
On January 7, 2025, Defendant filed the Opposition
to Right to Attach Order and Claim of Exemption, along with the Declarations of
Defendant Dr. Lavi and Defendant’s Counsel, Evan C. Borges. There is no reply
on file.  
 
 
DISCUSSION
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at
any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a
right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the
order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.”  (CCP § 484.010.)
 
 
 
The
application shall be executed under oath and must include:
(1)            
a statement showing that the attachment is
sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be
issued;
(2)            
a statement of the amount to be secured by
the attachment;
(3)            
a statement that the attachment is not
sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the
attachment is based;
(4)            
a statement that the applicant has no
information or belief that the claim is discharged or that the prosecution of
the action is stayed in a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C.
section 101 et seq.); and 
(5)            
a description of the property to be
attached under the writ of attachment and a statement that the plaintiff is
informed and believes that such property is subject to attachment.
(CCP
§ 484.020.)
Here, (1) Tang’s Declaration attached to
Plaintiff’s instant application sets forth that the purpose of the Loan was to
acquire the property that was also pledged as collateral for the Loan. However,
the Court notes Tang does not declare or establish that the attachment is
sought to secure the recovery on a claim upon which an attachment may be
issued. (Tang Decl., ¶ 20.)  (2) The
application sets forth the amount to be secured by the attachment consists of
(a) the principal in the sum of $9,020,271.46, plus interest of $446,552.78;
(b) accrued late charges of $4,146.14; (c) $26,911.98 advanced by the Bank for
payment of property insurance; (d) $599,990.41 advanced by the Bank for payment
of property taxes; (e ) Trustee’s fees and expenses, foreclosure and estimated
legal costs of $101,509.20; and (f) costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees in the
amount of according to proof. (3) Tang does not provide a statement expressly
declaring that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the
recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based. (4) As provided on
the signed AT-105 form filed by Plaintiff, Plaintiff ratifies that Plaintiff
has no information or belief that the claim is discharged or the prosecution of
the action is stayed in a preceding under the title 11 of the United States
Code (Bankruptcy). (AT-105, ¶ 5.) The only affirmative statement Tang separately
declares in his attached declaration with respect to bankruptcy is that “Borrower
defaulted under the Loan Documents by (a) . . . (c) filing bankruptcy on August
6, 2024. Since the bankruptcy filing, no enforcement action has occurred
against the Borrower or its property, but the Bank filed in this action against
Dr. Lavi as the Guarantor. (Id., ¶ 15.)
On
the other hand, Defendant opposes the instant application on the grounds that 
Defendant’s opposition
states the federal Bankruptcy Court evidence adverse findings of fact against
the Bank, which the Bank does not disclose in the instant application, and
which bind the Bank under the doctrine of collateral estoppel, establishing
that:
(1)   the
Writ Application grossly overstates the alleged ‘reasonable ascertainable
amount” of the Bank’s claim if this action were litigation to judgment and the
Bank were to prevail.
(2)   The
Bank does not and cannot meet its burden of establishing by evidence the
“probably validity” of its claim in a reasonably ascertainable amount of $9,
577, 279. 58; and 
(3)   The
Bank’s claim for payment of the indebtedness under the Note, which is the
predicate for its claim on the Guaranty, is fully protected and will be paid in
full based upon unrebutted evidence and findings of fact by the Bankruptcy
Court that bind the Bank regarding the value of its Collateral, the Property. 
(Opp.,
pg. 3.)
Finally, as Defendant points out, (5)
there is not a proper description of the property to be attached and
critically, Plaintiff does not establish through evidence or declaration that
Dr. Lavi is the legal owner of the properties listed in the first item of the
“Schedule A” attachment which consists of items (a) – (f). The Court further
notes that when the Loan was executed, the Deed of Trust conveyed a security
interest to the Bank in the Property at 307 N. Saltair Avenue, Los Angeles
(“Subject Property”) (Compl., ¶ 10).  Despite
Plaintiff averring that the Lavi Guaranty makes it so Plaintiff is not limited
to the Subject Property, nor obligated to prioritize or exhaust it as
collateral before Dr. Lavi’s other property, it is notably missing from
Plaintiff’s Schedule A.  Instead,
Plaintiff itemizes properties in the Schedule A which are supported by no
exhibits or evidence demonstrating ownership. Thus, the Court cannot determine
if such properties are properly subject to attachment or who their rightful
owner is. Defendant contends on Opposition that such properties are not
Defendant’s and moreover, some are not even real properties. 
In sum, the Court agrees with Defendant
that the attachment statutes are subject to strict construction and that unless
specifically provided for by the attachment law, no attachment procedure may be
ordered by the Court. (VFS Financing, Inc. v. CHF Express, LLC (2009)
620 F.Supp.2d 1092, 1095.)
 
 
CONCLUSION
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES the application of the writ of
attachment   and DENIES the order for issuance of
writ of attachment.    
         
DATED:  January 14, 2025                                   ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court