 Case Number:  24SMCV01843    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  205 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Beverly
Hills Courthouse | Department 205
 
 



CHOTTO MATTE (BEVERLY HILLS) LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CANON LUXURY BUILDINGS, LLC,
                        Defendant.


  Case No.: 
  24SMCV03472
  Hearing Date:  January 14, 2025
  Trial Date: 
  Not Set
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
Background
In
2021, Plaintiff Chotto Matte (Beverly Hills), LLC and Defendant Canon Luxury
Buildings, LLC began negotiating terms under which Defendant would lease to
Plaintiff 8,476 square feet on the 4th floor of a building located at 257 North
Canon Drive, Beverly Hills, California 90210 for the express purpose of
building out and operating a restaurant. (First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that the initial draft lease proposed by Defendant provided that
Plaintiff’s obligation to pay rent would commence on the “Lease Commencement
Date,” defined as “[t]he earlier to occur of (i) the date upon which Tenant
first commences to conduct business in the Premises, and (ii) the date that is
240 days following receipt by Landlord of a Conditional Use Permit (“CUP”)....”
(Id., ¶ 11.)
While
the lease terms were still under negotiation, Plaintiff claims Defendant
misrepresented that it had already secured a CUP, which was necessary for
Plaintiff to operate a restaurant at that location. (Id., ¶¶ 15, 16.) However, Defendant
had only obtained a “resolution” from the City which had no effect because, within
the timeframe specified by the City, Defendant never recorded a covenant
accepting the conditions of approval the City had set forth, paid the necessary
fees, and failed to ensure the Resolution was recorded. (Id., ¶¶ 17-19.)
Plaintiff claims it relied on that misrepresentation to enter into the Lease.
(Id., ¶ 28.) 
Plaintiff
further alleges that shortly after Defendant made this misrepresentation, it
proposed certain revisions to the draft lease including, critically, changing
the definition of “Commencement Date” to remove the reference to a date
following receipt by Defendant of a CUP, on the pretext that Defendant
already took care of this requirement. (Id., ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that it
assented to the change in reliance on Defendant’s representation that Defendant
already obtained the CUP. (Id., ¶ 21.) Defendant’s Execution Copy deleted
the definition of “CUP” and changed the definition of “Commencement Date” so
that Plaintiff’s obligation to pay rent was no longer dependent on Defendant
later obtaining a CUP. (Id., ¶ 22.) The parties’ executed the lease. (Id., ¶
24.)
Plaintiff
further alleges that Section 2.1 of the Lease carried over language from the
prior drafts that Defendant would use its reasonable efforts to obtain a CUP
from the City of Beverly Hills within 12 months following the effective date of
the Lease. (Id., ¶ 26.) This section also stated that if Defendant failed to
obtain the CUP within one year of the effective date, Plaintiff and Defendant
each would have the right to terminate the Lease on written notice to the
other. (Id.) 
Plaintiff
sent Defendant a written Retail Lease Termination Notice wherein Plaintiff
exercised its right to termination the Lease pursuant to Section 2.1 of the
Lease on grounds that Defendant failed to obtain the CUP. (Id., ¶ 36.)
Defendant responded the following day that Plaintiff was not entitled
to terminate the Lease notwithstanding its failure to obtain the CUP.
(Id., ¶ 37.)
The FAC alleges causes of
action for (1)
declaratory relief – termination of lease, (2) declaratory relief – frustration
of purpose, (3) fraud; fraudulent inducement and (4) breach of contract. 
The Court previously
sustained a demurrer with leave to amend as to all the causes of action in the
complaint. Thereafter, Plaintiff filed the FAC.
This
hearing is on Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC. Defendant argues that (1) the
claims for declaratory relief fail because the positions of the parties are now
fixed, and the only issues to be adjudicated are whether either party breached
the contract and if so, the amount of damages; (2) the claim for fraudulent
inducement fails because the element of detrimental reliance is controverted by
the Lease, and damages have not been adequately alleged, and (3) the claim for
breach of contract fails because it does not adequately allege damages.
Demurrer Standard
 
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects
that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside
the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer,
a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice,
or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes
of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be
true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.
(Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)       
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency
(2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without
leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of
action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can
be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the
Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  
 
Analysis
 
Declaratory Relief
“Declaratory
relief operates prospectively, serving to set controversies at rest. If there
is a controversy that calls for a declaration of rights, it is no objection
that past wrongs are also to be redressed; but there is no basis for declaratory
relief where only past wrongs are involved. Hence, where there is an accrued
cause of action for an actual breach of contract or other wrongful act, declaratory
relief may be denied.” (5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008) Pleading, §
869, p. 284, italics added; see also Osseous Technologies of America, Inc.
v. Discovery Ortho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357, 366.) 
Here,
only past wrongs are involved. Plaintiff alleges it issued a termination notice
to Defendant on June 27, 2024. (FAC, ¶ 36.) Thus, the only issue that remains
is whether either (or both) of the parties breached the Lease by their actions,
and how much, if any, damages should be awarded. 
There
are no allegations in the complaint that would suggest that declaratory relief
will regulate future conduct by the parties. (Watson v. Sansone (1971)
19 Cal.App.3d 1 (holding declaratory relief improper “where nothing remains to
be done but the payment of money, and where no declaration of future rights and
obligations is sought, necessary, or proper.”); Ermolieff v. R.K.O. Radio
Pictures (1942) 19 Cal.2d 543, 545-549 (“[C]ourts may provide declaratory
relief under section 1060 if the relief sought would also govern the future
conduct of the parties.”) 
Declaratory
relief serves no purpose here – damages are the sole and complete remedy
available to Plaintiff. Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the
first and second causes of action for declaratory relief. As Plaintiff was
given the opportunity to cure the defect, but has failed to do so, and has also
failed to show how the defect can be cured, leave to amend is not granted as to
the first and second claims.
Fraudulent
Inducement
Defendant
contends the FAC fails to adequately allege justifiable reliance and damages. 
“The
elements of a cause of action for fraud are misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure), scienter, intent to defraud,
justifiable reliance, and resulting damage.” (Olson v. Cohen (2003) 106
Cal.App.4th 1209, 1217.) Every element of a claim for fraud must be pled
factually and specifically. The policy of liberal construction of pleadings
will not be invoked to sustain a defective pleading for fraud. (Hill Transp.
Co. v. Southwest Forest Industries, Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)
“The particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (People
ex rel. Allstate Insurance Company v. Discovery Radiology Physicians, P.C.
(2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 521, 548.) 
Here,
the FAC fails to allege detrimental reliance. The terms of the Lease expressly
and unambiguously provide that Defendant was to acquire the CUP within twelve months.
(FAC, Ex. 5, §2.1.) If Plaintiff acted in reliance on Mr. Bohbot’s statement
that the CUP had already been obtained, there would be no reason for a term
giving Defendant twelve months to obtain one. Further, the lease contained a
remedy for the failure to obtain a CUP: an option to terminate the lease. (Id.)
While Plaintiff amended the pleadings to allege that these terms in section 2.1
were part of the initial draft, and these terms carried over to the executed
lease, even after Mr. Bohbot represented that he had obtained a CUP, the
reliance on the alleged misrepresentation would not be justifiable in light of
these terms in the lease. Thus, Plaintiff cannot have justifiably and
reasonably relied on a representation that is countermanded by the Lease. 
The
FAC also fails to allege damages with specificity. As this court noted in the
ruling on Defendant’s demurrer to the complaint, Plaintiff has not alleged that
a CUP cannot be obtained prior to any expected date of opening. “A plaintiff
asserting fraud by misrepresentation is obliged to...establish a complete
causal relationship between the alleged misrepresentations and the harm claimed
to have resulted therefrom. This requires a plaintiff to allege specific facts
not only showing he or she actually and justifiably relied on the defendant’s
misrepresentations, but also how the actions he or she took in reliance on the
defendant’s misrepresentations caused the alleged damages.” (Rossberg v.
Bank of America, N.A. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1499.) Plaintiff has not
cured this defect.
For
these reasons, the Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s third cause of
action for fraudulent inducement. Because Plaintiff was given an opportunity to
cure the defects in this cause of action and has failed to do so, and because
Plaintiff has not shown how the defects can be cured in the opposition, leave
to amend is not granted.
Breach of Contract
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claim for breach of contract is likewise subject to
demurrer because Plaintiff has alleged performance or excuse from
nonperformance in a conclusory fashion. 
In
order to sufficiently allege a claim for breach of contract, Plaintiff much
allege its performance or excuse from nonperformance. (D’Arrigo Bros. of
California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790 799
(breach of contract claim requires (1) existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse from nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff).) 
While
the FAC alleges the element of performance in conclusory terms under the cause
of action for breach of contract, it also incorporates by reference other
specific allegations, which satisfy the element of performance. Specifically,
the FAC pleads that Plaintiff paid $300,000 as a rent deposit. (FAC, ¶ 30.)
Further, Plaintiff has pled damages in that the FAC alleges that obtaining a
CUP is expensive. (Id., ¶ 14.) 
Thus, the Court overrules the demurrer as to the
cause of action for breach of contract.
Conclusion
Based on
the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS IN PART without leave to amend and
OVERRULES IN PART Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint.
 
Dated: January 14, 2025
__________________________________________
Edward B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge of the Superior Court