 Case Number:  22STCV15934    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 13, 2022, Plaintiff Elton Spain (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Metcalf Constructions, Inc., Joseph Dante Dalessio (“Dalessio”), and
Does 1-50 for negligence—motor vehicle, negligence per se, and negligent
hiring, retention, training, and supervision. 
On
September 6, 2022, Dalessio filed an answer. 
On
September 14, 2022, Defendant Metcalf Construction Services, LLC, erroneously
sued and served as Metcalf Construction, Inc. (“Metcalf”), filed an answer. 
On
March 22, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Sierra
Pacific Industries (“Sierra”) as Doe 1. On August 15, 2023, the Court dismissed
Sierra without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
September 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel Ognian Gavrilov, Michael Wilcox, and
David Kahn (“Plaintiff’s counsel”) filed a motion to be relieved as counsel.  The motion was set for hearing on November 1,
2024. The Court continued the hearing to November 14, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 23, 2025. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel ask to be relieved as counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 284 provides: 
“The attorney in an action or special proceeding may
be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as
follows: 
1.   “Upon the
consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the
minutes; 
2.   “Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 284.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
October 29, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion
to be relieved as counsel from November 1, 2024 to November 14, 2024 because the
Court was not available on November 1. 
The Court ordered Plaintiff’s counsel to give notice of the new hearing
date to all parties of record.  (See Oct.
29, 2024 minute order and Certificate of Mailing.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel have not filed a proof of service showing that they gave notice of the
continued hearing date to all parties of record. 
Therefore, the Court continues the hearing on the motion to be relieved
as counsel to a date to be provided at the November 14, 2024 hearing.  The Court orders Plaintiff’s counsel to give
notice of the continued hearing to all parties of record. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motion to be relieved as counsel filed by Ognian
Gavrilov, Michael Wilcox and David Kahn to a date to be provided at the
November 14, 2024 hearing.  The Court
orders Ognian Gavrilov, Michael Wilcox, and David Kahn to give notice of the
continued hearing to all parties of record and to file one or more proofs of service reflecting service of the notice on all parties of record. 
Counsel
are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Counsel
are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.