 Case Number:  22STCV38594    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 12, 2022, Plaintiff Elena Perez
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School
District (“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for negligence and wrongful death. 
On
March 1, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
August 27, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses
to Defendant’s inspection demand, set one, and for sanctions.  (The motion was titled "Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District's Notice of Motion and Motion to Compel Plaintiff Elena Perez to Comply with Defendant's Inspection Demand, Set One; and Request for Monetary Sanctions in the Amount of $1,750.")  The motion was set for hearing on November 1,
2024.  The Court continued the hearing to
November 14, 2024.  On October 18, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 7, 2025. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
The
parties participated in an IDC on October 28, 2024. 
B.       Timeliness 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection must be
given within 45 days of the service of the verified responses, or any
supplemental verified responses, or on or before any later date to which the
parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  Failure to file a
motion by this deadline constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further
responses.
 Defendant's motion is timely. 
C.   Meet and confer 
A
motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2016.040.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd (b)(2).) 
“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Defendant
has submitted a meet and confer declaration. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Defendant
has filed a separate statement. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
A.   Motion to compel further responses to demand for
inspection 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 provides in part: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: 
“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
“(2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
“(3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
each of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(3) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand. 
* * *
  “(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).) 
B.   Privacy 
“Even
highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if
its disclosure would impair a person’s ‘inalienable right of privacy’ provided
by [the California Constitution].”  (L.
Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: 
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97 (Cal.
Practice Guide).)  The United States constitution
also guarantees the right to privacy.  (Ibid.) 
Privacy
rights provide qualified, not absolute, protection.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:294,
p. 8C-98.)  “In each case, the Court must
carefully balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery [citation].  The showing required to overcome the
protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in some cases,
a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a compelling interest
must be shown.  ‘Only obvious invasions
of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling
interest.’ ”  (Ibid., quoting Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557 (Williams).)  “The burden is on ‘the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies.’ ”  (Ibid.,
quoting Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 557.) 
“The
party seeking discovery must show a particularized need for the confidential
information sought. The broad ‘relevancy to the subject matter’ standard is not
enough here. The court must be convinced that the information is directly
relevant to a cause of action or defense, i.e., that it is essential to
determining the truth of the matters in dispute.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:320, p. 8C-119, emphasis omitted.) 
“
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . .
. an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only
discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 842.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
July 1, 2024, Defendant served inspection demand, set one, on Plaintiff.  The demand asked Plaintiff to produce the
cell phone which Plaintiff used on September 13, 2022 and during “the time
period two months before [September 13, 2022] to the present, which has been
identified by PLAINTIFF in her deposition of June 24, 2024 as a Samsung Galaxy
mobile phone.”  The production date was
August 5, 2024. 
On
July 9, 2024, Plaintiff served objections to the inspection demand, including
objections based on privacy, lack of direct relevance to the action, and
overbreadth. 
Defendant
now moves to compel Plaintiff to produce further responses to the July 1, 2024
inspection demand by producing her cell phone. 
According to Defendant, the cell phone’s contents are “vital” to its
defenses because Defendant “needs to ascertain what, if any, communications
were made by Plaintiff to her daughter and other involved family members on the
day of the alleged incident via text messages and cellular social media
applications.”  (Motion p. 5.) 
Defendant
acknowledges that, in responding to an earlier discovery request, Plaintiff
produced text messages between Plaintiff and her daughter.  However, Defendant asserts that “because of
the gaps in the dates of the text messages produced by Plaintiff, and
supplemented by Plaintiff thereafter September 11, 2023, it is apparent that
text messages were omitted and or deleted.” 
(Motion pp. 6-7.)  Defendant provides
no declaration or other evidence to support this assertion. 
On
November 6, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s request to compel Plaintiff to
provide her cell phone number to Defendant. 
The Court weighed Plaintiff’s privacy right in her cell phone number
against Defendant’s need for discovery, considering the purpose of the
information sought, the effect that disclosure will have on the parties and the
trial, the nature of Plaintiff’s objection, and the Court’s ability to make an
alternative order. The Court concluded that Plaintiff’s privacy interests
outweighed Defendant’s need to obtain Plaintiff’s cell phone number and
therefore denied Defendant’s request to compel Plaintiff to disclose her cell
phone number and to sign a release authorizing Defendant to obtain Plaintiff’s
cell phone records. 
Similar
considerations apply here.  Having weighed
Plaintiff’s privacy right in her cell phone against Defendant’s need for
discovery of information contained in the cell phone, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
privacy interests outweigh Defendant’s need to obtain Plaintiff’s cell
phone.  The Court therefore denies
Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to Defendant’s inspection demand,
set one. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s motion
to compel Plaintiff Elena Perez’s further responses to inspection demand,
set one, and for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.