 Case Number:  22STCV24803    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
August 1, 2022, Plaintiffs Sloan Bella (“Sloan Bella”), John Bella, and Jason
Bella (collectively, "Plaintiffs") filed this action against
Defendants Wheels In Motion, Inc. (“Wheels in Motion”), Gail Ward Chase
(“Chase”), Kadee Installation, Inc. (“Kadee”), ASV Inventions, Inc. (“ASV”),
and Does 1-50 for negligence, premises liability, and products liability. 
On
July 18, 2024, the Court dismissed ASV without prejudice at Sloan Bella’s
request. 
On
August 7, 2024, Chase filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Wheels in Motion, ASV, and Roes 1-20 for indemnity and
contribution. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
B.   This motion 
On
September 6, 2024, Wheels in Motion filed a motion to strike the punitive
damages claim against it from Plaintiffs’ complaint.  The motion was set for hearing on November 1,
2024.  The Court continued the hearing to
November 14, 2024.  Plaintiffs did not
file an opposition. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
          Wheels in Motion asks the Court to strike the punitive
damages claim against it from Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“In
passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
To
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the plaintiff
must plead ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief.  (Clauson, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1255.) 
B.   Punitive damages 
Civil
Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
* * *
 “(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (c).) 
“In addition to the requirement that the complaint set
forth the elements as stated in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193 (Today’s IV), citing Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).) “Punitive damages may not be
pleaded generally.”  (Ibid.,
citing Brousseau, supra, 73 Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges in part: 
On
July 29, 2020, while riding a motorcycle on De Soto Avenue in Chatsworth,
California, Keith Bella (“Decedent”) lost control of the motorcycle and slammed
into a mailbox on property located at 10538 De Soto Avenue, suffering traumatic
and fatal injuries.  Decedent attempted
to avoid colliding with the mailbox but the special brakes, gears, and clutch
parts recently purchased from ASV and installed by Wheels in Motion did not do
their job. 
Wheels
in Motion installed, affixed, connected, prepared, placed, managed, modified,
set and retrofitted the motorcycle parts purchased from ASV that failed to
preserve Decedent's life. Wheels in Motion (1) installed the motorcycle parts in
an unsecure, unsafe and negligent manner, (2) improperly and negligently
installed motorcycle parts in a manner that had a propensity to fail, fall down
and easily become damaged, and (3) used improper methods to install the motorcycle
parts.  The faulty installation caused Decedent to
suffer fatal injuries. 
As a
result of Wheels in Motion’s negligent and reckless conduct, Plaintiffs sustained
damages. 
Wheels
in Motion’s acts and/or omissions “were either committed in a deliberate, cold,
callous, malicious, intentional and/or unreasonable manner, as fully set for[th]
above, causing fatal injuries to Decedent, and done with a conscious disregard
of [Decedent’s] right and safety . . . .” 
(Complaint ¶ 21.)  Plaintiffs
therefore seek a punitive damages award against Wheels in Motion. 
B.   Wheels in Motion’s motion to strike 
Wheels
in Motion asks the Court to strike the punitive damages claim against it from
Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
Plaintiffs
have alleged facts to support their claim that Wheels in Motion’s negligent installation of parts in
Decedent’s motorcycle caused Plaintiffs’ injuries.  The complaint does not allege any additional
facts that would support a finding that Wheels in Motion engaged in “despicable conduct . . . with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety
of others.”  (See Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).)  Plaintiffs have not provided “specific
factual allegations showing that [Wheels in Motion's] conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious . . . .”  (See Today's
IV, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 1193.) 
The
Court strikes the punitive damages claim against Wheels in Motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Wheels in Motion, Inc.’s motion to strike the punitive
damage claim against it from the complaint filed by Plaintiffs Sloan Bella, John Bella, and Jason Bella. 
Specifically,
the Court: 
(1) Strikes
the following language from Paragraph 21 of the complaint: “Because WIM’s acts
and/or omissions, including those of DOES 1 through 50, inclusive, were either
committed in a deliberate, cold, callous, malicious, intentional, and/or
unreasonable manner, as fully set forth above, causing fatal injuries to
Decedent, and done with a conscious disregard of Decedent KEITH BELLAs right
and safety, Plaintiff THE ESTATE OF KEITH BELLA, represented by and through its
Successor-in-Interest SLOAN BELLA, JOHN BELLA, and JASON BELLA, requests the
assessment of punitive damages against WIM . . . .” 
(2)
Replaces the phrase “all Defendants” in Paragraph 42 (the prayer for relief) with
“all Defendants except WIM” 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.