..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary:

```
Case Number: 23STCV29662
Plaintiff's Name: Euriah David Ontiveros
Defendant's Name: Benihana Downey Corp., Benihana National Corp., Benihana Carson Concession Corp, ...
People-Involvement: Crystal Thompson
Company-Involvement: Benihana International, Inc., Benihana Marina Corp, Benihana Puente Hills Corp, ...
Place-Involvement: California
Date-Involvement: April 26, 2024, April 30, 2024, May 3, 2024, May 7, 2024
Event-Involvement: Arbitration, Consolidation
Money-Involvement: None
Intentions-Involvement: To compel arbitration, to consolidate claims
Facts-Involvement: Wage-and-hour proposed class action, PAGA action, arbitration agreement
Dispute-Involvement: Dispute over arbitration agreement, dispute over consolidation
Acts-Involvement: Filing of motions, oppositions, and replies
Agreements-Involvement: Arbitration agreement
Laws-Involvement: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Labor Code, Federal Arbitration Act
Statutes-Involvement: Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1048(a), Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1281.2, Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1281.3
Roles-Involvement: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements-Involvement:
  * "The Court agrees that the dismissals would not moot the motions."
  * "In the interest of avoiding uncertainty and promoting finality of the issues concerning arbitration, the Court will rule on Defendants' motions first..."
  * "The party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA preemption."
  * "The Court will strike Plaintiff's class claims."
  * "The Court will order that the arbitrations be consolidated pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. ยง 1281.3."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

The judge's tentative ruling grants the defendants' motion to compel arbitration and denies their motion to consolidate the case. The plaintiff, Euriah David Ontiveros, has brought a wage-and-hour proposed class action and a PAGA action against the defendants, who are various Benihana companies. The defendants have argued that the plaintiff's claims should be arbitrated under an arbitration agreement that the plaintiff signed. The court has determined that the arbitration agreement is valid and that the plaintiff's individual claims should be arbitrated. The court has also ordered that the arbitrations of both claims be consolidated. The court has dismissed the plaintiff's class claims and stayed the plaintiff's non-individual PAGA claims. The court has scheduled a hearing to discuss next steps in the case and to address the dismissals.
