  Case Number:  23STCV23334    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  1 Moving Party:             Defendants
Benihana Downey Corp., Benihana National Corp., Benihana Carson
Concession Corp, Benihana Chino Hills Corp, Benihana Encino Corp, Benihana International,
Inc., Benihana Marina Corp, Benihana Puente Hills Corp, Benihana Ontario Corp,
Benihana San Mateo Corp, Benihana Santa Anita Corp, Benihana Sunrise
Corporation, and Benihana Temecula Corp.
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Euriah David Ontiveros
Ruling:                        Motions
to compel arbitration granted.  Motion to
consolidate denied, but the arbitrations of the PAGA and individual claims are
ordered consolidated pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.3. 
 
This is a wage-and-hour proposed class action (No.
23STCV23334), which is related to a Private Attorney General Act (PAGA) action
(No. 23STCV29662).  Plaintiff Euriah
David Ontiveros (Plaintiff) alleges that he and others were employed by
defendants Benihana Downey Corp., Benihana National Corp., Benihana
Carson Concession Corp, Benihana Chino Hills Corp, Benihana Encino Corp,
Benihana International, Inc., Benihana Marina Corp, Benihana Puente Hills Corp,
Benihana Ontario Corp, Benihana San Mateo Corp, Benihana Santa Anita Corp,
Benihana Sunrise Corporation, and Benihana Temecula Corp (Defendants), during which employment Defendants committed various
violations of labor law.  Defendants move
to compel Plaintiff to submit his claims to binding arbitration pursuant to an
arbitration agreement Plaintiff purportedly signed and to consolidate this
action with the related PAGA action.  Defendants
have made similar motions in the PAGA action.
 
Lack of Opposition/Mootness
 
Plaintiff has not filed oppositions to any of the motions.  Rather, Plaintiff has made a request for
dismissal of his class and individual wage claims in the class action, and a request
for dismissal of all individual PAGA claims (see Viking River Cruises, Inc.
v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 649 [“claims based on code violations
suffered by the plaintiff”]) in the PAGA action.  The proposed orders on each request provide
that the dismissal, if granted, would moot the motions.  On April 26, 2024, before their reply was
due, Defendants filed an opposition to the requests for dismissal to the extent
they would moot the motions.  On April
30, 2024, Defendants did not file a reply, but rather a notice of non-receipt
of opposition.  On May 3, 2024, two court
days before the hearing on the motion, Plaintiff filed a purported reply in
support of his request for dismissal, effectively an untimely brief in
opposition to the motions arguing that the motions are moot.  The Court disregards this untimely
opposition.
 
Because the dismissals are without prejudice, the Court agrees
that the dismissals would not moot the motions. 
In the interest of avoiding uncertainty and promoting finality of the
issues concerning arbitration, the Court will rule on Defendants’ motions
first, before addressing the dismissals.
 
Legal Standards
 
1.     
Arbitration
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2
states, in relevant part:¿ 
 
On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….¿ 
 
“California law reflects a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for
resolving disputes. To further that policy, section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited
exceptions applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives
the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration
agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates the
possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group¿(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967,
citations omitted.)¿ 
 
“There is no public policy favoring
arbitration of disputes which the parties have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Engineers
& Architects Assn. v. Community Development Dept.¿(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th
644, 653.) Nevertheless, the strong public policy promoting private arbitration
of civil disputes gives rise to a presumption in favor of arbitrability and
compels the Court to construe liberally the terms of the arbitration agreement.
(Vianna v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189).¿
¿¿ 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence, and a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by
a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these
summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination.”
(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276,
1284.)¿¿ The movant may bear this initial burden “by attaching a copy of
the arbitration agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party's signature.” (Iyere
v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere);
Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, 1060.)  “At
this step, a movant need not ‘follow the normal procedures of document
authentication’ and need only ‘allege the existence of an agreement and support
the allegation as provided in [Rules of Court, Rule 3.1330].’”  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at 755; Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th
215, 219 (Condee).)  
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the
burden of demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to
require arbitration of the dispute. Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation. The contractual terms
themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be
ordered to arbitration: Although [t]he law favors contracts for arbitration of
disputes between parties, there is no policy compelling persons to accept
arbitration of controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Rice
v. Downs¿(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citations and quotations
omitted.)¿¿¿ 
 
“A party seeking
to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA
preemption.”  (Lane v. Francis Capital
Management, LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 687; see also Nixon v.
AmeriHome Mortgage Company, LLC (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 934, 946
[“The party seeking to enforce the arbitration agreement also bears the burden
of establishing the FAA applies and preempts otherwise governing provisions of
state law or the parties’ agreement.”].)
 
2.      Consolidation
 
“When actions
involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may
order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders
concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
1048(a).)  
 
Discussion
 
1.      Arbitration
 
As Exhibit 2 to
the declaration of Crystal Thompson, Defendants present an arbitration
agreement appearing to bear Plaintiff’s signature, fulfilling their initial
burden.  (Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at 755.)  The
Agreement provides:
 
Except as it otherwise provides, this
Agreement is intended to apply to the resolution of disputes that would be
resolved in a court of law or before a forum other than arbitration, including
without limitation, to disputes arising out of or relating to the application
for employment, background checks, privacy, employment relationship, or the
termination of that relationship (including post-employment defamation or
retaliation), trade secrets, unfair competition, contracts, compensation,
classification, minimum wage, expense reimbursement, overtime, meal periods and
rest breaks, or retaliation, discrimination, or harassment and claims arising
under the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Defend Trade Secrets Act, Civil Rights Act
of 1964, 42 U.S.C. § 1981, Rehabilitation Act, Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and
1871, Civil Rights Act of 1991, 8 U.S.C. § 1324b (unfair immigration related
practices), 41 U.S.C. § 4712, Pregnancy Discrimination Act, Equal Pay Act,
Americans With Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Older
Workers Benefit Protection Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, Family and
Medical Leave Act, Fair Labor Standards Act, Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (except for claims for employee benefits under any benefit plan
sponsored by the Company and covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974 or funded by insurance), Affordable Care Act, Genetic Information
Non-Discrimination Act, Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights
Act, Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, Consolidated Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, the False Claims Act, and state statutes or
regulations, if any, addressing the same or similar subject matters, and all
other federal or state legal claims (including without limitation torts)
arising out of or relating to your application, selection, employment, or the
termination of employment by the Company.
(Thompson Decl., Ex. 2, pp. 1-2.)
 
This would appear
to include all of Plaintiff’s claims in this and the related PAGA action,
except for Plaintiff’s non-individual PAGA claims, which can neither be
arbitrated nor waived.  (See Adolph v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1118-1119.)  The Court will stay those claims.  The Agreement also contains a class action
waiver.  (Thompson Decl., Ex. 2, p.
4.)  Plaintiff offers no argument why it
should not apply.  The Court will
therefore strike Plaintiff’s class claims. 

 
2.      Consolidation
 
The Court sees no reason to consolidate
these cases at this time.  Although they
contain significant overlap in that they both relate to Defendants’ employment
practices, they do not contain the same claims. 
As the parties well know, 
 
[a] PAGA claim is legally and conceptually different from an
employee's own suit for damages and statutory penalties. An employee suing
under PAGA “does so as the proxy or agent of the state's labor law enforcement
agencies.” [Citation.] Every PAGA claim is “a dispute between an employer and
the state.” [Citations.]  Moreover, the
civil penalties a PAGA plaintiff may recover on the state's behalf are distinct
from the statutory damages or penalties that may be available to employees
suing for individual violations. [Citation.] Relief under PAGA is designed
primarily to benefit the general public, not the party bringing the action.
[Citations.] “A PAGA representative action is therefore a type of qui tam
action,” conforming to all “traditional criteria, except that a portion of the
penalty goes not only to the citizen bringing the suit but to all employees
affected by the Labor Code violation.” [Citation.] The “government entity on
whose behalf the plaintiff files suit is always the real party in interest.”
(Kim v. Reins International California, Inc. (2020) 9
Cal.5th 73, 81.)  
 
The class action is a suit for damages
and penalties for individual employees brought as a class action, while the
PAGA action is a suit for penalties that could ordinarily only be sought by the
State of California.  They are two
different primary rights, brought by the same plaintiff acting in two distinct
capacities.  (See Gavriiloglou v.
Prime Healthcare Management, Inc. (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 595,
603.)  
 
Because the litigation has hardly begun
in this forum, there is no danger of duplication of resources.  As discussed above, much of the case is going
to arbitration or will be dismissed.  Arbitration,
on the other hand, will likely proceed quicker, and there is a likelihood of
wasted effort if the arbitrations were to go forward separately.  The Court will therefore order that the
arbitrations be consolidated pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.3.
 
3.     
Dismissals
 
The parties should be prepared to discuss
next steps in this case at the hearing on these motions, which will include a
discussion of the dismissals.
 
Conclusion
 
For the foregoing reasons, the motions to
compel arbitration are granted.  Plaintiff
is required to arbitrate his individual claims, including his individual PAGA
claims, pursuant to the Agreement.  His
class claims are dismissed.  His
non-individual PAGA claims will remain stayed in this Court.  The motion to consolidate is denied but the
arbitrations of both claims are consolidated pursuant to CCP Section 1281.3.  Defendants to give notice.  