  Case Number:  24STCV00917    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



CETERA ADVISOR NETWORKS LLC
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KIMBERLY TUMINELLO, in her capacity as purported Trustee of the
  John Richard Jackson and Sharon Elaine Jackson Revocable Inter-Vivos Trust,
  and in her capacity as purported Attorney-In-Fact under John Richard
  Jackson’s Power of Attorney; JOHN RICHARD JACKSON, in his individual capacity
  and in his capacity as purported Trustee of the John Richard Jackson and
  Sharon Elaine Jackson Revocable Inter-Vivos Trust; and DOES 1 - 10,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          24STCV00917
 Hearing Date:   3/7/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Cetera
  Advisor Networks LLC’s Motion to File Portions of Cetera Advisor Networks
  LLC’s Complaint in Interpleader Under Seal.



 
Court Order
 
I. Background

A. Pleadings

Plaintiff Cetera Advisor Networks
LLC sues Defendants Kimberly Tuminello, in her capacity as purported Trustee of
the John Richard Jackson and Sharon Elaine Jackson Revocable Inter-Vivos Trust,
and in her capacity as purported attorney-in-fact under John Richard Jackson’s durable
power of attorney, and John Richard Jackson, in his individual capacity and in
his capacity as purported Trustee of the John Richard Jackson and Sharon Elaine
Jackson Revocable Inter-Vivos Trust (the Trust); and Does 1-10 pursuant to a
January 11, 2024 Complaint in Interpleader.
The Complaint arises from a dispute
between Defendants John Richard Jackson and Kimberly Tuminello as to who among
them has the authority to manage the accounts that Jackson holds at Cetera.
Tuminello contends that Jackson meets the definition of “incapacitated” under
Jackson’s Trust, and as a result, she is the acting trustee of the Trust as
well as the attorney-in-fact under Jackson’s durable power of attorney. On
information and belief, Jackson denies this, and has since prepared
documentation purporting to remove Tuminello both as successor Trustee and his attorney-in-fact
and appointing a new successor trustee in Tuminello’s place. Tuminello and
Jackson have given Cetera conflicting instructions as to where to disburse
certain of Jackson’s funds held at Cetera, and Cetera cannot comply with either
or both of the instructions without the risk of double vexation.
B. Motion
Before the Court

On January 18, 2024, Cetera filed a
motion to seal four portions of its Complaint in Interpleader.
That same day, Cetera filed a
notice of lodging with the Court, containing an unredacted copy of the Cetera
Complaint in Interpleader.
Later, Cetera electronically lodged
the unredacted copy of the Complaint in Interpleader with the Court.
C. Service, Answers, and Related
Case
On January 25, 2024, the Complaint,
summons, motion to seal, and other documents were served on Defendant
Tuminello.
On January 31, 2024, Cetera filed
proof of service.
On February 1, 2024, the Complaint,
summons, motion to seal, and other documents were served on Defendant Jackson.
On February 2, 2024, Cetera filed
proof of service.
On March 7, 2024, Defendant Jackson
filed an Answer to Complaint.
On March 8, 2024, Defendant
Tuminello filed a Response to Complaint (an answer).
D. Instant Proceedings
Cetera’s motion to seal is now
before the Court.
As of the date of this ruling,
Cetera’s motion is unopposed.
 
II. Motion to Seal: GRANTED.

A. Procedural Requirements
1. Motion to
Seal – Moving Papers
A party requesting that a record be
filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the
record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a
declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).)
Here, Cetera has filed a motion to
seal supported by points and authorities. (Mot., pp. 1-4.)
2. Motion to Seal
– Service
A copy of the motion or application
must be served on all parties that have appeared in the case. Unless the court
orders otherwise, any party that already possesses copies of the records to be
placed under seal must be served with a complete, unredacted version of all
papers as well as a redacted version.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd.
(b)(2).)
Here, the motion to seal was served
on Defendants on January 25, 2024 (Tuminello) and February 1, 2024 (Jackson).
(1/31/24 Proof of Service; 2/2/24 Proof of Service.)
3. Motion to
Seal – Lodging
Unless good cause exists, a record
to be filed under seal must be put in an envelope or other appropriate
container labeled ‘CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL,’ have a cover sheet affixed
thereto with an appropriate caption page stating the envelope contains a motion
to file a record under seal and be lodged in the sealed envelope with the
Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subds. (b)(4), (d)(2), (d)(4).)
Here, an unredacted copy of the
Complaint in Interpleader was filed with the Court for review on January 18,
2024 and again electronically on March 26, 2024.
4. Motion to Seal – Redacted
and Unredacted Versions
If necessary to prevent disclosure,
any motion to seal and any supporting documents must be filed in a public
redacted version and lodged in a complete, unredacted version conditionally
under seal. The cover of the redacted version must identify it as “Public-Redacts
materials from conditionally sealed record” while the cover of the unredacted
version must identify it as “May Not Be Examined Without Court Order-Contains
material from conditionally sealed record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subd. (b)(5).)
Here, a redacted copy of the
Complaint in Interpleader appears in the public record.
B. Substantive Discussion
1. Motion to
Seal – Findings
“The public has a First Amendment
right of access to civil litigation documents filed in court and used at trial
or submitted as a basis for adjudication.” (Savaglio v. Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 596 (Savaglio), citing NBC
Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178,
1208-1209, fn. 25.)
Therefore, before a trial court
orders a record sealed, it must hold a hearing and make express findings set
forth in California Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d): (1) there
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) a
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
(5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Savaglio,
supra, at p. 596; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) A court’s
order allowing documents to be filed under seal must contain express factual
findings establishing these five factors. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550,
subd. (d).) 
After review, the Court finds merit
to Cetera’s unopposed motion.
Here, Cetera seeks a court order
sealing portions of the Complaint in Interpleader, specifically, seeking
redactions of text in paragraphs four, 12, 16, and 22. (Mot., p. 1.)
Cetera argues that there is an
overriding interest in sealing the record as requested because the portions of
the Complaint that Cetera seeks to redact “(1) … identify the amount
[Defendant] Jackson withdraws from his Cetera account on a monthly basis and
(2) the medical opinions reached by two of his doctors in recent reports. (Mot.,
King Decl., ¶ 2).
The Court agrees. An in-camera
review of the Cetera Complaint in Interpleader shows (1) three references to
the monthly amounts paid to Defendant Jackson from the accounts at Cetera,
where Cetera’s motion to seal seeks to redact from the record the specific
dollar amount disbursed to Jackson (¶¶ 4, 16, 22), and (2) references to
medical history and diagnoses for Defendant Jackson (¶ 12). A right to privacy
arises from such information. (In re Ins. Installment Fee Cases (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1428 [right to informational privacy in financial
affairs]; Ruiz v. Podolsky (2010) 50 Cal.4th 838, 850-851 [right to
informational privacy in medical information].)
The Court also determines that the
right to privacy interests discussed above support sealing the record as to
paragraphs four, 12, 16, and 22 of the Complaint in Interpleader, a substantial
probability exists that Defendant Jackson’s right to privacy will be completely
undercut by disclosure of his financial and medical information in the public
record, and the redactions at issue are narrowly tailored with no less
restrictive means to achieve the protection of Defendant Jackson’s right to privacy—the
redactions in paragraphs four, 16, and 22 only involve the exact monthly
monetary disbursement figure, and the redaction in paragraph 12 involves
medical information.
Cetera’s motion is thus GRANTED.
 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Cetera Advisor Networks LLC’s Motion to File Portions of Cetera
Advisor Networks LLC’s Complaint in Interpleader Under Seal is GRANTED.