

Hearing Date:             November
8, 2024
Case Name:                Song
v. Wall  
Case No.:                    22STCV01714
Motion:                       Motion
to Set Aside and Vacate Default Judgment 
Moving Party:             Defendants Lonnie Wall, W2K Properties, LLC and Leslie
Wall

Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs
Chaehoon Song and Booyean Song

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion to Vacate and Set Aside Default is denied.  

             
This is a breach of contract and fraud action in
which landlord Plaintiffs Chaehoon
Song and Booyean Song
(Plaintiffs) allege that tenant Defendants Lonnie Wall, W2K Properties, LLC and Leslie Wall (Defendants)
improperly used the real property located at 1452 and
1454 E. 23rd Street, Los Angeles, CA (Property) as transitional
housing and failed to pay rent. 
After granting a motion for terminating sanctions,
this Court struck all Defendants’ Answers and entered default on January 5,
2023. 
Thereafter, Plaintiffs moved for entry of default
judgment. Following three attempts, the Court entered default judgment on July
14, 2023. 
On January 10, 2024, Defendants Lonnie Wall, W2K Properties, LLC and Leslie Wall moved to set aside the entry of default judgment. Plaintiffs
opposed the motion. No reply was filed. On February 21, 2024, after hearing
oral argument, the Court granted Defendants’ motion to set aside default
judgment. (02/21/24 Minute Order.) The Court, however, ordered Defendants’
counsel to pay attorneys’ fees and costs in the sum of $6,500.00 to Plaintiffs
on or before March 1, 2024. (02/21/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) The Court vacated
the default and default judgment entered against Defendants. (02/21/24 Minute
Order at p. 6.) 
 
On April 5, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed and served a Motion for Terminating Sanctions, or in the
Alternative, Motion to Compel Discovery and Request for Sanctions. Plaintiffs again
requested an order striking the answers of Defendants, an order reinstating the
defaults against all Defendants and reinstatement of the previously entered
judgment against all Defendants, and an order imposing sanctions against
Defendants and their counsel in the amount of $13,000.00, representing
$6,500.00 unpaid from the prior order and $6,500.00 for the instant motion.
Defendants filed no opposition to the motion for terminating sanctions. Notice
of the motion was served on their attorney.
 
The Court granted
Plaintiffs’ request for terminating sanctions and struck Defendants’ answers
and entered default against Defendants. Plaintiffs’ request for monetary
sanctions was granted in the reduced amount of $9,500.00 to be paid to Law
Offices of Alexander Geiman, by Defendants and their counsel of record, Gary
Saunders, jointly and severally, no later than June 21, 2024.
 
Then, on October
15, 2024, Defendants Lonnie Wall, W2K Properties, LLC and Leslie Wall moved to
set aside the entry of default and default judgment. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. No reply was filed. 
 
The motion to set
aside and vacate the entry of default and default judgment is denied. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b) provides for either discretionary or mandatory relief from
certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri¿v. Greenwald¿(2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)¿¿
 
            “ ‘Under the discretionary relief
provision, on a showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect,”¿the court has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against”¿a party or his or her attorney.¿¿Under
the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney
declaration of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,”¿the court shall
vacate any “resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.” ’ [Citation.]
Applications seeking relief under the mandatory provision of section 473 must
be ‘accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.’ The mandatory provision¿further
adds that ‘whenever relief¿is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault
[the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees
and costs¿to opposing counsel or parties.’¿” 
(Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants seek relief
pursuant to the mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (b), and based on the Court’s inherent equitable powers.
 
            Plaintiffs’ counsel
filed a motion for terminating sanctions, alleging that Defendants had not
complied with the order of payment and had not responded to a second set of discovery.
Defendants’ motion argues that Plaintiffs committed a “fraud” upon the court by
representing that no discovery responses had been served on his office, and the
$6,500.00 in sanctions had not been paid. (Saunders Decl., ¶ 8.) The issue,
though is whether Defendants failed to pay the entire monetary sanction the Court
ordered; there is no dispute that Defendants did not pay $3,000 of the total
order.
 
            It is true that “[a]
judgment, whether obtained by litigation or by consent, may be attacked where
extrinsic fraud was employed to secure it. Extrinsic fraud is present where a
party to a lawsuit has been denied a fair adversary hearing on the merits of
the case through no fault of his own.” (Civic Western Corp. v. Zila
Industries, Inc. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 1, 19.) 
 
            However, Defendants’
evidence fails to show any extrinsic fraud, that they were denied a fair
hearing, or that Defendants were without “fault” in the Court’s determination
to – again—grant Plaintiffs’ motion for terminating sanctions. 
 
            That is, Defendants’
own evidence confirms that Defendants did not timely comply with the Court
ordered monetary sanctions and the motion is silent as to when discovery
responses were served.[1]
Therefore, Defendants own evidence confirms that no fraudulent or false
statements were made by Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
            Moreover, even assuming
Plaintiffs’ counsel representations to the Court on the May 21, 2024 hearing were
inconsistent with his “duty of candor,” these representations did not deprive
Defendants of a fair hearing. In fact, Defendants were represented at the
hearing for the Motion for Terminating Sanctions and were given the opportunity
to be heard. 
 
            Defendants also seek
relief based on attorney neglect under the mandatory provision of Section 473.
However, Defendants’ declaration in support of relief under this mandatory
provision is inadequate. 
 
The purpose of this mandatory relief provision is to alleviate the
hardship on parties who lose their day in court due to an inexcusable failure
to act by their attorneys. (Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting
Group, Inc. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 249, 257.) More recently, the Court of
Appeal has stated the purpose was to relieve the innocent client of the burden
of the attorney's fault, to impose the burden on the erring attorney, and to
avoid precipitating more litigation in the form of malpractice suits. (SJP
Limited Partnership v. City of Los Angeles (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 511,
516.)
            Here, Defendants’
counsel’s evidence states, in a conclusory manner, that he missed filing an
opposition to the motion for terminating sanctions “because of the
absence of my primary paralegal for the last five years who left the office
during the second week of March, 2024.” (Saunders Decl., ¶ 12.) Defendants’ counsel’s then goes on to reference the opposition to the motion
for terminating sanctions wherein he provides an excuse for the failure to
comply with discovery obligations, court orders and submitting a timely
opposition. (5/20/24 Saunders Decl., ¶¶ 3-8.) 
 
            While the bar for mandatory relief
under Section 473 is not high, it does require “indispensable admission by
counsel ... that his error resulted in the entry of default or dismissal” (State
Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Pietak (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 600, 609.)
Here, the declaration appears deliberately vague and fails to take clear
responsibility for the defects that resulted in the Court’s granting the motion
for terminating sanctions. (Saunders Decl., ¶¶ 2-12.)
 
In the absence of adequate
evidence, Defendants are not entitled to relief under the mandatory provision. (Henderson v. Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. (2010)
187 Cal.App.4th 215, 226 [“The defaulting party “must submit sufficient
evidence that the default was actually caused by the attorney's error.
[Citation.]’ ”].)


 
 
 
Unlike the
prior motion to set aside, the problem is not only Defendants’ failure to
provide a timely opposition to the discovery motion. Importantly, the evidence
also shows late responses to a second set of discovery and failure to timely
comply with court ordered monetary sanctions. It was these actions that in the
aggregate formed the basis for the Court’s decision to grant the motion for
terminating sanctions and these actions to which Defendants’ counsel has failed
to clearly demonstrate attorney error.
 
            Plaintiffs also request sanctions
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7. This request for sanctions,
made in the opposition papers, fails to comply with the procedural requirements
of this statute. (Transcon Financial, Inc. v. Reid & Hellyer, APC
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 547, 550.)
 
            The opposition also cites Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5, although no legal analysis or argument was
specifically made with respect to this statute. However, unlike Section 128.7,
this statute does not require a separate motion. As such, the Court will
consider the request for sanctions under this statute. 
 
            Section 128.5's requirements are
demanding. For example, it explicitly requires that “[a]n order imposing
[sanctions] shall be in writing and shall recite in detail the action or tactic
or circumstances justifying the order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (c).)
Most relevant here, Section 128.5 specifies its sanctions must be based on
“expenses ... incurred ... as a result of actions or tactics, made in bad
faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay” (§
128.5, subd. (a)), with “ ‘[f]rivolous’ ” defined as “mean[ing] totally and
completely without merit or for the sole purpose of harassing an opposing
party” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (b)(2)). 
 
            Here, the evidence does not show
that Defendants’ motion to set aside was made in bad faith. That is, while the
motion has ultimately been found lacking, it cannot be said to be frivolous.
Nor does the evidence show that the motion was intended as a delay tactic,
either. 
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendants’ motion to set aside the entry
of default and default judgment is denied. Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
denied. 


