 Case Number:  22STCV34394    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  T 22STCV34394 JUAN DE LOS
SANTOS VILLABA vs T&R PAINTING & DRYWALL 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant T&R Painting and Drywall’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.
Introduction 
Defendant T&R Painting and
Drywall (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Juan De Los Santos Villaba’s
(Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
The demurrer placed into issue the single cause of action (COA) for
“violations of Labor Code sections and other provisions of the California Labor
Code”.             
Discussion  
Defendant argued that the FAC
failed to allege supportive facts to support the alleged violations of the
Labor Code and California Code of Regulations. 
A liberal reading of the FAC showed that the FAC is insufficiently pled
as argued by Defendant.  Without
supportive facts alleged in the FAC, the FAC did not provide Defendant with
proper notice of the claims being alleged against them.  Plaintiff’s opposition did not cite to any
paragraphs in the FAC to support their contention that the FAC is supported by
sufficient fact pleading.  Plaintiff’s
contention that the FAC is sufficiently alleged is conclusory.  The Court finds the FAC to be insufficiently
supported with factual pleading.  
To the extent Plaintiff’s
contention relied upon FAC paragraphs 22-30 to argue that facts were
sufficiently alleged, the Court does not agree with Plaintiff.
Plaintiff argued, during the
parties’ meet and confer process, that the supportive factual allegations could
be incorporated into a Proposed Second Amended Complaint by attaching the
Notice given to the Labor Workforce Development Agency (LWDA) which also
included a copy of the original complaint as an exhibit.  (Ross Decl., pars. 3-4, Exh. A.)  However, incorporating and/or attaching the
original complaint as an exhibit to a Proposed Second Amended Complaint would
be improper.  Upon the filing of an
amended pleading that made substantive changes, the amended pleading supersedes
the original/prior pleading.  Making
substantive changes in an amended pleading, in effect, is an abandonment  of the issues raised in the original/prior
pleading.  This is the case here.  Plaintiff abandoned the class action
allegations in the original complaint and instead sought to proceed as a
representative PAGA action.  Attaching
the original complaint to a Proposed Second Amended Complaint and incorporating
the allegations would be an improper way to reinstate the abandoned class
action issues alleged in the original/prior complaint.  Plaintiff cannot simply attach the LWDA
Notice and its attached original complaint to a Proposed Second Amended
Complaint to cure the pleading defects in the FAC.  Plaintiff must allege facts in an
amended pleading so that it stands independent of the original complaint and
the FAC.
The demurrer to the FAC is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.