 Case Number:  22STCV34273    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  KELLY OMAROGBON,Plaintiff;  vs. CATE ROMICH,Defendant.  Case No.:  22STCV34273 Hearing Date:  December 4, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION  Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to requests for production is GRANTED. With respect to Requests 9, 48, 50, 52, and 53,  the responses are limited to documents from up to five years before the alleged assault and onward.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for defamation, false light, and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges that he was enrolled in the Stella Adler Studio of Acting in January 2021. A mutual friend introduced Plaintiff to Defendant Romich in September 2021 because Defendant wanted to meet him. Despite Plaintiff being an openly homosexual man, Defendant aggressively pursued a relationship with Plaintiff. Plaintiff agreed to have lunch with Defendant out of respect for their mutual friend. Plaintiff discovered that Defendant had many pictures of him saved on her phone. When Plaintiff asked Defendant why she wanted to be an actor, she responded that she enjoyed fabricating stories and was a compulsive and pathological liar. Defendant refused to part company with Plaintiff after the lunch and persisted in asking to see where Plaintiff lived until he relented and allowed her to drive him home. When they arrived at Plaintiff’s home, Defendant attempted to kiss him and told him she wanted to be intimate with him. Plaintiff unequivocally informed Defendant that he was only interested in men and that he had a date that evening. Defendant became upset and threatened Plaintiff that he would regret it unless he cancelled the date and spent the evening with her. After Plaintiff agreed to go to a classmate’s party with Defendant, Defendant drove Plaintiff to his date. Plaintiff forgot to text Defendant about the party. Defendant continued to romantically pursue Plaintiff. In October 2021, Plaintiff learned that Defendant began telling others that Plaintiff sexually assaulted her following their lunch, which caused him to be expelled from the school.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn October 25, 2022, Plaintiff filed his Complaint against Cate Romich.On February 9, 2023, Defendant answered and filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff.On August 2, 2023, the parties participated in IDC and were ordered to meet and confer regarding their discovery dispute.On November 1, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to compel further responses to Requests for Production (“RPDs”).DISCUSSION Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to produce further responses to Requests for Production (“RPDs”).I. Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to a request for production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: 1. A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; 2. A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 3. An objection in the response is without merit or too general. To prevail, the party moving for the order must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless notice of the motion to compel a further response is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2031.310(c), 2030.300(c).)  Failure to timely move to compel within the specified period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel a further response. The 45–day rule to bring a motion to compel is mandatory and jurisdictional “in the sense that it renders court without authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them.” (Sexton v. Superior Ct. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  II. DiscussionDefendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to RPDs. Specifically, Defendant seeks further response RPD number 1-4, 9, 48, 50, 52-54, 63-65, 67-68, 91, 105, 109, 110, and 116.Defendant’s counsel, Krista Landis, testifies that she served requests for production on Plaintiff on March 14, 2023. (Landis Decl., ¶2.) Plaintiff served responses on May 8, 2023. On May 22, 2023, Defendant’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff about the deficient responses. (Id., ¶4.) On June 8, 2023, Plaintiff served some supplemental responses without responding to the letter. (Id., ¶5.) However, Plaintiff failed to supplement RPD numbers 1-4, 9, 48, 50, 52-54, 63-65, 67-68, 91, 105, 109, 110, and 116. (Id.) Defendants counsel sent another meet and confer letter on June 19, 2023 and followed up via email on October 4, 2023. (Id., ¶¶7, 12.) Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter on October 30, 2023 stating Plaintiff believed his responses were sufficient. (Id., ¶13.) RPD numbers 1-4 seek all documents that support Plaintiff’s first through fourth causes of action:RPD 1: All documents that support your first cause of action for “Defamation – Libel Per Se.”RPD 2: All documents that support your second cause of action for “Defamation – Slander Per Se.”RPD 3: All documents that support your third cause of action for “False Light.”RPD 4: All documents that support your fourth cause of action for “Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.”To each of these RPDs, Plaintiff objected on the grounds that they failed to identify the requested documents with reasonable particularity and would require Plaintiff’s counsel to select responsive documents. Plaintiff alleges that this is a breach of attorney-client privilege because an attorney’s opinion regarding which documents “support” a particular cause of action or factual allegation reflects their impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories. Attorney work product privilege protects absolutely from disclosure “writing[s] that reflect[ ] an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories … .” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2018.030(a).)  The qualified attorney work product privilege protect interviews conducted by counsel, unless the court rules otherwise. All attorney work product, written or not, reflecting impressions and conclusions or not, “is not discoverable unless the court determines that denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery … .” (Id. § 2018.030 (b); see also Curtis v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 453, 468.) “The purpose of the privilege is twofold: to ‘[p]reserve the rights of attorneys to prepare cases for trial with [the] degree of privacy necessary …’; and to ‘[p]revent attorneys from taking undue advantage of their adversary’s industry and efforts.’ [Citation.]” (Curtis, supra, at p. 648.) Plaintiff’s counsel alleges that the documents requested are protected by attorney work product privilege under Code Civ. Proc., section 2018.030 because his selection of the responsive documents would reveal his impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories. Plaintiff cites Coito v. Superior Court (2012) 54 Acl.App.4th 480 in support of this argument. The court in Coito ruled that work product privilege protection applied where a witness’s statement and an attorney’s impressions are inextricably intertwined. Plaintiff argues that requiring Plaintiff’s counsel to select responsive documents would inextricably intertwine the requested documents with Plaintiff’s counsel’s impressions. Additionally, Plaintiff represents that all documents that would have been produced under these requests have already been produced.Plaintiff’s counsel failed to provide a privilege log and provides no authority supporting his argument that the selection of documents responsive to these requests is protected under work product privilege. The selection of documents is not protected under Code Civ. Proc., section 2018.030(a) because a selection is not a writing, but the act of selecting documents. The Court cannot find that the selection is protected under Code Civ. Proc., section 2018.030(b) because Defendant would be prejudiced unless Plaintiff produces the documents requested. As Defendant points out, Defendant is not in a position to request specific documents because Defendant does not know what documents Plaintiff possesses. Additionally, if Plaintiff’s position was correct, any response to any discovery request requiring the opposing party’s attorney to select facts or documents for production would be protected under attorney work product privilege. To the extent that Plaintiff has already submitted documents responsive to these questions, Plaintiff is not required to submit duplicate documents. The Court finds that these requests are not unduly burdensome, oppressive, overbroad, harassing, or unduly intrusive.RPD numbers 9, 48, 50, 52, and 53 request Plaintiff’s communications and documents that reference any romantic relationships or sexual intercourse Plaintiff had with any person:RPD 9: All notes and any other documents prepared by you or on your behalf that refer to, reflect, evidence, or upon which you rely in making the claims alleged in the Complaint.RPD 48: All communications between you and Sunday Iyen Omoragbon that refer to, reference, or concern any sexual intercourse, romantic relationship(s), and/or date(s) you have had with any person.RPD 50: All communications between you and Florence Oghator that refer to, reference, or concern any sexual intercourse, romantic relationship(s), and/or date(s) you have had with any person.RPD 52: All communications between you and Cyndy Loji Osasere that refer to, reference, or concern any sexual intercourse, romantic relationship(s), and/or date(s) you have had with any person.RPD 53: All documents that refer to, reference, or concern any romantic relationship(s), date(s), and/or sexual intercourse you have had with any person.Plaintiff objected to these requests on the grounds that they seek privileged information. For the same reasons as above, this objection is overruled.Plaintiff also alleges that these requests seek irrelevant information, are not limited in time, and invades Plaintiff’s privacy and the privacy of third parties.These requests seek information about Plaintiff’s romantic and sexual relationships with others. Because Plaintiff argues in his Complaint that he would not have sexually assaulted Defendant due to his sexuality, information about whether Plaintiff is homosexual is relevant to Plaintiff’s claims. Defendant thus has a legitimate discovery interest in these communications that outweighs Defendant’s and third parties’ privacy interests. However, the requests are overbroad because they are not limited in time. Thus, the requests are limited to up to five years before the incident and onward. RPD 54 requests all social media posts you have posted from January 1, 2020 to the present.RPD numbers 63-65, 67-68, 91, 105, and 109 seek documents that refer to reflect, or evidence various allegations Plaintiff makes in his Complaint:RPD 63: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 7 of your Complaint that “Plaintiff has been a commercial model since 2015 and moved to Los Angeles in or about January of 2021 to pursue his modeling and acting career.”RPD 64: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph you’re your Complaint that “Plaintiff is currently a model and working as a background extra.RPD 65: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 7 of your Complaint that “Plaintiff has an impeccable reputation and a clean record,”RPD 67: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 9 of your Complaint that you are “not romantically interested in . . . women at all, for that matter.”RPD 68: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 9 of your Complaint that “Plaintiff was, and at all times has been, an openly homosexual man.”RPD 91: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 26 of your Complaint that “Plaintiff had been viewed well-liked since moving to the United States”.RPD 105: All documents that refer to or reflect Instagram posts, stories, and/or direct messages you have made from January, 1 2020 to the present.RPD 109: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 43 of your Complaint that “The defamatory publications consisted of oral and written statements, knowingly false and unprivileged communications, tending directly to injure Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s personal, business, and professional reputations.”RPD 110: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 43 of your Complaint that “These false and defamatory statements were made to cause damage to Plaintiff’s professional and personal reputation, his good name, his ability to make a living and his employment and to humiliate him before third-parties.”RPD 116: All documents that refer to, reflect or evidence the allegation in Paragraph 43 of your Complaint that “The above-described statements concerning Plaintiff directly injured him by completely destroying his personal and professional reputation which had been positive before Defendant Romich made such statements.”Plaintiff objected to these requests on the grounds that the documents requested are protected by attorney-client privilege and attorney work product privilege. Again, Plaintiff fails to provide a privilege log. Additionally, the RPD expressly states that it is not seeking privileged material. Plaintiff also argues that his counsel’s selection of responsive documents is privileged. For the same reasons as above, the objection is overruled.DATED:  December 4, 2023______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court