 Case Number:  22GDCV00336    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  3 Date: 10/27/2023 Case No:  22 GDCV00336  Trial Date: January 13, 2025Case Name: Korea Trade Insurance Corporatation v. Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIESMoving Party:  Defendant and cross-complainant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc.   Responding Party: Cross defendant Mido Trade Co., Ltd. (No Opposition)     RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set No. 1  FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff Korea Trade Insurance Corporation alleges that it is assignee to Mido Trade Co., Ltd, and brings this action for common counts, alleging that defendant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. has become indebted to plaintiff in the sum of $152,244.49.  The complaint alleges causes of action for open book account, account stated, and reasonable value.  Defendant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. has filed a cross-complaint against Mido Trade Co., Ltd., alleging that in July and August of 2020, cross-complainant and cross-defendant entered into a written agreement by way of a series of purchase orders and invoices whereby cross-defendant agreed to sell and cross-complainant agreed to purchase certain women’s leggings.  The cross-complaint alleges that cross-defendant breached the contract by failing to deliver conforming goods, failing to have the goods manufactured at the main factory of cross-defendant, placing false UPC codes on the goods, failing to inspect the goods in a proper manner, and delivering goods that were “bleeding” and had sewing defects so that the goods failed to pass inspection with an acceptable defect rate.  The cross-complaint alleges that as a direct result of cross-defendant’s breach, cross-complainant has been damaged.  It is also alleged that during the negotiations for the sale of the goods, cross-defendant falsely represented the goods would be manufactured at the main factory of cross-defendant, that correct UPC codes would be placed on the goods, and that the goods would be inspected in a proper manner and pass inspection at an acceptable defect rate and that the goods would otherwise conform to the specifications required by cross-complainant.  The cross-complaint alleges causes of action for breach of contract, breach of implied warranty of merchantability, breach of implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent billing. ANALYSIS:Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The section specifically provides that “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery may be obtained “of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”Under CCP § 2030.300:“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. If a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully respond to discovery.  Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.  The granting or denial of a motion to compel is in the discretion of the trial court.  Coy, at 221-222.   A court should generally consider the following factors:The relationship of the information sought to the issues framed in the pleadings;The likelihood that disclosure will be of practical benefit to the party seeking discovery;The burden or expense likely to be encountered by the responding party in furnishing the information sought.Columbia Broadcast System, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19. Here, cross-complainant has timely brought this motion to compel, and cross-defendant has failed to file written opposition to the motion, so has failed to meet its burden to justify any objection or failure to fully respond.  The motion accordingly is granted.  The motion concerns two form interrogatories, Form Interrogatory 15.1 and Form Interrogatory No. 17.1. Form Interrogatory No. 15.1 requests that the responding party identify each material allegation and affirmative defense in its pleading and for each state the facts, witnesses, and documents supporting the allegation or defense.  The response is:“OBJECTION.  This interrogatory also seeks information protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege and/or attorney work product doctrine.” Cross-complainant argues that the objection is meritless, as the interrogatory does not seek information protected by the privileges asserted, and, in any case, cross-defendant has failed to submit a privilege log.  This interrogatory appears to be a straightforward contention interrogatory.  As noted above, “discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party…”   CCP section. 2017.010.   CCP sec. 2030 .010(a) specifically permits the propounding of contention interrogatories:“An interrogatory may relate to whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts, witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based.   An interrogatory is not objectionable because an answer to it involves an opinion or a contention that relates to fact or the application of law to facts, or would be based on information obtained or legal theories developed in anticipation of litigation.” This interrogatory is an approved Judicial Council form interrogatory, which has never been subject to any cited case law interpretation limiting its use.  This action is no different from any other civil litigation in which the parties are expected to permit discovery of the information sought here, in effect, the fact, witnesses and documents supporting cross-defendant’s defenses.   Moreover, cross-defendant has failed to make any attempt to justify the objection, when it is ordinarily the initial burden of the party seeking to withhold a document from discovery to show that a privilege applies. See Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Superior Court (2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733 (“The party claiming the privilege has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts necessary to support its exercise, i.e., a communication made in the course of an attorney-client relationship,” citing D.I Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court (1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 729).The motion accordingly is granted, the objection is overruled, and cross-defendant is ordered to serve further complete responses to the interrogatory without objections. Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 requests that for each request for admission which is not an unqualified admission, the responding party state the number of the request, the facts upon which the response is based, and the persons who have knowledge of those facts, and identify all documents and tangible things supporting the response, along with information concerning any person who has the document or thing. Cross-complainant indicates that no response at all was made to this form interrogatory.  Cross-complainant argues that there must be responses to those items which were denied, as well as in connection with several Requests for Admissions that need to be revised or supplemented.   Cross-complainant also argues that the lack of response is in clear violation of CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” Further complete responses, without objections, are ordered to be served. Sanctions This leaves the issue of monetary sanctions, which are sought by the moving party.   With respect to interrogatories, CCP § 2030.300 (d) provides that the court “shall impose a monetary sanction...against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   Under CCP § 2023.010, misuse of the discovery process includes “(e) making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery”; and “(f) making an evasive response to discovery.”  Where there has been a misuse of the discovery process, under Section 2023.030(a), the court “may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  Here, the responses served included objections which responding party has failed to justify, and evasive responses, and responding party made these motions necessary.  Responding party has failed to file timely written opposition to this motion, so has failed to meet any burden of showing that the imposition of sanctions is not proper here, or that responding party’s conduct is substantially justified.  Sanctions are awarded.  The sanctions sought are $2,068.91.  This amount is unreasonable because there is opposition filed.  The court does not award all the attorneys’ fees requested since no reply was required due to a lack of an opposition being filed.  The court reduces the attorney hours for drafting the motion from 3.5 hours to 3.0 hours, but the court allows .5 hours for appearing at the hearing for total attorney time of 3.5 hours.RULING:[No Opposition]Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant Mido Trade Co., Ltd. is ordered to serve further complete verified responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 15.1 and 17.1, without objection.  The Court has reviewed the objections asserted, and finds they are without merit, and cross-defendant has failed to justify them, so objections are OVERRULED.  Further responses must provide all information requested in that interrogatory, and fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be discovered.”  The responding party must also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220, including subdivision (a): “Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” Further responses to be served within ten days. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,400.00 (4.0 hours @ $400/hour) (5 hours requested ) plus $61.65 in filing fees and $7.26 in efiling fees [Amount Requested $2,068.91], which sum is to be awarded in favor of cross-complainant Mix & Match Apparel, Inc. and against cross-defendant Mido Trade Co., Ltd., and cross-defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days. CCP §§ 2030.300(c), 2023.010 (e) and (f), and 2023.030(a).DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 