 Case Number:  22GDCV00072    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     2 Date:           10/27/2023 Case No: 22 GDCV00072Case Name: Stepanyan v. Topa Insurance Company   MOTION FOR OSC RE CONTEMPTMoving Party:             Defendant Topa Insurance Company  Responding Party:      Third Party Edgar Madatyan  (No Opposition)   RELIEF REQUESTED:Issuance of Order Show Cause Re Contempt against third party witness Edgar Madatyan FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUD: Plaintiff William Stepanyan alleges that defendant Topa Insurance Company issued plaintiff a homeowner’s insurance policy for plaintiff’s home in Glendale, which was in full force and effect when, in April of 2021, a water loss occurred at the property.    The complaint alleges that plaintiff discovered the water leak, which had penetrated the majority of the interior of the property, and immediately turned off the water line and called a plumber.  The plumber hired to repair the leak determined that an angle stop under the sink had failed, and replaced the angle stop.  A restoration company then inspected the property, packed out most of the contents, and provided mitigation services to dry the water that had penetrated the subfloor and walls as a result of the incident.  Plaintiff and his family were required to relocate as a result of the incident.   Plaintiff alleges that in April of 2021, plaintiff submitted a claim to defendant for the incident, and in July 2021 provided a notarized proof of loss, estimating plaintiff’s losses at $253,944.25.   The complaint alleges that during the investigation of the claim, defendant requested documentation regarding the loss which had already been provided, or was not relevant or reasonably necessary to investigate the claim, in an effort to annoy, harass and vex plaintiff and his wife, and then falsely stated that plaintiff’s former counsel had failed to present plaintiff for an Examination Under Oath or an inspection of personal property, and accused plaintiff of failing to cooperate because defendant’s investigator was unable to obtain information from the plumber and remediation company.  The investigator scheduled an inspection at the property, but arrived seeking inspection of personal property only, which had been packed out and was being stored offsite.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff and his wife were assured that no further inspection of the property was necessary.  Plaintiff also alleges that the subsequent inspection of personal property improperly placed an onus on plaintiff’s wife with respect to the water damage to such property.  It is also alleged that plaintiff, after engaging new counsel, again produced 1,186 pages of documents. Plaintiffs allege that defendant insisted that the Examinations Under Oath be conducted in person, despite the COVID pandemic, and that plaintiff and his wife not wear face coverings during their examinations, despite Los Angeles County Department of Health requirements that mask must be worn in all indoor public settings and public and private businesses.  The complaint alleges that after the examinations were completed, neither plaintiff nor his wife were afforded an opportunity to review or correct the transcripts, in violation of the Insurance Code.   On December 28, 2021, defendant’s counsel sent a letter denying plaintiff’s claim, which plaintiff alleges failed to comply with insurance regulations. The complaint also alleges that defendant failed to follow fair claim settlement regulations, and other standards of conduct with regard to fair handling of claims.  The complaint also alleges that plaintiff has a custom and practice of discriminating against its own insureds who are of Armenian and/or Middle Eastern descent, which violates the unfair competition law, and seeks injunctive relief to enjoin defendants from committing further unfair practices.      On June 30, 2023, the court heard an unopposed motion to compel third party witness Edgar Madatyan to appear and testify at deposition and to produce documents.   The motion was granted.  The court’s minute order states:“Third party Edgar Madatyan is ordered to appear and give testimony at a deposition to be conducted on a mutually agreeable date and time, at the law offices of defendants’ counsel, to be completed before July 28, 2023. The deponent is also ordered to bring to the depositions all documents responsive to Attachment 3 to the Deposition Subpoena.”[Minute Order 06/30/2023, p. 4].   On the same date, defendant filed and served a Notice of Ruling granting the motion, which included the above language, and also attached a full copy of the court’s June 30, 2023 minute order. ANALYSIS:CCP section 177(2) provides generally that every judicial officer shall have power “To compel obedience to his lawful orders as provided in this Code....”   Under CCP section 1209(a), contempts of the authority of the court include: “(5) Disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the court….”To establish entitlement to an order of contempt, the following elements must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt:(1) the rendition of a valid order,(2) the accused’s “actual knowledge” of the order,(3) the accused’s ability to comply with the order, and(4) the accused’s willful disobedience of the order.  Conn v. Superior Court (1987, 2nd Dist.) 196 Cal.App.3d 774, 784126 Cal.App.2d 821, 824.   An indirect contempt proceeding must be commenced by “affidavit...of the facts constituting the contempt...”  CCP section 1211(a).   Defendant argues here that third party Edgar Madatyan’s violation of this Court’s June 20, 2023 order compelling attendance at deposition qualifies as indirect contempt under CCP section 1211(a), which provides, in pertinent part:“When the contempt is not committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge at chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators, or other judicial officers.”Defendant has submitted an affidavit of counsel for defendant attaching a copy of the deposition subpoena served on Matadyan, explaining Madatyan’s cutting off and refusing to proceed with the deposition, and the proceedings pursuant to which the motion to compel was granted.  [Gibbs Decl., paras. 2-5, Exs. A-5].  The order of the court on June 30, 2023 clearly stated:“Third party Edgar Madatyan is ordered to appear and give testimony at a deposition to be conducted on a mutually agreeable date and time, at the law offices of defendants’ counsel, to be completed before July 28, 2023. The deponent is also ordered to bring to the depositions all documents responsive to Attachment 3 to the Deposition Subpoena.”[Gibbs Decl., para. 5, Ex. D, Minute Order 06/30/2023, p. 4].  The affidavit also indicates that witness Madatyan had knowledge of the order because he was served with a copy of the order on June 30, 2023, pursuant to the Notice of Ruling and the attachment of the minute order, which was served on Madatyan at the physical address and personal email address he provided during his deposition.  [Gibbs Decl., para. 6, Ex. E]. Defendant indicates that Madatyan had the ability to comply with the order, and attaches a letter sent to Madatyan, again at his personal and work emails on July 6, 2023 to remind him he was required to appear for his deposition again, but that Madatyan did not appear for his deposition prior to July 28, 2023 as required by the court order.  [Gibbs Decl., para. 7, Ex. F].   The court’s order is clear, and the order is valid.  The unopposed motion appears to sufficiently establish that Madatyan had knowledge of the court’s order, and the ability to comply, but failed to do so. The file also includes a proof of service showing that Madatyan was personally served with all papers supporting this motion for an OSC re Contempt on October 9, 2023, at his place of business.  [POS, filed 10/16/2023].  Defendant has also submitted a detailed declaration of a private investigator describing the efforts to serve Matadyan, and the ultimate successful personal service.  [Scarcella Decl., filed 10/16/2023].This presentation is sufficient to show personal service on the third party witness, the accused, of the papers to bring that party into contempt, which papers must be personally served on the accused.   See  In re Morelli (1970, 2nd Dist.) 11 Cal.App.3d 819, 835.     The court finds the showing sufficient to set an OSC re Contempt, and the unopposed motion is granted.     RULING:   [No opposition]Motion for Issuance of an Order to Show Cause Re Contempt Against Third Party Witness Edgar Madatyan Due to Violation of Court order is GRANTED.   The Court finds that the charging affidavit is sufficient, notice of ruling with the court’s minute order has been served, and all supporting papers for the motion to set the Order to Show Cause have been personally served on the accused. The Court finds the affidavit sufficient to establish facts supporting a proceeding to determine if an indirect contempt of court has been committed, including the rendition of a valid order, the accused’s actual knowledge of the order, the accused’s ability to comply with the order, and the accused’s willful disobedience of the order.   The Court sets an Order to Show Cause Why Third Party Witness Edgar Madatyan Should Not be Held in Contempt for disobedience of this Court’s June 30, 2023 order compelling the accused to appear and give testimony at a deposition to be conducted on a mutually agreeable date and time, at the law offices of defendants’ counsel, to be completed before July 28, 2023, and ordering the deponent to bring to the depositions all documents responsive to Attachment 3 to the Deposition Subpoena, to be held on November 17, 2023 at 1:30 p.m. in Department D for arraignment on the contempt charge.DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 