 Case Number:  23GDCV00934    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  13 Date: 10/27/2023 Case No:  23 GDCV00934 Trial Date:  None Set Case Name: Fearnside v. General Motors, LLC  MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION Moving Party: Plaintiff Keith Fearnside   Responding Party:  Defendant General Motors, LLC Name of Deponent:  PMQ of General Motors, LLC        Status of Deponent: Defendant or defendant affiliate (party)DEPO ATTENDANCE REQUIRED BY:Formal Notice [Amended Notice, Exhibit 4]. RELIEF REQUESTED BY MOVING PARTY:Order compelling the deposition General Motors LLC’s Person Most Qualified within thirty days. FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Keith Fearnside alleges that in January of 2021 plaintiff purchased a new 2021 Chevrolet Suburban, which was warranted by defendant General Motors LLC, with defendant providing an express warranty and an implied warranty, including warranties that the vehicle was fit for the ordinary purposes for which vehicles are used and that it was acceptable in the trade. Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle was delivered to plaintiff with nonconformities to warranty, including the liftgate, sidesteps, rattle noises, transmission, water pump, oil leaks and other defects.   Plaintiff alleges that the defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable warranty periods.  Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff presented the vehicle to defendant’s authorized facilities for repair of these nonconformities on at least seven occasions, and that those facilities verified the concerns and performed several repair attempts, but, ultimately, many if not all of the problems remain unrepaired. The complaint alleges two causes of action, for Breach of Express Warranty, and Breach of Implied Warranty. ANALYSIS:The parties are evidently unaware that this matter is subject to the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order) applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale Courthouse, Department D.   The Order was signed by the court on January 24, 2023. Pursuant to that Order, “any formal discovery propounded and currently pending or outstanding by a party in this matter prior to the date of this CMC Order is stayed pending further order of the Court.”[Order section (1)(a)]. The Order sets forth the following provision concerning discovery in Song-Beverly matters which appear to address the discovery disputes raised by the current motion and opposition.  With respect to depositions, the Order provides:4. Deposition:  Within the time limits allowed by law.  Defendant may depose plaintiff, and plaintiff may depose the person most knowledgeable (PMK) as to up to 5 categories of information, plus a deposition of the PMK as to why the subject vehicle was not repurchased, in addition to depositions of any experts identified by the parties, after a formal demand and exchange of expert witness information, per CCP § 2034.  Parties shall meet and confer as to whether there is a need to take any additional depositions.  Any additional depositions may only be noticed and taken by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause).If a deponent resides out of state, the deposition may be taken by video conference or telephone.  The parties will not be required to travel to California, and the attorneys will not be required to travel out of state.”[Order, section 4].  With respect to document production, the order provides:“Production of Documents:  Within 60 days of service of this Order both plaintiff and defendant shall provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side(s):a. Purchase or lease contracts concerning the subject vehicle, including any associated documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket equipment installed at the dealership, ELWs or service contracts, and any other writings signed by the plaintiff at the point of sale.b. Work orders, repair orders, and invoices (including accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance, service and repair activity concerning the subject vehicles.c. Rental car or loaner agreements regarding alternative transportation provided during service or repair visits concerning the subject vehicle.d. Records of communications with dealer personnel, and/or factory representatives and defendant’s call center or customer assistance personnel concerning the subject vehicle.e. Warrant claims submitted to and/or approved by defendant concerning the subject vehicle.f. Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or similar policies or claim-handling procedures published by Defendant from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.g. Defendant’s written statements of policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims, including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.h. A list of or compilation of customer complaints in defendant’s electronically stored information database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  A substantially similar customer complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description listed in any work order or repair order for the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled maintenance items.  The list provided by defendant may be in the chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’ reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names, addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying information.i. Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices for vehicle purchased or leased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.j. Copies of any repair instruction, bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair order/invoice records for the subject vehicle.k. Receipts or other written evidence supporting any incidental or consequential damages claimed by plaintiff.If a party believes any of this information should be subject to a protective order, that party shall serve and file a proposed protective order within 5 days of this Order and the parties shall meet and confer as to agreeable language for the same.  The default will be the standard Protective Order provided by the LASC in its website.The information may be provided to the opposing party in electronic form as a PDF at the option of the producing party.Plaintiff and defendant shall serve verification with the documents they produce.Any additional requests for documents may only be propounded by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause).[Order section (2)(a)]. This motion concerning compelling the deposition and production of requested documents will accordingly be denied without prejudice to permit the parties the opportunity to comply with the Order.  The parties are ordered to engage in good faith meet and confer concerning the outstanding discovery in light of the Order, and, if necessary, reschedule the motions and file new papers and separate statements reflecting the then current status of the discovery disputes including in that separate statement as to each request and response any applicable language of the Order.  If a party believes that a protective order is warranted, the procedures outlined in the Order, as set forth above, shall be followed.  [See Order, section 2(a), paragraphs following (k)]. Plaintiff in the notice of motion seeks “Sanctions in the amount of $1,500.00.”   The request does not comply with the mandatory statutory requirements for seeking sanctions.  CCP § 2023.040 clearly requires that “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every person, party and attorney against whom the sanction is sought and specify the type of sanction sought.  The notice of motion shall be accompanied by a memorandum of points and authorities and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.” (Emphasis added). The notice does not specify any person, party, or attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and does not even directly specify that the type of sanctions sought are monetary.  There is no information in the supporting Ullman Declaration regarding or supporting the sanctions, such as statement of the hours spent to prepare the motion, or the billing rate claimed.  The sanctions sought accordingly are denied. RULING:Plaintiff Keith Fearnside’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC’s Person Most Qualified is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE, pursuant to this Court’s Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation), signed and entered by the Court on January 24, 2023. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in good faith concerning compliance with the Order, and to serve any further discovery or further discovery responses, and engage in any further discovery proceedings, including depositions, or further discovery motions, in compliance with the Order and this Minute Order.If the parties believe that a protective order is warranted, the procedures outlined in the Order shall be followed.  [See Order, section 2(a), paragraphs following (k)].Request for sanctions in the moving papers is denied. The moving papers fail to comply with CCP § 2023.040, as the notice of motion fails to identify every person, party and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and the declaration in support of the motion does not set forth facts supporting the amount of the any sanction sought. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 