 Case Number:  23GDCV00475    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  9 Date: 10/27/2023 Case No:  23 GDCV00475    Trial Date: May 12, 2025 Case Name: Quintero v. General Motors, LLC MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TODOCUMENT DEMANDSMoving Party:  Plaintiff Raul Quintero  Responding Party: Defendant General Motors, LLC    RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One MONETARY SANCTION:None sought CRC separate statement, etc.:   Yes DECLARATION SUPPORTING MOTION:Reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally:  Yes, Exs. 6, 9FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Raul C. Quintero alleges that in August of 2022 plaintiff purchased a 2022 Chevrolet Silverado vehicle and received an express written warranty pursuant to which defendant General Motors, LLC undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance for a specified period of time. Plaintiff alleges that after plaintiff took possession of the vehicle, and during the warranty period the vehicle contained or developed defects which substantially impair the use, safety and value of the vehicle, including a defective electrical system, engine, fuel system ignition system, and connectivity system.  Plaintiff alleges plaintiff provided defendant and its representatives in this state with sufficient opportunity to service or repair the vehicle, but that defendant and its representatives were unable or failed to service or repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts. The complaint alleges five causes of action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code section 1793.2, for Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2, for Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2, for Breach of Express Warranty, and for Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability.  ANALYSIS:The parties are evidently unaware that this matter is subject to the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order) applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale Courthouse, Department D.   The Order was signed by the court on January 24, 2023. Pursuant to that Order, “any formal discovery propounded and currently pending or outstanding by a party in this matter prior to the date of this CMC Order is stayed pending further order of the Court.”[Order section (1)(a)]. The order sets forth the following provision concerning discovery in Song-Beverly matters which address the discovery disputes raised by the current motion and opposition.  With respect to Requests for Production of Documents, the Order provides:“Production of Documents:  Within 60 days of service of this Order both plaintiff and defendant shall provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side(s):a. Purchase or lease contracts concerning the subject vehicle, including any associated documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket equipment installed at the dealership, ELWs or service contracts, and any other writings signed by the plaintiff at the point of sale.b. Work orders, repair orders, and invoices (including accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance, service and repair activity concerning the subject vehicles.c. Rental car or loaner agreements regarding alternative transportation provided during service or repair visits concerning the subject vehicle.d. Records of communications with dealer personnel, and/or factory representatives and defendant’s call center or customer assistance personnel concerning the subject vehicle.e. Warrant claims submitted to and/or approved by defendant concerning the subject vehicle.f. Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or similar policies or claim-handling procedures published by Defendant from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.g. Defendant’s written statements of policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims, including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.h. A list of or compilation of customer complaints in defendant’s electronically stored information database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  A substantially similar customer complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description listed in any work order or repair order for the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled maintenance items.  The list provided by defendant may be in the chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’ reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names, addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying information.i. Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices for vehicle purchased or leased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.j. Copies of any repair instruction, bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair order/invoice records for the subject vehicle.k. Receipts or other written evidence supporting any incidental or consequential damages claimed by plaintiff.If a party believes any of this information should be subject to a protective order, that party shall serve and file a proposed protective order within 5 days of this Order and the parties shall meet and confer as to agreeable language for the same.  The default will be the standard Protective Order provided by the LASC in its website.The information may be provided to the opposing party in electronic form as a PDF at the option of the producing party.Plaintiff and defendant shall serve verification with the documents they produce.Any additional requests for documents may only be propounded by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause).[Order section (2)(a)-(k)]. The parties are ordered to engage in good faith meet and confer concerning the outstanding discovery in light of the Order, and, if necessary, reschedule the motion and file new papers and an updated Code compliant separate statement reflecting the then current status of the discovery dispute, including in that separate statement as to each request and response any applicable language of the Order.  The motion is denied without prejudice. The court notes with respect to this particular dispute that the Court will expect Code compliant responses, and unnecessary objections will be overruled.  For example, if appropriate statements of compliance or inability to comply are served which fully comply with CCP sections 2031.220 and 2031.230, there would be no need to object to a Request for Production of Documents on the ground it is overly broad by seeking documents beyond the responding party’s possession, custody, or control.   Specifically, with respect to a statement of compliance, CCP section 2031.220 requires:“A statement that a party to whom an inspection demand has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being make will be included in the production.”With respect to a statement of inability to comply, CCP section 2031.230 requires:“A representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonably inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.   This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding party.   The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”To the extent responses are made which object to the specific demands to the extent they seek confidential, proprietary and trade secret material, the court file shows that the parties have entered into Stipulation and Protective Order- Confidential Designation Only, executed by the parties, and entered as an order of the court on July 24, 2023.  This protective order, along with the narrowing of the information to be provided above, should make it unnecessary for the parties to assert any further objections that the discovery seeks confidential, proprietary or trade secret information. Any further objections that responsive documents are being withheld based on attorney-client or work product privilege must be accompanied by a Code compliant privilege log. RULING:Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses and Documents to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set No. One, is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE pursuant to this Court’s Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation), signed and entered by the Court on January 24, 2023. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in good faith concerning compliance with the Order, and to serve any further discovery, and engage in any further discovery proceedings or motions in compliance with the Order, as well as with this minute order. Any further objections that responsive documents are being withheld based on attorney-client or work product privilege must be accompanied by a Code compliant privilege log. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 