 Case Number:  EC068370    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     15 Date:          10/27/2023  Case No:     EC 068370 Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Grigorian v. Megeredchian, et al.DISCOVERY MOTIONS (2 Motions)Moving Party:  Defendants Alex Megeredchian, Megeredchian Law, and Law Offices of Alex Megeredchian (Compel Responses Interrogs) Plaintiff Vehanoosh Grigorian (Compel Compliance Deposition Subpoenas)     Responding Party: Plaintiff Vehanoosh Grigorian (Compel Responses Interrogs)      Third party Meghedy Bandary Third party Robert Ter-Oganesyan (Compel Compliance Deposition Subpoenas)     (No Opposition) RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set No. One from plaintiff  Order Compelling Compliance with Subpoena for Attendance and Testimony by Robert Ter-Oganesyan FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Vehanoosh Grigorian brings this legal malpractice action against her former attorneys, defendants Alex Megeredchian and his law practice entities, alleging that during their  representation of plaintiff and other partners in a real estate investment joint venture transaction, defendants failed to appropriately advise the parties, and continued representation despite conflicts of interests arising between the partners, ultimately resulting in plaintiff funding the entire real estate purchase, with no written contract to protect plaintiff from the circumstance that two of the other partners’ names remained as purchasers in whom title would vest at closing, and could fail to pay their share of the funding after closing.  The partners failed to pay, and the complaint also alleges that although the partners agreed to execute and executed a notarized  Reconveyance Grant Deed to plaintiff to facilitate a potential sale of the property, defendant falsely claimed that the deed had been forged, and sent a false letter making such allegations to escrow, and other involved parties, clouding title and derailing plaintiff’s efforts to sell the property and mitigate her damages.   Plaintiff also alleges that in breach of their duties and ethical obligations to plaintiff, their client, and plaintiff’s spouse, also their client, defendants have filed a civil suit against plaintiff and her spouse on behalf of the other two partners, seeking to quiet title to the property in favor of the other partners according to their purported 50% interest.  Plaintiff also alleges that in the course of that lawsuit, defendants are improperly using confidential information derived from plaintiff in the course of defendants’ representation of plaintiff. The file shows that on December 5, 2018, the parties filed, and the Court signed a Stipulation and Order Staying Action, staying this matter for all purposes pending resolution of the other action between the partners, which was pending in Van Nuys. On October 25, 2019, the Court heard a motion brought by defendants Alex Megeredchian, Megeredchian Law and Law Offices of Alex Megeredchian to lift the stay in this matter, arguing that the Van Nuys action had been unsatisfactorily delayed.  The motion was denied, the court finding that defendants had not shown good cause to lift the stay.These motions were originally scheduled to be heard on September 25, 2020.  The minute order indicates that at the hearing, counsel represented to the court that they had lost their Mandatory Settlement Conference date and Trial Date in the Van Nuys action.  The Court continued the matters to January 22, 2021 as a “Place Holder Date.”   On January 22, 2021, the court again found that the motions were stayed, and continued the matters for “hearing/rescheduling” to October 22, 2021.   On that date the parties submitted a Stipulation and Order to Continue the hearings and the matters were continued to November 12, 2021.  At that hearing counsel for plaintiff reported that the Van Nuys action was scheduled for closing argument in February, and the matters were continued to February 18, 2021.  On February 18, the court noted that no ruling or statement of decision had been filed in the Van Nuys case, and the matters were continued to April 22, 2022.   On April 15, the court signed and filed a Stipulation of the parties to continue the matters to August 26, 2022.   On August 24, 2022, the court signed and filed a Stipulation and Order to continue the hearings to January 13, 2023.   On January 10, 2023, the court signed and filed a Stipulation and Order to continue the hearings to April 14, 2023.   On April 14, 2023, the court issued its tentative ruling, the matter was argued, and the tentative ruling was adopted and became the court’s final orders.  The motions were continued to permit defendants to file a motion to lift the stay in this matter in light of the Judgment entered in the Van Nuys action which motion was ordered to be filed within thirty (30) days, or no later than May 12, 2023.  The court’s order also permitted plaintiff’s counsel to file a motion to lift the stay pursuant to statutory notice.  The court also ordered, “The stay is to remain until the next court date.”  The matters were continued to July 28, 2023. On July 28, 2023, the court issued its tentative ruling, the matter was called for hearing, and the court, having fully considered the argument of all parties, noted that no party had filed a timely motion to lift the stay in this action, as previously ordered in the court’s April 14, 2023 minute order. The motions and OSC were continued “to place-holder date of October 27, 2023 to permit the parties to file a motion to lift stay or further briefing on the status of this action.  No motions to lift the stay or further briefing on the status of this action have since been filed.   No further papers have been filed in connection with these motions. A review of the docket in the Van Nuys case, LC 106885, shows that there has been no further activity in that matter since the previous hearing of July 28, 2023.  The docket shows that the parties participated in a non-jury trial in October and November of 2021, and filed written closing argument briefs in February of 2022.  On April 20, 2022, the Van Nuys court filed an order setting a further hearing concerning the trial for May 25, 2022, requesting that the parties meet and confer in advance about issues raised by the court’s tentative interim ruling on limited issues included in that order, with the issues to be orally addressed at the hearing with reference to evidence presented at trial.  The order also removed the case from the Submitted Matters list.  At the hearing on May 25, 2022, the Van Nuys court ordered additional briefing regarding the issues set forth in the April 20, 2022 order.  Supplemental Trial Briefs were filed in June and July of 2022.  The July 8, 2022, the Van Nuys on a Non-appearance Case Review noted that briefs had been submitted as ordered and took the Non-Appearance Case Review (Re: Supplemental Briefs) under submission.  On September 26, 2022, the Van Nuys court filed a Tentative Statement of Decision.  On October 14, 2022, plaintiffs and cross-defendants filed objections and request for clarification of the tentative statement of decision.  On October 17, 2022, defendants and cross-complainants filed a response to the objections and request for clarification filed by plaintiffs.   On November 17, 2022, the Van Nuys court filed its Statement of Decision and Findings of Fact in the matter.  In the Van Nuys action, plaintiff in this action, Vehanoosh Grigorian, had been sued as a defendant by plaintiffs in that action, Robert Ter-Oganesyan and Meghedy Bandary, along with Zaven Grigorian as defendant.   Defendants in that action, the Grigorians, filed a cross complaint to quiet title to the Skytop property as against plaintiffs in that action as cross-defendants. Notice of entry of judgment was filed by the clerk on December 5, 2022, and was served by mail the same date. Judgment was entered in favor of defendants in the Van Nuys action, the Grigorians, on the Second Amended Complaint, with plaintiffs in that action, Ter-Oganesyan and Bandary to take nothing by their complaint.  Defendants were deemed the prevailing parties, with costs to defendants pursuant to memorandum of costs and attorney fees to defendants, if allowed by statute or contract, by noticed motion.Judgment was entered in favor of cross-complainants in the Van Nuys action, the Grigorians, on the First Amended Cross-Complaint, the Van Nuys court declaring that cross-complainants were the 100% owners of the Skytop property, quieting title in favor of cross-complainants, and declaring that cross-defendants in that action, Ter-Oganesyan and Bandary, have no rights, legal or equitable interest in, or title to the Skytop property.  The Van Nuys court granted rescission and restitution on cross-complainant’s breach of contract claim. The Van Nuys court awarded monetary damages in favor of cross-complainants in that case, the Grigorians, against cross-defendants Ter-Oganesyan and Bandary, jointly and severally, in the sum of economic damages in the amount of $751,489.29 plus $129,026.22 prejudgment interest (tort claims) plus $195,200.10 (breach of contract claims), for a total of $1,075,715.61.    Cross-complainants were deemed the prevailing parties, with costs to cross-complainants pursuant to memorandum of costs and attorney fees to cross-complainants, if allowed by statute or contract, by noticed motion.The file shows that the Van Nuys action was proceeding through briefing on a post-trial motion for attorneys’ fees, which was set to be argued on January 18, 2023.  On January 17, 2023, plaintiffs in that action filed a Notice of Stay of Proceedings, indicating that the matter was stayed pursuant to an automatic stay caused by the filing in another court of a bankruptcy petition filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court by Robert Ter-Oganesyan and Meghedy Bandary.   On January 18, 2023, the motion for attorney fees was called for hearing in the Van Nuys action, and the minute order indicates that the case had been stayed by filing of bankruptcy proceedings by plaintiffs. The hearing on the motion for attorney fees was continued to July 17, 2023, and the action was also set for a Status Conference Re: Status of Bankruptcy the same date.  The July 17, 2023, the matters were taken off calendar by the Van Nuys court.The Van Nuys action file also shows that on May 22, 2023, defendants and cross-complainants the Grigorians filed an “Acknowledgment of Satisfaction of Monetary Judgment,” which indicates that the Grigorians acknowledge “full satisfaction of the monetary obligations in the December 5, 2022 Judgment” in that action as follows:“the Judgment Creditors have accepted payment other than that specified in the Judgment in full satisfaction of the monetary obligations in the Judgment owed to them by Plaintiffs and Cross-Defendants Robert TerOganesyan and Meghedy Bandary (“Judgment Debtors”). For the sake of clarity, this Acknowledgement of Satisfaction of Judgment only applies to monetary aspects of the Judgment and does not serve to extinguish aspects of the Judgment relating to the Judgment Creditors’ sole ownership of the “Skytop Property” including but not limited to Paragraph A on page 2 of the Judgment; those portions of the Judgment shall remain active and in full force and effect.”[Acknowledgment, LASC Case No. LC106885, filed 05/22/2023, p. 2]. The Acknowledgment also indicates:“Judgment Creditors have not recorded any abstracts of judgment in any county or filed any judgment liens in the Office of the California Secretary of State. There have been no renewals of the Judgment.[Id].   The judgment debtors in the Van Nuys case, and bankruptcy petitioners, Ter-Oganesyan and Bandary, are not parties to this Glendale action, but third parties, although one of the motions before this court is for orders compelling Ter-Oganesyan to comply with a deposition subpoena issued in this case.  This Glendale action does not appear to be subject to any automatic bankruptcy stay.  This action may accordingly now be ripe for having the stay in this case lifted, and the matters set for hearing this date set for hearing and further briefing.  The court will hear argument concerning the status of the Van Nuys action and the bankruptcy proceedings to determine if anything remains pending in the Van Nuys action.  The court notes that it is not clear if the motion for attorney’s fees remains pending in that action, but stayed, or if the motion has been withdrawn in light of the parties’ agreements referenced in the Acknowledgment of Satisfaction of Monetary Judgment in the Van Nuys action.  The court also notes that no request for dismissal has been filed in the Van Nuys action, and it is not clear what the status is with respect to the non-monetary aspects of the Van Nuys Judgment.  It is also not clear whether the represented resolution of the monetary portion of the Van Nuys Judgment was overseen by the bankruptcy court.  With respect to the motions on file in this Glendale action, again, none of the parties have filed a motion to lift the stay in this action as previously ordered.  The court intended by ordering the filing of a motion to lift the stay by the parties to permit the parties, who are in a better position to provide information than this court, to explain the status of the Van Nuys action and the bankruptcy proceeding and how the current circumstances impact the pending discovery motions and the stay in this action.  This potential lifting of the stay in this action would in turn permit the court to issue appropriate orders concerning rescheduling the motions which have long been subject to the stay for the purpose of streamlining the issues to be addressed in this action.  The court will, during the argument concerning the current status of the Van Nuys action and the bankruptcy proceedings, hear argument concerning whether the parties intend to seek to lift the stay in this matter, what is the current status of this Glendale action in connection with the parties and various causes of action in this Glendale action in light of the judgment entered in favor of plaintiffs in this matter as defendants and cross-complainants in the Van Nuys action, and in light of the bankruptcy stay now in place in that action, and whether the pending discovery motions have been rendered unnecessary or may be properly scheduled for future hearing.  Specifically with respect to the discovery motions, the court cannot hear the motions on their merits this date, as it appears from the file in this matter that the pending motions are not yet fully briefed.  With respect to the motion to compel answers to specially prepared interrogatories, there has been no opposition filed.  In connection with the motion for compliance with subpoena and other relief, the court notes an opposition and a supplemental declaration have been filed, but no reply papers have yet been filed.  At this point, the discovery motions remain subject to the court’s previously ordered stay, and this date was designated as a place-holder date with respect to setting the matters for hearing.  The court continues the discovery motions to a future date as a placeholder one last time for scheduling hearings on whatever remains to be determined in this action, to permit the parties to seek to lift the stay and provide this court with the appropriate information to determine if the motions should go forward, and under what conditions.  The current total stay remains in place.  If the moving party has not filed a motion to lift the stay on or before the re-scheduled hearing date on these discovery motions, the court at the placeholder hearing date will deny all the discovery motions without prejudice.RULING:The Court notes that no party has filed a timely motion to lift the stay in this action, as previously ordered in the Court’s April 14, 2023 Minute Order, and as further ordered in the Court’s July 28, 2023 Minute Order. Motion to Compel Answers to Specially Prepared Interrogatories is STAYED and hearing is CONTINUED ONE FINAL TIME to placeholder date of December 22, 2023 to permit the parties to file a motion to lift stay or further briefing concerning the status of this action. Plaintiff’s Motion for an OSC Re: Order to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Attendance and Testimony Against Robert Ter-Oganesyan is STAYED and hearing is CONTINUED to placeholder date of December 22, 2023 to permit the parties to file a motion to lift stay or further briefing concerning the status of this action.  The Court will hear argument concerning the following:Whether this action should continue to be stayed.What is the status of the Van Nuys action; does anything remain pending in that action which would affect this action?  Motion for attorney’s fees?  Enforcement of Judgment proceedings?   Is it necessary for the parties to brief for this Court the impact of the Van Nuys Judgment on this action, and particularly the impact on any need for the outstanding discovery which is the subject of the pending discovery motions?  Are there causes of action or issue in this matter which were resolved by the Van Nuys Judgment, or are subject to good faith arguments based on res judicata or collateral estoppel? Should the discovery motions be withdrawn or continued for new complete updated and superseding briefing in light of the new circumstances arising from entry of the Judgment in the Van Nuys action?These motions will not be heard by the Court unless the Court enters an order lifting the total stay of this case.   If the moving party has not filed a motion to lift the stay on or before December 22, 2023, the Court will dismiss the discovery motions without prejudice.  If the moving party files a motion to lift the stay, and the Court grants the motions, the Court will reschedule the hearing date for the discovery motion for a hearing date of 30 to 60 days after the Court enters an order lifting the stay.DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 