 Case Number:  24VECV02724    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  W SALDIVAR, ET.
AL. v. TESLA, inc., et
al.
 
Motion to compel arbitration and to
stay proceedings
 
Date of Hearing:          December 17, 2024                            Trial Date:       None
set
Department:               W                                                         Case
No.:         24VECV02724
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Tesla, Inc.
Responding
Party:       None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 12, 2023, Plaintiffs Jeannette Saldivar and Ryan
Saldivar (“Plaintiffs”) leased their 2023 Tesla Model Y (the “Vehicle”) from
Defendant Tesla, Inc. (“Defendant”), at which time Plaintiffs executed a lease
agreement (the “Lease Agreement”). 
 
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint, alleging
that Defendant is liable for: (1) Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Breach of
Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act Section 1793.2(b).
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to
compel arbitration on the grounds that the Lease Agreement requires the
Plaintiffs to resolve any disputes concerning the automobile by arbitration.
 
On December 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a notice of
non-opposition to Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and to Stay
Proceedings is GRANTED. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
With the moving papers, Defendant submitted a request for
judicial notice of the complaint. The request is granted. (Evid. Code, §
452(d).)
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
CCP § 1281.2 permits a party to file a petition to request
that the court order the parties to arbitrate a controversy.  The trial court first determines whether an
enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties and then whether
the plaintiff’s claims are covered by the agreement.  (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  “California has a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a dispute
are resolved in favor of arbitration.”  (Coast Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of
Cal. (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)
 
The party seeking to enforce the arbitration agreement bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence.  (Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)  The
party opposing the petition to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  (Id.)
 
i.                   
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement 
 
Here, Defendant argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists between the parties that
requires arbitration of Plaintiff's claims. In support, Defendants have
submitted the Lease Agreement, which requires the Plaintiffs to resolve any
disputes concerning the automobile by arbitration. Page 3 of the Lease
Agreement provides: 
 
Agreement
to Arbitrate. Please carefully read this provision,
which applies to any dispute between you and Tesla, Inc. and its affiliates,
(together “Tesla”). 
 
If
you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and
your desired resolution to resolutions@tesla.com.
 
If
not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between you and Tesla will not be
decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an arbitration
administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under its Consumer
Arbitration Rules. This includes claims arising before this Agreement, such as
claims related to statements about our products. You further agree that any
disputes related to the arbitrability of your claims will be decided by the
court rather than an arbitrator, notwithstanding AAA rules to the contrary. 
 
To
initiate the arbitration, you will pay the filing fee directly to AAA and we
will pay all subsequent AAA fees for the arbitration, except you are
responsible for your own attorney, expert, and other witness fees and costs
unless otherwise provided by law. If you prevail on any claim, we will
reimburse you your filing fee. The arbitration will be held in the city or
county of your residence. To learn more about the Rules and how to begin an
arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org. 
 
The
arbitrator may only resolve disputes between you and Tesla, and may not
consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. The arbitrator cannot
hear class or representative claims or requests for relief on behalf of others
purchasing or leasing Tesla vehicles. In other words, you and Tesla may bring
claims against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. If a court or
arbitrator decides that any part of this agreement to arbitrate cannot be
enforced as to a particular claim for relief or remedy, then that claim or
remedy (and only that claim or remedy) must be brought in court and any other
claims must be arbitrated. 
 
If
you prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court. 
 
You
may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this Agreement by
sending a letter to: Tesla, Inc.; P.O. Box 15430; Fremont, CA 94539-7970,
stating your name, Order Number or Vehicle Identification Number, and intent to
opt out of the arbitration provision. If you do not opt out, this agreement to
arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement between us, including
any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance contract. 
 
(Lease
Agreement, Ex. 1 to Kim Decl., page 3.)
 
Defendant has met its burden to
show that an arbitration agreement exists. The Lease Agreement requires
arbitration of “any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the
relationship between you [Plaintiff] and Tesla.” (Ex. 1 to Kim Decl.) Plaintiff
signed the Lease Agreement. (Id.) The Court finds that Defendant has met
its burden of proving that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties.

 
The burden shifts to Plaintiffs to
establish any facts necessary to show that the agreement should not be enforced.
Plaintiffs do not oppose the motion and filed a notice of non-opposition on
December 4, 2024. Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiffs did not meet the burden to show that the arbitration
agreement should not be enforced. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
 
Stay of Proceedings
 
Code Civ. Proc. section
1281.4 provides that if the court has ordered the arbitration of a controversy,
it “shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action
or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to
arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.”  Pursuant to
Section 1281.4, therefore, the Court stays this action pending conclusion of
the arbitration proceedings.    
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and to stay
proceedings is granted. The Court stays this action pending conclusion of
arbitration. 
 