 Case Number:  23STCV19444    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MICHAEL B. SMITH, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MICHAEL KORS INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV19444
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 2, 2024
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 
Defendant Michael Kors Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to strike
portions of the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed by Plaintiff Michael B.
Smith (“Plaintiff”) relating to Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to strike WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
Background
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff’s employment
relationship with Defendant. Plaintiff worked for Defendant as a temporary
forklift operator. Plaintiff alleges that he suffered discrimination and
harassment on the basis of his race and disability, eventually leading to his
termination. Plaintiff appears to allege that his employment lasted from
October 2019 to March 2020, when his employment was terminated. In December
2021, Defendant denied Plaintiff re-employment.
 
The following allegations are taken from Plaintiff’s SAC.
 
Plaintiff was employed with Defendant as a temporary worker.
Plaintiff alleges that, due to his race, he was frequently instructed to cease
working on his forklift in order to complete other tasks, and was then
subsequently penalized in his evaluations for the reduced time working on the
forklift that resulted. Another employee harassed Plaintiff for going to the
bathroom frequently due to Plaintiff’s diabetes. A manager then denied him
bathroom breaks outside of scheduled break times. Plaintiff alleges the
harassment and racial discrimination occurred between October 2019 and March
2020.
 
The building that Plaintiff worked at shut down on March 16,
2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. On December 29, 2021, Defendant denied
Plaintiff the ability to return to work, with the reason given being that his
refusal to do work other than on his forklift made him not a team player.
 
Plaintiff alleges that he has suffered severe emotional
distress and mental anguish as a result. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant
defamed and blacklisted him.
 
Plaintiff filed this action (the “Stanley Mosk Action”) on
August 15, 2023. The SAC, which is the operative complaint, raises claims for
(1) racial discrimination; and (2) retaliation.
 
This action is in fact the second action to be filed by
Plaintiff concerning these facts. On December 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
separate case against Defendant, arising out of the same set of facts, in the
Los Angeles Superior Court at the Compton Courthouse (the “Compton Action”). The
Compton Action, Case No. 22CMCV00753, was assigned to Judge Fumiko Wasserman in
Department B.
 
The complaint in the Compton Action alleged a single cause
of action for defamation. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint in the
Compton Action on February 10, 2023 with claims for (1) defamation; (2)
reckless negligence; (3) IIED; and (4) punitive damages. Judge Wasserman sustained
Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second amended complaints in that action
on May 2, 2023 with leave to amend for all causes of action except reckless
negligence.
 
The second amended complaint in the Compton Action, filed on
May 19, 2023, alleged (1) willful and wanton conduct; (2) defamation; (3)
punitive damages; and (4) non-economic injury in the form of mental anguish,
emotional distress, stress, depression, anxiety, and loss of enjoyment of life.
Within the body of the second amended complaint, Plaintiff also alleged racial
discrimination and blacklisting. 
 
Judge Wasserman sustained a demurrer to the second amended
complaint in the Compton Action on August 22, 2023 respectively. Judge
Wasserman denied leave to amend as to willful and wanton conduct, defamation,
and blacklisting. Judge Wasserman dismissed the claim for non-economic injury
damages, which is not a cause of action. Judge Wasserman found that the issue
of punitive damages was moot without any causes of action pled. Because the
discrimination cause of action was dismissed for failure to exhaust administrative
remedies and Plaintiff had obtained a right-to-sue notice from the Department
of Fair Employment and Housing after filing the second amended complaint, Judge
Wasserman granted Plaintiff 20 days to amend the cause of action for
discrimination.
 
Plaintiff did not amend his discrimination claim in the
Compton Action, so Judge Wasserman dismissed the action without prejudice on
October 10, 2023.
 
Plaintiff filed the Stanley Mosk Action roughly a week
before the second demurrer was sustained in the Compton Action.
 
On March 5, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer
with respect to portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint with leave to
amend.
 
Plaintiff filed the SAC on March 19, 2024. On March 21,
2024, Plaintiff filed a declaration which included exhibits that Plaintiff
declares that he intended to attach to the SAC.
 
Defendant filed this motion to strike on April 22, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition, as well as two declarations in support thereof.
Defendant filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Pursuant to Defendant’s request, the Court takes judicial
notice of the proceedings and court records in the Compton Action.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Punitive Damages
 
Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate
facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Ibid.) “In ruling on a motion to strike,
courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Ibid.) Although a
plaintiff need only plead ultimate facts, pure conclusions of law are not
adequate to survive a motion to strike. (Perkins v. Superior Court
(1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6.)
 
“An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a
corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant’s (“managing agent of the
corporation”), [sic] made a calculated an [sic] conscious decision” to employ
only Hispanic workers within their warehouse. (SAC at p. 6:21-26.) Plaintiff’s bare
allegation that a “managing agent of the corporation” engaged in the relevant
conduct, without information on who the agent was or what their
responsibilities were, is conclusory.
 
Plaintiff asserts in his opposition and supporting
declarations that Defendant’s “managing agent of the corporation” decided to
employ undocumented immigrants, to only hire people that speak Spanish, and to
pay undocumented immigrants under the table. These allegations do not appear on
the face of the SAC. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Furthermore, these allegations,
while potentially speaking to illegal conduct, do not rise to the level of
malice, oppression, or fraud against Plaintiff.
 
 Plaintiff contends in
the opposition that English was the secondary language to Spanish in the
facility where Plaintiff worked. Such conduct is not unlawful, and is in any
event not alleged in the SAC.
 
Plaintiff has failed to adequately allege that a managing
agent of Defendant engaged in malice, oppression, or fraud following
opportunity for amendment. The Court therefore grants the motion to strike
without leave to amend.  If Plaintiff
later identifies facts that may give rise to a claim for punitive damages, he
may seek to amend the complaint.