  Case Number:  22STLC05300    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TIMOTHY D. RAND-LEWIS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CRESTWOOD HILLS ASSOCIATION,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STLC05300
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 2, 2024
 Calendar Number:  7



 
 
 
Defendant Crestwood Hills Association (“Defendant”) moves for
a stay of proceedings pending its appeal of the Courts denial of Defendant’s
special motion to strike the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Timothy Rand-Lewis
(“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion and STAYS this action
pending the resolution of Defendant’s appeal.
 
Background
 
Factual Background
 
Defendant is a homeowner’s association of the residents of the
Crestwood Hills neighborhood. Plaintiff is a homeowner who lives in one of the
properties covered by Defendant’s association.
 
Defendant’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) owes a duty to
Defendant to prudently manage Defendant’s assets, which include three vacant
lots it owns, labeled Lots 1-3. The Board is marketing those three lots for
sale. Lot 1, which abuts Plaintiff’s property, has received two separate,
unsolicited offers.
 
On July 29, 2022, Plaintiff emailed Kate Blackman, the
Board’s president, complaining that a group of potential buyers who were
inspecting Lot 1 had trespassed on his property. (Blackman Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 1.) That
evening, Crestwood’s real estate agent forwarded to the Board members a
voicemail from one of the potential buyers in question. The buyer stated that
they felt deterred from buying Lot 1 because Plaintiff had yelled at them and
said he would call the police and that the buyers were not allowed to look at
the property. (Blackman Decl., Exh. 8 (the “Voicemail”).) Shortly thereafter,
the real estate agent reported to Defendant that Plaintiff and his wife had
rushed at the potential buyers and their infant child, shouting profanities,
and accusing them of trespassing. (Blackman Decl. ¶ 14.)
 
The parties dispute the underlying events. Plaintiff denies
having rushed at the potential buyers or having shouted profanities at them and
asserts that any interactions the potential buyers had were with his wife,
Suzanne Rand-Lewis (“Suzanne”). (Timothy Rand-Lewis (“Timothy”) Decl. ¶¶ 13-19;
Suzanne Rand-Lewis (“Suzanne”) Decl. ¶¶ 13-19.) Defendant contends that the
topography of the properties makes it extremely unlikely that the potential
buyers trespassed on Plaintiff’s property while carrying an infant child
because there is a tree line separating the properties which would be
precarious to cross. (Blackman Decl., Exh. 7.)
 
On August 9, counsel for Defendant, Glen L. Kulik, sent a
letter to Plaintiff via email (the “Letter”), directed at Plaintiff’s personal
email address affiliated with his former school (the “School Email”) and his
professional email address affiliated with his law firm (the “Business Email”).
(Blackman Decl., Exh. 2.) The Letter stated that Lot 1 had received two
unsolicited offers, one from the potential buyers with whom Plaintiff had
interacted. (Blackman Decl., Exh. 3.) The Letter stated that “[i]immediately
following [the potential buyers’] visit to the property, they informed the
Association that [Plaintiff] confronted them in such an aggressive manner that
they were stunned and alarmed. They reported that they felt almost as if they
were being assaulted by [Plaintiff]. As a result, it appears unlikely they will
go ahead with further negotiations.” (Blackman Decl., Exh. 3.) The Letter
stated that Kulik was “informed that [Plaintiff’s] bullying, threatening and
harassing people in the community happens all too often” and asked that
Plaintiff “please treat potential buyers, visitors and other Crestwood Hills
residents with appropriate civility in the future.” (Blackman Decl., Exh. 3.)
Plaintiff alleges that these statements in the letter were defamatory. (Complaint
at ¶ 7.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
Business Email at his law firm is a joint address with his wife, Suzanne.
(Timothy Decl. ¶ 24.) Plaintiff’s business email is set up such that all email
sent to that address is sent to the law firm’s main email address (the “Firm
Email”), which is reviewed by all attorneys and staff in the office. (Timothy Decl.
¶ 26.) Plaintiff’s Business Email also automatically forwards emails from
Kulik’s firm to Plaintiff’s son because of a case that Plaintiff’s son is
involved in. (Timothy Decl. ¶ 27.) Thus, when the Letter was sent to
Plaintiff’s Business Email, it also went to the entirety of Plaintiff’s firm
and Plaintiff’s son via the forwarding chain that Plaintiff’s firm had created.
(Timothy Decl. ¶ 26-30.) Plaintiff contends that Kulik was aware of this system
as a result of past litigation between the two law firms. (Timothy Decl. ¶ 29.)
 
Plaintiff showed the Letter to IT personnel who he retained
to change the email settings and alert settings so that office staff would not
be able to access the letter. (Timothy Decl. ¶ 33.) Plaintiff also disclosed
the contents of the letter to his now-daughter-in-law “because [Plaintiff] was
her state bar reference when she submitted her application for bar membership,
and she had affiliation with lawyers at the defense law firm that transmitted
Defendant's defamatory letter.” (Timothy Decl. ¶ 34.)
 
Procedural History
 
On August 10, 2022, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendant Crestwood Hills Association (“Defendant”) in civil limited
jurisdiction (“Limited Civil”). Plaintiff alleged causes of action for (1)
defamation; (2) negligence; (3) violation of Business & Professions Code
section 17200; (4) violation of the Unruh Act; and (5) declaratory and
injunctive relief. 
 
Limited Civil courts do not have authority to grant
declaratory relief or permanent injunctive relief. Nor, at the time of filing,
could the total claim exceed $25,000. The Complaint stated with respect to the
Unruh Act Claim that Plaintiff sought “all the relief and remedies afforded by
the Civil Code, including section 51, et seq., declaratory relief, injunctive
relief, general damages, a civil penalty of $25,000, attorney’s fees and other
equitable relief against Defendants. (Complaint ¶ 43.) The Fifth Cause of
Action sought only injunctive relief. 
(Complaint ¶¶44-45.)  
 
In its prayer for relief, the Complaint as filed explicitly
sought “equitable relief, declaration and injunction.  (Complaint at 9:17.)   In terms of monetary relief, the Complaint sought
“all damages in totality not to exceed $24,999.99. (Complaint at 9:10.) The
Complaint listed damages not to exceed $24,999.99 and in addition attorney’s
fees not to exceed $24,999.99 and costs of litigation not to exceed $24,999.99.
(Complaint at 9:11-20.)  
 
On September 8, 2022, Defendant filed a special motion to
strike the complaint under Code of Civil Procedure, Section 425.16 (the
“Anti-SLAPP Motion”).
 
On December 21, 2023, following an exceedingly long and
winding procedural journey, the Court held a hearing for the Anti-SLAPP Motion.
The Court issued a ruling denying the motion on December 28, 2023. Defendant
filed a notice of appeal on December 29, 2023.
 
On June 3, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to stay
proceedings pending the appeal. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant
filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
An order granting or denying a special motion to strike
under Code of Civil Procedure, Section 425.16 is appealable. (Code. Civ. Proc.
§ 425.16, subd. (i); Code Civ. Proc. § 904.1, subd. (13).)
 
“[T]he perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the
trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters
embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or
order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the
action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 916.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant directed its Anti-SLAPP Motion at Plaintiff’s
first claim for defamation, as well as his remaining claims. The Anti-SLAPP
Motion contended that the factual basis for the defamation claim consists of
protected speech. The anti-SLAPP motion further argues that each of the
remaining claims hinge on the same allegedly protected conduct. (Anti-SLAPP
Motion at pp. 13:26-14:22.)  As noted,
the Court denied Defendant’s motion and the Court’s ruling is now on appeal.
 
Plaintiff’s second claim for negligence alleges that
Defendant negligently defamed Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s third claim for unfair
competition alleges that defamation violates Business & Professions Code,
sections 17200, et seq. Plaintiff’s fourth claim for violation of civil rights
alleges that Defendants’ alleged defamation of Plaintiff violated Plaintiff’s
rights under the California Constitution and Civil Code. Plaintiff’s fifth
claim for injunctive relief seeks an injunction prohibiting Defendant form Defaming
Plaintiff. 
 
Each of Plaintiff’s claims is therefore intertwined with the
allegedly protected conduct at issue in the unsuccessful Anti-SLAPP Motion.
Plaintiff’s entire Complaint is embraced or affected by the Court’s order
denying the Anti-SLAPP Motion. This action is subject to Section 916’s
automatic stay.
 
Plaintiff argues that the Court’s ruling denying the
Anti-SLAPP Motion did not explicitly discuss the non-defamation claims. The
Anti-SLAPP Motion was, however, denied just as surely as to those claims as
they were to the defamation claim itself. 
Because those others claims arise out of the same allegedly protected
conduct, the motion would have disposed of them if granted. They are
encompassed by the motion and the Court’s ruling. The same is true for
Plaintiff’s argument that his civil rights claim is not subject to the stay
because it alleges that Defendant interfered with Plaintiff’s rights due to
Plaintiff’s marital status and personal or professional affiliations. The
underlying interference with Plaintiff’s rights is the alleged defamation.
 
Plaintiff argues that there is no showing of  prejudice. Section 916, however,  provides that a stay on appeal is automatic,
and does not require a showing of prejudice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 916.)
 
Because the Anti-SLAPP Motion and resulting appeal encompass
Plaintiff’s entire Complaint, the Court stays this action pending the
resolution of Defendant’s appeal.