  Case Number:  23VECV05376    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR
  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT




Creditors
  Adjustment Bureau, Inc.,
 
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Lester
  Finnell,
 
Defendant.


   CASE NUMBER             DEPARTMENT
       23VECV05376            107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 



 
 
I.              
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment
Bureau, Inc’s (“Plaintiff”) assignor entered into an agreement with Defendants
Lester Finnell aka Lester Crawford Finnell III aka Lester C Finnell dba Seven
Safe Services adba Seven Safe Security aka Seven Safe Security Consultant aka
Seven Safe and Does 1 through 10 (“Defendants”). (Complaint ¶ 11.) Plaintiff’s
assignor agreed to provide workers compensation insurance policies to
Defendants and Defendants agreed to pay a premium in accordance with the terms
of each policy. (Complaint ¶ 11.) The agreement required Defendants to allow
Plaintiff’s assignor to access Defendants’ business records to conduct an
audit. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Defendants breached the agreement by failing to
provide Plaintiff’s assignor access to Defendants’ records. (Complaint ¶¶
14-15.) 
 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff
filed a complaint against Defendants alleging causes of action for breach of
contract, open book account, account stated, and reasonable value. (Complaint
pp. 3-6.)
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a motion for summary adjudication on the breach of contract cause of
action. On September 30, 2024, this court granted Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication. (09/30/24 pp. 1, 13.)
 
On October 10, 2024, Defendant
Lester Finnell (“Defendant”) filed a motion for reconsideration of this court’s
order granting Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication (the “Motion”).
(Notice of Motion p. 1.) On November 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
On November 21, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
II.           
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“When an application for an
order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part,
or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the
order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party
making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made
before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new
or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008(a).) 
 
“Section 1008, subdivision (a)
requires that a motion for reconsideration be based on new or different facts,
circumstances, or law. A party seeking reconsideration also must provide a
satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce the evidence at an earlier
time.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court¿(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206,
212.) “The burden under section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a
new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be
such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (Id. at pp. 212-213.)
 
“A motion to reconsider is not
valid if it is filed after the final judgment is signed.” (Branner v.
Regents of University of California (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1048.)
 
III.        
DISCUSSION
 
A.  
Made and Decided Before Entry
of Judgment
 
A motion for reconsideration
must be filed before the court enters its final judgment. (See Branner v.
Regents of University of California, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at p. 1048.)
 
The court has not entered a
final judgment in this case. Thus, this requirement is satisfied.
 
B.  
Brought Before the Same Judge
 
A motion for reconsideration
must be brought before “the same judge or court that made the order[.]” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).) 
 
This court issued the order
granting Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication. (09/30/24 Minute Order.) Thus,
this requirement is satisfied.
 
C.  
Timeliness
 
A motion for reconsideration
must be filed within ten days after service upon the party of the court’s
order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).) 
 
This court entered its ruling
on Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication on September 30, 2024. (09/30/24
Minute Order.) The order was mailed to Defendant that same day. (Certificate of
Mailing filed 09/30/24.) Defendant filed this Motion on October 10, 2024.
October 10, 2024, is within ten days after September 30, 2024.
 
Thus, Defendant timely filed
this Motion.
 
A.  
Defendant’s Counsel’s
Declaration
 
The motion for reconsideration
must be accompanied by an affidavit or declaration supporting the motion. (Branner
v. Regents of University of California, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at p. 1048.)
 
Plaintiff argues that the
Motion “is not supported by a declaration with the requisite information”
because Defendant’s counsel’s declaration “fails to identify when the
challenged ruling was made or by whom the challenged ruling was made[,]” “fails
to state what specific order or decisions were made[,]” and “fails to set forth
with any specificity the precise ‘new’ facts, circumstances or law which would
justify reconsideration.” (Opposition pp. 2, 6-7.)
 
In reply, Defendant argues
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration includes all of the necessary information
because it “explicitly incorporates the tentative ruling and more important[ly]
this court’s final, September 30, 2024, decision[,]” “those rulings, which
again are made part of the declaration by reference, clearly indicate Judge
Harmon as the hearing officer[,]” and Defendant’s counsel “explicitly stated
that the court was ‘granting Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment.’” (Reply
p. 3.)
 
Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration identifies the challenged ruling as “Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment.” (Fu Declaration ¶¶ 4, 6.) Although Plaintiff’s counsel filed a
motion for summary adjudication, not summary judgment, this court finds that the
declaration sufficiently identifies the challenged ruling. (09/30/24 Minute
Order p. 1.)
 
Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration also states that this court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary
judgment. (Fu Declaration ¶ 6.) Accordingly, the declaration sufficiently
states what order or decisions were made.
 
Finally, the declaration sufficiently
identifies the “new” evidence this Motion is based upon. (Fu Declaration ¶¶ 9,
15, 18-19, 21-22.)
 
B.  
New or Different Facts, Circumstances,
or Law
 
A motion for reconsideration
must be based on “new or different facts, circumstances, or law[.]” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008(a).)  
 
Defendant states that “new and
different facts” show that there is a dispute of material facts on five issues:
(1) “who caused the audit not to be scheduled”; (2) “whether a certified mail
was delivered to defense counsel”’; (3) “whether there was a compelling business
reason leading to the nonoccurrence of the audit”; (4) “whether the estimate
premium was reasonable”; and (5) “whether defendant refused 3 requests for
audit under Cal.Ins.Code 11760.1.” (Notice of Motion pp. 1-2.)
 
Plaintiff argues the Motion
raises no “new or different facts, circumstances, or law” because Defendant
already presented these facts and arguments to this court. (Opposition p. 4.)
 
i.               
Who Caused the Audit to Be
Scheduled
 
Defendant first argues that a
dispute of material fact exists regarding “who caused the audit not to be
scheduled.” (Notice of Motion p.  1;
Motion pp. 5-7.) Defendant cites evidence suggesting Plaintiff’s agent, rather
than Defendant, refused the audit and “Defendant’s declaration clearly showed
in Para. 9 that he ‘agreed’ to the audit in or about April 2023.” (Motion p.
6.)
 
In its order issued September
30, 2024, this court stated:
 
Defendant asserts that he did
not refuse to allow the audit and during a conversation with an unidentified
agent of the Fund around April 2023, expressed his willingness to be audited.
Moreover, defense counsel sent an email to Plaintiff's counsel on May 19, 2024,
expressing Defendant’s willingness to schedule an audit. Here, Plaintiff's
business records indicate that several written notices were sent to Defendant
requesting his compliance with the audit between February 2023 and February
2024. In response, the Court does not find that Defendant has presented
evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere
speculation to show that he did comply with the audit requirement. (Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal App.4th 151, 162.)
 
(09/30/24 Notice of Ruling p. 12.)
 
Thus, this court considered
Defendant’s evidence that he did not refuse the audit but rejected it as
speculative. “According to the plain language of [section 1008(a)], a court
acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is
not based upon ‘new or different facts, circumstances, or law.’ (Gilberd v.
AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499-1500.) Reconsideration cannot
be granted when a party merely argues the court misinterpreted the law in its
prior ruling. (See id. [“Since in almost all instances, the losing party
will believe that the trial court's ‘different’ interpretation of the law or
facts was erroneous, to interpret the statute as the respondent urges would be
contrary to the clear legislative intent to restrict motions to reconsider to
circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or authority that was
not previously considered by it.”])
 
Defendant’s evidence
suggesting Defendant did not refuse the audit does not qualify as “new or
different facts, circumstances, or law” under section 1008(a).
 
ii.             
Certified Mail
 
Next, Defendant argues that a
dispute of material fact exists regarding whether Plaintiff sent Defendant a
notice by certified mail. (Motion pp. 7-9.) 
 
Defendant argues “the court .
. . deemed the email service to defense counsel sufficient under Section
11760.1” and that section 11760.1 requires “’receipt’ of the certified
mail[.]” (Motion p. 8.)  Although the
court stated in its September 30, 2024, order that “Defense counsel also
acknowledges that he received notice by email” this court also stated:
 
Regarding the mailing of the
certified letter, Plaintiff has submitted proof of mailing the notice to
defense counsel via certified mail, return receipt requested, as well as proof
of delivery on February 7, 2024. Defendant does not present any authority for
its argument that his counsel could not be served while he was a represented
party in the proceedings. Moreover, defense counsel’s statement that he did not
receive the certified mail is not sufficient evidence to raise a triable issue
of material fact as to Plaintiff's mailing of the notice and compliance with
the Insurance Code mailing requirement.
 
(09/30/24 Notice of Ruling p.
12.)
 
Accordingly, this court already
considered, and rejected, Defendant’s argument regarding the certified mail.
 
Defendant also argues that
“new” evidence supports granting the Motion because there are three businesses
located at the address where Plaintiff sent the certified mail, two of which
are not connected with Defendant’s counsel’s business. (Fu Declaration ¶¶ 9-10;
Motion pp. 8-9.) Defendant’s counsel states he raised “the issue of the
different occupants at the 1505 address” at the oral argument, and this court
stated, “that fact might be raised and considered at a reconsideration motion.”
(Fu Declaration ¶¶ 12-13.) Defendant’s counsel states “[a]ny facts [counsel]
should have raised previously but failed, [counsel] will take full
responsibility thereof as ‘mistake, inadvertence, and excusable neglect’ under CCP
437(b) and therefore this court can now consider them under Mink v. Sup.Ct.
(Arnel Develop. Co. Inc. (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338; see also
Cal.Prac.Guide, Civ.Pro.Bef.Trial 10:372, 10:379.” (Fu Declaration ¶ 19.) Even
if Mink applied here, and not New York Times, in Mink, the
date issue was determinative. Here, the fact there are three businesses
operating out of this address does not seem determinative given the certified
mail was addressed to Defendant’s counsel. (See Ex. 2 attached to Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication.)  Also,
the Fourth District Court of Appeal recently applied the New York Times rule,
requiring a “satisfactory explanation” in Dickson v. Mann (2024) 103
Cal.App.5th 935, 950-951.)
 
Defendant must show that
Defendant could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered that there are
three businesses located at Defendant’s counsel’s business address. (See New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court, supra 135 Cal.App.4th at pp. 212-213.) In
New York Times Co. v. Superior Court, the Court found evidence did not
qualify as “new or different facts within the meaning of section 1008” because,
“[a]lthough the evidence was new to the trial court, it was available to [the
party] throughout the discovery process and was easily obtainable[.]” (Id.)
Likewise, here, the fact three businesses are located at Defendant’s counsel’s
business address was easily obtainable by Defendant or his counsel at any time
prior to the oral argument on Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication. Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration states there is only one other business operating out of
Defendant’s counsel’s business address. (Brown Declaration ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s
counsel cites Exhibit 2, which is purportedly a copy of the California
Secretary of State’s printout for the third business, which has, according to
Plaintiff’s counsel, been inactive since 2012. (Brown Declaration ¶¶ 2, 4.) But
there is no Exhibit 2 attached to Plaintiff’s opposition. And, regardless of
whether there are two or three businesses, the Court’s conclusion that this is
not “new” evidence under 1008(a) does not change.
 
 
To the extent Defendant argues
this court should reconsider its order under Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b), “[m]ere neglect or negligence is not a sufficient ground
for relief under section 473 . . . the neglect or mistake on the part of
counsel must be excusable.” (Cochran v. Linn (1984) 159
Cal.App.3d 245, 252.) (Fu Declaration ¶ 19; Motion p. 5.) Here, Defendant’s
counsel offers no reason why his failure to discover three businesses operate
at his business address was excusable.
 
iii.           
Defendant’s Remaining
Arguments
 
Finally, Defendant argues that
there are triable issues of material fact regarding “whether there was a
compelling business reason leading to the nonoccurrence of the audit[,]”
“whether the estimate premium was reasonable[,]” and “whether defendant refused
3 requests for audit under Cal.Ins.Code 11760.1.” (Notice of Motion pp.
1-2.)
 
As to the first argument, this
court stated in its September 30, 2024, ruling: “Defendant argues that under
section 11760.1, subdivision (a), an employer can refuse an audit for a
compelling business reason. However, Defendant fails to present any triable
issues of material fact regarding any compelling business reasons that would render
his refusal acceptable under section 11760.1.” (09/30/24 Minute Order p. 13.) 
 
As to the second argument,
this court stated in its September 30, 2024, ruling:
 
Defendant also argues that
there are triable issues of material fact as to the justification of the
estimated premium and its reasonableness. He states that he has made multiple
attempts to seek justification of the amount. However, Defendant does not cite
to any authority for the assertion that Plaintiff was obligated to show that
the estimated premium was reasonable or that Plaintiff's reliance on
Defendant’s payroll reports to calculate the estimated premium was
unreasonable. Defendant fails to present any evidence that may raise a triable
issue of fact regarding the reasonableness of the calculation.
 
Finally, Defendant argues that
under section 11760.1, subdivision (a), an employer can refuse an audit for a
compelling business reason. However, Defendant fails to present any triable
issues of material fact regarding any compelling business reasons that would
render his refusal acceptable under section 11760.1.
 
(09/30/24 Minute Order p. 13.)
 
As to the final argument, this
court stated in its September 30, 2024, ruling:
 
As stated previously,
Plaintiff met its burden of showing that it made at least three audit requests
and sent a certified letter, with return receipt requested, to defense counsel.
In opposition, Defendant acknowledges that he received two letters from the
Fund for an audit of the 2022 Policy term on February 27, and March 13, 2023.
(Finnell Decl. ¶ 6.) Subsequently, he received a regularly mailed letter on
September 21, 2023, from Plaintiff's counsel regarding the audit. (Id. at 13.)
Defendant’s statement in the Opposition that he never received any
communication regarding the audit requests contradicts his own sworn
declaration. 
 
(09/30/24 Minute Order p. 12.)
 
Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration states that this court “heard [counsel’s] arguments regarding 1)
who caused the audit not to be scheduled (namely, Defendant agreed to the audit
but Plaintiff refused to schedule on the one hand; and Plaintiff stated
that Plaintiff demanded but Defendant refused to be audit[ed] on the other),
2) whether a certified mail was delivered to [counsel’s] office in light of the
3 occupants at the same address, 3) whether there was any compelling business
reason not to conduct the audit, and 4) whether the estimate premium was
reason.”  (Fu Declaration ¶ 16.) Defendant’s
counsel further states that “[t]he court stated he would take those factors and
arguments into consideration[,]” “[b]ut the final written order does not
mention any of [counsel’s] arguments; it is identical in analysis to that
stated in the tentative ruling.” (Fu Declaration ¶¶ 17-18.) 
 
This court considered, and
rejected, Defendant’s arguments relating to these matters in its September 30,
2024, ruling. And, as this court has already stated, “a court acts in excess of
jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon ‘new
or different facts, circumstances, or law.’” (Gilberd v. AC Transit, supra, 32
Cal.App.4th at p. 1500.)
 
Therefore, Defendant cites no
new law or facts that would support granting a motion for reconsideration under
section 1008, subdivision (a).
 
IV.         
SANCTIONS
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subdivision (d) states: “A violation of this section may be
punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7.”
 
In its opposition, Plaintiff
seeks sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure sections 1008 and 128.7 against
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel. (Opposition p. 9.) Plaintiff also filed a
separate motion for sanctions under sections 1008 and 128.7, which is set for
hearing December 16, 2024. (Motion for Sanctions p. 1.)
 
Defendant states in the reply
that he is not opposed to the court hearing the Motion for Reconsideration and
Motion for Sanctions on the same day. (Reply p. 1.) Defendant also already
filed an opposition to the Motion for Sanctions. However, Plaintiff has until
December 9, 2024, to file a reply to Defendant’s opposition to the Motion for
Sanctions. 
Accordingly, the court will
wait until the Motion for Sanctions has been fully briefed before ruling on
this issue. This court will determine whether sanctions are warranted after the
December 16, 2024, hearing.
 
V.            
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons,
this court denies Defendant’s Motion.
 
                                                   
     __________________________________
                                                       Judge
Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
Date: December 3, 2024                                     Los Angeles
County Superior Court