 Case Number:  24SMCV00995    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Michael J. Christl and CNC Investments, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED.Defendants Michael J. Christl and CNC Investments, Inc. shall file and serve an answer to Plaintiff Linda Reinbold’s First Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).)Defendants Michael J. Christl and CNC Investments, Inc. to give notice.REASONINGDefendants Michael J. Christl and CNC Investments, Inc. (“Defendants”) demur to the claims alleged by Plaintiff Linda Reinbold (“Plaintiff”) against Defendants in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on the grounds that the relevant statutes of limitations bar Plaintiff’s claims, and Plaintiff released her claims against Defendants in their capacity as the lender’s agents.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendants request judicial notice of (1) the promissory note modification dated July 1, 2014; (2) the loan extension/modification agreement dated June 27, 2015; (3) the modification of note and deed of trust dated May 18, 2017, and (4) the fact that the lender, Philippe B. Craig, authenticated these exhibits in his declaration in opposition to Plaintiff’s request for a temporary restraining order. The modification of note and deed of trust dated May 18, 2017 is a recorded document, such that the Court may take judicial notice of this document pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c). However, as to the first two documents, the Court may take judicial notice of the documents pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d), but only as to their existence, i.e., as to court records, the Court only takes “judicial notice of the truth of facts asserted in documents such as orders, findings of fact and conclusions of law, and judgments” (Day v. Sharp (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914), and the Court will not take judicial notice of the facts within the promissory note modification dated July 1, 2014; (2) the loan extension/modification agreement dated June 27, 2015. Defendants’ argument that the Court should take judicial notice of the documents because they are referenced in the FAC but not attached is not well taken, as these documents are not beyond dispute, i.e., Plaintiff disputes that these are complete and accurate documents. For these reasons, Defendants’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents but otherwise DENIED.Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Statute of LimitationsDefendants first argue that the relevant statutes of limitations bar Plaintiff’s claims. In so arguing, Defendants rely on the loan modification documents for which they have sought judicial notice. Again, the Court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of the facts stated in those documents, only that the documents exist. Thus, insofar as Defendants ask the Court to treat these documents as if they were exhibits to the FAC, the Court will not do so. Because Defendants’ statute of limitations argument relies on these documents, and there is no further argument that the statute of limitations bars Plaintiff’s claims beyond reliance on those documents, Defendants’ demurrer must be OVERRULED in that respect. Defendants may raise this argument with a motion which allows for the consideration of evidence, i.e., a dispositive motion.ReleaseDefendants also argue that Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted as a mortgage broker in the transaction at issue and that Defendants were the lender’s agents. (FAC ¶¶ 19, 53-54.) Defendants argue that if the Court takes judicial notice of the modifications, the loan modifications contain a general release of all claims, including a release of the lender’s agents. Again, the Court cannot take judicial notice of the truth of the facts stated in those documents, only that the documents exist. Because Defendants’ release argument relies solely on the contents of these documents, Defendants’ demurrer is also OVERRULED in this respect. Again, Defendants may raise this argument with a motion which allows for the consideration of evidence, i.e., a dispositive motion.Because Defendants provide no other arguments to demur to the claims alleged against them, Defendants Michael J. Christl and CNC Investments, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. Defendants Michael J. Christl and CNC Investments, Inc. shall file and serve an answer to Plaintiff Linda Reinbold’s First Amended Complaint within ten (10) days of entry of this order. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320(j).