  Case Number:  19STCV17195    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Nicolle DeSanto,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV17195




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Lynda Medof Levin, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 26, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint and Motion
to Strike
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Nicolle
DeSanto
Responding Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants Lynda
Medof Levin, et al.
 
T/R:      CROSS-DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS
OVERRULED.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT'S MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On May 17, 2019, Plaintiff Nicolle
DeSanto sued Defendants, alleging that since she moved into the unit owned
and/or managed by Defendants in 1994, the unit has been uninhabitable, and
Defendants have failed to repair several issues, such as water damage, mold,
and gas leaks.
 
On August 25, 2023, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff for specific performance of a settlement
agreement allegedly executed by the parties during this litigation.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant demurs to the
cross-complaint for specific performance on the ground that Cross-Complainants
have failed to allege breach of contract. Cross-Defendant argues she did not
breach the agreement and Cross-Complainants have not performed their
obligations under the agreement. As stated, the Court must treat the allegation
in the cross-complaint as true. Cross-Complainants allege the parties entered
into a settlement agreement, Cross-Complainants performed or were excused from
performance, Cross-Defendant breached the agreement and Cross-Complainants were
damaged as a result. This is sufficient to state a cause of action for breach
of contract.
 
Cross-Defendant's demurrer is
OVERRULED.
 
B. Motion to Strike 
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Cross-Defendant moves to strike various
allegations that purportedly conflict with the exhibits attached to the
cross-complaint and to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees because Cross-Defendant
did not breach the agreement. This is not grounds to strike these allegations.
 
 Cross-Defendant
also moves to strike references to the mediation on the ground that they are
privileged. Evid. Code § 1119(a) provides, “No evidence of anything said or any
admission made for the purpose of, in the course of, or pursuant to, a
mediation or a mediation consultation is admissible or subject to discovery,
and disclosure of the evidence shall not be compelled, in any arbitration,
administrative adjudication, civil action, or other noncriminal proceeding in
which, pursuant to law, testimony can be compelled to be given.” 
 
Cross-Complainants assert the privilege
does not apply because the agreement is in writing and states that it is binding
and/or enforceable. Evid. Code § 1123 provides, “A written settlement agreement
prepared in the course of, or pursuant to, a mediation, is not made
inadmissible, or protected from disclosure, by provisions of this chapter if
the agreement is signed by the settling parties and any of the following
conditions are satisfied: ... (b) The agreement provides that it is enforceable
or binding or words to that effect.” 
 
The portions of the Cross Complaint Cross-Defendant
seeks to strike merely refer to the existence of the agreement and the fact
that it was reached through mediation. The Court will address at trial any
objections to communications made during the mediation that may be privileged under
Evidence Code § 1119(a).


 



Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Nicolle DeSanto,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
19STCV17195




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Lynda Medof Levin, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 26, 2023
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Enforce Subpoena for Business
Records
Moving Party: Plaintiff Nicolle DeSanto
Responding Party: Third-Party Monterey Insurance Company
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On May 17, 2019, Plaintiff Nicolle
DeSanto sued Defendants, alleging that since she moved into the unit owned
and/or managed by Defendants in 1994, the unit has been uninhabitable, and
Defendants have failed to repair several issues, such as water damage, mold,
and gas leaks.
 
On August 25, 2023, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff for specific performance of a settlement
agreement allegedly executed by the parties during this litigation.
 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP § 1987.1 provides, “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents,
electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon
motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the
court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard,
may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”
Plaintiff moves to enforce a subpoena served
on third-party Monterey Insurance Company seeking documents relating to
Defendant’s insurance policy with Monterey. In response, Monterey provided
declarations discussing the general nature and policy limits of its policy with
Defendant. Monterey objected to providing additional documents on the grounds
of privacy, relevance, and inadmissibility of insurance information at trial. 
Plaintiff asserts the documents are relevant
to show Defendants withheld information in discovery because Defendants did not
disclose the Monterey policy until later in litigation. The Court sees no need
for any additional documents to show this. Monterey has provided the basic
information regarding the policy. Plaintiff has not shown the relevance of additional
documents.
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.


 