 Case Number:  21STCV42187    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  JACOB TITO,Plaintiff, vs. PACIFIC SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY,Defendant.  Case No.:  21STCV42187 Hearing Date:  May 9, 2024   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, FORM INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION  Defendant’s three motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to discovery are DENIED as moot.Defendant’s requests for sanctions are GRANTED in the amount of $1,185 jointly and severally against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Counsel of Record.  Sanctions are payable within 15 days after the date of this order.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for breach of contract and breach of obligation of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiff alleges that he entered into an insurance agreement with Defendant Pacific Specialty Insurance Company. On May 7, 2021, Plaintiff suffered a loss compensable under the insurance agreement. Defendants refused to reimburse Plaintiff for the loss.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff Jacob Tito filed his Complaint against Defendant Pacific Specialty Insurance Company.On February 18, 2022, Defendant Answered.On April 17, 2024, Defendant filed these motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to discovery.On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.On May 2, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.DISCUSSION Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s responses to requests to Form Interrogatories (FROGs) Set Four, Special Interrogatories (SROGs) Set One, and Requests for Production (RPDs) Set Two.Compelling Responses to InterrogatoriesWithin 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2030.260, subd. (a).)If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc section 2030.290, subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that needs be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)Compelling Response to Demand for Production of Documents  Where there has been no timely response to a demand for the production of documents, the demanding party may seek an order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including privilege and work product. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).) Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. ObjectionsA party waives its objections to a discovery request when it does not serve a timely response to the request. (Code Civ. Proc., section 030.290(a)) Even if objections do not need to be verified, objections will be waived if the responding party “fails to file any response within the statutory time period.” Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 658.VerificationUnverified discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all and are subject to a motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).  (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.) However, objections to interrogatories and demands for production are not required to be verified because “objections are legal conclusions interposed by counsel, not factual assertions by a party.” (Blue Ridge Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 339, 345.)SanctionsSanction are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).) Sanctions may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a). ) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed. Here, Defendant’s counsel testifies that she served requests for written discovery on Plaintiff on March 6, 2024. (Torres Decl., ¶5.) Although Plaintiff served responses to Defendant’s Requests for Admissions, Set Two, Plaintiff did not respond to the Requests for Interrogatories or Requests for Production. (Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel never responded to Defendant’s counsel’s communications and never communicated about the missing responses. (Id., ¶6.)Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that he served responses to Defendant’s outstanding discovery requests on April 28, 2024. (Sales Decl., ¶2.) Plaintiff’s counsel could not serve the responses earlier because his computer was hacked and because he had a family emergency. (Id., ¶3.)Defendant’s counsel acknowledged the responses but continues to seek sanctions in reply.Defendant’s motions to compel discovery are denied as moot. Because Plaintiff’s counsel failed to communicate with Defendant’s counsel about his difficulties serving responses and failed to serve timely responses, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel misused the discovery process. Defendant’s request for sanctions is granted. However, because the motions are substantially similar, the Court grants the reduced amount of $1,185 total for all three motions against Plaintiff’s counsel.DATED: May 9, 2024____________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 