 Case Number:  23TRCP00328    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ENJOYOR
  TECHNOLOGY CO., LTD., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCP00328




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULINGS
 




 
XIN
  LI, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 28,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Xin Li and Wei Lai Development LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd.
Demurrer
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the first
and second causes of action and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
third and fifth causes of action.
BACKGROUND
On August 11, 2023, plaintiff
Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd. filed a petition against Xin Li and Wei Lai
Development LLC for recognition of foreign money judgment and complaint for
fraudulent transfer.
            The proofs of service filed August
18, 2023 indicate that defendants were personally served on August 18.
            On August 18, 2023, plaintiff filed
a notice of lis pendens.
            On September 18, 2023, defendant Xin
Lu filed a declaration of demurring of moving party in support of automatic
extension.
On September 18, 2023, defaults
were entered against defendants.
            On October 18, 2023, defendants
filed a motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On October 19, 2023, defendants Xin
Li and Wei Lai Development LLC filed a demurrer.
            On November 6 and 15, 2023,
defendants filed a notice of withdrawal of the motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On December 22, 2023, the court took
judicial notice of defense counsel’s declaration of in support of automatic
extension and plaintiff’s request for entry of default filed after and found
that plaintiff’s request should have been rejected.  On its own motion, the court set aside the
defaults against defendants.           
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendants demur to the complaint on
the ground that plaintiff lacks standing and to each of the causes of action on
the grounds that they fail to state sufficient allegations to constitute a
cause of action and are uncertain.
The verified petition and complaint
alleges that this is an action for recognition of a final foreign money
judgment under the Uniform Foreign Country Money Judgments Recognition
Act.  Petition, ¶1.  The judgment arose out of defendant Li’s
breach of two written contracts with plaintiff. 
Defendant Li litigated the two written contracts on their merits and
lost.  Id., ¶2.  Plaintiff is a publicly traded company and
specializes in integrated smart city solutions and data analysis.  Id., ¶4. 
Before October 2021, Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd. was known as Enjoyor
Technology Joint Stock Co., Ltd.  Id., ¶4
n.1.  Defendant Li was the 75.03%
shareholder of Beijing Asia Pacific Anxun Technology Co. Ltd., which was bought
by plaintiff in September 2013 under various written contracts.  Id., ¶5. 
Defendant Wei Lai Development LLC is solely owned and operated by
Li.  Id., ¶6.
The petition further alleges that
under the purchase agreement Beijing Anxun was conditionally valued at
600,000,000 Chinese Yuan; but, if Beijing Anxun failed to meet certain profit
goals between 2013 and 2015, it would be re-valued as defined in the Valuation
Adjustment Agreement.  Under the
conditional valuation, defendant Li would, at the time of closing, receive
17,587,245 shares of plaintiff and 75,027,200 Chinese Yuan for selling all her
shares in Beijing Anxun.  She would
continue managing Beijing Anxun.  Id., ¶21.  In 2014, Beijing Anxun failed to meet the net
profit goals.  Li was required to return
5,074,307 shares of Enjoyer and she complied. 
Id., ¶27.  In 2015, Beijing Anxun
suffered a gigantic financial loss.  Li
was required to return 25,240,153 shares of Enjoyer.  Id., ¶28. 
On April 22, 2016, plaintiff made a formal demand to Li that she return
the shares.  Id., ¶29.  By this time, however, Li had mortgaged all
her shares of Enjoyer to a third party for cash payment to herself.  Li did not return any shares to
plaintiff.  Id., ¶30.  
The petition further alleges that
on January 25, 2015, Li formed Wei Lai Development LLC.  Id., ¶32. 
On January 29, 2015, Li purchased a San Marino, CA property for $4.3
million.  Id., ¶33.  On February 14, 2015, Li left China and
settled in at the San Marino property. 
Id., ¶34.  On November 29, 2015,
Li put up $8.3 million to purchase a property located in Rancho Palos Verdes,
where she resides.  Id., ¶¶37-38.
The petition also alleges that on
May 23, 2016, plaintiff sued Li for Li’s refusal to return the shares of
plaintiff.  Id., ¶39.  In October 2016, a trial was held in China,
stayed, and the parties mediated the dispute from October 2016 to March
2017.  Id., ¶¶47-49.  Because no settlement was reached, the stay
was lifted, and on August 3, 2017, the Zhejiang Supreme Provincial Court issued
a money judgment in favor of plaintiff. 
Id., ¶¶50-51.  The August 3, 2017
money judgment ordered:  a. within 10
days after the money judgment issued, defendant Li was to return 25,240,153
shares of plaintiff for 1 Chinese Yuan; and b. for each share that Li fails to
return under (a), Li was to pay the corresponding cash compensation (21.22
Chinese Yuan multiplied by both the number of shares not returned and the
multiplier 2.24) to plaintiff; Li pays the court cost of 1,843,947 Chinese Yuan
and cost of the writ of attachment 5,000 Chinee Yuan.  Id., ¶52. 
On December 12, 2017, the Supreme Court of China dismissed Li’s appeal
and the money judgment became final and immediately enforceable.  Id., ¶57. 
On April 22, 2018, a writ of execution was issued.  Id., ¶58. 
Under this writ of execution, one of Li’s real properties in China was
publicly auctioned.  Id., ¶59.  To date, Li has not paid any of the remaining
Chinese Yuan to plaintiff.  Id., ¶60.
Standing
Defendants argue that plaintiff
lacks standing because the judgment was entered in favor of Enjoyor Technology
Joint Stock Co. Ltd. (“ETJS”), which is the real party in interest, and not
plaintiff who is suing as Enjoyer Technology Co. Ltd.  Defendants contend that footnote 1 alleging
that plaintiff was known as ETJS is insufficient to confer standing.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that defendants’ assertion is outside the pleading and that a “simple name
change does not cause a plaintiff to lose its right to sue.”
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient at the pleading stage that plaintiff has standing.
 
First cause of action for
recognition of foreign final judgment to the UFCMJRA, CCP §1713, et seq. and second
cause of action for recognition of foreign final judgment pursuant to
international comity
CCP §1715 states:  “(a) Except as otherwise provided in
subdivision (b), this chapter applies to a foreign-country judgment to the
extent that the judgment both:  (1)
Grants or denies recovery of a sum of money. 
(2) Under the law of the foreign country where rendered, is final,
conclusive, and enforceable.  (b) This
chapter does not apply to a foreign-country judgment, even if the judgment
grants or denies recovery of a sum of money, to the extent that the judgment is
any of the following:  . . . . (2) A fine
or other penalty. . . . (c) A party seeking recognition of a foreign-country
judgment has the burden of establishing that the foreign-country judgment is
entitled to recognition under this chapter.” 

Defendants argue that the August 2,
2017 “money judgment” that plaintiff seeks recognition of is not an actual
judgment granting monetary recovery. 
Defendant contends that as alleged, the “money judgment” ordered Li to
return shares within a certain number of days. 
Further, if she did not return the shares, although the judgment
included the potential for monetary recovery by including a formula for
calculating an amount owed per each share, it also included an unenforceable
penalty—“multiplier of 2.24” and awards court costs and fees which are punitive
in that there was no contractual agreement for payment of such in the
underlying contracts.  Defendants further
argue that the court does not have jurisdiction to enforce a judgment requiring
the return of shares of a publicly listed Chinese company.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the judgment is a “money judgment” because it requires Li to pay damages
and costs.  Plaintiff also contends that defendants’
assertion that the multiplier of 2.24 is a “penalty” is outside the pleading
and that defendants have not argued that the multiplier is a penalty as a
matter of law.  Plaintiff asserts that
the purpose of the judgment is not to penalize Li but to make plaintiff whole.
The court finds that the
allegations are sufficient and as to whether the 2.23 multiplier is a “penalty”
does not appear on the face of the complaint.
Third cause of action for statutory
fraudulent transfer – actual intent under Civil Code 3439.04, fourth cause of
action for statutory fraudulent transfer – constructive intent under Civil Code
3439.05, and fifth cause of action for common law fraudulent transfer
            Under Civil Code §3439.04, “(a) A
transfer made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor,
whether the creditor’s claim arose before or after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred, if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the
obligation as follows:  (1) With actual
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor. (2) Without receiving
a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation, and
the debtor either: (A) Was engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction
for which the remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in
relation to the business or transaction. (B) Intended to incur, or believed or
reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the
debtor’s ability to pay as they became due.
            (b) In determining actual intent . .
. consideration may be given, among other factors, to any or all of the
following:  (1) Whether the transfer or
obligation was made to an insider.  (2) Whether
the debtor retained possession or control of the property transferred after the
transfer.  (3) Whether the transfer or
obligation was disclosed or concealed.  (4)
Whether before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had
been sued or threatened with suit.  (5) Whether
the transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s assets.  (6) Whether the debtor absconded.  (7) Whether the debtor removed or concealed
assets.  (8) Whether the value of the
consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of
the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred.  (9) Whether the debtor was insolvent or became
insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.  (10) Whether the transfer occurred shortly
before or after a substantial debt was incurred.  (11) Whether the debtor transferred the
essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred the assets to an
insider of the debtor.
(c) A creditor making a claim for
relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of proving the elements of the
claim for relief by a preponderance of the evidence.” 
Under Civil Code §3439.05, “(a) A transfer
made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor whose
claim arose before the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred if the
debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation without receiving a
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation and the
debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor became insolvent as a result of
the transfer or obligation.
(b) A creditor making a claim for
relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of proving the elements of the
claim for relief by a preponderance of the evidence.”
Under Civil Code §3439.09, “A cause
of action with respect to a transfer or obligation under this chapter is extinguished
unless action is brought pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 3439.07 or levy
made as provided in subdivision (b) or (c) of Section 3439.07:
(a) Under paragraph (1) of
subdivision (a) of Section 3439.04, not later than four years after the
transfer was made or the obligation was incurred or, if later, not later than
one year after the transfer or obligation was or could reasonably have been discovered
by the claimant.
(b) Under paragraph (2) of
subdivision (a) of Section 3439.04 or Section 3439.05, not later than four
years after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.
(c) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, a cause of action under this chapter with respect to a
transfer or obligation is extinguished if no action is brought or levy made
within seven years after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.”
            Defendants argue that the UVTA
claims are time-barred because plaintiff allege that the judgment became “final
and immediately enforceable” on December 12, 2017 and that the dates of
transfer for the San Marino and Palos Verdes properties occurred on February
15, 2016 and June 27, 2017, respectively. 
See Request for Judicial Notice, Exhs. A and B.  The complaint was not filed until August 18,
2023, more than 5 ½ years after December 12, 2017, and not within four years.  Defendants also argue that the 5th
cause of action for common law fraudulent transfer is barred by the three-year
statute of limitations under CCP §338. 
Defendants contend that plaintiff has not alleged any facts to “suggest
delayed discovery of the transfers of the property.”
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the fraudulent transfer claims are not time-barred under the delayed discovery
doctrine.  
            The court finds that the third
through fifth causes of action appear to be barred by the statute of
limitations as the complaint was filed more than four years after the judgment
became final and the properties were transferred to defendant Wei Lai
Development.  The court also finds that plaintiff
has not sufficiently alleged delayed discovery. 
A plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be
barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts
to show (1) the time and manner of discovery and (2) the inability to have made
earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence. 
See CAMSI IV v. Hunter Technology Corp. (1991) 230 Cal. App. 3d
1525, 1536-37. “Mere conclusory assertions that delay in discovery was
reasonable are insufficient and will not enable the complaint to withstand
general demurrer.”  Id. 
            The demurrer is thus SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the third through fifth causes of action.
 
ORDER
The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
first and second causes of action and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as
to the third and fifth causes of action.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.
 
 
___________________
Moving
Parties:                      Defendants Xin Li and Wei Lai Development LLC
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Enjoyor Technology 
Motion to Expunge Lis
Pendens
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to expunge lis pendens is
GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
On August 11, 2023, plaintiff
Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd. filed a petition against Xin Li and Wei Lai
Development LLC for recognition of foreign money judgment and complaint for
fraudulent transfer.
            The proofs of service filed August
18, 2023 indicate that defendants were personally served on August 18.
            On August 18, 2023, plaintiff filed
a notice of lis pendens.
            On September 18, 2023, defendant Xin
Lu filed a declaration of demurring of moving party in support of automatic
extension.
On September 18, 2023, defaults
were entered against defendants.
            On October 18, 2023, defendants
filed a motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On October 19, 2023, defendants Xin
Li and Wei Lai Development LLC filed a demurrer.
            On November 6 and 15, 2023,
defendants filed a notice of withdrawal of the motion to expunge lis pendens.
On December 22, 2023, the court
took judicial notice of defense counsel’s declaration of in support of
automatic extension and plaintiff’s request for entry of default filed after
and found that plaintiff’s request should have been rejected.  On its own motion, the court set aside the
defaults against defendants.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
‘“A lis pendens is a recorded
document giving constructive notice that an action has been filed affecting
title or right to possession of the real property described in the notice.”’  Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33
Cal.4th 642, 647 (citation omitted).  Any
time after a notice of pendency of action has been recorded, any party or
nonparty with an interest in the real property affected thereby may move the
court in which the action is pending to expunge the notice.  CCP §405.30. 
A court must order the notice
expunged if the court finds any of the following:  the pleading on which the notice is based does
not contain a real property claim (CCP §405.31); the claimant has not
established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the
real property claim (CCP §405.32); or, the real property claim has probable
validity, but adequate relief can be secured by the giving of an undertaking.  CCP §405.33.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants request an order
expunging the notices of lis pendens recorded against APN #5331-023-014 and APN
#7582-0001-0009.  The court notes that
plaintiff filed a notice of lis pendens on August 19, 2023 against defendants’
property located at 3300 Palos Verdes Dr. W, Rancho Palos Verdes but there is
no notice of lis pendens as to the San Marino property.
            Real property claim
Under CCP §405.31, the court shall
order the notice expunged if the court finds that the pleading on which the
notice is based does not contain a real property claim.  “In making this determination, the court must
engage in a demurrer-like analysis.  Rather
than analyzing whether the pleading states any claim at all, as on a general
demurrer, the court must undertake the more limited analysis of whether the
pleading states a real property claim.  Review
involves only a review of the adequacy of the pleading and normally should not
involve evidence from either side, other than possibly that which may be
judicially noticed as on a demurrer.  Therefore,
review of an expungement order under section 405.31 is limited to whether a
real property claim has been properly pled by the claimant.”  Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33
Cal.4th 642, 647- 648.
“’Real property claim’ means the
cause or causes of action in a pleading which would, if meritorious, affect (a)
title to, or the right to possession of, specific real property . . . .”  CCP §405.4. 

Defendants argue that plaintiff has
no real property claim; rather, the complaint is a “generalized claim for
money.”  Defendants assert that there is
no connection between the judgment plaintiff seeks to enforce and the two
California properties.  Further, “[t]he
fact that someone buys property with stolen money does not make the victim the
owner of that property as a matter of real property law.  It merely entitles the victim to pursue the
thief and to recover a money judgment, perhaps seeking to attach the property
along the way . . . .”  Lewis v.
Superior Court (1994) 30 Cal. App. 4th 1850, 1863 [addressing a
constructive trust cause of action]. 
Also, defendants contend, “[a] lis pendens is not a shortcut method of
attachment for unsecured creditors.”  Deane
v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal. App. 3d 292, 297 [cause of action for
constructive trust].
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that a fraudulent transfer of real property is a real property claim, citing to
Kirkeby, supra.
Using a demurrer-like analysis, the
court rules as follows:
The third through fifth causes of
action are for fraudulent transfer. 
Plaintiff alleges that the transfers of Li’s interest in the various
“Cash and Real Properties to Defendants” are voidable under the UFTA.  See Complaint, ¶96.  Plaintiff requests an order nullifying and
voiding the transfers of Li’s interest in the properties so that they “remain with
Defendant Li and are entitled to be included in a judgment against Defendant Li
and entities in which she controls, for the value of the asset(s) that are the
subject of the transfers or the amount necessary to satisfy a judgment (e.g.,
the Money Judgment) against Defendant Li.” 
Id., ¶97.  Plaintiff also alleges
that it believes that the transfers were made to make Li appear judgment proof
to prevent plaintiff from satisfying the money judgments against her.  Id., ¶92. 
Under Kirkeby, “a fraudulent conveyance action seeking a
avoidance of a transfer under [Civil Code 3439.07(a)(1)] clearly ‘affects title
to, or the right to possession of’ real property and is therefore a real
property claim for the purposes of the lis pendens statutes.”  33 Cal. 4th at 649.  The Kirkeby court found that the Lewis
case (cited by defendants) was inapposite. 
See also Hunting World, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.
App. 4th 67, 73 (an action to set aside a fraudulent conveyance fell
within the “clear wording of the ‘real property claim’ prong of lis pendens
law.”).  Thus, the court finds that the third
through fifth causes of action are “real property claims.”  The court notes, however, that they have not
been adequately pled.  See the ruling on
demurrer to complaint.
            Probable validity of claims
“Unlike other motions, the burden is
on the party opposing the motion to expunge—i.e., the claimant-plaintiff—to
establish the probable validity of the underlying claim.  The claimant-plaintiff must establish the
probable validity of the claim by a preponderance of the evidence.”  Howard S. Wright Constr. Co. v. Superior
Court (2003) 106 Cal. App. 4th 314, 319 (citation omitted). 
            Under Civil Code §3439.04, “(a) A
transfer made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor,
whether the creditor’s claim arose before or after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred, if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the
obligation as follows:  (1) With actual
intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor of the debtor. (2) Without receiving
a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation, and
the debtor either: (A) Was engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction
for which the remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in
relation to the business or transaction. (B) Intended to incur, or believed or
reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the
debtor’s ability to pay as they became due.
            (b) In determining actual intent . .
. consideration may be given, among other factors, to any or all of the
following:  (1) Whether the transfer or
obligation was made to an insider.  (2) Whether
the debtor retained possession or control of the property transferred after the
transfer.  (3) Whether the transfer or
obligation was disclosed or concealed.  (4)
Whether before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had
been sued or threatened with suit.  (5) Whether
the transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s assets.  (6) Whether the debtor absconded.  (7) Whether the debtor removed or concealed
assets.  (8) Whether the value of the
consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent to the value of
the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred.  (9) Whether the debtor was insolvent or became
insolvent shortly after the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred.  (10) Whether the transfer occurred shortly
before or after a substantial debt was incurred.  (11) Whether the debtor transferred the
essential assets of the business to a lienor that transferred the assets to an
insider of the debtor.
(c) A creditor making a claim for
relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of proving the elements of the
claim for relief by a preponderance of the evidence.” 
Under Civil Code §3439.05, “(a) A transfer
made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor whose
claim arose before the transfer was made or the obligation was incurred if the
debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation without receiving a
reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or obligation and the
debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor became insolvent as a result of
the transfer or obligation.
(b) A creditor making a claim for
relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of proving the elements of the
claim for relief by a preponderance of the evidence.”
 
            Defendants argue that the fraudulent
transfer claims are not “probably valid” because they are not even legally
sufficient as they are barred by the statute of limitations; plaintiff has not
alleged delayed discovery; and plaintiff cannot meet its burden of producing
any admissible evidence tending to show any of the elements.  Defendants also argue that there are no
“badges of fraud” in that no fraudulent intent exists.  Defendants assert that the value of the
ownership of the remaining parcel of real property remains in Li’s hands as she
owns all of the membership units of the entity that owns the real
property.  Also, when Li quitclaimed the
title to Wei Lai, she did not receive insufficient value—by definition, Li got
the exact same value as she parted with, i.e., the membership units in Wei Lai,
which she has, she owns, she continues to own, and which she has no intention
of transferring.  Li states in her
declaration that at the time she purchased the first of two parcels of real
estate, her real estate broker told her it was a good idea in the U.S. to place
ownership of the property in the name of an entity that she owned.  She relied on her advice and transferred
ownership of both parcels to the LLC that her broker helped her establish.  
            In opposition, plaintiff presents no
evidence to support the probable validity of the claims.  Instead, plaintiff relies solely on the
verified complaint.  As found in the
demurrer, the allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of
action.  
            The court rules as follows:  The court finds that plaintiff has not met
its burden.  Even if the court were to
consider the verified complaint, plaintiff’s allegations are conclusory under
the third through fifth causes of action and do not address the factors as to
“actual intent.”
The motion is thus GRANTED.
ORDER
            The motion to expunge lis pendens is
GRANTED.
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.
 
 
__________________________
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Enjoyor Technology Co.
Responding
Party:                  Defendants Xin Li and Wei Lai Development LLC
Motion
for Reasonable Attorney’s Fees and Costs Under CCP §405.38
            The court considered the moving and opposition
papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
            On August 11, 2023, plaintiff
Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd. filed a petition against Xin Li and Wei Lai
Development LLC for recognition of foreign money judgment and complaint for
fraudulent transfer.
            The proofs of service filed August
18, 2023 indicate that defendants were personally served on August 18.
            On August 18, 2023, plaintiff filed
a notice of lis pendens.
            On September 18, 2023, defaults were
entered against defendants.
            On September 18, 2023, defendant Xin
Lu filed a declaration of demurring of moving party in support of automatic
extension.
            On October 18, 2023, defendants
filed a motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On October 19, 2023, defendants Xin
Li and Wei Lai Development LLC filed a demurrer.
            On November 6 and 15, 2023,
defendants filed a notice of withdrawal of the motion to expunge lis pendens.
            On December 22, 2023, the court took
judicial notice of defense counsel’s declaration of in support of automatic
extension and plaintiff’s request for entry of default filed after and found
that plaintiff’s request should have been rejected.  On its own motion, the court set aside the
defaults against defendants.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “At any time after notice of
pendency of action has been recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an
interest in the real property affected thereby, may apply to the court in which
the action is pending to expunge the notice.” 
CCP §405.30.  In a motion to
expunge a notice of lis pendens, the claimant who filed the lis pendens has the
burden of proof.  Thus, that claimant, in
opposing the motion to expunge the lis pendens, must demonstrate the
following:  (1) the action affects title
to or right of possession of the real property described in the notice; (2) in
so far as the said notice is concerned, the party recording the notice has
commenced the action for a proper purpose and in good faith; and (3) the
probable validity of the real property claim by a preponderance of the
evidence.  Hunting World, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal. App. 4th 67, 70; see also CCP §405.30, et
seq.  The court must order the notice
expunged if it finds the pleading on which the notice is based does not contain
a real property claim (CCP §405.31) or the claimant has not established by a
preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim
(CCP §405.32).  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Enjoyor Technology Co., Ltd. requests an award of attorney’s fees and costs in
the amount of $10,338.75 against defendants.
            Plaintiff
argues that under the “practice approach” adopted by Castro v. Superior
Court (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 1010, it is the prevailing party
on defendants’ motion to expunge lis pendens (filed on October 18, 2023).  Plaintiff argues that it is the prevailing
party because it “has realized its litigation objectives” as the motion was
withdrawn and the lis pendens remains on defendants’ property.  Plaintiff also asserts that defendants would
not have prevailed anyway.
 
            The
court rules as follows:
“The
court shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter
be awarded the reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of making or opposing the
motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney's
fees and costs unjust.”  CCP §405.38.  “The statute . . . does not define prevailing
party.”  Castro v. Superior Court
(2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 1010, 1018. 

In
Castro, the appellate court determined that “the withdrawal of an
improperly recorded lis pendens, while a motion to expunge is pending, achieves
the litigation objectives of the moving party by removing the cloud on the
title and permitting the property’s transfer. 
The moving party thus has obtained the relief that the trial court would
have granted had it ruled on the motion. 
That is not to say, however, that statutory fees under section 405.38
are automatically awarded, only that statutory fees should not automatically
be denied.  Thus, . . .
notwithstanding the withdrawal of the lis pendens, in order to award statutory
attorney fees to the moving party, the trial court must determine the merits of
the pending motion.”  Id.  “Because section 405.38 does not define
prevailing party or expressly authorize or bar recovery of attorney fees in the
event the lis pendens is withdrawn before a ruling on a motion to expunge, we
adopt the practical approach to determine the prevailing party for purposes of
awarding attorney fees.  Under the
practical approach, a trial court must determine whether the moving party is
the prevailing party under section 405.38 by analyzing the extent to which each
party has realized its litigation objectives. 
To determine litigation objectives . . . the court must consider and
decide whether the moving party would have prevailed on the motion.”  Id. at 1022-23.
The
court finds that the “practical approach” under Castro is inapplicable
considering the procedural posture.  As
stated above, the motion to expunge was withdrawn; thus, there is no “pending
motion.”  The hearing on the motion was
taken off calendar.  The court thus made
no determination as to the merits, including, as to whether the complaint on
which the notice to expunge is based contains a real property claim or whether
plaintiff has established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable
validity of the real property claim.  The
court also did not make any finding as to whether defendants acted with
substantial justification in filing the motion to expunge.  In any event, it appears that withdrawal of
the motion had nothing to do with the merits as defendants refiled the motion
when they were no longer in default.
            Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
 
ORDER
            The motion for attorney’s fees is
DENIED.
            Defendants are ordered to give notice
of ruling.