 Case Number:  23TRCV00654    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
ESTHER
  BARBARA BATINDIRA KIBAZZE,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00654




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
24
  HOUR FITNESS USA, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 28,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Mfon Anthony Ikon,
for plaintiff Esther Barbara Batindira Kibazze 
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Esther
Barbara Batindira Kibazze, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of
the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil”
(Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client. 
BACKGROUND
On March 6, 2023, plaintiff Esther
Barbara Batindira Kibazze filed a complaint against 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc.
for general negligence and premises liability based on an incident that
occurred on October 17, 2022.  She
alleges that while she was exercising at the gym, she was seriously injured
while using the arm and shoulder press machine when the 100 lb plate tumbled
down and injured her. 
On June 23, 2023, defendant filed
an answer.
On June 28, 2023, the parties
stipulated, and the court ordered that the prayer for punitive damages be
stricken.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s attorney Mfon Anthony
Ikon seeks to be relieved as counsel. 
            Counsel states in the declaration
that counsel and plaintiff have encountered irreconcilable differences that
have made plaintiff’s counsel’s continued representation impossible and that
they fundamentally disagree on how this case will move forward towards
completion of discovery and proceed to trial. 
Counsel states further that the circumstances creating the
irreconcilable differences have resulted in a complete breakdown and cessation
of communications and counsel cannot complete discovery and prepare for trial
without proper authorizations and advisements from plaintiff.
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reason why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
            The motion is GRANTED.
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED. The court
orders that the attorney is relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff Esther
Barbara Batindira Kibazze, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of
the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil”
(Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client. 
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 