  Case Number:  22TRCV01573    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CYNTHIA
  A. BLANKS, as trustee, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01573




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
DEVANAND
  SHARMA AKA FRANK MARTINI, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 28,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Devanand Sharma
Responding
Party:                  Nominal defendants
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Inspection Demands, Set One (as to 4233
Associates)
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Inspection Demands, Set One (as to 4229 W. 101st
Street Associates)
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Inspection Demands, Set One (as to 4200 West
Century Associates)
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motions to compel further
responses to defendant’s inspection demands, set one are GRANTED. 
            Nominal defendants 4223 Associates,
4229 West 101st Street Associates, and 4200 West Century Associates
are ordered to serve further responses and to produce responsive documents and
to provide a privilege log within 20 days.
            The court awards sanctions against
each nominal defendant and counsel in the amount of $1,350, to be paid within
30 days.   
BACKGROUND
            On December 22, 2022, plaintiff
Cynthia A. Blanks, as trustee of The Cynthia A. Blanks Revocable Trust #2 and
as trustee of The Seanjay Ramanand Sharma Revocable Trust filed a complaint
against Devanand Sharma aka Frank Martini (and nominal defendants 4200 West
Century Associates, 4229 West 101st Street Associates, and 4223
Associates) for (1) declaratory relief and (2) accounting. 
            On March 1, 2023, defendant
(self-represented) filed a cross-complaint against Cynthia A. Blanks, Seanjay
R. Sharma, Kamelia Yagadari, and Satanand Sharma for (1) breach of fiduciary
duty, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and dealing, (3) fraud, (4)
conversion, (5) constructive trust, (6) accounting, (7) quiet title action, (8)
methodone clinics purchased with defendant’s property, and (9) declaratory
relief.
            On September 19, 2023,
cross-defendant filed a FACC for (1) declaratory relief and (2) accounting.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP §
1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Request for Production of Documents
On receipt of a response to an
inspection demand, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further
responses to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following
apply:  (1) a statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an objection in the response is
without merit or too general.  CCP §
2031.310(a).  A statement of compliance
shall state that the production, inspection, and related activity demanded will
be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.  CCP § 2031.220.  “A representation of inability to comply with
[a] particular demand for inspection . . . shall affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand.  This statement shall also specify
whether the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has
never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has
never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the
responding party.  This statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  CCP § 2031.230. 
A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  CCP § 2031.310(b)(1).  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on
the moving party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g.,
how the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue
in the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery
(e.g., why such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent
surprise at trial).  The fact that there
is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations omitted).  “Declarations are generally used to show the
requisite ‘good cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain ‘specific facts’
rather than mere conclusions.”  Id. at 8:1495.7 (citation omitted).  “The declarations may be on information and
belief, if necessary.  However, in such
cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting such information and belief (the sources
of the information) must also be alleged.” 
Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation
omitted).  “Most declarations are made by
the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more familiar with the
relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for inspection.”  Id.
at 8:1495.9.
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure (the same as on motions to compel answers to
interrogatories or deposition questions. . . ).”  Id.
at 8:1496 (citation omitted).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant and cross-complainant
Devanand Sharma (“Martini”) requests that the court order nominal defendants
4223 Associates, 4229 West 101st Street Associates, and 4200 West
Century Associates to respond further to defendant’s inspection demands, set
one. 
            The complaint alleges that plaintiff
Cindy Blanks was married to Satanand Sharma (“Stan Sharma”) who passed away in
2016, and was the mother of Seanjay Ramanand Sharma (“Sean Sharma”) who passed
away in 2022.  Complaint, ¶10.  Defendant Martini was Stan Sharma’s brother
and Blanks’ brother-in-law, and Sean Sharma’s uncle.  Id., ¶11. 
Stan Sharma, Sean Sharma, and defendant were parties of each of the
above properties.  Stan Sharma’s interest
in each of the nominal defendants is held by The Blanks Trust.  Id., ¶12. 
The Blanks Trust, Sean Sharma, and Martini were parties in the nominal
defendants when Sean Sharma passed away in 2022.  Sean Sharma’s interest is now held by the
Sharma Trust.  Id., ¶13.  Blanks is trustee of both trusts.  Id., ¶¶12-13. 
Nominal defendants each own a single adjoining parcel of real
property.  A hotel, which is leased to a
third party, is located on all three adjoining parcels.  Id., ¶14.
            The complaint further alleges that
despite signing documents which confirm that each nominal defendant is owned by
three partners and that Martini holds no more than a 49% ownership interest in
each nominal defendant, Martini has recently taken the position that he owns
100% of the partnership interests in each of the nominal defendants.  Id., ¶21. 
Martini has refused to sign bank documents for the nominal defendants
that identify any other partners.  His
refusal to sign these bank documents has placed the nominal defendants at risk
of default on their loans.  Id.,
¶22.  Martini has also been collecting
all of the rents on the hotel.  He has
been paying himself with the rent payments rather than paying the mortgage for
the properties or paying the apportioned amounts of any profits from the rent
to his partners.  Id., ¶23.  Under the first cause of action for
declaratory relief, plaintiff seeks a judicial determination that the Sharma
Trust has a 2% general partnership interest, and that the Blanks Trust and
Martini each has a 49% limited partnership interest in each of the nominal
defendants.  Id., ¶27.
            Defendant contends that on October
20, 2023, defendant served inspection demands on nominal defendants.  On November 21, 2023, nominal defendants
served responses.  On December 21, 2023,
defense counsel sent a letter to nominal defendants’ counsel specifying the
deficiencies in the responses and requesting further responses by December 26.  On December 22, 2023, nominal defendants’
counsel emailed defense counsel stating that she could not provide a response
by December 26, that she is out of the office for the holidays, and “am more
than willing to discuss the discovery with you when I get back the first week
of January,” and provided a two-week extension to file motions.  Defense counsel responded, “I look forward to
receiving your substantive response upon your return, perhaps even including an
initial production of documents.” 
Defense counsel asserted that nominal defendants’ counsel did not
contact defense counsel upon her return in January.
            To each of the twenty-four
inspection demands, the nominal defendants responded with objections only and
did not provide any documents.  They
objected that “all documents relating to” is vague, ambiguous, overbroad; overbroad
as to time; seeks confidential documents invasive of party’s rights; seeks
documents that are not relevant or reasonable calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence; subject to attorney-client privilege and work
product doctrine; and seeks documents in the possession of or equally available
to the propounding party.
            Defendant argues that the nominal
defendants’ objections are without merit. 

            In opposition, the nominal
defendants argue that defense counsel did not sufficiently meet and confer as
he did not send a follow-up email or phone call to “continue on the earlier
agreement to meet and confer” after the holidays.  Nominal defendants also contend that the vast
majority of requests were duplicative of the requests served upon plaintiff and
that most of the requests, if not all, were overbroad, vague, and not
reasonably particularized.  Nominal
defendants assert that they are willing to meet and confer and remain amenable
to providing amended responses and producing documents within their possession.  
            The court rules as follows:  The court finds that defense counsel made an
adequate attempt to meet and confer by sending a detailed letter as to each of
the deficiencies in the objections.  Nominal
defendant’ counsel indicated that she would be willing to discuss the response
upon her return in January but did not contact defense counsel.  The court notes that defense counsel should
have reached out in January to further meet and confer but is not a ground for
denying the motions.  
The court finds that the nominal
defendants’ objections are without merit.
The motions are GRANTED.  
                        Sanctions
            Defendant requests $2,710 ($750/hr.)
in attorney’s fees against each nominal defendant and its counsel.  As acknowledged by defendant, the motions are
duplicative of each other.  The court
finds that $1,350 ($450 x 3hrs) is a reasonable amount to be imposed against
each nominal defendant and counsel.
 
ORDER
            The motions to compel further
responses to defendant’s inspection demands, set one are GRANTED. 
            Nominal defendants 4223 Associates,
4229 West 101st Street Associates, and 4200 West Century Associates
are ordered to serve further responses and to produce responsive documents and
to provide a privilege log within 20 days.
            The court awards sanctions against
each nominal defendant and counsel in the amount of $1,350, to be paid within
30 days.
            Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.