 Case Number:  22TRCV03606    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
LATASHA
  HICKS,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV03606




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HOLLYWOOD
  PARK MANAGEMENT COMPANY, LLC DBA SOFI STADIUM, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 28, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Garuda Labs, Inc.
dba as Instawork and joinder by Legends Hospitality, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Latasha Hicks
Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay All Proceedings
 
            The court considered the moving and
joinder, opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The action is STAYED pending arbitration.
 
            Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
Notice of the Complaint filed in this action is DENIED as unnecessary.  The operative pleading is always before the
Court for proper use in the case.
            Defendant’s Request for Judicial
Notice is DENIED.
An
Observation about Superior Court Decisions
“Indeed, three other courts have
already compelled arbitration in near identical situations, including in
another matter against Legends and an HPMC entity involving similar claims
filed by a plaintiff likewise represented by Plaintiff’s counsel here. Parvaneh
Jones v. Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC, Case No. 22TRCV01139 (Cal.
Super. Ct., Los Angeles Cnty. July 28, 2023) (same), attached as Exhibit C to
Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”); see also Tran v. Garuda Labs, Inc.,
Case No. RG20061241 (Cal. Super. Ct., Alameda Cnty. Dec. 9, 2020) (compelling
individual arbitration and finding that enforceable arbitration agreement
existed based on Instawork’s clickwrap process for obtaining consent to CSAs),
attached as Exhibit A to RJN; Deangelo Daniels v. Garuda Labs, Inc.,
Case No. 21CV379147 (Cal. Super. Ct., Santa Clara Cnty. Oct. 29, 2021) (same),
attached as Exhibit B to RJN”  (Moving
P&A pg 6:3-12.)
Rule of Court 8.1115 essentially
provides that only published California Supreme Court or Cout of Appeal
decisions may be cited.  Other cases
“must not be cited or relied on by the court or a party in any other
action.”  How does this rule apply to
(unpublished) Superior Court rulings by other judges?  Is it proper to note how other Superior Court
Judges have ruled on similar pleadings? 
Perhaps the failure of the Rule to address this question leads counsel
to believe that it is proper to argue to the Court that other Superior Court
judges have ruled a particular way in cases similar to the one before the
Court.  This bench officer does not
believe that it is correct to reach such a conclusion, as to do so essentially
is turning non-citable rulings into “citations.”
This Court does not make its
determination by relying upon the rulings of other Superior Court judges that
are not citable authority.  Nor does it
think it proper to “cite” those rulings in counsel’s argument.
 
BACKGROUND
On October 27, 2023, plaintiff
Latasha Hicks filed a complaint against Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC,
Christopher Holland, Garuda Labs, Inc., Legends Hospitality, LLC, and Hollywood
Park Management Company II, LLC for (1) harassment in violation of FEHA and (2)
IIED. 
On November 9, 2023, plaintiff
filed a FAC for (1) harassment in violation of FEHA, (2) IIED, (3) premises
liability negligence (against HPMC), and (4) negligent hiring, supervision, or
retention of employee (against HPMC).
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . .
with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
            Defendant Garuda Labs, Inc. dba as
Instawork requests an order compelling binding arbitration as to itself and to
all the defendants and to stay the proceedings.
The
complaint alleges that plaintiff was employed through defendant Garuda Labs,
Inc. dba Instaworks (“Instaworks”) to work as a cashier/prep cook on the
premises at Sofi Stadium of defendant Hollywood Park Management Company.  Plaintiff’s duties included receiving orders,
preparing customer orders, and preparing food for games.  Defendant Christopher Holland was plaintiff’s
supervisor at the workplace on the premises of HPMC.  FAC, ¶11. 
In October 2021, plaintiff commenced her employment with Instaworks.  Within the work environment at Sofi, plaintiff
reported to Holland, her designated lead, who provided instructions regarding
her assigned station for each shift. 
Id., ¶22.  On November 14, 2021,
while diligently attending to her daily duties at the cashier station,
plaintiff had an abrupt encounter with Holland. 
During this encounter, Holland repeatedly inquired about plaintiff’s
sister Parvaneh Jones, who was also employed by Instawork and stationed at
Sofi.  Plaintiff found Holland’s line of
questioning unsettling as he sought information regarding Jones’ age and
relationship status.  Despite her
discomfort, plaintiff promptly dismissed Holland’s inquiries and continued to
fulfill her work responsibilities.  Id., ¶23.
The FAC
further alleges that on November 21, 2021, Holland approached Hicks during work
and made a request for her to take explicit photographs of her sister
Jones.  Id., ¶24.  On November 27, 2021, while engaged in work
responsibilities, Holland approached Hicks and inquired if she harbored
romantic feelings toward him.  Id., ¶25.  On November 28, 2021, Holland approached
Hicks and placed his arm around her neck and shoulders and remarked that she
should include explicit pictures of herself to send to him.  Id., ¶26. 
On December 5, 2021, while working in the kitchen area, Holland
deliberately brushed against Hicks’ buttocks as he walked past her and later in
the shift, approached her from behind and startled her by shouting,
“boo!”.  Id., ¶27.  In February 2022, plaintiff’s assignment at
Sofi came to an end.  Id., ¶29.  
The FAC
further alleges that she was misclassified as an independent contractor.  Id., ¶¶32-34.
            Existence of an Enforceable
Agreement
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant contends that plaintiff
entered into a binding and enforceable arbitration agreement (contained in the
Contractor Services Agreement or “CSA”) with defendant Instawork, which,
defendant argues, requires her to assert any claims against Instawork,
Hollywood Park Management Company, LLC (“HPMC”), Legends Hospitality, LLC, and
Hollywood Park Management Company II, LLC related to her relationship with
Instawork and services provided through the Instawork Platform in binding
arbitration.
Defendant explains that it is a
technology company that develops software applications connecting businesses
with hourly workers (“pros”) for short-term work on longer-term jobs.  Defendant asserts that “pros” like plaintiff
can use the Instawork App to access shifts and other opportunities.  Through the app, third-party businesses
select and negotiate directly with Instawork pros to set the work to be
performed, as well as the schedules, locations, and other details for the
work.  To book a shift, a pro downloads
the Instawork App.  Once the app is
downloaded, the pro creates a new account. 
To do so, the pro provides their first and last name, telephone number,
and email address.  Before tapping “Next”
to complete the process of creating a new account, the pro is expressly
informed, “[b]y tapping Next, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Terms of
Use[.]”  The pro must then following the
onboarding process and complete all required documentation before booking a
shift.  Once the pro taps to book a
shift, they are prompted to and must tap to review the CSA to continue.  At the end of the CSA, to continue, the pro
must then tap “I accept” to agree to its terms. 
Simon Olavarria decl.
Defendant presents evidence that on
February 23, 2023, plaintiff Hicks entered into the CSA with Instawork in
accordance with the process set forth above, by accessing the app, scrolling
through the entirety of the CSA, and then tapping “I accept.”  Olaverria decl., ¶¶9-10, Exh. B.
Under the “Mutual Arbitration and
Dispute Resolution” provision at para. 11, the CSA states, in part:  “The Parties mutually agree to resolve any
and all disputes between them or between You and any of Instawork’s parents,
subsidiaries, affiliates including Partners, successors, assigns, officers,
directors, employees, and/or agents exclusively through final, binding, and
individual arbitration instead of filing a lawsuit in court . . . .”  CSA, at 11.1. 

Defendant contends that the plain
language of the CSA covers claims against co-defendants and that HPMC, Legends,
and HPMC II also have standing as third-party beneficiaries and under equitable
estoppel.  Legends is a “Partner” under
the CSA.  Olaverria, ¶11.
The joinder by Legends asserts that
it is subject to the arbitration agreement as a third-party beneficiary, agent
of the signatory, and/or because the claims against defendant are covered by
the arbitration agreement.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that Instawork does not have standing to argue on behalf of the other
defendants.  Plaintiff contends that
Instawork has not shown other defendants were third-party beneficiaries or that
equitable estoppel applies as this case does not involve breach of
contract.  Plaintiff also argues that the
subject arbitration agreement is void per se under the FAA, 9 USC 402(a), the
“Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act”
(“EFAA”), which renders a pre-dispute arbitration agreement unenforceable as to
cases alleging sexual harassment.  She
asserts that she suffered harassment prior to the Act going into effect, but
signed Instawork’s arbitration agreement after the Act’s effective date.
            In
reply, defendant reiterates its arguments. 
Defendant further argues that according to plaintiff’s allegations, the
conduct arose and accrued before the EFAA went into effect on March 3, 2022. 
 
The court rules as follows:  The court finds that an arbitration agreement
exists between plaintiff and defendant Instawork, which plaintiff does not
refute, that covers her claims.  Further,
plaintiff agreed to resolve any and all disputes between herself and any of
Instawork’s Partners, which would include defendant Legends, and thus, Legends
is a third-party beneficiary.
As to the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel
a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations.”  JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal. App. 4th 1222, 1237.  The doctrine applies:  (1) when the signatory must rely on the terms
of the written agreement containing the arbitration clause in asserting its
claims against the nonsignatory; or (2) when the signatory alleges
“substantially interdependent and concerted misconduct” by the nonsignatory and
a signatory and the alleged misconduct is “founded in or intimately connected
with the obligations of the underlying agreement.”  Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal. App.
4th 209, 218-219.  The first situation
exists “‘when the signatory to a written agreement containing an arbitration
clause “must rely on the terms of the written agreement in asserting [its] claims”
against the nonsignatory.’”  Id.
at 218 (citation omitted).  
The court notes that the claims against
HPMC and HPMC II and Legends are based on the same facts and inherently
inseparable from the arbitrable claims against signatory and moving party
Instawork.  See Garcia v. Pexco, LLC
(2017) 11 Cal. App. 5th 782, 786, where the plaintiff sued both the staffing
agency who staffed her and the company where she was staffed, alleging the same
causes of action against the staffing agency and the company without
distinguishing between the defendants. 
Plaintiff asserts the same causes of action against each of the
defendants collectively as her “employer.” 
Although disputed by Instawork, plaintiff alleges that defendants were
“joint employers.”  FAC, ¶¶36-42.  The allegations against HPMC, HPMC II, and
Legends are intertwined with Instawork’s and are founded in the alleged
employment relationship.  Plaintiff
alleges that she performed services for each and every one of defendants, and
to the mutual benefit of all defendants, and all defendants shared control of
plaintiff as an employee, either directly or indirectly, and the manner in
which defendants’ business was and is conducted.  See id., ¶41.
As to the EFAA, the law applies
“with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after the
date of enactment of this Act,” it does not apply retroactively, and
plaintiff’s causes of action accrued before it was enacted on March 3, 2022.  See Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87
Cal. App. 5th 1223, 1230.
The motion is thus GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED.  The case is STAYED.
            Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of the ruling.