 Case Number:  23TRCV02927    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JEAN
  C. MCDONALD, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV02927




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative
  RULING
 




 
MARDU
  INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          March 28,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Mardu Inc. 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jean C. McDonald
(1)  
Demurrer
(2)  
Motion to Strike
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
            The demurrer to the complaint, and first
and second causes of action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.  The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to para. 16 and prayer for punitive damages.
BACKGROUND
On September 6, 2023, Jean C.
McDonald filed a complaint against Mardu Inc. for (1) elder abuse and (2)
negligence. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Mardu Inc. demurs to the
complaint on the ground that plaintiff lacks capacity to sue and to the first
and second causes of action on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The complaint alleges that
plaintiff is married to Stu McDonald (“husband”).  In 2017, her husband’s daughter Kelley Avery
contracted with defendant Mardu to provide senior home care services for
husband.  Complaint, ¶6.  The scope of Mardu’s services was later
expanded to include care for plaintiff, at around the time she started to
exhibit diminished mental capacities. 
Husband started to exhibit diminished mental capacities around
2017.  Id., ¶8.
            Capacity
to sue
Defendant argues that plaintiff
lacks capacity to sue because plaintiff alleges that she suffers from a
diminished mental capacity. 
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that she does not lack capacity but can amend to include a legal
representative.  
The court finds that it appears
that plaintiff lacks capacity to sue.
 
First cause of action for elder
abuse
The complaint alleges that around
May 2023, husband acted violently towards plaintiff, causing emotional and
physical harm, and did so in the presence of one or more caregivers employed by
Mardu.  Complaint, ¶11.  The caregivers who witnessed husband’s acts
of violence towards plaintiff reported such acts to Avery and Mardu.  Mardu intentionally concealed husband’s
conduct from plaintiff’s daughter Debbie Martin, who was known to Mardu.  Id., ¶12. 
Defendants’ conduct constitutes neglect as defined in Welf. & Inst.
Code §15610.57.  Id., ¶13.   
In order to state a cause of action
under the Elder Abuse Act, “a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially
equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of punitive damages.” Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771, 789.   
“[T]he facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.”  Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 407
(citing Covenant Care). 
“Allegations of misconduct directed against one defendant . . . do not
state a cause of action against another defendant against whom the allegations
of misconduct are not directed.”  Id.
at 410 (citation omitted).  “[W]hen a
plaintiff asserts a claim against a health care provider on a legal theory
other than professional negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is
nonetheless based on the health care provider’s professional negligence.”  Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc.
(2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 336, 347 (citation omitted).  Citing to the content of the definition of
“neglect” in Welf. and Inst. Code §15610.57(b), the Supreme Court stated,
“[w]hat they each seem to contemplate is the existence of a robust caretaking
or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has
assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of
an elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.”  Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc.
(2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148, 58.  “What seems
beyond doubt is that the Legislature enacted a scheme distinguishing between –
and decidedly not lumping together – claims of professional negligence and
neglect.”  Id. at 159.
Defendant argues that plaintiff has
failed to plead with particularity. 
Further, defendant asserts, plaintiff has not alleged how Mardu violated
the statute, including that defendant or any of its caregivers failed to
exercise a degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would
exercise.  Rather, plaintiff alleges that
defendant provided assistance with personal hygiene or in the provision of
food, clothing, or shelter.  Complaint, ¶6.  Plaintiff does not allege that defendant
failed to provide medical care, or to protect plaintiff from health and safety
hazards, or to prevent malnutrition or dehydration, or to assist plaintiff in
managing finances, for example. 
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient. 
Plaintiff also contends that “any fault for the complaint’s alleged
factual deficiencies falls squarely upon Mardu, who has consistently withheld
vitally relevant documents.”  Plaintiff
asserts that she propounded discovery requests in November 2023 but did not
receive responsive and redacted (based on husband’s HIPAA privilege) documents
until end of February 2024 and on March 12, 2024.
In reply, defendant denies
improperly withholding documents.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for elder abuse.  The allegations are conclusory and are not
plead with the requisite particularity and do not support reckless neglect. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first cause of action.
 
Second cause of action for negligence
Defendant argues that the
allegations fail to state a claim because plaintiff alleges no facts
demonstrating why or how defendant had a duty to report to plaintiff’s
daughter, a non-party, the unspecified conduct of plaintiff’s husband.  Further, defendant contends, plaintiff has
not alleged how defendant somehow caused or contributed to plaintiff’s injuries
or what actual harm occurred.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as to duty and causation.  The allegations do not support that defendant
had a duty to report to plaintiff’s daughter (in addition to reporting to Mardu
and husband’s daughter Avery) or that failure to do so caused plaintiff’s
injuries or damage. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second cause of action.
 
Motion to Strike
Defendant requests that the court
strike para. 16 and prayer for punitive damages.
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere commission of
a tort is always required for punitive damages. 
There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or
‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such
a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his
conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in
College Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances
that are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).
Civil Code §3294(b) states: “With
respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard,
authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on
the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
A claim for punitive damages may
not be based on conclusory allegations of oppression, fraud or malice, but
instead must be based on factual allegations which support such a
conclusion.  See Smith v. Superior
Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1041-42 (Court of Appeal issued a
peremptory writ directing trial court to issue order striking plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages because “[t]he sole basis for seeking punitive
damages are . . . conclusory allegations” which were “devoid of any factual
assertions supporting a conclusion [defendants] acted with oppression, fraud,
or malice”).
Evidence of negligence, gross
negligence, or even recklessness is not sufficient to support an award of
punitive damages.  Lackner v. North
(2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 1188, 1210-11.
Defendant argues that plaintiff has
not pleaded sufficient facts to support the allegations of malice, oppression,
or fraud or to identify any specific factual “despicable conduct.”
In opposition, plaintiff contends
that the allegations are sufficient.
The court finds that there are no
allegations pled to support a claim for punitive damages, much less a claim for
elder abuse, as stated above.  There are
no allegations to show malice, oppression, or fraud.
The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
The demurrer to the complaint and first
and second causes of action in the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.  The motion to strike is GRANTED WITH
20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to para. 16 and prayer for punitive damages.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling. 