 Case Number:  21STCV43814    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  November 30, 2021, Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross (“Plaintiff”) filed this  action against Defendants Macerich Cerritos, LLC, Macerich Cerritos Holdings,  LLC, Manager Nick, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.  On  May 26, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants  Macerich Cerritos, LLC, Macerich Cerritos Holdings, LLC, Manager Nick, Macerich  Property Management Company, LLC, The Macerich Company, Interstate Cleaning  Corporation, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.  On  November 3, 2022, Defendants Interstate Cleaning Corporation, Macerich  Cerritos, LLC (for itself and erroneously sued and served as Macerich Cerritos  Holdings, LLC) (“Macerich Cerritos”), and Macerich Management Company  (erroneously sued and served as Macerich Property Management Company, LLC, and  The Macerich Company) filed an answer to the first amended complaint.  On  May 10, 2024, Macerich Cerritos filed a motion for  terminating sanctions or, alternatively, for issue and/or evidentiary sanctions  and for monetary sanctions.  The  motion was set for hearing on June 20, 2024.   The Court continued the hearing to August 8, 2024.  On May 14, 2024, Macerich Cerritos filed a  notice of errata with an updated version of the motion.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  Trial  is currently set for October 21, 2024.  PARTY’S REQUESTS  Macerich  Cerritos asks the Court to grant terminating  sanctions or, alternatively, impose issue and/or evidentiary sanctions and monetary  sanctions.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating  sanctions  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part:  “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any  particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,  after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity  for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in  conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process:  “(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering  that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney  advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including  attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may  also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has  engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised  that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision  of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  “(b) The court may impose an  issue sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in  the action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the  misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by  an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process  from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.  “(c) The  court may impose an evidence sanction by an order prohibiting any party  engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing designated  matters in evidence.  “(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by  one of the following orders:  “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of  the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.  “(2) An order staying further proceedings by that  party until an order for discovery is obeyed.  “(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of  the action, of that party.  “(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against  that party.  “(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an  order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court.  “(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other  section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not  impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide  electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or  overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic  information system.  “(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter  any obligation to preserve discoverable information.  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2023.030.)          B.       Sanctions  for failure to comply with Court order to respond to demand for inspection            Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.300, subdivision (c), provides in part:  “If a party . . . fails to obey [an] order [under Code  of Civil Procedure section 2031.300, subdivision (b)] compelling a response [to  a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling], the court may make  those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an  evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with  Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may  impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)                C.      Sanctions  for failure to comply with Court order to respond to interrogatories  Code of Civil  Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (c), provides in part:  “If a party then fails to obey an order [under Code of  Civil Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (b)] compelling answers [to  interrogatories], the court may make those orders that are just, including the  imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in  addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)           D.   Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with  discovery orders  A  violation of a discovery order supports the imposition of terminating  sanctions. (Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th  1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in  disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d  771, 795-796 (Deyo).)  A  terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with  caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A  decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a  violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows  that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery  rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (Mileikowsky).)    DISCUSSION  On  April 2, 2024, the Court granted Macerich Cerritos’s unopposed motions to  compel Plaintiff’s responses to requests for production of documents, set one,  special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one. The Court  ordered Plaintiff to serve verified code-compliant responses, without  objections, to Macerich Cerritos’s request for production of documents, set  one, and to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or  other things requested without objections by April 15, 2024. The Court also ordered  Plaintiff to serve verified code-compliant responses, without objections, to  Macerich Cerritos’s special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories,  set one, by April 15, 2024.  Macerich Cerritos now moves for terminating sanctions or, alternatively, for issue  and/or evidentiary sanctions and for monetary sanctions, arguing Plaintiff has  not complied with the Court’s April 2, 2024 order.   The  Court denies Macerich Cerritos’s request for  terminating sanctions.  Plaintiff has violated  one discovery order.  Macerich Cerritos  has not shown that less severe sanctions would be ineffective in producing  compliance with the discovery rules. (See Mileikowsky, supra, 128  Cal.App.4th at pp. 279-280.)  For  the same reason, the Court also denies Macerich Cerritos’s request for issue and  evidence sanctions that would effectively terminate Plaintiff’s case.  Instead,  the Court orders Plaintiff to comply with the Court’s April 2, 2024 order by  September 6, 2024.  Macerich  Cerritos requests $3,150.00 in monetary sanctions based on 10.5 hours of  attorney time at a rate of $300.00 per hour.   Counsel spent nine hours preparing the moving papers and anticipated  spending one hour to review and reply to any opposition and thirty minutes to  attend the hearing.  The Court grants Macerich  Cerritos $750.00 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney time at a  reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour.  At the hearing on the motion, Plaintiff's counsel asked that any sanctions be imposed solely against him and not against his client.  Therefore, the Court orders Plaintiff's counsel to pay the sanctions award. CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES in part and GRANTS in part Defendant Macerich Cerritos, LLC's motion  for terminating sanctions or, alternatively, issue and/or evidentiary sanctions  and monetary sanctions as  follows:  The  Court ORDERS Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross (1) to serve verified  code-compliant responses, without objections, to Defendant Macerich Cerritos LLC’s  request for production of documents, set one, and to produce the documents,  electronically stored information, and/or other things requested without  objections by September 6, 2024, (2) to serve verified code-compliant  responses, without objections, to Defendant Macerich Cerritos LLC’s special  interrogatories, set one, by September 6, 2024, and (3) to serve verified code-compliant responses, without  objections, to Defendant Macerich Cerritos LLC’s form interrogatories, set one, by  September 6, 2024.   The  Court ORDERS counsel for Plaintiff Rosemarie Paradis Gross to pay monetary  sanctions of $750.00 to Defendant Macerich  Cerritos LLC by September 6, 2024.  In  all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion. Moving party is to give notice of this ruling. Moving party is to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.