 Case Number:  PC056481    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-11-24
Case # PC056481,
People of the State of California vs. Barton Wayne Fishback
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Barton Wayne Fishback
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs People of the State of California and the County of Los
Angeles
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant, in
pro per, is requesting that the Court enter an order setting aside the
judgment, permanent injunction, civil penalties, and costs and to stay
proceedings
 
RULING:
Motion denied
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
In 2015,
Plaintiffs People of the State of California and the County of Los Angeles
(Plaintiffs) filed an enforcement action against Defendant Barton Wayne
Fishback (Defendant) and his company ABC Waste after they converted over 100
acres of undeveloped mountainous land into a dump. Defendant was depositing
construction waste material into the hillside without an approved conditional
use permit from the County.
 
In 2019, this
Court granted Plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment against Fishback and ABC
Waste, finding them liable for public nuisance for using the heavy agriculture
zoned land as a waste disposal facility, as then defined by the County’s zoning
code, without a conditional use permit, and for engaging in unpermitted grading
and excavation activities. 
 
After
Plaintiffs drafted a proposed judgment with civil penalties, the Court
permanently enjoined the public nuisance and unfair business practices on
October 19, 2020. Judgment was entered the same day.
 
Defendant
appealed the judgment on December 15, 2020. The Court of Appeal dismissed the
appeal on April 20, 2022. In June 2022, the County amended its Zoning Code to
enact the Green Zone Districts Ordinance. While the new Zoning Code replaced
some definitions of categories, like waste disposal facility, it still requires
a permit prior to engaging in grading and excavating.
 
On October 18,
2023, Defendant Fishback, in pro per, filed this motion to set aside/vacate
judgment. He argues that provisions of the County zoning and grading codes are
preempted by the California Integrated Waste Management Act (CIWMA), Division 7
of the Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations, State Housing laws, and
the California Building Standards Code (CSBC). He also argues that the judgment
is void due to lack of subject matter jurisdiction. He also claims that the
abstract of judgment filed in this case amount to fraud on the Court.
 
Plaintiffs argue
in their opposition, filed on February 27, 2024, that Defendant’s claims are
baseless, and that Defendant cannot support his claims of preemption or his
claims of fraud or lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant
has not demonstrated any conflict between the Zoning Code and the CIWMA.
Plaintiffs also argue that he has not shown that there has been any violation
of the State Housing Law and CBSC. Further, they argue that the judgment is not
void on its face, and the abstract of judgment was properly filed with the
Court.
 
No reply had
been filed as of March 6, 2024. At the hearing on March 11, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing on the motion to the current date of June 11, 2024, in
order to allow Defendant opportunity to file a reply to Plaintiffs’
supplemental request for judicial notice that was filed on March 7, 2024.
 
Defendant
appears to argue in his reply, filed on May 2, 2024, that the County has
perpetuated some great fraud on Defendant and the State Commission through
changes made to its Building Code. The arguments presented by Defendant in his
reply have little to do with the main issue here, which is that he had created
a dump in undeveloped mountainous land, which was not zoned for that purpose,
without a conditional use permit. He also repeats his arguments that the
County’s Zoning and Building Code ordinances violate federal and state statutes
and would be preempted. Defendant also argues that the judgment would be void
on its face because of lack of subject matter jurisdiction, but it is unclear
why he argues this. Finally, Defendant argues that a fraud on the Court
occurred, but his reasons for this argument are unclear.
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs’ Request
for Judicial Notice: Plaintiffs have requested that the Court take judicial
notice of prior documents filed in this case with the Court and the Los Angeles
County Ordinance 2022-2023 that outlines Green Zone Districts. Plaintiffs make
this request pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 452-453. The Court grants Plaintiffs’
request.
 
Plaintiffs’
Supplemental Request for Judicial Notice: Plaintiffs have requested that the
Court take judicial notice of Title 25 of the Los Angeles County Code and a
letter of acceptance from the California Building Standards Committee of Title
26 of the LA County Code determining the County’s express findings and
modifications acceptable and enforceable. The Court takes judicial notice of
these documents.
 
Preemption
Conflicts amounting
to preemption exist if an ordinance duplicates, contradicts, or enters an area
fully occupied by general law, either expressly or by legislative implication. (Big
Creek Lumber Co. v County of Santa Cruz (2006) 30 Cal 4th 1139.) “Local
legislation is ‘duplicative’ of general law when it is coextensive therewith
and ‘contradictory’ to general law when it is inimical thereto. Local
legislation enters an area ‘fully occupied’ by general law when the Legislature
has expressly manifested its intent to fully occupy the area or when it has
impliedly done so in light of recognized indicia of intent.” (Id. at
1150.) 
 
Courts are “‘reluctant
to infer legislative intent to preempt a field covered by municipal regulation
when there is a significant local interest to be served that may differ from
one locality to another.’’ (Big Creek Lumber, supra, 38 Cal.4th
at 1149.) When a local government regulates in an area over which it
traditionally has exercised control, such as the location of particular land
uses, California courts will presume, absent a clear indication of preemptive
intent from the Legislature, that such regulation is not preempted by state
statute. (Ibid.) The party claiming state law preempts a local ordinance
has the burden of demonstrating preemption. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant
contends that the land use amendments provisions recently added to the County
Zoning Code would be preempted by CIWMA. However, CIWMA authorizes local
governments to adopt reasonable land use regulations concerning solid waste
provided that the land use regulations do not conflict with CIWMA. (See Public Res.
Code § 40053.) CIWMA permits the County to adopt zoning regulations to
establish the location of solid waste and recycling uses within its jurisdiction.
Despite Defendant’s arguments to the contrary, there are no conflicts between
the Zoning Code’s definition of solid waste and CIWMA’s definition of solid
waste. (See Zoning Code § 22.14.190-S and Public Res. Code § 40191(a).) The
provisions of the Zoning Code are consistent with state law and are therefore
not preempted.
 
Defendant has
not met his burden to show preemption for CIWMA.
 
Defendant also
argues that County Zoning and Building Codes enforced against him violate state
housing law and CBSC. However, Defendant failed to indicate which provisions of
these laws would conflict with the County Zoning Code. Therefore, his argument
is unsupported. Further, the State Housing Code expressly allows local
jurisdictions to regulate and enforce local zoning and land use regulations.
(See Health and Safety Code § 17922(c).) Defendant also fails to show that the
County did not adopt the grading standards set forth in the CBSC.
 
Defendant’s
preemption arguments are without merit.
 
Void
Judgment
Defendant
argues that because there were changes made to the Zoning Code nearly two years
after judgment against him was entered, then that would make the judgment
against him void. 
 
A defendant
normally has six months after judgment is entered to file a motion to set aside
the judgment. (CCP § 473(b).) If a judgment is void on its face, the six month
time limit does not apply. (CCP § 473(d); see Calvert v Al Binal (2018)
29 Cal.App. 5th 954, 960.) Under CCP § 473 (d), a judgment or order is void on
its face when the invalidity is apparent upon an inspection of the judgment
roll without consideration of extrinsic evidence. (Morgan v. Clapp
(1929) 207 Cal. 221, 224; Kremerman v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358,
370.)
 
The judgment in
this case is not void on its face. Though some definitions in the Zoning Code
changed with the 2022 amendments, Defendant would still have been required to
obtain a conditional use permit for the dumping. The changed definitions did
not affect the permitting requirements.
 
Furthermore,
the abstract of judgment was properly filed with the Court and does not amount
to fraud on the Court.
 
The judgment is
not void on its face.
 
Defendant has
not presented any meritorious grounds upon which to set aside or vacate the
judgment against him. Defendant’s motion is denied.
 
Moving party to
give notice.