  Case Number:  23CHCV02432    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 6-11-24
Case #23CHCV02432 , Juan Parra Ospina vs. Dana Smaldino-Holroyd
Trial Date: 3-17-25
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR
PRODUCTIN
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Dana Smaldino-Holroyd
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Juan Parra Ospina
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff’s
further response to Defendant’s request for production, as well as sanctions.
 
RULING:
Motion to compel further responses is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This case
involves a motor vehicle collision between Plaintiff Juan Parra Ospina
(Plaintiff) and Defendant Dana Smaldino-Holroyd (Defendant). Defendant
propounded discovery requests, and including requests for production, on
Plaintiff on December 18, 2023. After Defendant gave Plaintiff a couple of
extensions to respond, Plaintiff served his responses on February 15, 2024. 
 
On March 12,
2024, counsel for Defendant sent Plaintiff’s counsel a meet and confer letter
regarding Plaintiff’s responses. On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
provided further responses to the discovery. Defendant indicates that Plaintiff
did not provide a further response to Request for Production No. 27, the
request at issue in this motion.
 
Counsel for
Defendant attempted to contact Plaintiff’s counsel regarding Plaintiff’s
response to Request for Production No. 27 on three different occasions, but did
not hear back from Plaintiff’s counsel. On April 17, 2024, Defendant filed this
motion to compel further response with a request for sanctions in the amount of
$615.
 
Request for
Production No. 27 reads as follows:
 
Request for
Production No. 27:
            Please produce any and all DOCUMENTS
which reflect any and all cellular telephone calls made by YOU on the date of
the INCIDENT. 
 
DOCUMENT
or DOCUMENTS means a writing, as defined in Evidence Code section 250, and
includes the original or copy of handwriting, typewriting, printing,
photocopying, photographing, and every other means of recorded upon any
tangible thing and form of communicating or representation, including letters,
words, pictures, sounds, symbols or combinations of them. 
 
YOU
or YOUR includes you, your agents, your employees, your insurance companies,
their agents, their employees, your attorneys, your accountants, your
investigators, and anyone else acting on your behalf. 
INCIDENT
includes the circumstances and events surrounding the September 11, 2022
accident, damage, loss or other occurrence giving rise to this action or
proceeding. Whenever the term "INCIDENT" is used, it refers to the
September 11, 2022 incident referred to in YOUR Complaint
 
Response/Further
Response to Request for Production No. 27:
            Objection. The demand calls for
information not relevant to the subject matter of this action nor to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Deaile v. Gen’l Telephone, 40 Cal App.
3d 841 (1974). 
 
Objection.
The demand seeks information which is protected from disclosure by the
attorney’s work product privilege. Brown v. Superior Court, 218 Cal. 2d
430 (1963). 
 
Objection.
The interrogatory is overly broad and remote and as such is not calculated to
lead to the discovery of information relevant to the subject matter of this
action nor is it calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. CBS
v. Superior Court, 263 Cal. App. 2d 12 (1968). 
 
Objection.
The demand invades Responding Party’s right of privacy, is impermissible overly
broad therefore oppressive, burdensome, and irrelevant to the subject matter of
this action.
 
Objection.
The interrogatory is oppressive and burdensome because it is vague, ambiguous,
and unintelligible so as to make a response impossible without speculation as
to the meaning of the question.
 
            The Parties’ Arguments
In his motion,
Defendant argues that the information sought is pertinent and that Defendant
has meet his meet and confer obligations. Defendant also argues that sanctions
are appropriate.
 
Plaintiff
argues in his opposition that he met his statutory obligations with his
objections to Defendant’s Request No. 27. Plaintiff also argues that
Defendant’s request is overbroad and seeks information that goes beyond the
scope of this matter, and that the request violates Plaintiff’s right to
privacy. Finally, Plaintiff argues that sanctions should not be imposed against
him, and instead, sanctions should be imposed against Defendant.
 
In his reply,
Defendant argues that the information sought is relevant and likely to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. Next, Defendant argues that disclosure
serves a legitimate and countervailing interest. Also in his reply, Defendant
brings up that he offered to limit the scope of the discovery request of phone
records to 15 minutes before the incident and 15 minutes after the incident. He
made this offer during in his March 12 meet and confer letter. Finally, Defendant
argues that sanctions should not be imposed against him for Plaintiff’s failure
to meet and confer.
 
ANALYSIS
The Discovery
Act allows “[a]ny party [to] obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying,
testing, or sampling documents . . . and electronically stored information in
the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) The demanding party may designate the
documents sought “by reasonably particularizing each category of item.” (CCP §
2031.030(c)(1).) The responding party must then “respond separately to each
item or category of item” with an agreement to comply, representation of
inability to comply, or an objection. (CCP § 2031.210.) If the demanding party
deems that “(1) [a] statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,” (2)
“[a] representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive.” (3) “[a]n objection in the response is without merit or too general,”
the demanding party may seek an order compelling code-complaint responses. (CCP
§ 2030.310(a).)
 
Next, CCP §
2031.240 states that two requirements must be satisfied for a responding party
to properly object to a demand. First, a party must “[i]dentify with
particularity any document, [or] tangible thing . . . to which an objection is
being made.” (CCP § 2031.240(b)(1).) Second, a party must “[s]et forth clearly
the extent of, and the specific ground for, the objection.” (CCP §
2031.240(b)(2).) 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff has objected to Request No. 27 because it is overbroad and
therefore violates Plaintiff’s privacy, the Court agrees. Seeking records for
all calls on the date of the incident is overbroad. However, Defendant
indicates in his reply that he made an attempt to limit the scope of the
request by limiting it to calls 15 minutes before the incident and 15 minutes
after the incident. While this would be a much more reasonable request, that is
not what the request says, nor did Plaintiff give any indication in his
opposition that he knew about Defendant’s offer to limit the scope of the
request. The Court will note, though, that the meet and confer letter attached
as Exhibit E to Defendant’s motion to compel further response does mention the 15
minutes on either side of the incident offer. 
 
Based on this,
the Court grants Defendant motion to compel further response to Request No. 27,
but only for call records 15 minutes before the incident and 15 minutes after
the incident. Plaintiffs’ call records are relevant to demonstrate whether
Plaintiff was on the phone at the time of the incident. Additionally, Defendant’s
use of responsive material will be limited to determining whether Plaintiff was
on the phone at the time of the incident, subject to a later showing of good
cause to allow Defendant to contact any individuals who might have been talking
to Plaintiff at the time
 
Because
Plaintiff was justified in objecting to Defendant’s request on the basis that
it was overbroad, no sanctions will be imposed on either party.
 
ORDER
1.      Defendant’s
motion to compel further responses to Request for Production No. 27 is granted,
but only for call records 15 minutes before the incident and 15 minutes after
the incident.
2.      Plaintiff’s
further response to this request is due within 30 days.
3.      Moving
party to give notice.