 Case Number:  22STCV04425    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  SEC BRADY v. DOE 1
CASE NO.:  22STCV04425 
HEARING:  12/05/24
 
#3
 
Plaintiff’s Unopposed Motion for an Order to Seal the
Unredacted Declaration of Thomas B. Burtland and Attached Exhibits and the
Unredacted Version of Earle Merchant’s Declaration in Connection with
Plaintiff’s Joint Motion to Consolidate is GRANTED.

 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
No Opposition filed as of December 2, 2024. 
 
This action (Constance Brady v. Doe 1 22STCV04425)
was filed on February 4, 2022.  The
following three cases have been deemed related to the subject action: Houk
v. Doe 1 22NWCV00550; Doe v. Defendant Doe City 22NWCV01519; and Doe
v. City of Whittier 23NWCV04037. There is a Motion to Consolidate scheduled
to be heard on December 19, 2024. 
 
On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff moved ex parte for an order
requesting the in camera review and order to keep under seal the Declarations
of Thomas Murtland and Earle Merchant filed in support of the Joint Motion to
Consolidate. This Court denied the ex parte application without prejudice, and
set the matter to be heard as a regularly noticed motion on December 5, 2024.
The ex parte application was deemed the moving papers, and opposition and reply
briefs were to be filed and served per Code in accordance with the new hearing
date. As of December 2, 2024, no Opposition(s) have been filed. 
 
Plaintiff requests for the following documents filed in
connection with Plaintiffs’ Joint Motion to Consolidate, to be filed under
seal: 
 
(1) Exhibit
B.1 referenced in the Declaration of Thomas Murtland, which contains the
discovery verification of Plaintiff Jane D.B. Doe, signed under her true name; 
(2) Exhibit
C referenced in the Declaration of Thomas Murtland, which contains copies of Plaintiff Jane D.B. Doe’s confidential medical records;
and 
(3) The
Declaration of Earle Merchant, which contains the true names and identities of
Plaintiff Jane D.I. Doe, Jane D.B. Doe, and Doe Police Corporal. 
 
“The court may order that a record be filed under seal only
if it expressly finds facts that establish: [¶] (1) There exists an overriding
interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; [¶] (2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; [¶] (3) A substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; [¶] (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
[¶] (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) 
 
Identities of Doe Plaintiffs 
 
“The judicial use of ‘Doe plaintiffs’ to protect legitimate
privacy rights has gained wide currency, particularly given the rapidity and
ubiquity of disclosures over the World Wide Web.” (Starbucks Corp. v. Sup.
Ct. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1436, 1452, fn. 7.) “[F]ederal courts have
permitted plaintiffs to use pseudonyms in three situations: (1) when
identification creates a risk of retaliatory physical or mental harm; (2) when
anonymity is necessary to preserve privacy in a matter of sensitive and highly
personal nature; and (3) when the anonymous party is compelled to admit his or
her intention to engage in illegal conduct, thereby risking criminal
prosecution,” and “a party may preserve his or her anonymity in judicial
proceedings in special circumstances when the party’s need for anonymity
outweighs prejudice to the opposing party and the public’s interest in knowing
the party’s identity.” (Doe v. Lincoln Unified School Dist. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 758, 767.) 
 
Here, the Court finds that there are sufficient reasons to
permit Plaintiffs to litigate this action as “Does”. Plaintiffs allege that
they were victims of sexual assault. Plaintiffs’ rights to privacy include
their identities as victims of sexual assault—a matter of sensitive and
personal nature. 
 
Moreover, the Court finds that Defendant Doe Police Corporal
may not yet be named in this matter. The procedures set out in CCP §340.1 must
be followed before publicly naming/identifying Defendant Doe Police Corporal. 
 
The Motion to Seal Exhibit B.1 referenced in the Declaration
of Thomas Murtland, which contains the discovery verification of Plaintiff Jane
D.B. Doe, signed under her true name; and The Declaration of Earle Merchant,
which contains the true names and identities of Plaintiff Jane D.I. Doe, Jane
D.B. Doe, and Doe Police Corporal is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff Jane D.B. Doe’s
Confidential Medical Records 
 
“There is no question that medical records are highly
sensitive materials that fall within the scope of the right to privacy.” (Manela
v. Sup. Ct. (20009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1139, 1150.) 
 
The Motion to Seal Exhibit C referenced in the Declaration
of Thomas Murtland, which contains copies of Plaintiff Jane D.B. Doe’s
confidential medical records is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s medical information is
entitled to privacy. 
 
The motion to seal is GRANTED. The Court finds that the
parties’ interest in the confidentiality overcomes the right of public access
to court records. This overriding interest supports sealing the records
identified. This order is narrowly tailored, and no less restrictive means
exist to protect the parties’ confidential information.  
 