 Case Number:  23NWCV00851    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  SEC SANDOVAL v. ADVANCED BUILDING SYSTEMS, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV00851
HEARING: 
12/05/24
 
#4
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses by Defendant ADVANCED BUILDING SYSTEMS, INC. to
Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents (set two) is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories and document demands are directed fails to respond at
all, the propounding party’s remedy is to seek a court order compelling answers
thereto. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.) All that needs to be shown is that the
discovery was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond
has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. The moving party
is not required to show a reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve the
matter informally before filing this motion. A motion to compel initial
discovery responses need not show good cause, meeting and conferring, or timely
filing, and need not be accompanied by a separate statement. (See Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pac. Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) The failure to timely respond also waives all
objections. 
 
Here, Plaintiff
has shown that Request for Production of Documents (set two) was properly
served on June 28, 2024. The deadlines to respond have expired, and no
responses of any kind have been provided. 
This Motion was filed on September 12, 2024—almost three months after
service of the discovery. 
 
In
Opposition, Defendant/Defendant’s Counsel does not argue that timely or
untimely responses have been served. Rather, Defense Counsel explains they are
seeking to be relieved as counsel because “Defendants are in breach of their
retainer agreement with counsel, have not paid all sums owed and due to
counsel, and are no longer responsive to counsel’s emails….” (Opp. 1:3-6.) The
Opposition argues that the Motion should be denied without prejudice “because
Plaintiff prematurely brought this motion in an effort… to ‘set case up for
sanctions and striking of [Defendant’s’] Answer. [Citation.]” (Opp. 1:24-25.) 
 
The substantively
unopposed Motion is GRANTED. It is
undisputed that the discovery at issue was served, and to date, no responses
have been provided. Defendant ADVANCED BUILDING SYSTEMS, INC. is ORDERED to provide verified responses
and documents, without objection by no later than 30 days from date of the
Court’s issuance of this Order. This date may be extended by stipulation of
the parties. If any objections are asserted, it will be tantamount to no
response at all and will be deemed a violation of this Court’s order. 
 
Reasonable
sanctions are GRANTED in the total amount of $1,160.00. ($550/hr. x 2 hrs.) +
($60 filing fee). Defendant ADVANCED BUILDING SYSTEMS, INC. is ORDERED to pay Plaintiff
and their counsel of record sanctions in the total amount of $1,160.00, payable
within 30 days from the date of the Court’s issuance of this Order. 
 
 