 Case Number:  EC068240    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  E Case No: EC068240
Hearing Date: 1/9/2025
Trial Date: 1/21/2025
Case Name: PAMELA AZAR, an individual; TIFFANY
BUILDERS LLC, a Wyoming Limited Liability Company; EDWART DER ROSTAMIAN, an
individual v. DAVID DELRAHIM, an individual; BLUE VISTA PARTNERS, a California
Limited Liability Company; and Does 1-50



[TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO BIFURCATE]
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants DAVID DELRAHIM and BLUE VISTA
PARTNERS LLC (collectively “Defendants”) will and hereby do move the Court,
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) §§ 597, 598, and
1048(b), for an order bifurcating trial of the equitable claims and special
defenses from trial of the legal claims, with a corresponding order that said
equitable matters be tried before a Jury is impaneled to hear the legal issues,
including without limitation as to the following matters:
 
1.
On Plaintiffs TIFFANY BUILDERS LLC and EDWART DER ROSTAMIAN’s (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) Complaint, Plaintiffs’ causes action for specific performance and
unfair business practices which are equitable in nature and should be tried as
a bench trial, before the only remaining legal cause of action for breach of
contract is tried as a jury trial. 
 
2.
As to Plaintiffs’ Complaint, and that legal breach of contract action,
Defendants’ special affirmative defenses of Res Judicata, Collateral Estoppel,
and Lack of Standing, special defenses and preliminary matters which should be
tried as a bench trial before the remaining cause of action for breach of
contract is tried with a jury.”
 
(Def.
Mot. p. 2.)
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendants, David Delrahim
and Blue Vista Partners LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Tiffany Builders LLC and Edwart Der
Rostamian
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Request for Judicial
Notice; Scott E. Shapiro Declaration
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
LEGAL STANDARD – BIFURCATION
Trial
courts have wide discretion in deciding the sequence of issues for trial. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 1048; Evid. Code, § 320; Grappo
v. Coventry Fin. Corp. (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504 [“trial courts have
broad discretion to determine the order of proof in the interests of judicial
economy”].)
CCP § 597 states:
When the
answer pleads that the action is barred by the statute of limitations, or by a
prior judgment, or that another action is pending upon the same cause of
action, or sets up any other defense not involving the merits of the
plaintiff’s cause of action but constituting a bar or ground of abatement to
the prosecution thereof, the court may, either upon its own motion or upon the
motion of any party, proceed to the trial of the special defense or defenses
before the trial of any other issue in the case, and if the decision of the
court, or the verdict of the jury, upon any special defense so tried (other
than the defense of another action pending) is in favor of the defendant
pleading the same, judgment for the defendant shall thereupon be entered and no
trial of other issues in the action shall be had unless that judgment shall be
reversed on appeal or otherwise set aside or vacated; and where the defense of
another action pending or a demurrer based upon subdivision (c) of Section
430.10 is sustained (and no other special defense is sustained) an
interlocutory judgment shall be entered in favor of the defendant pleading the
same to the effect that no trial of other issues shall be had until the final
determination of that other action, and the plaintiff may appeal from the
interlocutory judgment in the same manner and within the same time as is now or
may be hereafter provided by law for appeals from judgments. If the decision of
the court, or the verdict of the jury, upon the special defense or defenses so
tried is in favor of the plaintiff, trial of the other issues shall thereafter
be had either upon the court’s own motion or upon the motion of any party, and
judgment shall be entered thereon in the same manner and with the same effect
as if all the issues in the case had been tried at one time. In such an event
any and all decisions or verdicts upon the special defense or defenses, and all
rulings on the trial thereof shall be deemed excepted to and may be reviewed on
motion for a new trial or upon appeal from the judgment.
This
section also applies to the trial of special defenses pleaded in an answer to a
cross-complaint or a demurrer based upon subdivision (c) of Section 430.10, and
if the decision of the court or the verdict of the jury upon the special
defense or defenses is in favor of the cross-defendant, no further trial shall
be had upon the issues raised by the cross-complaint, but trial of the other
issues in the action shall thereafter be had either upon the court’s own motion
or upon the motion of any party, and after the trial thereof the judgment shall
be entered in the action as is justified by the decision or verdict on such
other issues, considered in connection with the decision or verdict upon the
trial of such an affirmative defense raised in the answer to the
cross-complaint.
(CCP § 597.)
 
C.C.P. §598 provides as follows: 
The court may,
when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and
efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on motion of a
party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the close of
pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to be held,
or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that the trial
of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or
any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be tried
first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5. The court, on its own motion, may
make such an order at any time. Where trial of the issue of liability as to all
causes of action precedes the trial of other issues or parts thereof, and the
decision of the court, or the verdict of the jury upon such issue so tried is
in favor of any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, judgment in
favor of such party shall thereupon be entered and no trial of other issues in
the action as against such party shall be had unless such judgment shall be
reversed upon appeal or otherwise set aside or vacated. If the decision of the
court, or the verdict of the jury upon the issue of liability so tried shall be
against any party on whom liability is sought to be imposed, or if the decision
of the court or the verdict of the jury upon any other issue or part thereof so
tried does not result in a judgment being entered pursuant to this chapter,
then the trial of the other issues or parts thereof shall thereafter be had at
such time, and if a jury trial, before the same or another jury, as ordered by
the court either upon its own motion or upon the motion of any party, and
judgment shall be entered in the same manner and with the same effect as if all
the issues in the case had been tried at one time.
 
(CCP §598.)
 
C.C.P. §1048(b) provides, as follows, “ The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of this state or of the United States.
“The major objective of bifurcated trials is to
expedite and simplify the presentation of evidence.” (Foreman &
Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 888.)  
Bifurcation frequently occurs when the determination
of one issue, such as an affirmative defense, renders other issues moot.
(See, e.g., Buran Equipment v. H& C Investment Co. (1983)
142 Cal.App.3d 338, 343-344.) Trial courts also often bifurcate
equitable and legal issues, resolving the issues of equity first in order to
promote judicial economy. (Darbun Enters, Inc. v. San Fernando
Community Hosp. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 399, 408-409.) 
TENTATIVE RULING
The
first basis for bifurcation that Defendants seek are for the specific
performance and unfair business practices claim to be tried as a bench trial
before the only remaining cause of action (breach of contract) is tried to a
jury.
Here, the Court denies this basis for bifurcation in
light of  Plaintiffs’ notice of
withdrawal filed on 12/27/2024 that withdrew the specific performance and
unfair business practices claim.
As to the second basis for bifurcation, Defendants
argue that their special defenses of res judicata, collateral estoppel, and
lack of standing should be tried as a bench trial before the remaining cause of
action for breach of contract is tried with a jury.
Defendants argue that: (1) the defenses of res
judicata and collateral estoppel are special defenses which are mixed questions
of fact and law to be decided by the Court, and not by a jury, and should be
determined first under CCP § 597; (2) lack of standing is a jurisdictional
issue which must be decided by the Court before any of Plaintiffs’ claims
should be heard, whether equitable or legal in nature; (3) it is within the
Court’s discretion to bifurcate and try separately equitable claims and special
defenses before legal issues are tried before a jury; (4) trying equitable
claims and special defenses before legal claims promotes judicial economy by
potentially obviating the need for a jury trial on the legal issues if the
equitable issues are dispositive; and (5) it is within the Court’s discretion
to bifurcate and try separately such issues to avoid undue prejudice.
The Court will hear argument.
Defendants’ explanation as to why/how Plaintiffs lack
standing and why/how res judicata and collateral estoppel are applicable are somewhat
unclear, in the Court’s view. 
Despite this case being over six years old, Defendants
appear to assume that the Court knows what Defendants are talking about when
they refer to other actions not before this Court and various judgments and
arbitration proceedings. 
Further, Defendants make conclusions about certain
things that have allegedly already been tried or are barred, with little to no
context, background, or specific reference to proof.
As to the issue of whether or not standing is for the
jury or if it can be heard as a bench trial, Defendants provide no case law
addressing standing and whether it can be heard as a bench trial, or should
be heard as a bench trial. 
As to res judicata and collateral estoppel, Defendants
appear to be correct that this Court could bifurcate those issues. However, the
Court will hear from the parties as to if that is appropriate here since
Defendants arguments are unclear with respect to providing the necessary
context to understand what Defendants are saying.
“The rule that the facts underlying the applicability
of the res judicata defense are tried to the court, and not to a jury, although
it is a legal and not an equitable defense, is well settled. One reason that
such factual issues are tried to the court seems apparent. The issues are often
mixed fact-law determinations, involving, for instance, the assertion of
jurisdiction, a decision better made by the court alone.” (Windsor Square
Homeowners Assn. v. Citation Homes (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 547, 557.)
In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue:
Defendants’ request to bifurcate and try
the equitable or special defenses first is judicially uneconomical. This matter
will proceed as a simple breach of contract claim with a trial estimate of five
days (including voir dire). Having two separate trials involving many of the
same exhibits and documents would be uneconomical. Otherwise, every simple
breach of contract case would be bifurcated to have equitable defenses tried
first. Furthermore, the scope of the assignment to which Defendants refer in
the moving papers is in dispute. Defendants contend it was an all-encompassing
assignment. Plaintiffs contend it was a limited assignment intended for
third-party Carol International to get back its earnest money deposit. This is
an issue of fact to be resolved by a jury.
(Pl. Oppo. p. 1-2.)
As seen from Plaintiffs’
argument, not only do Plaintiffs fail to provide any context for their arguments,
but they also fail to cite any legal authority.
Defendants’ Reply is
unhelpful in the same way as Defendants’ moving papers were in the sense that Defendants
provide no context and many times assert conclusions that the Court does not
follow. Further, the Reply reaffirms the position that California cases express
a preference that the equitable issues be tried first. (Nationwide Biweekly
Administration, Inc. v. Superior Court of Alameda County (2020) 9 Cal.5th 279,
317.)

The
Court to hear argument.
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice granted.