  Case Number:  20STCV33377    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  72 SUPERIOR COURT
OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES 
 
DEPARTMENT 72 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



Alison Andrade, 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs, 
   
         v. 
 
 
 Urban Outfitters, Inc., and DOES 1-20. 
 
                                 
  Defendants. 
  


 Case No:  20STCV33377  
 
 
 
  
 
 Hearing Date: September 26, 2023 
 Calendar Number:  8



 
 
 Plaintiff Alison Andrade, as class representative,
brings Motion for Final Approval of Class Action Settlement in a scheduled
fairness hearing. 
 
The Motion for final
approval is GRANTED.
 
Background
            On
September 1, 2020, Plaintiff Alison Andrade (“Class Representative” or
“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Urban Outfitters for wage and
hour action allegations in violation of California State Law. The Complaint
alleged (a) failure to accurately pay overtime wages, (b) failure to pay
minimum wages, (c) failure to provide meal periods and failure to pay an
additional hour’s pay in lieu of providing a meal period, (d) failure to
authorize and permit rest breaks for every four hours or major fraction thereof
worked and failure to pay an additional hour’s of pay in lieu of providing a
rest period, (e) failing to pay all wages earned, (f) failing to pay all wages
owed upon separation of employment, (g) failing to provide accurate itemized
wage statements, and (h) knowingly or intentionally failing to maintain
accurate and complete records.
            On
December 9, 2020, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint.  
            As
part of settlement, Plaintiff has submitted a Second Amended Complaint
asserting class and representative action claims under California law for (1)
failure to pay minimum wage, (2) failure to pay overtime or pay overtime at the
correct rate of pay, (3) failure to pay for all hours worked (off-the-clock
work), (4) failure to provide meal periods, (5) failure to provide rest periods,
(6) failure to pay premiums at the correct rate of pay, (7) failure to timely
pay final wages and wages earned during employment, (8) failure to provide
accurate itemized wage statements, and (9) failure to maintain accurate and
complete records.
TERMS OF SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
            An executed copy of the Settlement
Agreement is attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Daniel Bass. 
            The class consists of all
individuals employed by Urban as non-exempt employees who worked at an Urban
Outfitters retail store in California between June 28, 2019, and the earlier of
the Preliminary Approval Date or August 31, 2022, who do not timely opt out.
(Bass Decl., ¶ 13.)
            The
Settlement Amount is $2,500,000, which includes: 
·      
Up to
$875,000 in attorneys’ fees. (Bass Decl., Exhibit A ¶ 53(a).) 
·      
Up to $25,000 in attorneys’ cost. (Bass Decl., Exhibit A ¶ 53(a).)
·      
Up to a $15,000 enhancement award to Named
Plaintiff Andrade. (Bass Decl., Exhibit A ¶ 53(b).)
·      
Up to $30,000 for settlement
administration costs.  (Bass Decl.,
Exhibit A ¶ 53(c).) 
·      
$100,000.00 for PAGA penalties, $75,000
payable to the LWDA for 75% share of the settlement attributable to PAGA, and
$25,000 to the settlement class. (Bass Decl., Exhibit A ¶ 53(d)-(e).) 
The
settlement class is estimated to consist of 3,892 members. (Bass
Decl., ¶ 20.) The Settlement Administrator shall calculate pro rata Class
Settlement Payments out of the Net Settlement Amount to Class Members based on
Urban Outfitter’s internal records. 
If any of the funds go unclaimed, the remaining
funds will be distributed to the Controller of the State of California to be
held pursuant to the Unclaimed Property Law.
(Bass Decl., Exhibit A ¶ 84.)
            50%
of the individual settlement awards will be allocated as unpaid wages and 50%
as non-wage recovery including interest and penalties. (Bass Decl., Exhibit A ¶
63.) 
            The
Settlement Administrator is CPT Group, Inc. (Bass Decl., Exhibit A ¶ 33.)
ANALYSIS OF SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT 
 
A.    Standards for Final Fairness Determination 
 
In evaluating the fairness of the settlement, courts should
not “reach any ultimate conclusions on the¿issues of fact and law which
underlie the merits of the dispute.  It is well settled that in the
judicial consideration of proposed settlements, ‘the [trial] judge does not try
out or attempt to decide the merits of the controversy,’ [citation] and the
appellate court ‘need not and should not reach any dispositive conclusions on
the admittedly unsettled legal issue.’  (Citation omitted.)”  See 7-Eleven
Owners for Fair Franchising v. Southland Corp., 85 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1146
(2000). 
 
In Clark v. American Residential Services LLC, 175
Cal.App.4th 785 (2009), however, the Second District Court of Appeal
held that the trial court erred in granting final approval of a settlement
where “the trial court lacked sufficient information to make an informed
evaluation of the fairness of the settlement.”  See Id., at p.
790.  The Clark court reiterated at length the principles
applicable to a court’s final approval of a class settlement as follows: 
 
The trial
court must determine whether a class action settlement is fair and reasonable, and has broad discretion to do so.  That discretion is to
be exercised through the application of several well-recognized factors. The
list, which “‘is not exhaustive and should be tailored to each case,’” includes
“‘the strength of plaintiffs’ case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely
duration of further litigation, the risk of maintaining class action status
through trial, the amount offered in settlement, the extent of discovery
completed and the stage of the proceedings, the experience and views of
counsel, the presence of a governmental participant, and the reaction of the
class members to the proposed settlement.’ (Citations omitted.)  “ ‘
“The most important factor is the strength of the case for plaintiffs on the
merits, balanced against the amount offered in settlement.” ’ ” (Citation
omitted.) While the court “‘must stop short of the detailed and thorough
investigation that it would undertake if it were actually trying the case,’ ” it
“ ‘must eschew any rubber stamp approval in favor of an independent
evaluation.’” (Ibid.) 
 
In Dunk [v. Ford Motor Co. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 1794], the court observed that “a presumption of
fairness exists where: (1) the settlement is reached through arm's-length
bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to allow counsel and
the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in similar
litigation; and (4) the percentage of objectors is small.” (Citation omitted.)
But Kullar [v. Foot Locker Retail, Inc. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th
116] makes clear that this is only an initial presumption. The point is
cogently made in Kullar, where the trial court's approval of a class
action settlement was vacated because the court “[was] not provided with
basic information about the nature and magnitude of the claims in question and
the basis for concluding that the consideration being paid for the release of
those claims represents a reasonable compromise.” (Citation omitted.)(Emphasis
added.) 
 
In Kullar, the court pointed out that “neither
Dunk … nor any other case suggests that the court may determine the
adequacy of a class action settlement without independently satisfying itself
that the consideration being received for the release of the class members'
claims is reasonable in light of the strengths and weaknesses of the claims and
the risks of the particular litigation.” (Citation omitted.)  Kullar
continues: “The court undoubtedly should give considerable weight to the
competency and integrity of counsel and the involvement of a neutral mediator
in assuring itself that a settlement agreement represents an arm's-length
transaction entered without self-dealing or other potential misconduct. 
While an agreement reached under these circumstances presumably will be fair to
all concerned, particularly when few of the affected class members express
objections, in the final analysis it is the court that bears the
responsibility to ensure that the recovery represents a reasonable compromise,
given the magnitude and apparent merit of the claims being released, discounted
by the risks and expenses of attempting to establish and collect on those claims
by pursuing the litigation. ‘The court has a fiduciary responsibility as
guardians of the rights of the absentee class members when deciding whether to
approve a settlement agreement.’” (Citation omitted.) (Italics in original.) 
 
Kullar further explains that, while there is
usually an initial presumption of fairness when a proposed class action
settlement was negotiated at arm's length by counsel for the class, “‘to
protect the interests of absent class members, the court must independently and
objectively analyze the evidence and circumstances before it in order to
determine whether the settlement is in the best interests of those whose claims
will be extinguished.’” (Citation omitted.) To make that determination, “‘the
factual record before the … court must be sufficiently developed,’ ”
and the initial presumption to which Dunk refers “‘must then withstand
the test of the plaintiffs’ likelihood of success.’ ” (Ibid.) Again, “ ‘
“The most important factor is the strength of the case for plaintiffs on the
merits, balanced against the amount offered in settlement.” ’ ” (Ibid.) In Kullar,
because the trial court was not presented with data permitting it to review
class counsel's evaluation of the sufficiency of the settlement, the order
approving the settlement was vacated. (Citation omitted.) As we shall see, the
same result is required here. 
 
Kullar points out that, while Dunk
asserts there is a presumption of fairness where the four factors it identifies
are established, in fact Dunk is fully consistent with “this recognition
of the court's responsibility”; there was a “voluminous record” before the Dunk
trial court, which “was made aware of the maximum damages that each class
member had sustained and the value of the coupons that each class member would
receive under the settlement, as well as of the particular issues that the
plaintiffs needed to overcome in order to prevail in the litigation.” (Citation
omitted.) 
 
“Whatever information may have been exchanged during
the mediation, there was nothing before the court to establish the sufficiency
of class counsel's investigation other than their assurance that they had seen
what they needed to see. The record fails to establish in any meaningful way
what investigation counsel conducted or what information they reviewed on which
they based their assessment of the strength of the class members' claims, much
less does the record contain information sufficient for the court to
intelligently evaluate the adequacy of the settlement.  Assuming that there
is a ‘presumption’ such as Dunk asserts, its invocation is not justified
by the present record.” (Citation omitted.) See Clark, at p. 799-800. 
 
            In finding that the trial court abused its discretion in
approving the settlement before it, the Clark court emphasized that “an
informed evaluation of a proposed settlement cannot be made without an
understanding of the amount that is in controversy and the realistic range of
outcomes of the litigation.  (Citation omitted.)”  See Clark,
at p. 801.  The court also emphasized that “it is the trial court’s duty,
whether or not there are objectors, to employ those [Dunk presumption of
fairness] factors to evaluate independently the fairness of a proposed
settlement.”  See Id.  The Court must have data before it to
make such an independent assessment.  See Id.  
 
B.    Clark / Kullar Factors In Evaluating the Fairness, Adequacy and Reasonableness
of the Settlement Agreement 
  
a.     
Strength of
Plaintiff’s case and risks of further litigation  
 
Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant violated Labor Code by not complying with labor and employment laws
and the failure to retain Plaintiff and Class Members.  (Bass Decl., ¶ 29.) Plaintiff counsel
understood and appreciated the defenses and position of Defendant, and believes
the parties negotiated a fair settlement considering the risks of continued
litigation. (Bass Decl., ¶ 30.)  Plaintiff and counsel argue they took into consideration the time and
costs required for trial, and possibility of a worse result in the discission
to settle. (Bass Decl., ¶¶ 30, 31.)  
             
b.     Strength of Plaintiff’s Case versus The Amount Offered in Settlement
 
                 Class
counsel declares that the settlement is reasonable given the amount of time
spent and is favorably comparable for similar class actions of this type.
(Bass Decl., ¶¶ 30, 31.)  Class counsel
estimates that the total potential recovery without penalties was
$10,377,924.10.  (Bass Decl., ¶34.)  Thus, the settlement represents over 24% of
Defendant’s non-penalty exposure based on Plaintiff’s analysis.  The settlement takes into account the risks
of litigation, including certifying the class, litigating the merits, and
determining damages.  Defendant denied
any wrongdoing and contended that it was not liable at all.  The settlement agreement resulted from a
mediator’s proposal that included the total settlement amount.  (Bass Decl., ¶ 11.)   The percentage of recovery appears
appropriate to the Court under the circumstances. 
c.      Responses and Objections to Notice of Class Settlement  
 
The class members’ responses are set forth in the
declaration of William Argueta of CPT Group, Inc., the Settlement
Administrator. 



Number of settlement class members: 


3,892 




Number of undeliverable notices: 


51




Number of objections: 


0 




Number of opt-outs: 


0 




Number of participating class members: 


3,892



 
                 The highest individual award is $1,724.11, with an
average settlement payment of $374.42. 
(Argueta Decl., ¶¶
9,10,13.) The lack of objections or requests for exclusion indicates that the
class members strongly support the settlement terms.  The class members’
response, therefore, supports a finding that the settlement is fair, adequate,
and reasonable.
d.     Conclusion 
 
The settlement is granted final approval as fair, adequate
and reasonable.  The motion provides an explanation of the strengths and
weaknesses of the parties’ claims and defenses and demonstrates that the class
members are receiving full compensation for the claims alleged.  Finally,
the class members’ response strongly supports a finding that the settlement is
a good result for the class. 
 
C.    Attorneys’
Fees and Costs 
Class Counsel seeks
$875,000.00 in attorneys’ fees and $17,284.79 in litigation costs. (Bass Decl.,
¶¶ 60.) Whether
an attorney fee is fair, the primary factor for determination is whether the
fee bears a reasonable relationship to the value of the attorney’s work. 
See Robbins v. Alibrandi, 127 Cal. App. 4th 438, 451
(2005).  Courts have adopted a practice of cross-checking the lodestar
against the value of the class recovery because the award is then anchored in
the time spent by counsel.  See Lealao v.
Beneficial California, Inc.,
82 Cal. App. 4th 19, 45, fn. 12 (2000).  
The attorneys’ fees sought equals 35% of the
total settlement award. Comparing that with the lodestar method, Class Counsel expended a
total of 532.4 hours at reasonable rates between $750.00-$850.00 per hour,
amounting to a total of $435,947.50. (Bass Decl., ¶ 56.)  Class Counsel requests a modest multiplier of
about 2.0 for a fee of $875,000.00. (Bass Decl., ¶ 57.)  The Court concludes the requested amount
is appropriate. 
            Class Counsel
represents $17,284.79 in costs. (Bass Decl., ¶ 59.)  
Based on the reasonable number of hours billed,
and the reasonable hourly rates applied, as well as an appropriate sum of
costs, Class Counsel is awarded a total of $875,000.00 in attorneys’ fees and
$17,284.79 in costs.   
D.    Incentive Award / Enhancement Fee to Named Plaintiff 
 
In Clark, supra, the court said: 
[A]n
incentive award is appropriate “if it is necessary to induce an individual to
participate in the suit,” and have noted ‘relevant factors’ to consider in
deciding whether such an award is warranted. (Cook v. Niedert (7th
Cir.1998) 142 F.3d 1004, 1016 (Cook).) Those factors include “the actions the
plaintiff has taken to protect the interests of the class, the degree to which
the class has benefited from those actions, and the amount of time and effort
the plaintiff expended in pursuing the litigation.” 
 
The
trial court is not bound to, and should not, accept conclusory statements about
“potential stigma” and “potential risk,” in the absence of supporting evidence
or reasoned argument explaining why, under the particular circumstances, an
actual-not a negligible-risk existed, or why it might be difficult to get
plaintiffs to come forward to prosecute a particular case.  See Clark,
at p. 804 and 807. 
 
Under the settlement, Plaintiff requests an enhancement
award of $15,000.  This is a reasonable enhancement award. In acting as the class representative,
Plaintiff has been instrumental in assisting with prosecuting this matter
without compensation.
 
E.     Costs of Claims Administration 
 
The declaration of William Argueta demonstrates the work
performed by CPT Group, Inc. as Settlement Administrator and reveals the
results achieved in communicating with class members and obtaining claims with
no objections and no opt-outs.  CPT Group, Inc. will charge a total of
$27,750.00 in administration costs.  The administration costs are
reasonable in this case.  The court grants final approval of payment of
these costs. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion for final approval is
GRANTED.
 
 