 Case Number:  21STCV42325    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NADIA HUIJARA ESPINO,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
SP PLUS CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  21STCV42325
 
 
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 26, 2023
 Calendar
  Number:  2



 
 
          Defendants SP
Plus Corporation and Roberto Pacheco move for an order compelling plaintiff
Nadia Huijara Espino to appear for an independent psychiatric examination.
 
          Defendants’
motion is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Background
 
          On
November 16, 2021, plaintiff Espino sued defendant SP Plus Corporation, her
employer, and affiliated individuals Ernesto Cerna and Roberto Pacheco,
alleging twelve causes of action: (1) disability discrimination, (2) religious
discrimination, (3) failure to reasonably accommodate a disability, (4) failure
to engage in an interactive accommodation process, (5) violation of and
retaliation under the Family Rights Act (CFRA), (6) failure to prevent
retaliation, (7) harassment, (8) retaliation under the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (FEHA), (9) failure to prevent harassment [second count], (10)
wrongful termination, (11) declaratory relief, and (12) injunctive relief.
 
          In
their most recent Case Management Statements, Espino and SP Plus estimated they
would complete written discovery by July 2022 and February 2023, respectively,
and depositions by August 2022 and February 2023, respectively. Commendably,
the parties have not found it necessary to engage in extensive discovery motion
practice.
 
          The
parties now come before the court to resolve an issue regarding plaintiff’s
independent medical examination (IME).
 
          Legal Standard
 
In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may, according to certain limits, demand one
physical examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).) “Where any
party seeks to obtain discovery ... by a mental examination, the party
shall obtain leave of the court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a), italics
added.)¿The motion for a mental examination must specify “the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the
identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform
the examination.”¿(Id., § 2032.310(b).) It must also be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration. (Ibid.)
 
¿Any party may obtain discovery by mental examination of
another party’s mental condition if it is in controversy in the action.¿(Id.,
§ 2032.020.) However, the court shall grant a motion for a mental examination
only for good cause shown. (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)¿To establish
“good cause,” the moving party must produce specific facts justifying the discovery
and that the subject matter is relevant to the action.¿ (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840 (Vinson).)¿“Good cause” may be found
where plaintiff claims additional injuries, or that his or her condition is
worsening, or if considerable time has elapsed since the incident underlying
the complaint. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before
Trial (The Rutter Group 2022) ¶ 8:1546.)
 
One party’s unsubstantiated allegation cannot put the mental
state of another in controversy.¿(Id. at 839.)¿“While a plaintiff may
place his mental state in controversy by a general allegation of severe
emotional distress, the opposing party may not require him to undergo
psychiatric testing solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest
may surface.”¿(Id. at p. 840.)¿
 
If a party stipulates that no claim is being made for mental
or emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical
injuries claimed and that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and
emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages, a mental examination may only be ordered on a showing of exceptional
circumstances.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (b)-(c).) The And the party
who seeks to compel a mental examination bears the burden to specify the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be conducted. (Carpenter v. Superior
Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 267.)¿ 
 
/ / /
/ / /
Meet and Confer
 
          Defendants’
counsel advances a July 20, 2023 letter reflecting a good-faith effort to meet
and confer over the parameters of the IME. The meet and confer requirement in
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision (b) is satisfied.
 
          Discussion
 
1. Defendants’ request does not
comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310.
 
          Defendants
must specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature” of
the examination they seek. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.) Defendants’ motion
does not do so. It merely indicates the identity of the specialist who will
perform the examination and the location of his office – not the time, manner,
or conditions of the proposed examination. As to scope and nature of the
examination, the motion only describes it as “a detailed interview, mental
status examination, and generally accepted standardized psychiatric testing and
screening assessment.” (Inouye Decl., ¶ 8.) In other words, they have described
the examination as an examination. Their description is too vague to satisfy
section 2032.310.
 
Defendants offer
limits and specifics about their proposed IME in their reply papers, but they
did not do so in their motion as required. Raising these specifics for the
first time in their reply does not permit Plaintiff a proper opportunity to
respond.
 
2. Plaintiff has placed her mental
condition in controversy, but defendants have not shown good cause with
specific facts.
 
          A
party places her own mental state in controversy when she alleges mental
emotional distress. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840
(Vinson).) Defendants must nonetheless show good cause. “Determining
that the mental ... condition of a party is in controversy is but the first
step in [the court’s] analysis.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendants base
their motion entirely “upon the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint ... .”
(Mot., 8:5.) Plaintiffs respond that simply pointing to the complaint is not
enough. Plaintiffs point out that Defendants have not yet taken Plaintiff’s
deposition, which suggests any IME would necessarily be a fishing expedition
uninformed by any specific evidentiary parameters.
 
          The parties both rely on Vinson v.
Superior Court, supra, but they disagree as to whether Defendants
have satisfied its terms. Plaintiff has the better argument. Defendants
acknowledge Vinson requires “specific facts justifying discovery (i.e., allegations
showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for
obtaining it elsewhere).” (Reply, 2:20-21, italics added.) And they suggest
they have “properly limited the scope ... to the origin, nature, and severity
of Plaintiff’s alleged emotional distress and mental health injuries ... .” (Id.,
1:7-9.) But, as noted above, any limitations have been offered only in
Defendants’ reply. And they still have not supplied specific facts showing, in
particular, that they cannot obtain the information they seek elsewhere.
 
          Defendants’ request does not have the
hallmarks of an “annoying fishing expedition” or “testing solely on the basis
of speculation that something of interest may surface.” (Vinson, supra,
at p. 840.) Nonetheless, if a defendant could show not just controversy, but
also good cause, merely by pointing to the complaint, there would be little
purpose to section 2032.320. Defendants have not carried their burden.
 
          Conclusion
 
          The Court DENIES defendants’ motion
without prejudice.  The parties are
encouraged to meet and confer further on this issue in order to avoid the need
for motion practice in the future.
 