 Case Number:  22STCV19757    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Becerra v. MV Transportation, Inc.
22STCV19757
Defendants’ Motion to Dismiss for Failure to Prosecute 
 
Tentative
 
The
motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Background
 
On June
16, 2022, Maria Becerra (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against MV
Transportation, Inc., LADOT Transit, City of Los Angeles, County of Los
Angeles, and Does 1 to 100 for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising
from an alleged collision on July 2, 2021. 
 
On April
3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss County of Los Angeles without prejudice.
 
Also on April
3, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel was relieved as attorney of record. Since that
time, Plaintiff has been a self-represented litigant.
 
On April
15, 2024, MV Transportation, Inc. (“MV”) filed an answer. 
 
On May 3,
2024, City of Los Angeles (“City”) and LADOT Transit (“LADOT”) filed an answer.
 
A trial
setting conference was scheduled for May 31, 2024. Plaintiff did not appear,
and the trial setting conference was continued to July 2, August 14, and October
17. Plaintiff did not appear at any of these conferences.
 
On
October 21, 2024, Defendants MV, City, and LADOT (collectively
“Defendants”) filed this motion to dismiss. 
 
Plaintiff has not filed any opposition.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.410, subdivision (a) states: “The court may in its
discretion dismiss an action for delay in prosecution pursuant to this article
on its own motion or on motion of the defendant if to do so appears to the
court appropriate under the circumstances of the case.”¿Subdivision (b)
provides: “Dismissal shall be pursuant to the procedure and in accordance with
the criteria prescribed by rules adopted by the Judicial Council.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 583.410, subd. (b).)  
¿ 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.420 provides:¿ 
¿ 
(a) The court may not dismiss an action
pursuant to this article for delay in prosecution except after one of the
following conditions has occurred:¿ 
¿ 
(1) Service is not made within two years
after the action is commenced against the defendant.¿ 
¿ 
(2) The action is not brought to trial
within the following times:¿ 
¿ 
(A) Three years after the action is
commenced against the defendant unless otherwise prescribed by rule under
subparagraph (B).¿ 
¿ 
(B) Two years after the action is commenced
against the defendant if the Judicial Council by rule adopted pursuant to
Section 583.410 so prescribes for the court because of the condition of the
court calendar or for other reasons affecting the conduct of litigation or the
administration of justice.¿ 
¿ 
Moreover,
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1340(a) provides, the court on its own motion
or on motion of the defendant may dismiss an action under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 583.410-583.430 for delay in prosecution if the action has
not been brought to trial or conditionally settled within two years after the
action was commenced against the defendant.¿ 
 
In addition, in
ruling on a motion to dismiss under section 583.410, the court must consider
all matters relevant to a proper determination of the motion, including:¿ 
 
¿(1) ¿The court's file in the case and the
declarations and supporting data submitted by the parties and, where
applicable, the availability of the moving party and other essential parties
for service of process; 
(2) ¿The diligence in seeking to effect service of
process; 
(3) ¿The extent to which the parties engaged in any
settlement negotiations or discussions; 
(4) ¿The diligence of the parties in pursuing
discovery or other pretrial proceedings, including any extraordinary relief
sought by either party; 
(5) ¿The nature and complexity of the case; 
(6) ¿The law applicable to the case, including the
pendency of other litigation under a common set of facts or determinative of
the legal or factual issues in the case; 
(7) ¿The nature of any extensions of time or other
delay attributable to either party; 
(8) ¿The condition of the court's calendar and the
availability of an earlier trial date if the matter was ready for trial; 
(9) ¿Whether the interests of justice are best served
by dismissal or trial of the case; and 
(10) ¿Any other fact or circumstance relevant to a
fair determination of the issue. 
 
The court must be guided by the policies set forth in
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.130.
¿ 
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1342(e).)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“The competing considerations
to be evaluated are the policies of discouraging stale claims and compelling
reasonable diligence balanced against the strong public policy which seeks to
dispose of litigation on the merits rather than on procedural grounds.”¿ (Van
Keulen v. Cathay Pacific Airways, Ltd. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 122, 131.)¿¿
 
Discussion
The Court
has concerns about Plaintiff’s failure to prosecute this case. Indeed, it
appears that Plaintiff may have abandoned the case. The Court must, however,
deny this motion due a procedural issue regarding service.
 
In
connection with the Court’s granting of the motion of Plaintiff’s former
counsel to be relieved, the Court received inconsistent information about two potential
addresses for Plaintiff. Both addresses are in Pico Rivera in the 90660 zip
code, but there were two different street addresses: 8748 Aldrich Avenue and
8749 Aldrich Avenue. 
 
Defendants
served this motion on Plaintiff at the 8748 Aldrich Avenue address. But the
Court cannot, on this record, be certain that this is a correct address for
Plaintiff. And given the significance of this motion, the Court cannot grant
the motion in light of the uncertainty regarding service.
 
The motion
is denied without prejudice. If Defendants refile this motion (or any other
motion), service is to be made on Plaintiff at both the 8748 Aldrich Avenue
address and the 8749 Aldrich Avenue address.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
DENIES Defendants’ motion without prejudice.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice.