 Case Number:  21STCV04291    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Adauta v. Redlus
21STCV04291
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel Hesam
Yazdanpanah.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On February 3, 2021, Fatima Adauta
and Maria Serafin (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against David Redlus and
Deanna Redlus (collectively "Defendants”) filed a negligence cause of
action arising out of an automobile accident occurring on February 22, 2019.
 
On January 11, 2023, default was
entered against Defendants. Defendants filed their answer on March 17, 2023. On
April 24, 2023, a stipulation was filed setting aside default against
Defendants.
 
Trial is set for March 19, 2025.
 
On November 13,
2024, Hesam Yazdahpanah (“Counsel”) filed this
motion to be relieved as counsel. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
 
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration, and Order to be relieved as counsel for
Plaintiff. Counsel  has timely served
this motion on Plaintiff and Defendant in this matter. 
Counsel states there
is no communication between Counsel and Plaintiff as Plaintiff has become
unresponsive. Counsel could not verify Plaintiff’s current address but did take
several steps to confirm the address including sending the motion papers by mail
with return receipt requested, calling Plaintiff’s last known telephone number,
and conducting a skip trace using Plaintiff’s last known address, driver’s
license, and date of birth.
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved as counsel of record.
While this
motion was pending, the Court continued the Final Status Conference and Trial
dates.  As a result, the dates listed on
the proposed order are no longer correct. 
Accordingly, the
Judicial Assistant is directed to correct the dates on the proposed order and,
with that revision, the motion is GRANTED. 
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
the motion to be relieved as counsel.
The Court
DIRECTS the Judicial Assistant to correct the dates of the Final Status
Conference and Trial on the proposed order.
With those
corrections, the Court APPROVES the proposed order.
The order is effective
upon filing with the Court a proof of service showing service of the signed
order (not just the minute order) on the clients.
Moving counsel
to give notice.
 