 Case Number:  21STCV02868    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  29 Vanian v. Hoenig
21STCV02868
Plaintiff’s Motion to Continue Trial 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On January 22,
2021, Plaintiff Heather Vanian (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Jonathan A. Hoenig, M.D. and Jonathan Hoenig, M.D. Surgery Center, LLC
(collectively “Defendants”) asserting a cause of action for medical negligence
arising from a surgery on November 20, 2019.
 
On November 4,
2022, Defendants filed their answer.
 
On November 19,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to continue trial. No opposition has been
filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8),
provides that the court has the power to amend and control its process and
orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine
when a continuance should be granted is within the discretion of the trial
court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) 
 
“A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored,
each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
“A trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment
motion filed within the time limits of section 437c.” (Sentry Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529; accord Cole v. Superior
Court (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.)
Discussion
Plaintiff requests a trial continuance. Plaintiff contends she has had multiple
surgeries and treatments, and her future medical treatment is still uncertain.
(Hoffman Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff contends she is not ready to proceed with her
case until May 2025 and that the parties have stipulated to a continuance. (Id.; see also Exh. A.) 
The Court finds
that good cause for a continuance has been shown. 
Accordingly, the motion
is granted.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
continue trial.
The Court CONTINUES the trial date to a date
on or after May 29, 2025.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.