 Case Number:  22STCV08163    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  73 12/17/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
OPPORTUNITY FINANCIAL, LLC v. CLOTHILDE
HEWLETT (22STCV08163)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Fredrick
Levin (Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Allard C. Chu (Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation)
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS CLOTHILDE HEWLETT AND THE DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL
PROTECTION AND INNOVATION’S MOTION TO SEAL LODGED DOCUMENT (filed
11/20/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Clothilde Hewlett and the Department
of Financial Protection and Innovation’s Motion to Seal Lodged Document is
GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
On March 7, 2022, Plaintiff Opportunity Financial, LLC
(“OppFi”) filed this action against Clothilde V. Hewlett in her official
capacity as Commissioner of California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation (the “Commissioner”).  
On April 8, 2022, the Commissioner filed a Cross-Complaint
against OppFi.  
On September 30, 2022, the Court overruled OppFi’s demurrer
to the Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint.  
On October 17, 2022, OppFi filed a Cross-Complaint against
the Commissioner and California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation (“DFPI”).
A.     
Allegations
in OppFi’s Complaint 
 
OppFi is
a leading financial technology platform and service provider focused on helping
middle-income, credit-challenged consumers build a better financial path.
(Compl., ¶ 14.) 
 
Specifically, OppFi’s platform allows
banks to provide access to simple short-term lending products for consumers
whom traditional lenders may otherwise turn away in light of their credit
profile. (Compl., ¶ 15.) In
this regard, OppFi plays OppFi plays a critical, federally recognized, and
approved market: enabling consumers to be shut out of traditional credit
markets to obtain access to credit. (Compl.,
¶ 15.) Moreover, access to credit is a critical asset to individuals
seeking to build a better economic future. (Compl., ¶ 15.)  
 
Lenders such as FinWise Bank (the
“Bank”), a federally-insured state-chartered bank located in Utah, have
developed loan products that provide credit to this population in light of
their high credit risk. (Compl., ¶
17.) The loan products offered by the Bank provide transparent pricing, have no
origination or late fees, are fully amortizing with no balloon payments, and
allow borrowers to prepay at any time with no penalty. (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
 
However, in light of the high credit
risk posed by this population, the interest rates charged on these loans are
often higher than traditional loans because the borrowers have no collateral to
use as security and default at a high rate. (Compl., ¶ 17.) Borrowers understand that high
interest rates are necessary in light of their credit status. (Compl., ¶ 17.)  
 
Because charging higher interest rates
is necessary to make small-dollar lending to higher-risk borrowers economically
viable, many national and state-chartered banks that engage in such lending
lawfully incorporate and locate themselves in states that do not set low
interest rate caps relative to credit risk. (Compl., ¶ 18.) These states understand that if the
legal small-dollar lending market is terminated, it will not end low-income
borrowers’ need for credit, but instead will lead to something more pernicious:
increased reliance on “payday lending” and, even worse, black-market lending by
persons and entities who operate wholly outside of the law. (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
 
The Bank uses OppFi’s platform to
provide loan products to consumers throughout the United States. (Compl., ¶ 19.)  
 
This action arises from the
Commissioner of California’s Department of Financial Protection and
Innovation’s (the “Commissioner”) threatened enforcement of the Fair Access to
Credit Act (“AB 539”) against OppFi. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) 
 
AB 539, which became effective on
January 1, 2020, amended the California Financing Law (“CFL”) to cap interest
rates to 36% for covered loans between $2,500 and $10,000 made by “financial
lenders.” (Compl., ¶
1.)  
 
The Commissioner accuses OppFi of
originating consumer loans with interest rates above those allowed by AB 539. (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
 
However, the loans in question
originated from the Bank, not OppFi. (Compl.,
¶ 1.) OppFi only provides the Bank with technology and other services
under a contractual arrangement (the “Program”). (Compl., ¶ 1.) 
 
Moreover, the interest rate caps in
the CFL should not apply to loans originated under the Program (“Program
Loans”) for the following reasons.  
 
·       
First, Program Loans are constitutionally
and statutorily exempt from California’s maximum interest rate caps because the
loans are made by the Bank, a state-chartered bank located in Utah.  
·       
Second, OppFi does not make loans
under the Program in California. As such, it is not a “finance lender” under
the CFL with respect to its Program-related activities and, therefore, is not
subject to the interest rate caps established by AB 539 for those
activities.  
A.       Third, even
if AB 539 could arguably apply to OppFi, Section 27 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (“FDIA”), 12 U.S.C. § 1831d (hereinafter “Section 27”) preempts
the application of AB 539 to Program Loans. 
 
(Compl., ¶ 2.)  
 
The inapplicability of the CFL’s
interest rate caps to the Program is not controversial or new, but rooted in
long-existing constitutional and statutory exemptions under California law for
loans made by state-chartered banks and decades of well-settled federal law. (Compl., ¶ 3.) Federal law permits
state-chartered banks to export the interest rates allowed in their chartering
state to any other state in the country. (Compl., ¶ 3.) Federal law also preempts any efforts by state
legislatures to apply their state’s interest rate caps to loans made by
state-chartered banks in other states. Indeed, in passing AB 539, the
Legislature expressly acknowledged what is obvious: AB 539 does not apply to
“nondepositories that partner with banks,” like OppFi. (Compl., ¶ 3.) The Commissioner is well aware of these
settled principles. (Compl., ¶
4.) Indeed, before AB 539, the Bank originated Program Loans that would have
been subject to the interest caps under AB 539, but the Commissioner and her
predecessors never objected to those loans. (Compl., ¶ 4.) 
 
The Complaint asserts the following
causes of actions.  
 
1.     
Declaratory Judgment 
2.     
Injunctive Relief 
 
B.     
Allegations
in the Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint 
 
The
Commissioner’s Cross-Complaint against OppFi asserts two causes of action: 
 
1.  
Violation
of the California Financing Law 
2.  
Violation
of the California Consumer Financial Protection Law 
 
The
Commissioner alleges the following.  
 
OppFi is
not a bank, but a publicly traded company that originates consumer installment
loans called “OppLoans” through its website. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 3.) Consumers apply for a loan on OppFi’s
website, and OppFi uses an automated underwriting model where loans can be
instantly approved or denied with most funds available the next business day. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 3.) 
 
The Bank is a Utah-chartered bank that
has essentially “rented” its charter to OppFi to charge higher interest rates
to consumers through the “OppLoans” product. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 4.) State-chartered banks that
are federally insured are exempt under Section 27 from state interest rate
caps. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
4.) The State of Utah does not have
a state interest cap, making its state-chartered banks attractive to non-bank
lenders like OppFi. (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 4.) 
 
To address predatory lending (a national problem causing consumers to
become trapped in a cycle of debt due to high interest installment loans that
are difficult to pay off), approximately 45 states passed laws capping the interest rates
lenders can charge on consumer loans. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 1.)  
 
In 2019,
California passed AB 539, capping interest rates on most consumer loans at 36%.
(Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
In response, non-bank lending
companies partner with various state-chartered banks in the few remaining
states without interest rate caps to benefit from the exemption that the
state-chartered banks have under federal law from other states’ interest rate
cap laws (also known as usury laws). (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
These
“rent-a-bank” partnerships, like the one between OppFi and the Bank, are
typically structured so that a state-chartered bank (here, the Bank) in a state
without interest rate caps appears on paper to be the “lender” on high interest
loans to consumers in another state where rates are capped, while the non-bank
lending company (here, OppFi) performs the actual duties of a real lender such
as marketing, underwriting, and servicing. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶¶ 2, 5.) Although the state-chartered bank
purports to originate the exorbitant interest loan, it immediately sells the
loan to the non-bank lending company or the bulk of the receivables (meaning
the right to interest and principal payments). (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 2.) From this point forward, the
state-chartered bank has no financial stake in the performance of the loan, and
the non-bank lending company, the “true lender,” reaps the economic benefits of
the loan. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
2.) Because a state-chartered bank is the “lender” on paper, the non-bank
lending company purports to “rent” the state-chartered bank’s exemption and
charge consumers interest rates exorbitantly higher than those legally
permitted in the consumer’s state. (Commissioner’s
XC, ¶ 2.)  
 
In enacting a 36% interest rate cap on
consumer loans between $2,500 and $9,999, California has made a public policy
determination regarding the appropriate balance between affording consumers
fair access to credit and the protection of its most vulnerable citizens. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 7.) Far from
an effort to remove financial barriers for underserved communities, OppFi’s
predatory “rent-a-bank” ruse is an overt attempt to evade the state interest
rate cap and must be recognized as an illegal sham that has no place in
California’s innovative financial marketplace. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 5.) 
 
Through this rent-a-bank ruse, OppFi
uses the Bank as a straw lender in a gambit to circumvent interest rate limits
that the State of California deemed reasonable and necessary to curb predatory
lending abuses. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶
5.) 
 
However, regardless of which entity
the loan documents proffer as the purported “lender,” OppFi is the true lender
of the OppLoans, and the loans OppFi makes are illegal in California. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 5.)  
 
Therefore, the Commissioner filed the
Cross Complaint seeking to enjoin OppFi’s unlawful predatory lending scheme,
provide restitution to exploited borrowers, and impose penalties of at least
$100 million against OppFi, and those acting in concert, for the financial harm
inflicted on at least 38,000 California borrowers. (Commissioner’s XC, ¶ 8.) 
 
C.     
Allegations
in OppFi’s Cross-Complaint 
 
The DFPI is an agency of the State of
California that is legally charged to execute any laws relating to finance
lenders. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 10.) 
 
OppFi’s
Cross-Complaint against the Commissioner and DFPI (collectively,
“Cross-Defendants”) challenges DFPI’s adoption of the so-called “true lender
doctrine” to determine the applicability of the interest rate caps under the
CFL. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 1.) 
 
As outlined in OppFi’s Complaint, the
Commissioner threatened to enforce AB 539’s interest cap against OppFi for
loans originated by the “Bank.” (OppFi’s
XC, ¶ 3.) However, the CFL’s interest rate caps only apply to “finance
lenders,” which does not include state-chartered banks like the Bank. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 3.) Nonetheless, the
Commissioner has sued OppFi for violating those interest rate caps. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 3.) 
 
The DFPI’s underground adoption of its
“true lender doctrine” is a significant departure from Cross-Respondents’
enforcement of the CFL’s interest rate caps before AB 539. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 6.)  
 
In addition, the Administrative
Procedure Act (“APA”), Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq. was designed to provide
regulated entities notice of a regulation’s requirements so that they could
conform their activities accordingly and, if necessary, test the authority of
the agency to implement such a rule beforehand. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) 
 
Therefore, the true lender doctrine is
subject to the notice and comment rulemaking procedures of the APA because it
is intended to “apply generally, rather than in a specific case,” and
“implement[s], interpret[s], or make[s] specific the law enforced or
administered by” Cross-Respondents. (OppFi’s
XC, ¶ 6, citing Tidewater Marine Western, Inc. v. Bradshaw (1996)
14 Cal.4th 557, 566, 571 in a footnote.)  
 
Instead of complying with the APA,
DFPI adopted the true lender doctrine without any formal notice at all, much
less fair or adequate notice, and without complying with the APA. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) As a result,
service providers like OppFi now face an existential threat to their businesses
and significant monetary penalties based on an interpretation of the CFL
adopted by the DFPI without complying with the APA. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) They also face the challenge of
complying with a vague and amorphous test that leaves the applicability of the
CFL’s interest rate cap to the regulator's discretion. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) At base, this renders the CFL’s
exemption for state-chartered banks meaningless. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) The APA’s rulemaking procedures are
intended to prevent these unfair results. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 7.) 
 
Therefore, because DFPI did not submit
its “true lender doctrine” to the APA’s rule-making process, it is invalid as
an “underground regulation” and cannot be enforced. (OppFi’s XC, ¶ 8.)  
 
OppFi’s Cross-Complaint asserts the
following causes of action.  
 
1.  
Writ of
Mandate, Code of Civil Procedure § 1085(a) -- Violation of the California
Administrative Procedure Act, Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq.) 
2.  
Declaratory
Relief, Code Civ. Proc. § 1060; Gov’t Code § 11350—Violation of the California
Administrative Procedure Act, Gov’t Code § 11340 et seq.) 
 
D.    
DFPI’s
Motion to Seal
 
On November 20, 2024, DFPI filed a
Motion to Seal, arguing:
·       The information sought to be sealed is
taken from the Department’s confidential, internal CFL Examination Manual which
the Department does not make publicly available.
·       The confidential information meets the
requirements for sealing. The CFL Examination Manual is an internal manual for
compliance examinations conducted by the Department under the California
Financing Law (CFL). It is not an external document, is treated as
confidential, and is not made available to licensees or the public. Making such
information public, and thus available to examinees, would be prejudicial to
the Department’s examination of licensees under the CFL, one of the
Department’s mandated duties as regulator.
·       During discovery in this matter,
Cross-Defendants produced their internal CFL Examination Manual. When
Cross-Defendants did so, they designated it “CONFIDENTIAL” pursuant to the
Protective Order. (Scollan Decl., ¶7.)
 
OppFi filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Subsequent
to the filing of this motion the Court entered an order sealing an excerpt from
the Department’s CFL Examination Manual. That sealed excerpt of the Examination
Manual is the source of the text sought to be sealed here.
·      
OppFi
does not restate all of the arguments and authority showing that sealing is
inappropriate, and instead, briefly summarizes its prior arguments and
reasserts, and incorporates by reference, its prior Opposition to the DFPI’s
Motion to Seal filed on November 8, 2024 in its entirety.
·      
OppFi
acknowledges that the Court granted the DFPI’s Motion to Seal for the
underlying examination manual and contends that decision was wrongly decided
for all the reasons asserted in its Opposition and reasserts those arguments to
preclude any argument of waiver.
 
DFPI filed a reply, arguing:
·       
The Opposition does not meaningfully contest this motion, stating
that it “reasserts” its prior opposition arguments “to preclude any argument of
waiver.” (Opposition, p.3, fn.2.) The Court considered those opposition
arguments on the prior motion to seal and found that sealing materials from the
Examination Manual is warranted.
·       
Cross-Defendants respectfully request that the Court continue such
sealing here as to the further quoted and derived materials from that internal
examination manual.
 
II. DISCUSSION 
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“Unless
confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(c).) However, a party may move to seal records
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rules 2.550-2.551. “A party requesting
that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an
order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b).) To grant an order pursuant to
California Rules of Court, rules 2.550 and 2.551, the Court must expressly find
facts that establish:  
 
(1) There
exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the
record; 
(2) The
overriding interest supports sealing the record; 
(3) A
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the record is not sealed; 
(4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 
(5) No less
restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. 
 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 2.550(d).)  
 
B.      Discussion
 
DFPI moves
the Court to seal the confidential materials lodged as conditionally under seal
by OppFi under California Rule of Court rule 2.551(b)(3) and the Stipulated
Protective Order (Protective Order) in this matter. 
 
DFPI seeks to
seal material contained in an Opposition that was filed by OppFi on November 8,
2024. DFPI asserts that the Opposition contains
text derived and quoted from the Department’s confidential, internal CFL
Examination Manual.
 
On September 4, 2024, DFPI had filed a
Motion to Seal an excerpt of the CFL Examination Manual. On November 22, 2024,
the Court granted DFPI’s Motion to Seal an excerpt of the CFL Examination
Manual. That excerpt of the CFL Examination Manual is the source of the text
DFPI seeks to seal in the instant Motion. Therefore, DFPI asserts that the
Court should issue an order maintaining the lodged document under seal, as it has already done with the source of the quoted and
derived information sought to be sealed here. 
 
In its
opposition to the instant Motion, OppFi acknowledges that the Court had already
granted the DFPI’s Motion to Seal for the underlying
examination manual. OppFi reasserts its prior arguments.
 
The Court considered those opposition arguments on the prior
motion to seal and found that sealing materials from the Examination Manual is
warranted. (Court’s 11/22/24 Minute Order.)
 
Therefore, in
light of its previous ruling, the Court GRANTS DFPI’s motion to seal. 
 
III. DISPOSITION 
 
Clothilde
Hewlett and the Department of Financial Protection and Innovation’s Motion to
Seal Lodged Document is GRANTED.