 Case Number:  24STCV23567    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  73 12/17/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
CARDONA-ALCARAZ, et al. v. ARCHITECTURAL
SURFACES GROUP, et al. (24STCV23567)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Raphael
Metzger (Metzger Law Group), Alan Brayton (Brayton Purcell LLP)
 
Counsel for
Defendant Caesarstone USA, Inc./moving party: Christopher Campbell (Lydecker)
 
Demurrer WITH MOTION TO STRIKE complaint (filed 10/10/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Caesarstone USA, Inc.’s demurrer is OVERRULED.  
 
Defendant Caesarstone USA, Inc.’s motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiffs Martin Cardona-Alcaraz and
Adriana Anahi Ramirez-Luevano filed a Complaint against Defendant Caesarstone
USA, Inc. (“Caesarstone”) and 50 other named defendants.
 
The Complaint alleges that from April 2004 to 2024, Plaintiff
Cardona-Alcaraz worked with stone products that were manufactured, distributed,
and/or supplied by all named Defendants. (Compl. ¶¶
83-93.) As a result of working with the stone products, Cardona-Alcaraz
alleges he developed silicosis and other related injuries. (Compl. ¶ 94-99.)
 
The
Complaint alleges claims for (1) Negligence, (2) Products Liability – Failure
to Warn, (3) Products Liability – Design Defect, (4) Fraudulent Concealment;
(5) Breach of Implied Warranties; and (6) Loss of Consortium. 
 
On October 10, 2024, Caesarstone filed a
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint, arguing:
·      
Caesarstone argues all causes of action in the Complaint fail to
state facts to constitute a cause of action
·      
Plaintiffs’
first cause of action for negligence fails to allege causation
·      
Plaintiffs’
second cause of action fails to plead any facts evidencing the method of
Plaintiff’s exposure to the listed Caesarstone products specifically to which
he was allegedly exposed about which Caesarstone is under a legal duty to warn.

·      
Plaintiffs’
third cause of action fails to allege how the design of the specific
Caesarstone products was the proximate cause of his alleged injuries
·      
Plaintiffs’
fourth cause of action fails because Plaintiffs have not pleaded specific facts
evidencing the method of exposure to the listed Caesarstone products, or that
Caesarstone willfully concealed material information with the intent to defraud
Plaintiffs.
·      
Caesarstone
also moves to strike Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages. Plaintiffs must
allege facts evidencing Caesarstone acted with malice, fraud, or oppression.
 
In opposition to the demurrers,
Plaintiffs argue:
·       His allegations are the same as in Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th and that demurrer must therefore be overruled.
·      
The Jones Court of Appeal opinion
suggests the specific allegations of studies and other publications showing
that the scientific community had been aware of the toxicity of the product for
some time, is sufficient to provide allegations of the defendant’s knowledge
and intent. 
·      
Plaintiff
has identified the Caesarstone products that he fabricated as best he can. That
is all that is required. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Company (1999) 21
Cal.4th 71.)
·      
Caesarstone’s
motion to strike punitive damages lacks merit, because Plaintiff has made the
requisite allegations to state a claim for punitive damages against them
according to California appellate case law. Indeed, the Complaint contains 53
pages of allegations [pages 97-150] specifically regarding Caesarstone USA,
Inc. which show that it concealed the respiratory hazards of its products even
after a medical journal published an article titled “Caesarstone Silicosis.”
Instead of warning of the hazard of its product, Caesarstone threatened to sue
the journal, which removed “Caesarstone” from the title of the article. [¶ 366]
Caesarstone thus concealed the lethal hazard of its product.
In reply, Caesarstone maintains that:
·      
Plaintiffs’ argument that they have sufficiently identified Caesarstone’s
products is insufficient.
·      
Plaintiffs’ argument regarding causation falls short of
meeting the causation standard.
·      
Plaintiffs fail to show that the design of Caesarstone
products is defective.
·      
Plaintiffs have failed to show that Caesarstone
fraudulently concealed information from Plaintiffs.
·      
Plaintiffs have failed to show that Caesarstone breached
its alleged duty to disclose.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Caesarstone did not meet and confer
in-person or by telephone with Plaintiffs’ counsel as required by CPP § 430.41(a). The parties met and conferred by email
but could not reach an agreement. (Enkhbayar Decl., ¶ 3.) The court does not
find that the moving parties satisfied their meet and confer obligations,
however, the court will proceed to rule on the merits.
 
C.      First Cause
of Action: Negligence
 
Plaintiffs sufficiently plead a cause of action
for negligence.
 
In order to state a claim for negligence,
Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of
care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in an
injury.”  (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
Caesarstone argues the Complaint fails to specifically plead
how Caesarstone’s products caused Cardona-Alcaraz’s
injuries, such as specific dates, times, or methods of exposure to the
identified Caesarstone products. However, this level of particularity is not
necessary to plead causation in a toxic tort case. Where a complaint alleges
harmful long-term exposure to multiple toxins, a plaintiff can plead causation
by alleging: (1) that he was exposed to each of the toxic materials claimed to
have caused a specific illness, (2) identify each product that caused the
injury, (3) that as a result of the exposure, the toxins entered his body, (4)
that he suffered from a specific illness, and that each toxin that entered his
body was a substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, or aggravating
that illness, and (5) that each toxin he absorbed was manufactured or supplied
by a named defendant. (Bockrath v. Aldrich Chemical Company, Inc. (1992)
21 Cal.4th 71, 79.) “[P]laintiffs may, and should, allege the foregoing facts
succinctly, and may do so in a conclusory fashion if their knowledge of the
precise cause of injury is limited.” (Ibid. (emphasis added); See
also Jones v. ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1196 (“The
Bockrath court recognized that the plaintiffs may genuinely lack
information about the specific cause of their injury and should not be barred
from pursuing their claims.”)) 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges that “Defendants negligently and
carelessly imported, produced, and distributed the foregoing stone products to
which [Cardona-Alcaraz] was exposed in his work as a countertop fabricator and
installer.” (Compl., ¶ 1265.) Cardona-Alcaraz is alleged to have
been exposed to Defendants’ products via inhalation. (Id., ¶
106.) Specifically, Cardona-Alcaraz was
allegedly exposed to seven Caesarstone products, namely: Caesarstone Classico,
Caesarstone Concetto, Caesarstone Metropolitan, Caesarstone Motivo, Caesarstone
Supernatural, Engineered Stone, Quartz. (Id., ¶ 82.) Plaintiffs allege Cardona-Alcaraz
used each of these Caesarstone products during a 20-year period from 2004 to
2024. (Id., ¶ 93.) Moreover, Plaintiffs allege “as a result of [Cardona-Alcaraz’s]
exposure to each of Defendants’ stone products, silica and metals entered [Cardona-Alcaraz’s]
body and caused Plaintiff to suffer from specific illnesses, to wit, silicosis,
pulmonary fibrosis, and related medical conditions.” (Id., ¶ 1287.)
Plaintiffs further allege “each of Defendants’ stone products contained silica
and toxic metals that entered [Cardona-Alcaraz’s] body and was a substantial
factor in causing, prolonging, and aggravating his silicosis and his related
and consequential injuries.” (Id., ¶ 1288.) 
 
As Plaintiffs allege each element of causation outlined in Bockrath,
supra, 21 Cal.4th at 79, causation is sufficiently pled with
respect to Caesarstone’s products. Accordingly, the Complaint does not fail to
plead each element of negligence.   
 
Therefore, Caesarstone’s
demurrer to the first cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
D.     Second Cause
of Action: Products Liability – Failure
to Warn
 
Plaintiffs sufficiently plead a cause of action for failure
to warn.
 
“To establish strict liability for failure to
warn, the plaintiff must prove the defendant ‘did not adequately warn of a
particular risk that was known or knowable in light of the generally recognized
and prevailing best scientific and medical knowledge available at the time of
manufacture and distribution.’” (Chavez v. Glock, Inc. (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 1283, 1304.) “Where ... the product contains an ingredient to which
a substantial number of the population are allergic, and the ingredient is one
whose danger is not generally known, or if known is one which the consumer
would reasonably not expect to find in the product, the seller is required to
give warning against it, if [the seller] has knowledge, or by the application
of reasonable, developed human skill and foresight should have knowledge, of
the presence of the ingredient and the danger...” (Anderson v. Owens-Corning
Fiberglas Corp. (1991) 53 Cal.3d 987, 996, fn. 8.) “To be liable in
California, even under a strict liability theory, the plaintiff must prove that
the defendant's failure to warn was a substantial factor in causing his or her
injury. (CACI No. 1205.) The natural corollary to this requirement is that a
defendant is not liable to a plaintiff if the injury would have occurred even
if the defendant had issued adequate warnings. [Citation.]” (Huitt v.
Southern California Gas Co. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1586, 1604.)
 
Caesarstone
argues that Plaintiffs fail to allege that Caesarstone failed to provide
adequate warnings for its products, which would have prevented injuries if the
warning had been given.
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege “the stone products which Defendants manufactured, imported,
produced, contracted, supplied, brokered, and distributed, and to which Plaintiff
was exposed, were defective because they lacked warnings or contained warnings
that were inadequate to apprise Plaintiff of their toxic hazards and their
serious effects upon the human body, and they either lacked instructions for
handling and use or lacked instructions adequate to prevent exposure and
disease to [Cardona-Alcaraz], thereby
causing serious injury and disease…” (Compl., ¶ 1298.) The Complaint alleges that
Defendants failed to warn Plaintiff of known dangers and consciously disregarded
Plaintiff’s safety despite knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences of
their products.
 
Specifically,
Plaintiffs allege “the first case of artificial stone-induced silicosis was
seen in 1997 by physicians at the National Lung Transplantation Center in
Israel.” (Id., ¶ 147.) Publications
revealing silicosis cases in artificial stone workers were published beginning
in 2010. (Id., ¶ 149.) Regarding
Caesarstone in particular, Plaintiffs allege “Caesarstone placed warning labels
on slabs of stone when it became aware that workers were contracting silicosis
in 2010.” (Id., ¶ 349.) However, these
alleged warning stickers were “tiny,” used “very small font,” and “covered less
than ½ of one percent of the surface area of the slab”
(Id., ¶ 350.) Even further, Caesarstone’s warning labels “did not
include pictograms on its labels until 2020.” (Id.,
¶ 352.) At minimum, these facts suggest that scientific knowledge about
the risks of artificial stone products did exist before laypeople, such as Cardona-Alcaraz, could have
reasonably been aware of such facts (between 1997 and 2010). Moreover, the
Complaint suggests that Caesarstone failed to provide any warning for its
products when Cardona-Alcaraz used the products between 2004 and
2010, and that the warning labels were potentially inadequate from 2010 to 2024.
These facts are sufficient to allege that Caesarstone failed to provide
adequate warning of the alleged toxic products for at least some period during Cardona-Alcaraz’s exposure to the
products. 
 
Further,
Plaintiffs have alleged that Caesarstone’s failure to warn was itself a
substantial factor in causing Cardona-Alcaraz’s
injuries. The Complaint alleges that “as a direct and proximate result of the
defective warnings and use instructions of Defendants’ stone products, [Cardona-Alcaraz]
suffers from silicosis and other related and consequential medical conditions.”
(Id., ¶ 1307.) The Complaint further alleges that “each toxin, including silica and metals,
that entered [Cardona-Alcaraz’s] body was a
substantial factor in bringing about, prolonging, and aggravating Plaintiff, [Cardona-Alcaraz’s] silicosis and his related and
consequential injuries.” (Id., ¶ 1306.) Taken
altogether, the Court finds these allegations sufficient at this stage. 
 
Accordingly, Caesarstone’s demurrer to the second cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
E.     
Third Cause of Action: Products Liability – Design Defect
 
Plaintiffs
sufficiently plead a claim for design defect.
 
In establishing a cause of action for design defect, “[t]he
plaintiff bears an initial burden of making ‘a prima facie showing that the
injury was proximately caused by the product's design.’ [Citation.] This
showing requires evidence that the plaintiff was injured while using the
product in an intended or reasonably foreseeable manner and that the
plaintiff's ability to avoid injury was frustrated… by the nature of the
product's design.” (Perez v. VAS S.p.A. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 658,
678.) A plaintiff cannot recover for a design defect unless it was a
“substantial factor” in producing the alleged injuries. (Soule v. General
Motors Corp. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 548, 573.)
 
Caesarstone
argues that Plaintiffs fail to allege Cardona-Alcaraz’s use of Caesarstone’s
product was a substantial factor in causing his alleged injury. 
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges artificial stone products are commercial products used to
manufacture stone countertops for consumers through an industrial fabrication
process. (Compl., ¶ 60, 65.) Plaintiffs allege that Cardona-Alcaraz
“cut,
ground, drilled, edged, polished, fabricated, and/or installed Defendants’
artificial stone products to become countertops in kitchens and bathrooms.” (Id.,
¶ 83.) As Caesarstone’s products are intended to be used in the
fabrication process, and Cardona-Alcaraz worked with the
products through his role in the fabrication industry, Cardona-Alcaraz
used the
products in a reasonably foreseeable manner. 
 
Plaintiffs also allege “Defendants’ stone
products were defective in their design because they failed to perform safely
as an ordinary worker would expect when used or misused in an intended or
reasonably foreseeable way.” (Id., ¶ 1288.) The alleged defect is that
“all stone products contain crystalline silica in varying concentrations… [up]
to about 93-95% in traditional artificial stone.” (Id., ¶ 164.) Plaintiff has alleged that Caesarstone’s stone slabs were
defective in their design because they contained as much as 95% crystalline
silica (much more than granite (35%) or marble (5%) and that this excessive
silica concentration renders Caesarstone’s products excessively dangerous, as
regulators have determined. (Id., ¶ 323.)
 
Caesarstone replies that “the mere fact that
artificial stones contain silica dust does not support a claim of design
defect” because its products are “no exception” to the “well-known fact” in the
stone industry that artificial stone produces silica dust when its products are
being “cut, polished, and grinded.” (Reply, pp. 2-33.) This contention appears
to conflate design defects with manufacturing defects. That the entire stone
industry creates products with a dangerous propensity does not necessarily negate
a design defect claim. Additionally, Caesarstone appears to assert a
contributory negligence defense by arguing “an individual’s failure to comply
with [governmental safety] protocols, whether knowingly or unknowingly, can
hardly be characterized as a design defect of the product.” (Ibid.)
However, Caesarstone cites no facts in the Complaint suggesting Cardona-Alcaraz’s failed to comply with the safety protocols
in place during the period in which he worked with artificial stone products,
and therefore, Plaintiffs’ claim is not necessarily barred by a contributory
negligence defense. (McKenney v. Purepac Pharmaceutical Co. (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 72, 78-79 (“[A] demurrer based on an affirmative defense will be
sustained only where the face of the complaint discloses that the action is
necessarily barred by the defense.” (internal quotes omitted.))) Thus,
Plaintiffs’ claim for defective product design is sufficiently pled. 
 
Caesarstone’s
demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
F.       Fourth Cause
of Action: Fraudulent Concealment 
 
Plaintiffs sufficiently plead a cause of action
for fraudulent concealment.
 
To state a cause of action for fraudulent
concealment, the plaintiff must allege that: (1) the defendant concealed or suppressed
a material fact; (2) the defendant was under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact
with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the
fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff sustained damage. (Marketing West, Inc. v. Sanyo Fisher
(USA) Corp. (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 603, 612-13.)
 
Causes of action sounding in fraud are subject to
strict pleading requirements. “Every element of a cause of action for fraud
must be alleged both factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal
construction of pleadings will not be invoked to sustain a defective
complaint.” (Cooper v. Equity Gen. Ins. Co. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1252,
1262.) This is true whether the fraud is based on a theory of false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure; however, the familiar
who-what-where-when-how requirement for fraud claims is relaxed somewhat when the
claim is based on an allegedly fraudulent omission. (Alfaro v. Community
Housing Imp. System & Planning Ass’n, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356,
1384 [who-what-where-when-how rule “is intended to apply to affirmative
misrepresentations . . . . [I]t is harder to apply this rule to a case of
simple nondisclosure. How does one show ‘how’ and ‘by what means’ something didn’t
happen, or ‘when’ it never happened, or ‘where’ it never happened?”].)
 
Caesarstone argues the Complaint fails to contain
specific allegations regarding Caesarstone’s participation in the alleged fraud. 
 
However, under Jones v. ConocoPhillips
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, the allegations in Plaintiff’s Complaint are
sufficient to state a claim for fraudulent concealment with the requisite
particularity. In Jones, an employee had used the defendant’s toxic
chemicals in the course of his employment throughout his career and the suit
was against several manufacturers and distributors of the chemicals for serious
health conditions that eventually developed. (Ibid.) In reaching its
conclusion that fraudulent concealment had been sufficiently pled, the Court of
Appeal reasoned:
 
“Here, the amended complaint alleges defendants were ‘aware
of the toxic nature of their products’ and ‘owed a duty to disclose the toxic
properties of their products to [Carlos] because [they] alone had
knowledge of material facts, to wit the toxic properties of their products,
which were not available to [Carlos].’ It also alleges defendants owed a duty
to disclose because they ‘made representations regarding their products, but
failed to disclose additional facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed,
and/or which rendered the disclosures made likely to mislead [Carlos].’ These
conclusory allegations are supplemented with respect to the single compound,
DMF. The Joneses cite studies published as early as 1969 attesting to DMF’s
toxicity, several years before Carlos began working at Goodyear where he was
exposed to the Dow product containing DMF.
 
At a minimum, the amended complaint states a viable claim for
fraudulent concealment against Dow Chemical, the manufacturer of the product
Polymide 2080–D/DHV, which allegedly contained DMF. The Joneses have alleged
DMF was known to be hazardous as early as 1969, and Dow Chemical concealed the
toxic properties of their product, which Carlos would not have used had he been
fully advised of its toxicity.” 
 
(Jones, supra,
198 Cal.App.4th at 1200, alterations in original.)
 
The allegations in this case appear in all
material respects to be the same sorts of allegations found to be sufficient by
the Jones Court. Here, Plaintiffs’ Complaint lists the specific products
manufactured by Caesarstone, a description of how his work as a cutter,
fabricator and installer of stone countertops brought him into contact with the
product, the health hazards of the product, allegations providing a detailed
historical timeline of the scientific literature documenting the hazards of the
product, and allegations describing the resulting silicosis and its alleged
causal connection to Caesarstone’s products.
 
The Court finds that this is sufficient, in that
all of the elements of fraudulent concealment are stated or reasonably implied.
As for knowledge and intent, for the Court of Appeal in Jones, the
specific allegations of studies and other publications showing that the
scientific community had been aware of the toxicity of the product for some
time were sufficient to provide allegations of the defendant’s knowledge and
intent. (Jones, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 1200.) Here,
Plaintiffs have similarly pled such allegations. 
 
Caesarstone further argues should the Plaintiffs prevail on a claim for fraud
against a corporation, Plaintiffs must identify, by name or position held in
the company, the individual who allegedly made the fraudulent representation,
or give any indication as to when the representation was made. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
However, as Plaintiffs’ case is premised not on an affirmative statement, but
on omissions, it is hard to imagine how an individual can be identified who
made the omissions. (See Jones, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at 1199
[requiring a relaxed pleading standard for fraudulent concealment causes of
action].)  Thus, Caesarstone’s argument on this basis fails. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Caesarstone’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
G.    
Motion to
Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
Caesarstone requests the Court to
strike all allegations of punitive damages as follows:
1.     
Complaint ¿ 1294 
2.      Complaint ¿ 1295
3.     
Complaint ¿ 1311
4.     
Complaint ¿ 1312
5.     
Complaint ¿ 1313
6.      Complaint ¿ 1332
7.      Complaint ¿ 1333
8.      Complaint ¿ 1334
9.      Complaint ¿ 1335
10.  Complaint ¿ 1366
11.  Complaint ¿ 1367
12.  Complaint ¿ 1368
13.  Prayer for
Relief, number 4: “For punitive damages according to proof.”
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
In light of the finding that Plaintiffs have
sufficiently alleged a cause of action for fraudulent concealment, Plaintiffs’
allegations for punitive damages need not be stricken at this stage. (Werschkull
v. United Cal. Bank (1978) 85 Cal.App.3d 981, 1004 (fraudulent acts of
concealment may support awards of punitive damages.)) 
 
Accordingly, Caesarstone’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
DISPOSITION

Defendant Caesarstone USA, Inc.’s
demurrer is OVERRULED.  
 
Defendant
Caesarstone USA, Inc.’s motion to
strike is DENIED. 