  Case Number:  21STCV16955    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  49 Sky Express World Courier, Inc. v. Jae Hueng Rye aka Joseph Ryu, et al.(1) DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT(2) MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS  MOVING PARTY:  (1) Defendants Salt International Co., LTD; Jihyun Seo; Daeyoung Kim; and One Road USA, Inc.; (2) Defendant Gyumgyeong ChaeRESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) & (2) Plaintiff Sky Express World Courier, Inc.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Sky Express World Courier, Inc., alleges Defendant Jae Hung Ryu aka Joseph Ryu, a former Sky employee, has misappropriated Sky’s trade secrets. Lyoo filed a Cross-Complaint against Sky and Hyoungtae Kim for (1) slander per se, (2) violation of Labor Code sections 1050-1054, (3) interference with prospective economic damages, and (4) interference with contractual relationship.On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed various doe amendments adding Gyumyeong Chae, Salt International Co., LTD., Sooah Chae, Jihyun Seo, Daeyoung Kim, and One Road USA, Inc. as doe defendants.Defendants Salt International Co., LTD, Jihyun Seo, Daeyoung Kim, and One Road USA, Inc. now demurrer to the Complaint. Plaintiff Sky opposed.Defendant Gyumyeong Chae separately moves to quash service of summons. Plaintiff opposed. TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.Plaintiff is ordered to file a First Amended Complaint within 30 days of this ruling. Defendant Gyumyeong Chae’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.  Said defendant is to file a responsive pleading within 21 days.Moving parties to give notice.DISCUSSION:Demurrer to ComplaintI. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Attorney Calvin J. Park reflects that the meet and confer requirement was satisfied.II. AnalysisDefendants Salt International Co., LTD, Jihyun Seo, Daeyoung Kim, and One Road USA, Inc. demurrer to the Complaint. Defendants contend the complaint fails to state facts sufficient or is uncertain because it lacks factual allegations against them.Plaintiff added the moving Defendants to the Complaint by doe amendments on April 17, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that “each of the DOE - defendants is in some manner responsible or liable for the acts and damages alleged herein,” that Defendants “were the agents, servants, and/or employees of each of the remaining” Defendants, and “were at all times herein mentioned, acting within the scope, course and purpose of the agency, and/or employment or concerted activity.” (Compl. ¶¶ 4, 5.)Although each cause of action is asserted against “All Defendants,” the body of the Complaint only alleges facts pertaining to singular Defendant Ryu. Beyond the conclusory allegation of an agency relationship, there are no “ultimate facts” alleged against the moving Defendants. (See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal. 4th 531, 550.) The relationship between the Defendants and Defendant Ryu, if any, is entirely unclear. Therefore, the Complaint is insufficient to state any claims against the moving Defendants. The case of Winding Creek v. McGlashan (1996) 44 Cal. App. 4th 933 does not require a different result. There, the issue was whether allegations against the doe defendants were sufficient to invoke the relation-back doctrine. The Court of Appeal answered that in the affirmative, concluding the complaint sufficiently charged the defendants with wrongdoing. But that decision did not relieve a plaintiff of its obligation to generally plead the facts sufficient to state a cause of action against the Defendants named.Finally, this court is aware of the related action in Salt International Co., LTD v. Sky Express World Courier, Inc., et al., LASC Case. No. 21STCV27914, which perhaps involves some overlap of allegations and parties. Even so, this does not relieve Plaintiff of its obligations to plead facts sufficient in this action. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. When amending, Plaintiffs must plead sufficient facts against each Defendant.Moving party to give notice, unless waived.Motion to Quash Service of SummonsA. Legal Standard“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes:  (1) [t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a).)  “[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)  “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.”  (Id. at pp. 1441-1442.)  When a defendant moves to quash service of the summons and complaint, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.”  (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.)  “A court lacks jurisdiction over a party if there has not been proper service of process.”  (Ruttenberg v. Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.) B. AnalysisDefendant Gyumyeong Chae moves to quash service of summons. Chae argues substitute service was ineffective because he is not a resident of California. As a resident of South Korea, Chae contends he had to be served in compliance with the Hague Service Convention.Chae was served by substitute service at 330 E. Jefferson Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90011. (Motion, Exh. A.) It is undisputed that this is the address of Defendant One Road USA, Inc. (Park Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 2.) It is also undisputed that Chae is the Chief Executive Officer of Defendant One Road USA, Inc., and in his words, “operat[es]” the entity. (Chae Decl. ¶ 4; Park Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. 3.) While Chae does not reside in the United States, he makes “occasional visits” here. (Id.)“If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served ..., a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person's…usual place of business... in the presence of…a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of business, or usual mailing address ... who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” (CCP § 415.20, subd. (b).)Chae is correct that a foreign resident would generally need to be served in compliance with CCP section 413.10(c) and the Hague Service Convention. Here, however, Plaintiff has demonstrated that Chae’s “usual place of business” is at the Jefferson Blvd. address, as he serves as CEO of the entity (One Road USA, Inc.) that operates at that address. Service need not occur by the method “most likely” to reach the defendant; all that is required is a method reasonably likely to provide notice. (See Greene v. Lindsey (1982) 456 U.S. 444, 455.) Therefore, attempted personal service of Chae, followed by valid substitute service, was effective at this location. Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is DENIED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   November 1, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court