 Case Number:  BC454901    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
LEONARD W. BORISOFF,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
THE PULLMAN GROUP, LLC,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  BC454901
  Hearing Date:  November 15, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to reopen discovery and
  continue trial




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 10, 2011, plaintiff
Leonard W. Borisoff (“Borisoff”), a composer, filed a complaint against
defendants the Pullman Group, LLC; Wertheim, LLC; David Pullman; and Broadcast
Music, Inc. Defendants prevailed in the compelled arbitration proceeding and
were awarded ownership of Borisoff’s past and future royalties and attorney
fees of $67,866.13. On October 3, 2013, Defendants petitioned the Court to
confirm the award, which the Court did on January 15, 2014, with a final
judgment entered on August 27, 2014. Borisoff appealed the judgment. The Court
of Appeal reversed the judgment. On February 4, 2021, the Currency Corp
(“Plaintiff”) was substituted as Borisoff’s successor in interest after he
passed away in 2020.
            On February 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative Second Amended Complaint, alleging (1) fraud, (2) intentional
interference with contract, and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants
Pullman Group, David Pullman, and Wertheim LLC. 
On October 19, 2023, Defendants filed the
instant motion to reopen discovery and continue trial. Plaintiff filed its
opposition on November 1, 2023. Defendant filed his reply on November 7, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
 “On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050(a).) The Court must consider the following factors:
(1) the necessity and the reasons for the discovery; (2) the diligence or lack
of diligence of the party seeking the discovery; (3) the likelihood that
permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case
from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial
calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party; and (4) the length of time
that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set,
for the trial of the action. (Id., subd. (b).) 
Trial continuances are disfavored and may
only be granted upon an affirmative showing of good cause. (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1332(c).) Circumstances indicating good cause include: a party’s excused
inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence
despite diligent efforts; or a significant, unanticipated change in the status
of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial. (Ibid.)
The court may also consider “[a]ny other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.” (Id., subd. (d)(11).)
DISCUSSION
            This case was filed over a decade
ago and has been subject to multiple extensions or continuances. The Court is
not inclined to allow any further delays. 
Defendant claims that another extension is
necessary because of Plaintiff’s discovery gamesmanship. However, Defendant is
responsible for serving discovery with sufficient time for potential motions to
compel. This is especially pertinent here, where Defendant claims that he has “been
forced to file motions to compel compliance with discovery at every step of the
way.” (Mtn. 8:12-13.) That means Defendant has been consistently aware that
motions to compel are necessary. Yet, Defendant waited until August 2023, a
mere month before the cutoff, to propound the latest round of discovery. 
Defendant argues that its current counsel
only substituted in recently and had mere weeks to prepare additional discovery.
However, Defendant has been represented by various counsel throughout this
action.  Defendant cannot use this as an
excuse to delay resolution of the case. Given how long this case has been
active, Defendant has had more than enough time to propound discovery. Even
assuming the latest discovery could not have been propounded until the most
recent operative SAC, that pleading was filed in February 2023, nine months ago.
Defendant’s delay in serving basic discovery regarding Plaintiff’s claims and
contentions is inexcusable and does not constitute good cause to reopen discovery
or continue trial. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to reopen
discovery and continue trial is DENIED.