  Case Number:  22PSCV02364    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Qi Zhu v. CA
Fan Tuan Inc. 
Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant CA Fan Tuan Inc. 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES the motion to be relieved as counsel for
Defendant CA Fan Tuan Inc. without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an employment dispute. On December 5, 2022, plaintiff Qi
Zhu (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant CA Fan Tuan Inc. (Defendant)
and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy, misclassification of employee as “independent
contractor”, failure to pay overtime compensation, failure to provide rest
periods, penalties for failure to pay wages due, failure to indemnify for
necessary business expenses, failure to provide itemized wage and hour
statements, waiting time penalties, and unfair competition. 
On
July 8, 2024, Richard Liu, Esq. and Edward Wells, Esq. of Innovative Legal
Services, P.C. moved to be relieved as counsel for Defendant. The motion is
unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council
Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all
parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Richard
Liu, Esq. and Edward Wells, Esq. of Innovative Legal Services, P.C. (Counsel)
seek to be relieved as counsel for Defendant. Counsel contends irreconcilable
differences have arisen making it unreasonably difficult to carry out the
employment effectively. (Wells Decl., ¶ 7.) The Court finds this proper grounds
for withdrawal. Grounds for permitting an attorney to withdraw from representation
include the client’s conduct that “renders it unreasonably difficult for the
lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]” (Cal. Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) A breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship is also grounds for allowing the attorney to
withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) 
Counsel has provided the appropriate Judicial Council forms, i.e.,
forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053, per California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subdivisions (a), (c), and (e). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a),
(c), (e).) However, the Court notes various issues with the forms presented.
First, Counsel’s declaration does not indicate having confirmed Defendant’s
current address or whether Counsel was otherwise unable to confirm Defendant’s
current address. (Wells Decl., ¶ 3, subd. (b).) Second, Counsel did not
complete paragraphs 3 or 5 of the proposed order. (Proposed Order, ¶¶ 3, 5.) Counsel
also has not provided a proof of service of the moving papers on Defendant. The
proof of service attached to the moving papers only indicates service on
counsel for Plaintiff. (Motion, pp. 8-9 of pdf.) The Court further notes that
the forms should be filed as separate documents, especially the proposed order,
which would be effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
order upon the client. 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the motion without prejudice. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion to be relieved as counsel for
Defendant CA Fan Tuan Inc. without prejudice. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days.