 Case Number:  23PSCV03140    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Manuel
Valdez, et al. v. Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super, et al. 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Covina Marketplace, LLC’s Motion for an Order Seeking Leave to Amend
Cross-Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Covina Marketplace’s motion for leave to amend
its cross-complaint. Covina Marketplace must file and serve the First Amended
Cross-Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
Covina Marketplace is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling
within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a wrongful death case. On October 10, 2023, plaintiffs
Manuel Valdez, Chelsea Valdez-Gutierrez, Manuel Alexander Valdez, Daisy Valdez,
Yvette Gutierrez Valdez, Maria Gutierrez, Estate of Rosalva Valdez, by and
through its administrator, Manuel Valdez (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this
action against defendants Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super, HB Property
Management, Inc., Oscar Gonzalez, George Gonzalez, and Does 1 through 50,
alleging causes of action for wrongful death (negligence) and survival. On
January 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a doe amendment naming Covina Marketplace,
LLC as a defendant. On May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a doe amendment naming
Priority Property Group, Inc. as a defendant. 
On March 1, 2024, Defendant Chedraui USA, Inc., dba El Super (El
Super) filed a cross-complaint against HB Property Management, Inc., Oscar
Gonzalez, George Gonzalez, Covina Marketplace, LLC, and Roes 1 through 20,
alleging causes of action for express indemnity, equitable indemnity,
comparative indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. On May 16, 2024,
El Super filed roe amendments to its cross-complaint, naming The Salomon
Wainberg and Olga Wainberg Family Trust and Olga Wainberg as cross-defendants.
On May 24, 2024, El Super filed a roe amendment naming Priority Property Group,
Inc. (Priority Property) as a cross-defendant. On July 25, 2024, El Super
dismissed The Salomon Wainberg and Olga Wainberg Family Trust and Olga Wainberg
from its cross-complaint. 
On May 29, 2024, Defendant Covina Marketplace, LLC (Covina
Marketplace) filed a cross-complaint against El Super and Roes 1 through 20,
alleging causes of action for express written indemnity, full or partial
equitable indemnification, declaratory relief, and indemnity. On July 9, 2024,
Covina Market place filed a roe amendment, naming Oscar Gonzalez and George
Gonzalez as cross-defendants. 
On July 3, 2024, Covina Marketplace moved for leave to amend its
cross-complaint. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “This discretion should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Under Rule
3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a
pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) 
Under Rule
3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
            Covina
Marketplace seeks leave to amend its cross-complaint to add Defendants Oscar
Gonzalez (Oscar) and George Gonzalez (George) as cross-defendants, dismiss the
Fourth Cause of Action for indemnity, and add a cause of action for
apportionment. Covina Marketplace indicate that its prior counsel mistakenly
failed to add Defendants Oscar and George as cross-defendants, even though the
death of decedent Rosalva Valdez was directly due to their negligence. Covina
Marketplace indicates that due to the way its cross-complaint is currently
worded, Oscar and George cannot be added via roe amendment without the
cross-complaint being subject to demurrer. Covina Marketplace further indicates
that the Fourth Cause of Action for indemnity appears to be duplicative of the
Second Cause of Action for equitable indemnity, and seeks to replace the Fourth
Cause of Action with one for apportionment. 
            The Court finds Covina Marketplace has substantially complied with
the requirements of the California Rules of Court for obtaining leave to file
an amended cross-complaint. Covina Marketplace provided a copy of the proposed
First Amended Cross-Complaint. (See Motooka Declaration, Ex. A.)[1] The effect of the proposed amendment would be to add Oscar and
George as cross-defendants, both of whom Covina Marketplace contend negligently
caused or contributed to the death of decedent Rosalva Valdez. (Motooka Decl.,
¶ 4; Motion, 4:14-17.) Covina Marketplace has also shown that its prior counsel
inadvertently omitted George and Oscar from the cross-complaint, but that
Covina Marketplace acted quickly by filing this motion a month after the
departure of its prior counsel. (Motooka Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) The Court also notes
no opposition to this motion, which the Court construes as a tacit admission
that Covina Marketplace’s arguments are meritorious. (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410;
C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation.]”]) 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Covina Marketplace’s motion for leave to amend
its cross-complaint. Covina Marketplace must file and serve a signed First
Amended Cross-Complaint within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
Covina Marketplace is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling
within five calendar days of this order.


