  Case Number:  22STCV35638    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



IRIS AU 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
ENZO ZELOCCHI, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  22STCV35638   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 11, 2024




 
Defendant’s
motion for a judgment on the pleadings is DENIED.
 
            On
11/9/2022, Plaintiff Iris Au (Plaintiff) filed suit against Enzo Zelocchi,
Kenneth Childs (Childs), and David Do, alleging: (1) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; (2) attempted extortion; (3) aiding and abetting attempted
extortion; (4) false light; and (5) defamation per se.  
 
            Now,
Defendant Childs (Defendant) moves for a judgment on the pleadings as to the
three causes of action asserted against him.
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for the three causes of action
asserted against him—IIED, attempted extortion, and aiding and abetting
extortion—because Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to support her
allegations based on information and belief and because she has not alleged
outrageous conduct. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants sent Plaintiff threatening messages under the
pseudonym "$," in effort to extort money from her, and defamed her
personal and professional reputation by publishing online false allegations
asserting that Plaintiff is exploiting innocent people to finance an
extravagant lifestyle. For example, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants sent
Plaintiff a photo of her children, a link to a wallet, a demand for a transfer
of $5,000,000, and a message stating, “Pay up or Death will rain from Above.”
(Complaint ¶ 45.) 
 
            Defendant
here argues that Plaintiff only alleges that he participated in the publishing
of the Ripoff Report, where an anonymous comment was left by someone using the
alias “Lolo” stating: "Iris Au Iris Au Iris Rabaya Eyerize Adam IZA Ahmed
Assad Faiq ZORT.COM ZORT INC VURG.COM DREAM AGENCY INC Stole my life savings
and spent it on Birkin Bags, Jewlery [sic], and are STILL Funding their
extravagant lifestyle all from scamming innocent people! Newport Beach
California.” (Complaint ¶ 39.)
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s allegation that this comment was posted by him is based
inadequately on information and belief, that the allegations cannot rise to the
level of extreme, and that this allegation cannot support a claim for extortion
or aiding and abetting extortion. 
 
            However,
first, “[p]laintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that are
not within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe
that the allegations are true.” (Pridonoff v. Balokovich (1951) 36
Cal.2d 788, 792.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that her boyfriend Iza and Zelocchi
had a falling out over business, and that Zelocchi became enraged at Iza and
engaged in a campaign to target him and his family. (Complaint ¶ 19.) Plaintiff
alleges that Childs owns a company Paramount Investigative Services which Iza
consulted with to obtain investigative services. Plaintiff alleges that Childs
“double-crossed” Iza, and eventually began working in connection with Zelocchi.
(Complaint ¶¶ 19-35.) At the pleadings stage, this is sufficient information to
show why Plaintiff believes Childs to be the anonymous commentor, as well as a
participant in the alleged extortion. 
 
            Second,
while Defendant argues that he is only alleged to have participated in the Ripoff
Report, Plaintiff’s Complaint clearly alleges otherwise. Plaintiff alleges that
Zelocchi and Childs were working in conjunction to extort money from Plaintiff
through anonymous texts sent under “$” and by posting anonymous comments
alleging Plaintiff was a scammer:
 
-        
“Nearly immediately after filing a
lawsuit vs Plaintiff, CHILDS provided substantial assistance and encouragement
to ZELOCCHI’S extortion attempts by contacting and working with ZELOCCHI in the
hopes of extorting millions from Plaintiff and IZA via threats from the
anonymous group “$”.” [Complaint at ¶ 63].
 
-        
“This fear was induced via threatening
messages sent by Defendants using the name “$”, which threatened to ruin
Plaintiff’s life and sent pictures of Plaintiff’s young children demanding $ 5
million dollars or else “Death will rain from above”.” [Complaint at ¶ 54]. •
CHILDS filed a lawsuit against Plaintiff seeking $5,000,000 in damages.
[Complaint at ¶ 32]. Only five days later, ZELOCCHI admitted that CHILDS and
ZELOCCHI were conspiring with one another. [Complaint at ¶ 33]. Nearly
immediately after Plaintiff was served with CHILDS Complaint, Plaintiff and IZA
began receiving extortion demands from anonymous group identified as “$.”
[Complaint at ¶ 34]. The timing of one such demand was made suspiciously within
days of Plaintiff being served with CHILD’S lawsuit, and requested $5,000,000,
which is the exact amount that is stated in CHILD’S Complaint as damages.
[Complaint at ¶ 35].
 
In sum,
Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show that Defendant here participated
and aided in a scheme to extort Plaintiff, and posted anonymous defamatory
comments on public websites. As set forth above, Plaintiff has set forth
sufficient information to support her basis for believing Defendant here to be
associated with the anonymous online comments and the anonymous “$” texter.
Whether or not this conduct, in fact, rises to the level of extreme and
outrageous conduct is a factual determination not properly made at this stage.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for a judgment on the pleadings is denied. 
 
   
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 