 Case Number:  24STLC05619    Hearing Date:   November 27, 2024    Dept:  26 Restore Tactics, Inc. v. Smile Empire, LLC et al., Case No. 24STLC05619TENTATIVE RULING: 
Defendants’
Smile Empire, LLC and Aung Tun’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED. DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.  
ANALYSIS:

On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff Restore
Tactics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in
this action against Defendants Smile Empire, LLC (“Defendant Smile Empire”) and
Aung Tun (“Defendant Tun”). Following the filing of Defendants’ demurrer to the
Complaint, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint on October 4, 2024. 
 On November 1, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff filed an
opposition on November 14, 2024 and Defendant replied on November 21, 2024.  
Discussion 
Allegations
in the First Amended Complaint 
Plaintiff
is a California corporation and a contractor licensed by the Contractors State
License Board. (FAC, ¶1.) Defendant Empire Smile is a limited liability company
and the owner of real property located at 2017 Benedict Canyon Boulevard,
Beverly Hills, California (“the Property”). (Id. at ¶2.) Defendant Tun
is an owner and/or manager of the Property. (Id. at ¶3.) On February 10,
2024, Defendants contacted Plaintiff to remove/haul dirt and mud from the front
of the Property, and to pressure wash and clean the area of removal. (Id. at
¶6.) The parties entered into an agreement for these services in the amount of
$17,000.00 (“the Agreement”), which was signed by Defendants’ authorized agent.
(Id. at ¶6 and Exh. A.) The Agreement also provides for a monthly
service charge of 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance if it is not paid within ten days, reasonable attorney fees, and court costs. (Id. at ¶7.) Plaintiff
performed the agreed upon services on February 10, 2024 and requested payment
from Defendants. (Id. at ¶8.) Defendants failed to pay the
agreed upon amount, and even after Plaintiff offered to waive the service
charge and reduce the amount owed, Defendant failed to pay reduced amount. (Id.
at ¶¶8-9.) The full contract amount is due and payable. (Id. at ¶9.) Defendants’
conduct went beyond the mere failure to pay and constituted bad faith and
unfair dealing. (Id. at ¶21.) Defendants repeatedly promised payment
without following through, avoided communication with Plaintiff after services
were rendered, and created unnecessary obstacles to Plaintiff’s performance or
receipt of payment. (Ibid.)
Request for Judicial Notice
Defendants request that the Court
take judicial notice of the following documents: (1) the Amended Complaint
filed on July 1, 2024 in an ongoing action, Ruben Nunez v. Restore Tactics
et al.; (2) the Answer filed on October 11, 2024 in Ruben Nunez v.
Restore Tactics et al.; (3) a Citation Violation Disclosure of Citation
#220182836, issued on June 27, 2019 to Restore Tactics Inc. (License No.
1035819), by the Department of Consumer Affairs Contractors State License Board;
(4) the original Complaint filed by Plaintiff Restore Tactics Inc. in the
present Action (Case No. 24STLC05619); and (5) the filed Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s original Complaint in the present Action (Case No. 24STLC05619).
The request is made pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (e) on the grounds that a court may take
judicial notice of records of any court of this state. Subdivision (e),
however, pertains to judicial notice of rules of court. Presumably, the request
meant to cite subdivision (d) of section 452, which allows for judicial notice
of “records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the
United States or of any state of the United States.” (Cal. Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (d).) 
The California Court of Appeals
has addressed the question of what is meant by judicial notice of court records
in Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548: 
It is the consequence of judicial
notice that the “fact” noticed is, in effect, treated as true for purposes of
proof. “Under the doctrine of judicial notice, certain matters are assumed to
be indisputably true, and the introduction of evidence to prove them will not
be required. Judicial notice is thus a substitute for formal proof.
[Citation.]” (1 Witkin Cal. Evidence (3d ed.1986) § 80, p. 74.) Therefore, a
finding of fact that was judicially noticed would be removed as a subject of
dispute and would be accepted for evidentiary purposes as true. The effect
would be that without resort to concepts of collateral estoppel or res judicata
that would litigate whether the issue was fully addressed and resolved, a
finding of fact would be removed from dispute in the other action in which it
was judicially noticed. 
(Sosinsky v. Grant (1992)
6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1564.) The Court of Appeals went on to point out that many
cases have relied on the following reasoning from Jefferson's Evidence
Benchbook (2d ed.) at section 47.2: “ ‘What is meant by taking judicial notice
of court records? There exists a mistaken notion that this means taking
judicial notice of the existence of facts asserted in every document of a court
file, including pleadings and affidavits. However, a court cannot take judicial
notice of hearsay allegations as being true, just because they are part of a
court record or file.’” (Ibid.)
The purpose of this request for
judicial notice is unclear, especially with respect to the first three
documents, which are not mentioned in the demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint. Therefore, the request for judicial notice of those documents is
denied. With respect to the original Complaint in this action and the demurrer
to the original Complaint, the Court only takes judicial notice of the filing
of those documents.  
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
The Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) breach
of contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
and (3) quantum meruit and quantum valebant. The Demurrer is accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. (Demurrer, Emetadi Decl., ¶¶3-7 and
Exhs. A-C.) Defendants demur on the grounds that the Complaint
fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  
1st Cause of Action for Breach
of Contract 
A claim for breach of contract
must sufficiently plead (1) the existence of a contract; (2) plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s
breach; and (4) resulting damage to the plaintiff. (Richman v. Harley
(2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 1182, 1186.) 
The Demurrer to the breach of
contract cause of action is based on the grounds that Plaintiff does not and
cannot allege that Defendants are parties to any agreement at issue. The First
Amended Complaint, however, does allege that the parties entered into the
Agreement and that it was signed by Defendants’ authorized representative.
(FAC, ¶6.) The demurrer does not explain why alleging that Defendants are
signatories to the agreement through their authorized representative is an
insufficient allegation to show the existence of an agreement. Nor does the Demurrer
provide legal authority for its contention that Plaintiff must allege the name,
title, or role of the alleged authorized representative. (Demurrer, p. 13:6-8.)
Defendants’ reply in support of the demurrer attempts to rely on their request
for judicial notice of facts in its demurrer to the original Complaint. (Reply,
p. 3:11-4:17.) As explained above, these are not facts of which the Court can
take judicial notice. Therefore, Defendants’ Demurrer to the breach of
contract, it is overruled as to the first cause of action.
2nd Cause of Action for Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
The demurrer does not specify the
elements necessary to allege a cause of action for breach of implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing. Instead, it argues that a cause of action that
merely duplicates the allegations of a breach of contract claim is
insufficient. (Citing Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) However, the second cause of action
does include additional allegations beyond those in support of the breach of
contract cause of action. Specifically, that Defendants’ conduct went beyond the mere failure to pay and constituted
bad faith and unfair dealing because they repeatedly promised payment without
following through, avoided communication with Plaintiff after services were
rendered, and created unnecessary obstacles to Plaintiff’s performance or
receipt of payment. (FAC, ¶21.) Defendants argue that these additional
allegations are vague and contradict other allegations that Plaintiff offered a
reduced payment to resolve the dispute. (Citing FAC, ¶9.) The Court disagrees
that the allegations are contradictory. Defendants could have promised to pay
both the full contract amount, and the reduced payment offered by Plaintiff but
failed to honor either promise. Nor is it contradictory to allege that
Defendants repeatedly promised payment without following through, but also avoided
communication with Plaintiff after services were rendered. Details regarding
the nature and timing of these communications is necessary to show any
contradiction. Therefore, Defendants have not shown that the
First Amended Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
The demurrer to the second cause of action is also overruled. 
3rd Cause of Action for
Quantum Meruit 
“To recover in quantum meruit, a
party need not prove the existence of a contract, but it must show the circumstances
were such that ‘the services were rendered under some understanding or
expectation of both parties that compensation therefor was to be made.’” (Huskinson
& Brown v. Wolf (2004) 32 Cal.4th 453, 458.) Defendants’ demurrer to
this cause of action is based entirely and improperly on their own version of
the dispute. (Demurrer, pp. 16:1-17:9.) No citation to the allegations in the
First Amended Complaint is provided or explained to be inadequate. Therefore,
the demurrer to the cause of action for quantum meruit is overruled.
Claims Against Defendant Tun 
Defendant Tun also argues that
there are insufficient allegations against them specifically to support any
claims. However, as explained above, the First Amended Complaint alleges that
both Defendants entered into the Agreement and that the Agreement was signed by
both Defendants’ authorized representative. The fact that the Agreement only
refers to Defendant Smile Empire in the “Bill To” section does not directly
contradict these allegations. (See FAC, Exh. A, p. 1.) 
Expiration of Plaintiff’s
Contractor’s License
Finally, Defendants argue the
demurrer should be sustained because Plaintiff’s contractor’s license expired
in September 2024. No authority is cited for the argument that expiration of a
contractor’s license after work is performed is grounds to dismiss an action.
Instead, Defendants point only to the statute and case law that requires a
contractor to be licensed while performing work. (Citing Cal. & Bus. Prof.
Code §7031; MW Erectors, Inc. v. Niederhauser Ornamental and Metal Works
Co., Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 512.) 
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants Smile Empire, LLC and Aung Tun’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANTS ARE TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.  
Court clerk to give notice. 