 Case Number:  22STCV25150    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Anna R. Rick’s application to be admitted as counsel pro
hac vice is APPROVED. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
California Rule of Court (CRC), rule 9.40 provides that an attorney
in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified application
together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application and notice
of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of
California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long
as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and is not
regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in
the State of California. 
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and
office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to
practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in good
standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the
applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action. (CRC Rule 9.40, subd. (d).) 
 
Discussion
 
Here, Anna R. Rick has filed proof of service indicating that the
Defendants counsel of record have been served with the application and notice
of hearing via email. Furthermore, Ms. Rick’s application includes (1) her
personal residence and office addresses, (2) the courts to which she has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission in the state of Minnesota, (3)
her certificate of good standing attached as an Exhibit A from the State Bar of
Minnesota, (4) the courts and cause in which she has filed to appear as counsel
pro hac vice in California in the preceding two years with the date of
each application and whether or not it was granted, and (5) the name, address,
and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is
Plaintiff’s attorney of record in this instant case.  
 
Additionally, Ms. Rick indicated in her declaration that she
e-filed a copy of her application along with payment of $50.00 with the State
Bar of California, Pro Hac Vice Department, 180 Howard Street, San
Francisco, California 94105. On September 5, 2023, Ms.
Rick submitted evidence corroborating that the application was e-filed and
payment of the $50.00 was made to the State Bar. Therefore, the Court finds Ann
R. Rick’s application compliant with the requirements set forth above. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Anna R. Rick’s application is APPROVED. 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 