 Case Number:  21STCV17658    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE RULING
The motion to compel is GRANTED in part.
The request for sanctions is GRANTED in part.
Background
This case arises out of a vehicle accident that allegedly occurred
on May 14, 2019, near the intersection of Prairie Street and 118th Street in
Hawthorne, California.  Plaintiff Emmanuel
Anyaogu (“Plaintiff”) alleges that the accident was caused by the negligence of
Defendant Mildred Johanna Fuentes (“Defendant”), and that he sustained injuries
as a result.  
Plaintiff filed a Complaint on May 11, 2021, asserting one
cause of action for motor vehicle negligence against Defendant and Does 1
through 10.  Defendant filed her answer
on May 12, 2022.
As is relevant to this motion, on the same day that Defendant
filed her answer, she propounded Form Interrogatories (Set One) on
Plaintiff.  (Garibyan Decl., ¶ 3 &
Exh. A.)  Plaintiff served responses on
April 12, 2023.  (Id., ¶ 4 &
Exh. B.)  Defendant contended that
certain responses were not code complaint and made an effort to meet and confer
with Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶¶ 5, 7.)  Plaintiff did not communicate with Defendant or
provide amended discovery responses.  (Id.,
¶ 8.)
An Informal Discovery Conference was held on August 31,
2023.  The matter was not resolved.
Defendant filed a motion to compel further responses on May
26, 2023.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response
to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. (3)
An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., subd.
(d).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that any person “engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” A “misuse of the discovery process” includes (among
other things) failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery; and making an evasive response to a discovery request.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(f).)
Discussion
Defendant moves to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatories Nos. 6.4, 8.4, and 17.1.
Form Interrogatory No. 6.4
This interrogatory asks Plaintiff whether he has received any
consultation or examination from any health care provider for any injury he
attributes to the incident.  If so,
Plaintiff is asked to provide the contact information for the provider; the
type of consultation, examination or treatment; the dates of the consultation,
examination, or treatment; and charges to date.
Plaintiff identified, by name and address, three health care
providers but did not otherwise respond to the interrogatory.  (Garibyan Decl., Exh. B.)  That is a partial response, not a complete
and straightforward response, as is required. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a).)  Accordingly, the motion to compel a further
response to this interrogatory is GRANTED.
Form Interrogatory No. 8.4 
This interrogatory asks Plaintiff to state his monthly income
at the time of the incident and how the amount was calculated.
Plaintiff stated his income but did not state how the amount
was calculated.  (Garibyan Decl., Exh. B.)  That is a partial response, not a complete
and straightforward response, as is required. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a).)  Accordingly, the motion to compel a further
response to this interrogatory is GRANTED.
Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 
This interrogatory asks Plaintiff to state, for each response
to a concurrently served request for admission that is not an unqualified
admission, all facts upon which the response is based; names and contact information
for persons with knowledge; and the identity and location of all documents that
support the response.
Plaintiff stated, in response, “Not applicable since no requests
for admission was served with the form interrogatories.”  (Garibyan Decl., Exh. B.)  Defendant has submitted no evidence to show
that any requests for admission were served concurrently with the form
interrogatories.  Accordingly, the motion
to compel a further response to this interrogatory is DENIED.
Sanctions
Sanctions are required unless the Court finds that the party
subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or the imposition of
sanctions would be unjust.  Here, there
is no evidence in the record to support a finding that Plaintiff or his counsel
acted with substantial justification or that the imposition of sanctions would
be unjust.  Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
the request for sanctions.
The amount of sanctions is set at $561.65, calculated based
upon 2.5 hours of attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s billable rate of $200
per hour, plus the filing fee of $61.65. 
(See Garibyan Decl., ¶ 10.)  
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part the motion to
compel further responses.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to provide further verified,
code-complaint responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 6.4 and 8.4 within 30
days of notice of this order.
The Court DENIES the request to compel Plaintiff to provide a further
response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1.
The Court GRANTS in part the request for sanctions.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff and counsel of record Chijioke O. Ikonte,
jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant in the amount of
$561.65 within 30 days of notice of this order.
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.