 Case Number:  23STLC04142    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  26  Interinsurance Exchange v. Vannata, et al.DEMURRER;
MOTION TO STRIKE(CCP §§ 430.31,
et seq., 435, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Cross-Defendant Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club’s Motion to Strike Portions of the
Cross-Complaint is PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club (“Cross-Defendant”) filed the instant action
for breach of contract and unjust enrichment against Defendants Dolores
Vannata, Sarah Toutounchian, and Rochelle Toutounchian (“Cross-Complainants”)
on June 30, 2023. Cross-Complainants filed a Cross-Complaint for breach of
contract, insurance bad faith, and declaratory relief against Cross-Defendant
on August 31, 2023. 
 
Cross-Defendant
filed the instant Demurrer to, and Motion to Strike Portions of, the
Cross-Complaint on October 11, 2023. Cross-Complainants filed and served an opposition
to the Demurrer on November 21, 2023 and Cross-Defendant replied on November 28,
2023.
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in the Complaint and Cross-Complaint
 
This action arises out of a written contract of automobile
liability insurance between Cross-Defendant and Cross-Complainant Vannata.
(Compl., ¶6.) The policy provided coverage for medical services and included a
reimbursement provision. (Ibid.) The reimbursement provision provided
that if a covered person obtains any settlement or judgment from any person or
organization legally responsible for their bodily injury, Cross-Defendant is
entitled to reimbursement of the payment it made to the covered person. (Ibid.)
Following an automobile accident in September 2016, Cross-Defendant paid
medical services benefits to Cross-Complainants under the policy in the amount
of $12,715.00. (Id. at ¶¶7-8.) Thereafter, Cross-Complainants recovered
money damages from another person, organization and/or insurance company for
the same injuries for which Cross-Defendant paid them medical benefits. (Id.
at ¶9.) Cross-Defendant is entitled to reimbursement in the amount of $5,000.00
from Cross-Complainant Vannata, $2,715.00 12 from Cross-Complainant Sarah, and
$5,000.00 from Cross-Complainant Rochelle. (Id. at ¶10.)
Cross-Complainants have refused to reimburse Cross-Defendant in accordance with
the reimbursement policy in breach of the policy and have, therefore, been
unjustly enriched at Cross-Defendant’s expense. (Id. at ¶¶10-20.) 
 
Cross-Complainants allege in
response that they were paid medical benefits under the insurance policy from
Cross-Defendant. (Cross-Compl., p. 2:8-21.) Upon settlement of the case
concerning the subject automobile accident, Cross-Complainants’ counsel wrote a
letter to Cross-Defendant in response to its request for reimbursement. (Id.
at p. 2:22-25.) The letter stated that Cross-Complainants had not been made
whole and that under the “made whole rule” an insurer cannot enforce its rights
to subrogation until the insured has been made whole by any recovery. (Id.
at pp. 2:26-3:3.) Cross-Defendant did not respond to Cross-Complainants request
to waive its subrogation rights and, instead, filed this action in June 2023. (Id.
at p. 3:3-11.) The action is brought to harass Cross-Complainants for not
renewing their policies with Cross-Defendant. (Id. at p. 3:11-16.) By
refusing to honor its insurance obligations to Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendant breached the insurance policy providing medical payment
coverage. (Id. at ¶6.) As a result, Cross-Complainants have suffered
damages, including attorney’s fees and costs, aggravation, worry, and emotional
distress. (Id. at ¶7.) Also, by demanding reimbursement from
Cross-Complainants, Cross-Defendant has breached its duty of good faith and
fair dealing. (Id. at ¶¶9-10.) Cross-Complainants demand a judicial
determination regarding whether the medical benefit payments are reimbursable,
and whether they are reimbursable if Cross-Complainants have not been made
whole. (Id. at ¶¶14-16.) 
 
Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
 
Cross-Defendant demurs to the Cross-Complaint for failure to allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required
by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Nguyen Decl., ¶¶3-4.) 
 
The elements of a cause of action
for breach of contract are “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.) Cross-Defendant
demurs to this cause of action on the grounds that no breach of any specific
provision of the insurance policy is alleged, and no facts are alleged to
support such a breach. The Cross-Complaint does not cite to any specific
provision of the insurance policy. It alleges that Cross-Defendant breached the
insurance policy by demanding reimbursement of the medical payment benefits but
does not cite any language from the policy that prohibits a demand for
reimbursement. Although Cross-Complainants allege that Cross-Defendant refuses
to honor its obligations, they also admit that they were paid the medical
benefits. (See Cross-Compl., p. 2:8-21 and ¶6.) Therefore, the Cross-Complaint
does not allege facts showing that the demand for reimbursement breaches the
terms of the insurance policy. The Demurrer to the first cause of action for
breach of contract is sustained.
 
The second cause of action for insurance bad faith requires allegations that an
insurer withheld policy benefits unreasonably or without proper cause. (Waller
v. Truck Ins. Exch. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 36.) Again, the Cross-Complaint simply
alleges that Cross-Defendant’s demand for reimbursement is a breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (Id. at ¶10.) It is not
enough to allege that Cross-Defendant did not provide evidence that the medical
payments were reimbursable. Or that Cross-Complainants’ counsel disputed
reimbursement under the “make whole” rule. Cross-Complainants must allege that
benefits were withheld and that such withholding was unreasonable, which they
have not done. Also, Cross-Defendant points out that case law has established
there is no claim for bad faith when an insurer seeks reimbursement of medical
benefit payments. (Citing 21st Century Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(Quintana) (2009) 47 Cal.4th 511, 526-27.) Cross-Complainants do not address
this binding authority in opposition. The Demurrer to the second cause of
action is also sustained. 
 
Finally, Cross-Defendant demurs to the third cause of action for
declaratory relief as duplicative of the claims in its Complaint.
Cross-Complainant does not show that the request for declaratory relief is
necessary; they admit that it will assist in resolving the dispute over the enforceability
of the medical payment provision, which is the dispute raised by the Complaint.
Cross-Complainants go on to argue they lack access to the policy provisions and
have a contractual right of access. It is unclear why this lack of access
requires an action for declaratory relief and cannot be reached by discovery
into the claims raised by Cross-Defendant’s Complaint. The demurrer to the
third cause of action for declaratory relief, therefore, is also sustained. 
 
Cross-Complainants’ remaining arguments about Cross-Defendant’s right of
reimbursement under the law do not demonstrate the existence of proper
cross-claims by Cross-Complainants. Rather, they pertain to the propriety of
the claims brought by Cross-Defendant and have no bearing on the instant
Demurrer.
 
Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint
 
Cross-Defendant moves to strike the allegations in support
of, and the request for, attorney’s fees, emotional distress for breach of
contract, and punitive damages. The Court having sustained Cross-Defendant’s
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint, the Motion to Strike is deemed moot.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment, however, the
burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
Cross-Complainants contend they have not previously been given a chance to amend
but should be given a chance to assert a cause of action for unfair business
practices. Yet the opposition does not cite what facts must be alleged for such
a cause of action and how those are supported by their allegations. (Opp., pp.
10:26-11:1.) Therefore, leave to amend is denied. 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
Cross-Defendant Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club’s Motion to Strike Portions of the
Cross-Complaint is PLACED OFF CALENDAR AS MOOT.
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 