  Case Number:  19PSCV00880    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Weishi Xie’s Motion to Amend Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
Defendant Weishi Xie’s Motion
to Enforce Protections on Social Security Income and Household Funds under
Federal and California Law and Request to Unfreeze Bank Accounts
Respondent: Plaintiffs Tony
To Chong Loo, Cui Ping Loo, Danny Weising Loo, and William Loo
Non-Party Weiming He’s
Claim of Exemption
Respondent: Plaintiffs Tony
To Chong Loo, Cui Ping Loo, Danny Weising Loo, and William Loo
Defendant Agnes
Nwapa-Jourdan’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons; Vacate and Set Aside
Default and Default Judgment; Recall and Quash Writs of Execution and Abstracts
of Judgment; Dismissing the Action Pursuant to CCP Sec. 583.210 and 250 et seq.
Respondent: Plaintiffs Tony
To Chong Loo, Cui Ping Loo, Danny Weising Loo, and William Loo
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Weishi Xie’s Motion to Amend Judgment is
DENIED without prejudice.
Defendant Weishi Xie’s
Motion to Enforce Protections on Social Security Income and Household Funds
under Federal and California Law and Request to Unfreeze Bank Accounts is
DENIED without prejudice.
Non-Party Weiming He’s
Claim of Exemption is DENIED without prejudice.
Defendant Agnes
Nwapa-Jourdan’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons; Vacate and Set Aside
Default and Default Judgment; Recall and Quash Writs of Execution and Abstracts
of Judgment; Dismissing the Action Pursuant to CCP Sec. 583.210 and 250 et seq.
is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing presently set in
Department G (Pomona).
BACKGROUND
This is a consolidated action
to quiet title. Plaintiffs Tony To Chong Loo, Cui Ping Loo, Danny Weising Loo,
and William Loo allege that Defendant Zixi Li acted in concert with others to
use the Loos’ names to forge, present, and notarize false powers of attorney
and deeds of trust to obtain loans.
On October 2, 2019, the Loos,
with the exception of William Loo, filed a complaint alleging the following
causes of action against Li, LC Equity Group (LC Equity), Ress Financial
Corporation (Ress Financial), First American Title Company (First American),
Weishi Xie, Agnes N. Nwapa-Jourdan, all persons known and unknown, and Does
1-25: (1) declaratory relief, (2) cancellation of instruments, (3) slander of
title, (4) quiet title, and (5) unjust enrichment. Subsequently, the following
Defendants were added to the action: Sunwest Trust FBO David W. Free (Free
Trust); Steven Goldenberg; Michael J. Tannenbaum; Oxnard Street, LLC (Oxnard
Street); ZVI Gutentag and Michael Gutentag, Trustees of the Gutentag Family
Trust (Gutentag Trust); Sunwest Trust FBO Joseph Davis (Davis Trust); Eyal
Gutentag and Diane Gutentag, Trustees of the Gutentag Revocable Trust, Dated
June 4, 2019 (2019 Gutentag Trust); The Bernard Rothschild Pension Plan, by and
through Bernard Rothschild and James Bernard Rothshild as Trustees (Rothschild
Pension Plan); Summit Capital LLC (Summit), and CDG Investments, LLC (CDG).
On December 5, 2019,
Tannenbaum filed a cross-complaint against Li, Xie, and Roes 1-20, alleging
causes of action for (1) indemnity, (2) contribution, (3) intentional
misrepresentation, (4) concealment, and (5) negligence of a notary public. On
the same day, the Davis Trust, Goldenberg, the 2019 Gutentag Trust, the Free
Trust, the Gutentag Trust, Oxnard Street, CDG, and LC Equity filed a
cross-complaint against the same defendants and alleging the same causes of
action.
On October 2, 2019, William
Loo filed a verified complaint alleging the following causes of action against
Li, M. Zha, Nwapa-Jourdan, Summit, the Rothschild Pension Plan, JMR Investments
(JMR), Does 1-25, and all persons unknown, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) declaratory relief, (2) cancellation of instruments, (3) slander of
title, (4) quiet title, and (5) unjust enrichment.
On December 5, 2019, Summit
and the Rothschild Pension Plan filed a cross-complaint against Li, Zha, and
Roes 1-20 for (1) indemnity, (2) contribution, (3) fraud by intentional
misrepresentation, (4) fraud by concealment, and (5) negligence of a notary public.
On June 7, 2023, the separate
actions by the Loos and William Loo were consolidated into the present action.
On May 23, 2024, the court
entered a judgment in favor of the Loos against Xie, Zha, Li, and Nwapa-Jourdan.
On June 28, 2024, the court granted the Loos’ motion for the award of attorney
fees.
On September 6, 2024, Xie
filed a notice of appeal.
On September 25, 2024, Xie
filed the present motions.
On October 4, 2024, non-party
Weiming He filed the present claim of exemption with the Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Department. The judgment creditor filed a notice of opposition to the
claim of exemption and set a hearing on He’s claims for November 12, 2024.
On October 8, 2024,
Nwapa-Jourdan filed the present motion to quash the service of summons.
On October 28, 2024, Xie
filed a notice abandoning Xie’s appeal.
A hearing on the present
motions and claim of exemption is set for November 12, 2024.
XIE’S MOTION TO AMEND
JUDGMENT
Xie
moves the court to amend its previous judgment with a more detailed explanation
of the legal grounds and reasoning behind the judgment. For the following
reasons, the court DENIES Xie’s motion.
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005,
subdivisions (a)(10) and (b), a motion and its supporting papers must be filed
and served at least sixteen (16) court days before the hearing date with an
additional five (5) days required if the mailing address is within the State of
California.
Here, while Xie’s motion included a proof of
service showing the present motion was served on the court, Xie failed to
provide any proof that the present motion was properly served on the other
parties in this action. Because “the court lacks jurisdiction to rule on a
motion that has not been properly noticed for hearing on the date in question,”
the court DENIES Xie’s motion without prejudice. (Diaz v.
Professional Community Management, Inc. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1190,
1204-1205.)
XIE’S MOTION TO ENFORCE PROTECTIONS
Xie moves the court for an order enforcing protection against
judgment collection efforts and unfreezing bank accounts. For the following
reasons, the court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Xie’s motion.
Legal Standard
At
a hearing on a claim of exemption, “the [judgment debtor] has the burden of
proof” in demonstrating that the property claimed exempt is indeed exempt.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.520, subd. (b), 703.580, subds. (b), (c).) In meeting
this burden, the judgment debtor must establish the right by evidence or facts;
an affidavit which merely follows the language of the statute and states
nothing more than conclusions of law is insufficient. (Le Font v. Rankin (1959)
167 Cal.App.2d 433, 435.)
Discussion
In
this case, Xie argues Xie’s Social Security benefits are exempt from wage
garnishment pursuant to 42 U.S.C. section 407. While Xie is correct, Xie fails
to present any evidence that establishes the funds levied included Social
Security funds. Although Xie has filed a motion and submitted some exhibits,
Xie fails to provide a proper declaration and fails to authenticate the
exhibits provided. And while Xie also claims the garnishments will cause
financial hardship, Xie fails to provide a proper financial statement as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 708.530.
Accordingly,
the court DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE Xie’s motion.
HE'S CLAIM OF EXEMPTION
He
claims exemption with regards to He’s wages. For the following reasons, the
court DENIES He’s claim of exemption.
Legal Analysis
At
a hearing on a claim of exemption, “the [judgment debtor] has the burden of
proof” in demonstrating that the property claimed exempt is indeed exempt.
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 703.520, subd. (b), 703.580, subds. (b), (c).) In meeting
this burden, the judgment debtor must establish the right by evidence or facts;
an affidavit which merely follows the language of the statute and states
nothing more than conclusions of law is insufficient. (Ibid.)
Discussion
In opposition
to He’s claim of exemption from wage garnishment, the Loos state this claim is
inapplicable because no wage garnishment has been served in the present case. (Opp.,
Evanns Decl., ¶ 2.) While He is not presently represented by counsel, He is
held to the same standards as an attorney. (Kobayashi v. Superior Court (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 536, 543.) Accordingly, because He did not file the proper
claim for exemption, the court DENIES He’s claim of exemption.
NWAPA-JOURDAN’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND
VACATE DEFAULT JUDGMENT
Nwapa-Jourdan
moves to quash the service of summons on Nwapa-Jourdan and set aside the entry
of default judgment. For the following reasons, the court CONTINUES the hearing on this motion.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d), “The court may . . .
on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.” “[A] default judgment entered against a defendant who was
not served with a summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Dill
v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) Thus,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d), “the court
may set aside a default judgment which is valid on its face, but void, as a
matter of law, due to improper service.” (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94
Cal.App.4th 540, 544.)
Furthermore,
whenever an application for relief from default judgment is made no more than
six (6) months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by the moving party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any (1)
resulting default entered by the clerk against the moving party or (2)
resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against the moving party,
unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by
the moving party’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code
Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory
relief is jurisdictional and the court may not consider a motion for relief
made after that period has elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009)
176 Cal.App.4th 36, 42 (Manson).) That “six-month period runs from entry
of default, not entry of judgment.” (Id.)
Courts
liberally grant motions to vacate default judgments when relief is promptly
sought and the opposing party is not prejudiced as the law strongly favors
resolution on the merits. (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 13, 28.) Courts only require “slight evidence” to support vacating
a default and resolve all doubts in favor of the party seeking relief. (Ibid.)
However, “[t]he only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a
party is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or
negligence of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have
guarded.” (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206, quoting Elms
v. Elms (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513.)
Discussion
On October
17, 2019, the Loos filed a proof of service purporting to have personally
served Nwapa-Jourdan.
(Nwapa-Jourdan Decl., Ex. A.) In it, their process server, “E Ratliff,” states
Ratliff personally served Nwapa-Jourdan on October 9, 2019, at 2217 Patricia
Avenue in Los Angeles. (Nwapa-Jourdan Decl., Ex. A.) Ratliff describes
Nwapa-Jourdan as “Blk Male 50-60 5’7 250 Drk Hair.” (Nwapa-Jourdan Decl., Ex.
A.)
In
this case, Nwapa-Jourdan argues the proof of service is defective as
Nwapa-Jourdan is not the individual described. Because the proof of service
appears valid on its face, it is subject to “rebuttable presumption
that the service was proper.” (Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154,
1163 [internal quotations omitted].) To rebut this presumption, Nwapa-Jourdan provides a
declaration denying ever receiving personal service of summons. (Nwapa-Jourdan
Decl., ¶ 3.) Nwapa-Jourdan also states, “I am a female, and it is not
reasonable to mistake me for a male.” (Nwapa-Jourdan Decl., ¶ 3.)
In
opposition, Eric Ratliff provides a supplemental declaration describing the
service attempt. But the declaration appears to have a formatting error that
has resulted in a portion of the declaration being obscured. The obscured
portion includes key language stating where the declaration was signed and
which state’s perjury laws apply. Furthermore, Nwapa-Jourdan has failed to file
any timely reply papers that address this new evidence.
Accordingly,
the court will CONTINUE the hearing on this motion in order for the Loos to refile
a properly formatted version of this declaration and for Nwapa-Jourdan to file
a supplemental reply if so desired.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court makes the following rulings on the present motions.
Xie’s motions to amend
judgment and enforce protections are DENIED without prejudice.
He’s claim of exemption is DENIED
without prejudice.
Nwapa-Jourdan’s
motion to quash summons and vacate the entry of default judgment is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at
the hearing presently set in Department G (Pomona).