 Case Number:  23PSCV03615    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Mingming Huo’s Motion for Leave to File  First Amended Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Mingming Huo’s Motion for Leave to File  First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Plaintiff Mingming Huo is  ordered to file the proposed First Amended Complaint separately with the Court  forthwith. BACKGROUND This is a personal injury  action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In December 2021, Plaintiff Mingming  Huo was involved in a motor vehicle collision with Yang Zhao on State Route 60  in El Monte. On November 17, 2023, Huo  filed a complaint against Yuquing Ai, the Estate of Zhao (Zhao Estate), and  Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence, (2)  reckless gross negligence per se, and (3) gross negligent entrustment. On  September 26, 2024, Huo filed the present motion. A hearing on the present  motion is set for November 12, 2024, along with a case management conference. ANALYSIS Huo  seeks leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC) that (1) removes the Zhao  Estate from the present action, (2) alleges Ai is Zhao’s personal  representative, (3) removes a request for punitive damages, (4) alleges  additional facts to support a claim for damages, and (5) alleges additional  facts to support the allegation that Zhao’s breached a duty of care. For the  following reasons, the court GRANTS Huo’s motion. Legal  Standard “A  court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow  a party to amend any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The  court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of  the pleadings. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,  939.) “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what allegations in the  previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page,  paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed  to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph,  and line number, the additional allegations are located.”  (Cal. Rules of  Court, rule 3.1324(a).)  The declaration must also specify the amendment’s  effect, why it is necessary and proper, when the facts supporting the amended  allegations were discovered, and why the request was not made earlier.  (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).) If  the party seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has  prejudiced the opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to  amend.  (See Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial,  resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.  (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New  York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) Discussion In this case,  Huo’s counsel provides that the effect of the FAC is to properly plead the  basis for Huo’s causes of action and establish Ai as the personal  representative for Zhao. (Braun Decl., ¶ 19.) Huo’s counsel states they first  discovered the status of Zhao’s estate on June 11, 2024, when they received a  declaration from Ai’s counsel and were unsuccessful in multiple attempts to  obtain a stipulation from Ai’s counsel. (Braun Decl., ¶ 8-18.) Huo’s counsel  also states this amendment is necessary and proper to put the case at issue.  (Braun Decl., ¶ 19.) In response, Ai failed to file a timely opposition. Based on the declaration of Huo’s counsel and in  absence of any opposition, the court finds Huo established good cause for the  present amendment. Accordingly, the court GRANTS  Huo’s motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Huo’s motion for leave to  file a FAC is GRANTED and Huo is ordered to file the proposed FAC, attached  as Exhibit 1 to Huo’s motion, separately with the court forthwith.