 Case Number:  BC662798    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




greg mooradian

   , et al.;
 


   Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
erla dogg ingjaldsdottir
   aka erla dogg

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC662798




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   16, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants and cross-complainants’ motion
  for determination of good faith settlement
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants and
cross-complainants Carl William Howe and C.W. Howe Partners, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed 
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Defendants and cross-complainants Carl William Howe and C.W. Howe
Partners, Inc. (the “Howe Defendants”) move the court for an order determining
that the settlement entered into by and between the Howe Defendants, on one
hand, and plaintiffs and cross-defendants Greg Mooradian and Debra A. Mooradian
(“Plaintiffs”), on the other hand, was made in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 877 and
877.6.  Howe Defendants have agreed to
settle this action with Plaintiffs for the amount of $350,000, to be paid by
Howe Defendants’ insurance carrier, subject to the court’s determination that
the settlement was made in good faith. 
(Tricker Decl., ¶ 9.) 
“[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to
establish a statutory procedure for determining if a settlement by an alleged
joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith and to provide a bar to
claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial
or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.”¿ (IRM Corp. v. Carlson
(1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6,
subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny party to an
action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . . and one or
more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”¿ “The party asserting the lack
of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 877.6, subd. (d).)¿¿ 
When
a motion for determination of good faith settlement is uncontested, a
“barebones” motion that sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a
declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case, is sufficient to
support a good faith determination.¿ (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.)¿¿¿¿ 
The court
has not received opposition papers from any other party involved in this action
contending that the settlement between the Howe Defendants and Plaintiffs was
not made in good faith.  The court finds
that (1) Howe Defendants’ motion and the declaration of Richard Tricker have set
forth the ground of good faith, and (2) the moving papers and supporting
declaration both set forth a brief background of the case.  (Tricker Decl., ¶¶ 3-7, 9.) 
The court
therefore finds that Howe Defendants’ motion and supporting evidence are
sufficient to support a good faith determination and therefore grants Howe
Defendants’ motion.  (City of Grand
Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.) 
ORDER
The court grants defendants and cross-complainants Carl William Howe
and C.W. Howe Partners, Inc.’s motion for determination of good faith
settlement. 
The court determines that the settlement entered into by and between
defendants and cross-complainants Carl William Howe and C.W. Howe Partners,
Inc., on the one hand, and plaintiffs Greg Mooradian, Debra Mooradian, and the
Greg and Debra Mooradian Family Trust, on the other hand, is in good faith
within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision (a).
All other joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors are barred from any further claims against defendants
and cross-complainants Carl William Howe and C.W. Howe Partners, Inc. for equitable
comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(c).)¿ 
The court
orders defendants and cross-complainants Carl William Howe and
C.W. Howe Partners, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 16, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court