 Case Number:  22STCV30916    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
MOTION TO PERMIT DISCOVERY REGARDING DEFENDANT CAESAR VALIENTE’S
FINANCIAL CONDITION
Hearing Date: 10/10/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV30916 HORACIO GALVAN vs
CAESAR VALIENTE, et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Cesar Valiente
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO PERMIT DISCOVERY REGARDING
DEFENDANT CAESAR VALIENTE’S FINANCIAL CONDITION IS DENIED


Background 
On September 21, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present
case alleging that he was attacked by off-duty police officer Caesar Valiente.
Plaintiff claims that Valiente's dog jumped on Plaintiff's dog, and as he tried
to prod the dog away, Defendant Valiente tackled Plaintiff and arrested him.
Plaintiff alleges various causes of action against Defendant Valiente including
assault and battery, false imprisonment, intentional infliction of emotional
distress, and violation of the Bane Act, along with claims for punitive
damages. Plaintiff now moves the Court to conduct pretrial discovery of
Defendant Valiente's financial condition, arguing that there is substantial
probability that he can prevail on these various causes of action and punitive
damages. 
Legal Standard
Under CC § 3295(c),
pretrial discovery of a defendant's financial condition is generally not
permitted. However, the statute also provides: "Upon motion by the
plaintiff . . . the court may at any time enter an order permitting the
discovery otherwise prohibited by this subdivision if the court finds, on the
basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff
has established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim [for punitive damages]. (Jabro v Superior Court (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 754, 756-757.) Yet, before a trial court may enter an order
allowing discovery of financial condition information under CC § 3295(c), it
must (1) weigh the evidence presented by both sides and (2) make a finding that
it is very likely the plaintiffs will prevail on their claim for punitive
damages. (Id., at 755.) The words "substantial probability"
meant "very likely" or "a strong likelihood," just as their
plain meaning suggested. (Id.) The Legislature did not use the term
"reasonable probability" or simply "probability," which
would have implied a lower threshold of "more likely than not.” (Id.) 
Punitive damages may be
imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ 
Clear and convincing evidence requires proof making the existence of a fact
highly probable— falls between the “more likely than not” standard commonly
referred to as a preponderance of the evidence and the more rigorous standard
of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.” (Conservatorship of O.B. (2020) 9
Cal.5th 989, 995.) 
“Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civil Code section
3294 (c)(1).) Under the statute, malice does not require actual intent to harm.
Conscious disregard for the safety of another may be sufficient where the
defendant is aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his or her conduct
and he or she willfully fails to avoid such consequences. (Pfeifer v. John
Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) ‘Despicable’ is a powerful
term that refers to circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)     
“‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civil Code section §
3294(c)(2).)¿ 
“‘Fraud’ means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Civil Code section¿§
3294(c)(3).)¿
Discussion
Assault and Battery
An element of assault
and battery is that Defendant acted either with the intent to harm or to cause
offensive contact. Plaintiff cites Defendant’s deposition (Exhibit 1 at
20:18-21:2, 101:8-12, and 102:22-103:2) for the claim that Defendant
"chose to punch GALVAN as hard as he could in the face multiple
times." (Motion at pg. 11.) However, the deposition excerpts cited refer
only to Valiente’s military and police academy training and his understanding
that punching someone would cause injury. None of these excerpts support the
conclusion that Defendant actually punched Plaintiff in the face multiple
times.  The video presented (but not
cited for the proposition) appears to show that Defendant punches Plaintiff,
but the following is unclear to the Court: where Defendant hits Plaintiff, how
many times he hits Plaintiff, and the force used. 
Plaintiff further
contends that Defendant's statement calling Plaintiff “an idiot” and asserting
his authority by saying he wielded the law Plaintiff hoped would protect him
(Valiente Depo at 241:19-21) constitutes malicious and oppressive conduct. (Motion
at pg. 12.) However, this is an overstatement of Valiente’s testimony. What
Valiente actually said was, "I am a f***ing cop, you idiot," after
his neighbor identified him as being a cop. The Court does not find this
statement very likely to convince a jury that Valiente intended to cause injury
or subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship. A jury could reasonably
conclude that Valiente made the statement in response to being identified,
rather than with malicious intent. 
Moreover, based on the
video, the Court is not persuaded that a finder of fact is likely to award
punitive damages against Defendant Valiente. 
Defendant Valiente was initially acting in defense of his own dog after Plaintiff
started beating the dog with a stick of some sort.  The level of beating appears to the Court
to  exceed what was necessary to ensure
that Plaintiff’s dog was safe – in fact, from the video, it is unclear that
Defendant Valiente’s dog was, as Plaintiff alleges, “attacking” Plaintiff’s dog;
it is just as likely that Defendant Valiente’s dog was hoping to engage in dog
play when Plaintiff started beating Valiente’s dog.  At that point, Defendant Valiente acted to
restrain Plaintiff.  Although Defendant
appears to have allowed his emotions to get the better of him upon doing so, the
Court is not persuaded that it is a substantial probability that a trier of
fact would find that under the circumstances Defendant, in restraining and
apparently punching Plaintiff at least one time, acted maliciously or
despicably.  
        False
Arrest and Imprisonment
An officer is not
liable for false imprisonment when making an arrest without a warrant if he has
reasonable grounds to believe the person is guilty of a crime (Allen v.
McCoy (1933) 135 Cal. App. 500, 507-508.) Plaintiff acknowledges this
principle but argues that because Valiente’s dog attacked Plaintiff’s dog,
Plaintiff acted in self-defense by attacking the dog, and therefore, there was
no probable cause for his arrest. (Motion at pg. 14.)
To establish
self-defense, Plaintiff must demonstrate that he reasonably believed
Defendant’s dog was going to harm his dog, and that he used only the amount of
force reasonably necessary to protect his dog (CACI 1304). If force is applied
in excess of that which is justified, the actor remains subject to liability
for the damages resulting from the excessive use of force. (Calvillo-Silva
v. Home Grocery (1998) 19 Cal.4th 714, 730-731.) The Court finds it
unlikely that there is a substantial probability a jury will conclude Plaintiff
acted within the scope of reasonable self-defense. Video of the incident showed
that Plaintiff struck Defendant’s dog numerous times and continued to do so
even as the dog was retreating. A jury could find Plaintiff’s use of force to
be excessive and went beyond what is considered reasonably necessary for
self-defense. 
 
Plaintiff further
contends that Defendant committed fraud by misrepresenting the events to the
responding officer. (Motion at p. 15.) Plaintiff cites Defendant's deposition
(Exhibit 4 at 61:25-62:13), where Defendant does not recall that Plaintiff was
charged with assault with a deadly weapon or possession of a billy club.
However, this lack of recollection is not evidence of fraud. Plaintiff has not cited
to any concrete evidence to show that Defendant made a fraudulent statement to
the responding officer. Accordingly, Plaintiff has failed to meet his
evidentiary burden as the moving party.
Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress (IIED)
An element of IIED is
that Defendant intended to cause Plaintiff emotional distress or acted with
reckless disregard for the probability that Plaintiff would suffer emotional
distress.
Plaintiff argues that Defendant
acted with willful and conscious disregard for the effects of his conduct when
he allegedly “countered Galvan’s pleas for help by maliciously calling him an
idiot and reminding him that Valiente wielded the law Galvan hoped would
protect him. (See Valiente Depo, Exh. 1 at 241:19-21.).” (Motion at
pg.17.) However, the deposition excerpt cited by Plaintiff does not support
this assertion. Valiente’s statement, “I am a cop, you idiot,” was made after
he was identified by his neighbor, not in response to Plaintiff’s pleas for
help. There is no evidence in the cited deposition that Valiente made this
statement in direct response to Plaintiff’s pleas, as Plaintiff claims.
Furthermore, the Court
does not find it highly likely a jury would find this statement to be clear and
convincing evidence of malice. Defendant's comment appears to have been made in
response to being identified, rather than with an intent to cause harm or
subject Plaintiff to cruel or unjust hardship. Therefore, the Court does not
find a substantial probability that a jury would conclude Valiente acted with
malice or oppression. 
Bane Act
Plaintiff argues that he
was exercising his right to protect himself and his dog, and that Defendant
used violence to prevent Plaintiff from exercising those rights. (Motion at pp.
18-19.) However, Plaintiff cites no evidence to support the claim that the
alleged arrest was motivated by retaliation for exercising his rights. (Id.)
Furthermore, to justify opening pretrial discovery into Defendant’s financial
condition, the standard is "substantial probability," which means
"very likely" or "a strong likelihood." While it is
possible for a jury to find that Defendant acted in retaliation when he
allegedly restrained Plaintiff, it is equally likely that a jury could find
that Defendant acted because Plaintiff exceeded the bounds of reasonable
self-defense when attacking Defendant’s dog. 
Conclusion
        Plaintiff
needs to establish that there is a substantial probability that he will prevail
on the claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff failed to meet this burden and
therefore the motion is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 