 Case Number:  23STCV10921    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT
OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JASON
  MELENDEZ, an individual, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
ALAN SAUL
  GREENSTONE, an individual ; and DOES 1 TO 30, Inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV10921
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTIONS FOR LEAVE TO CONDUCT INDEPENDENT
  MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS OF PLAINTIFF (NEUROLOGICAL and NEUROPSYCHOLOGICAL) AND
  SANCTIONS 


 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
October 10,
  2024



 
I.                  
INTRODUCTION
This personal
injury action arises out of a vehicular collision. 
On May 16,
2023, Plaintiff Jason Melendez (Plaintiff) filed the instant action against
Defendants Alan Saul Greenstone (Defendant) and Does 1 through 30, alleging two
(2) causes of action: (1) General Negligence; and (2) Motor Vehicle damages.
The complaint
alleges the following: On July 8, 2021, Plaintiff was operating his vehicle on
La Cienega Boulevard in West Hollywood when Defendant, who was operating his
own vehicle traveling in the opposite lane beside Plaintiff’s vehicle,
attempted to do a U-turn across double yellow lines without using his turn
signal. To avoid colliding with Defendant, Plaintiff entered in the center left
lane. However, Plaintiff was unable to avoid Defendant’s vehicle which clipped
Plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff’s vehicle spun out of control and collided with
two parked cars resulting in injuries and damages to Plaintiff. 
 
 
On October 6,
2023, Defendant filed an answer denying all allegations and asserting fourteen
(14) affirmative defenses. 
On August 29,
2024, Defendant filed the instant motions seeking an order compelling Plaintiff
to submit to a neurological independent medical examination (IME) with neurologist
Dr. Barry I. Ludwig, M.D. at 9:00 am on October 23, 2024, and a neuropsychological
IME with Dr. Taylor P. Kuhn, Ph.D., ABPP/CN at 9:00 am on October 24, 2024.  
On September
30, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions asserting Defendant’s motions seek duplicative
IMEs because Plaintiff underwent a medical examination by Dr. Luke Mcyszyn,
M.D., a neurosurgeon specializing in complex spinal disorders, on September 4,
2024. Also on this same day, Plaintiff filed pleadings agreeing to Defendant’s
requests for examinations on certain conditions including limiting the exams to
two (2) hours and prohibiting “EMG’s, nerve conduction studies, MRI’s, EEG’s,
any type of injection and any type of electrical testing.” (Plantiff’s Agreement,
¶¶ 7, 11.)
II.               
LEGAL STANDARD
When the
physical condition of the plaintiff is in controversy in a personal injury
case, the defendant may obtain a physical examination of the plaintiff, if: (1)
“the examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is
painful, protracted, or intrusive”; and (2) “the examination is conducted at a
location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.220, subd. (a)(1)-(2).) Such demand must specify the “time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination” and the “identity and the
specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform the examination.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2032.220, subd. (c).) Additionally, the examination must be
scheduled at least “30 days after service of the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.220, subd. (d).)
If a party
seeks additional examinations “other than that described in Article 2
(commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party
shall obtain leave of court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310, subd. (a).) “A
motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the
identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform
the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310, subd.
(b).)
The
examination requested must directly relate to the subject of the litigation:
the examinee’s specific injury or condition which is “in controversy.” (Roberts
v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.) The court cannot order the
examination of a party who has not asserted his or her physical or mental
condition to support a defense or claim. (Vinson v. Superior Court
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 389.) However, once a “party who chooses to allege that
he has mental and emotional difficulties,” puts his mental state in
controversy. (Ibid.) 
The moving
party has the burden to show by declarations or other evidence that the
examinee’s condition is “in controversy.” (Reuter v. Superior Court
(1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 332, 340.) Pleadings and discovery tools such as
interrogatories or depositions may also put a party’s mental or physical
condition in controversy when the pleading alleges a party suffers psychiatric
conditions as a result of sustained injuries. (Ibid.)
 
 
 
III.            
DISCUSSION
1.     
Meet and
Confer
A party
seeking a court order to compel IMEs must fulfill the “meet and confer”
requirement. “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state
facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
Defendant
submits he attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff so that Plaintiff would
stipulate to two physical examinations prior to filing this motion. Defendant
states that on April 10, 2024, his counsel electronically propounded on
Plaintiff’s counsel a Demand for Physical Medical Examination by Dr. Luke
Macyszyn per Civil Procedure Code section 2032.020, to be performed on May 21,
2024. (Declaration of Erwin A. Nepomuceno, Esq. [Nepomuceno Decl.], ¶ 4, Exh.
1.) This was Defendant’s demand to the one physical examination permitted under
section 2032.220(a). On April 26, 2024, Defendant’s counsel electronically
served a letter to Plaintiff’s counsel enclosing IME notices with Dr. Luke Macyszyn,
Dr. Barry I. Ludwig, and Dr. Taylor Kuhn, Ph.D. detailing that: 
1) Dr. Macyszyn would conduct Defendant’s
one-allotted physical IME of Plaintiff on May 21, 2024, pursuant to CCP
§2032.210, 2) the qualifications of Dr. Ludwig and Dr. Kuhn to conduct a
physical IME and mental health IME, respectively, 3) a detailed explanation of
Plaintiff’s complaints and why the IMEs with Dr. Ludwig and Dr. Kuhn were
necessary, citing Plaintiff’s relevant responses to written discovery,
Plaintiff’s relevant deposition testimony, and relevant findings from
Plaintiff’s treating neurologist Dr. Eskenazi and treating neuropsychologist
Dr. Grewal, and 4) a request that Plaintiff stipulate to Dr. Ludwig and Dr.
Kuhn’s IMEs, so as to avoid unnecessary law and motion.
 
(Nepomuceno
Decl., ¶ 7, Exhs. 2-3.) On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel responded to Defendant’s
request stating, “I am not going to subject my client to 3 IMEs, it is
unnecessary” without explaining why the three (3) IMEs were unnecessary.
(Nepomuceno Decl., ¶8, Exh. 4, at p. 1.) 
On May 8,
2024, Defendant asked Plaintiff’s counsel to stipulate to the neurological IME
with Dr. Ludwig or the neuropsychologist/mental health exam with Dr. Kuhn.
(Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. 5, p. 1.) Plaintiff’s counsel stipulated to Dr.
Ludwig’s IME. (Ibid.) Based upon this exchange, and based on Defendant’s
prior demand for the physical IME with Dr. Macyszyn, Defendant assumed that Dr.
Macyszyn would conduct a physical IME of Plaintiff pursuant to section 2032.220
and that Dr. Ludwig would conduct a physical IME of Plaintiff per Plaintiff’s
stipulation. (Ibid.) 
On May 14,
2024, Defendant emailed Plaintiff’s counsel to confirm Plaintiff’s attendance
at Dr. Macyszyn’s IME scheduled for May 21, 2024. (Nepomuceno, Decl. ¶ 10, Exh.
6, at p. 2.) Two days later, Plaintiff’s counsel responded stating “I only
agreed to one IME, is Dr. Macyszyn going to be the one?” (Nepomuceno, Decl. ¶
10, Exh. 6, at p. 1.)
On May 16,
2024, Defendant served Plaintiff’s counsel, by email, notice withdrawing Dr.
Ludwig and Dr. Kuhn’s IME notice and repeated Defendant’s election for Dr.
Macyszyn to conduct Plaintiff’s physical IME per section 2032.220. (Nepomuceno
Decl., ¶ 11, Exh. 7.) On May 17, 2024, Defendant sent another email to confirm
Plaintiff would attend Dr. Macyszyn’s IME on May 21, 2024. (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶
12, Exh. 8, at p. 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded, “only agreed to one IME”
and attempted to clarify if Dr. Macyszyn was “going to be the one.” (Nepomuceno
Decl., ¶ 12, Exh. 8, at p. 2.) Defendant’s counsel responded explaining that
Dr. Macyszyn’s IME was the one provided for by statute and that Defendant
requested that Plaintiff stipulate to the other two exams, to which Plaintiff’s
counsel responded they would confirm with their client first. (Nepomuceno
Decl., ¶ 12, Exh. 8, at p. 1.)
Plaintiff did
not appear for the Dr. Macyszyn IME on May 21, 2024. (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 13.)
Defendant incurred a $1,000.00 no-show fee. (Ibid.)
Because
Defendant sent Plaintiff’s counsel multiple messages attempting to set up IMEs
and to confirm with Plaintiff’s counsel which IMEs to do, the Court finds that
the “meet and confer” requirement is met.
2.     
PHYSICAL
EXAMINATION - Neurological IME
When the
physical condition of the plaintiff is in controversy in a personal injury
case, the defendant may obtain a physical examination of the plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2032.020, 2032.220.)  A defendant is permitted to one physical
examination of the plaintiff in a personal injury action on demand. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).) If the defendant seeks to obtain an additional
physical examination of the plaintiff, the defendant must obtain leave of
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) A motion to compel an
additional physical examination must “specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination[.]”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) 

The defendant
must make a showing of “good cause” to obtain the second physical
examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) Good cause requires a showing of both (1) “relevan[ce] to
the subject matter”; and (2) specific facts which justify discovery (such as
allegations showing the need for information sought and lack of means for
obtaining it elsewhere.) (Vinson v. Superior Court, supra, 43
Cal.3d at p. 840.)
Under the
Discovery Act, there is no limit on the number of mental or physical
examinations, provided that a showing of good cause is made to justify more
than one mental or physical examination of a party. (See Shapira v. Superior
Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.) The Shapira court also
noted that “multiple examinations should not be ordered routinely; the good
cause requirement will check the potential harassment of plaintiffs by
repetitive examinations,” and “multiple examinations by medical specialists in
different fields” may be necessary based upon a plaintiff's claimed injuries. (Ibid.)
Here,
Plaintiff contends that because of the motor vehicle collision, Plaintiff
sustained a traumatic brain injury. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges “head,
spine, and brain injuries” as well as “mental health” suffering which did not
exist prior to the accident. (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 16, Exh. 10, at pp. 9, 10,
16-17.)
Defendant
submits there is good cause for a neurological examination of Plaintiff because
Plaintiff raised mental, emotional, and brain injury claims in his discovery
responses, thereby putting these issues into “controversy.” Defendant also
contends that Plaintiff has already seen a neurologist for his alleged
injuries, thereby demonstrating a need for an IME to enable Defendant to assess
Plaintiff’s claims through its own expert examination. In support of his
motion, Defendant presents Plaintiff’s responses.
At deposition,
Plaintiff testified that he was experiencing “mental health and
emotional”;  he couldn’t sleep; he would
wake up every night at 3:00 am with “headaches,
dizziness . . . Like sometimes my neurons will send a
signal, I don’t know”; and that he suffers from “depression, PTSD, light
sensitivity, sound sensitivity, and smell sensitivity.” (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶
18, Exh. 12, at pp. 93-94.) Plaintiff also testified that neurologist Dr. Jonathan
Eskenazi treated him and told him the impact and brain trauma are what’s
causing all the symptoms. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff’s
Form Interrogatory Responses identify treatment by TBI specialists who
conducted “electromyography, [a] nerve conduction velocity test, trigger point
injections, and an occipital nerve block” on Plaintiff. (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶
16, Exh. 10, at pp. 9-10.) Plaintiff’s responses also identified Dr. Bal
Grewal, a neuropsychologist, who diagnosed Plaintiff with mild traumatic brain
injury and Post Concussive Syndrome. (Nepomuceno Decl. ¶ 19, Exh. 13.) Dr.
Grewal stated Plaintiff suffered several “cognitive, behavioral, and emotional
conditions” resulting from the accident including short term memory loss, poor
attention span, anxiety, severe depression, poor mental processing, and altered
behavior. (Ibid.)
Finally, Defendant
alleges that by not having access to its own IME, Defendant will be prejudiced
and unable to use its expert to obtain necessary information to defend itself
from Plaintiff’s claims. Defendant notes that a principal purpose of discovery
is “to enable a party to obtain evidence in the control of his or her adversary
to further the efficient and economical disposition of cases on the merits.” (Caryl
Richards, Inc. v. Superior Court (1961) 188 Cal.App.2d 300, 303.)
Plaintiff
opposes, stating Dr. Ludwig’s neurological IME is duplicative because Plaintiff
has already undergone a medical examination by neurosurgeon Dr. Macyszyn, the doctor
Defendant initially requested Plaintiff be examined by on September 4, 2024.[1]
(Plaintiff’s Response at 1:23-25.) Plaintiff also opposes on the grounds that
neurosurgeons and neurologists are distinct specialists but that their
specialties overlap. (Id. at 2:18-20.) Plaintiff cites Riverside County
case Ramos v. Kim to support these contentions. (See Ramos v. Kim (2023)
2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 79361.) 
In Ramos,
the court in fact granted the Defendant’s motion to compel a second
physical IME reasoning that a neurologist IME was needed to address Plaintiff’s
additional ongoing neurological injuries and complaints. The court noted that
“a neurosurgeon is a physician who operates on the brain, and spinal cord and
spinal column, and peripheral nerves within all parts of the body,” while
“neurologists specialize in treating the diagnosing disorders that affect the
brain, spinal cord, and peripheral nervous system, including headaches, sleep
disorders, multiple sclerosis, epilepsy, neuropathic pain, dementia,
Parkinson’s disease and stroke, but do not perform surgery.” (Id. at p.
*6.) 
The Court
finds that Defendant has set forth good cause to compel Plaintiff to submit to
the physical examination by Dr. Ludwig. Further, Defendant sets forth who will
conduct the examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions,
scope and nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to
be employed.  (Memorandum and Points of
Authority, pgs. 7:9-27, 8:1-6.) Additionally, Defendant has met his burden of
showing “good cause.” Defendant provides specific facts showing why the IMEs
are necessary and provides evidence of Plaintiff’s statements bringing
Plaintiff’s neurological and physical injuries into issue. Finally, the Court
finds that Defendant’s request to compel is appropriate as it appears Plaintiff
never complied with Defendant’s initial demand to an IME with Dr. Macyszyn. 
Although
Plaintiff initially agreed to Defendant’s initial IME demand with Dr. Macyszyn on May 21, 2024, Plaintiff did not appear on that date. Confusion exists regarding Defendant’s attempts
to set up examinations back in April 2024 and May 2024 because Plaintiff’s
counsel stopped responding to Defendant’s requests after May 18, 2024. The
record also does not reflect whether Defendant was aware that Plaintiff had
chosen to submit to an IME with Dr. Macyszyn on September 4, 2024.
Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to physical IME
with Dr. Ludwig.
3.     
Neuropsychological
Examination 
Per Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.310, a party that seeks to require another party
to submit to a mental examination must obtain leave of court. The motion to
compel a mental examination must specify the time, place, manner, conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and specialty of
the person who will perform the examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.) The
court must grant the motion if the moving party shows good cause for the mental
examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)  
A showing of
good cause generally requires “that the party produce specific facts justifying
discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action
or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson
v. Superior Court, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 840.) Where a party claims
“great mental pain and suffering” as a result of the physical injury, the court
may order a psychiatric exam. (Reuter v. Superior Court, supra,
93 Cal.App.3d at p. 342.) And “[a] party who chooses to allege that he has
mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.” (Vinson v. Superior Court, supra, at 43 Cal.3d at p.
839.)
Here, Defendant
submits there is good cause for a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff
because Plaintiff raised mental and emotional claims in his discovery responses,
thereby putting these issues in controversy. Defendant also contends that
because Plaintiff has already seen a neuropsychologist for his alleged psychological
and neuropsychological injuries, this demonstrates a need for an IME to
appropriately assess Plaintiff’s claims. In support of his motion, Defendant
presents Plaintiff’s responses to discovery requests.
At deposition,
Plaintiff testified about his psychological impairments. Plaintiff testified
that he experienced “mental health and emotional”; that he couldn’t sleep; he
would wake up every night at 3:00 am with “headaches, dizziness . . . Like
sometimes my neurons will send a signal, I don’t know”; that he suffers from
headaches, dizziness, nauseas, depression, PTSD, light sensitivity, sound
sensitivity, and smell sensitivity.” (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 18, Exh. 13, at pp.
93-94, 112-113.) Plaintiff also alleged that these impairments limit his future
earning capacity. (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 18, Exh. 13, at pp. 201:20-25.)
In his Form
Interrogatory Responses, Plaintiff alleged “pain and suffering” resulting from
the car accident and that his “personal relationships and mental health
suffered.” (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 16, Exh. 10, at p. 16.) Plaintiff also denied
Defendant’s Request for Admission to “Admit that you suffered no psychological
or emotional injury as a result of this accident.” (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 17,
Exh. 11, at p. 3.) In his Special Interrogatory responses, Plaintiff alleged
that he now “suffers from poor concentration and episodes of mental confusion.”
(Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 18, Exh. 12, at p. 11.) Plaintiff further testified that
neurologist Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi informed him the impact and trauma to
Plaintiff’s brain caused these symptoms. (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 18, Exh. 13, at p.
115:9-15.)
Plaintiff’s discovery
responses also identified Dr. Bal Grewal, a neuropsychologist, who diagnosed
Plaintiff with mild traumatic brain injury and psychiatric injuries. (Nepomuceno
Decl., ¶ 19, Exh. 14.) Dr. Grewal stated that Plaintiff suffered several
“cognitive, behavioral, and emotional conditions” resulting from the accident
including short term memory loss, poo attention span, anxiety, severe
depression, poor mental processing, and altered behavior. (Ibid.) Dr.
Grewal diagnosed Plaintiff with a psychiatric injury of Acute Stress Reaction
and Post Concussive Syndrome as a direct result to the traumatic injury to
Plaintiff’s brain. (Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 19, Exh. 14.)
 
Defendant
attempts to distinguish neuropsychology from neurology: 
Neuropsychology is the study of the
relationship between the brain and behavior. A neuropsychologist may assess an
individual’s emotional well-being as well as their ability to concentrate,
learn information, and attend to their environment. Neuropsychologists
administer a battery of psychological tests, including those listed above, to
evaluate an individual’s cognitive functioning. In particular,
neuropsychologists can assess and monitor the recovery of individuals who
experience neurological injuries.
 
(Memorandum
and Points of Authority, pp. 9:13-18.) Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s
mental injuries (cognitive issues resulting from the vehicle collision) are
distinct from his physical injuries (traumatic brain injury). 
Finally, Defendant argues that fairness
requires that Defendant’s expert do a neuropsychological IME because the record
reflects that Plaintiff consulted a neuropsychologist, Dr. Grewal, to diagnose
Plaintiff’s neuropsychological issues. Plaintiff alleges this issues against
Defendant. Defendant asserts that if Dr. Kuhn cannot do a neuropsychological
IME, Defendant will be prejudiced because it will not have access to the key
information that is necessary to defend itself.
Plaintiff
opposes Defendants arguments with the same arguments as those used for the
neurological exam above.
The Court
finds that Defendant set forth good cause to compel Plaintiff to submit to a
neuropsychological examination with Dr. Kuhn. Defendant sets forth who will
conduct the examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions,
scope and nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to
be employed. (See Memorandum and Points of Authority, pgs. 8:5-28, 9:1-13.) Additionally,
Defendant has met his burden of showing “good cause.” Defendant provides
specific facts showing why the IMEs are necessary as well as his attempts to
work with Plaintiff to do IMEs without court intervention. Specifically,
Defendant explains the role of a neuropsychologist and how that individual’s area
of expertise addresses mental examinations rather than physical examination. Finally,
Defendant has shown that the neuropsychological IME is relevant to this case
because Plaintiff put his mental condition “in controversy” through statements
made during his deposition and his other responses to discovery. 
Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to a
neuropsychological IME with Dr. Kuhn.
 Sanctions
Defendant
seeks sanctions against Plaintiff for misuse of the discovery process. “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel response and compliance with a demand for a physical
examination, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.240, subd. (c).)
Here,
Defendant seeks $2,543.30 in sanctions against Plaintiff: $1,271.65 for the
Neurological IME motion and $1,271.65 for the Neuropsychological IME motion. (Nepomuceno
Decl., ¶ 20; Nepomuceno Decl., ¶ 21.) This amount includes $2,420.15 in
attorney’s fees and $123.30 in filing fees ($61.65 each for two filing fees). 
However, the
Court is not persuaded that sanctions for the neuropsychological examination
are appropriate.  Leave of court is
required for such an examination, and there is no basis for the Court to
conclude Plaintiff was in any way abusing the discovery process in requiring
Defendant to obtain court approval for that examination.  
Therefore, the
Court grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions only as to the required
medical examination.  The Court grants sanctions
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally, in the reasonable
amount of $1,250.00, to be paid within 20 days. 
 CONCLUSION
The Court therefore GRANTS Defendant’s motion
for leave to conduct one neurological and one neuropsychological IME of Plaintiff.
The Court also GRANTS Defendant’s request for
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel in the amount of $1,250.00.
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 10th
day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian 
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


