 Case Number:  23STCV31186    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 10/10/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV31186 TIFFANY BLAKE
GANZ vs ANNALEE CHANDLER, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Annalee Chandler
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES
AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED. 
 
On April 15, 2024,
Defendant Annalee Chandler served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories, Set One,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production, Set One. The
responses were due on May 17, 2024. On July 1, 2024, Defendant attempted to
meet and confer with Plaintiff but received no responses. Defendant has yet to
receive the discovery responses and now moves the Court to compel initial
responses. No opposition was filed.
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff did not serve discovery responses by the statutory deadline. No
opposition or any other documents were filed, indicating that the responses were
served prior to the hearing. Thus, the motions are granted. Plaintiff is
ordered to provide complete and verified responses to Defendant Annalee
Chandler’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and
Request for Production, Set One, without objections, within 20 days of today.
Further, Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $455.34 per motion. Sanctions are
mandatory, and the Court finds that Plaintiff did not act with substantial
justification. Thus, the Court orders sanctions in the amount of $1,200 against
Plaintiff and her attorney, jointly and severally, payable to Defendant within
20 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 