 Case Number:  23STCV24301    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, February 22, 2022
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV24301
CASE NAME:                        Leslie Oren v. Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Company
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Leslie Oren v. Anthem
Blue Cross Life and Health Company
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to Strike
Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        7 February 2024
REPLY:                                  14
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant Anthem’s demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend. Defendant Anthem’s motion to strike is granted without leave to
amend as to Paragraph 22 and with leave to amend as to Paragraph 34 and the
Prayer for Punitive Damages. 
 
The Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend. The OSC re:
amended complaint is set for __. 
 
Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On October 5, 2023, Leslie Oren (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company
(“Defendant” or “Anthem”) and Does 1 to 20 for: (1) breach of contract; and (2)
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
Defendant Anthem filed a demurrer with a motion to strike. Plaintiff
opposes the motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
 
request for JUDICIAL notice
 
Defendant Anthem
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Plaintiff was insured under
an Individual PPO Lumenos HAS-Compatible health insurance policy issued by
Anthem (the “Policy”) on March 1, 2009. (Attached as Exhibit A to the
Declaration of Kathi Loppnow);
 
2)    
Anthem issued an
Endorsement to the Policy on January 1, 2022 (the “Endorsement”). (Attached as
Exhibit B to the Declaration of Kathi Loppnow); 
 
3)    
Anthem Blue Cross Life
& Health Insurance Company is a health insurance company licensed by the
Insurance Commissioner and regulated by the California Department of Insurance
under the Insurance Code identifiable with a Company license number, and
accessible through the California Department of Insurance website at
https://interactive.web.insurance.ca.gov/apex_extprd/f?p=144:6:::NO:RP,6:P6_COMPANY_ID:7
008, accessed on December 1, 2023. (Attached as Exhibit B to the Declaration of
Jessamyn Vedro.)
 
4)    
Blue Cross of California
dba Anthem Blue Cross is a health care service plan regulated by the California
Department of Managed Health Care and subject to the Health & Safety Code,
including the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975 and California
Code of Regulations, title 28, as reflected in the 2017 Accusation in
Enforcement Matter No. 15- 268, which is accessible at
https://wpso.dmhc.ca.gov/enfactions/docs/2990/1678811202433.pdf, accessed on
December 1, 2023. (Attached as Exhibit C to the Declaration of Jessamyn Vedro.)
 
The court may
judicially notice Exhibits A and B attached to the Declaration of Kathi Loppnow
because they are referenced in the Complaint. (See Salvaty v. Falcon Cable
Television (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 798, 800, fn. 1; Align Technology, Inc.
v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 956, fn. 6; Ingram v. Flippo
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1280, 1285, fn. 3.) The court may also take judicial
notice of statements made to the public on a government website but not their
truth. (Wood v. Superior Ct. of San Diego County (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th
562, 580, fn. 2.) 
 
Based on the above,
Defendant Anthem’s request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
Discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of
testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth
of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)
2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67
Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
II.        Demurrer[1]
 
defendant
Anthem demurs to the two causes of action alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint
because they fail to state sufficient facts to support a cause of action for
breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing. 
 
The Complaint
(“Compl.”) alleges that on February 16, 2023, Plaintiff underwent a medically
necessary reconstructive plastic surgery procedure for her nose. (Compl. ¶ 6,
11.) “The surgery was performed at a surgical center under general
anesthesia and took approximately six hours. The providers performing the
services were Non-Participating Providers.” (Compl. ¶ 11.) “Services for the
surgeon totaled $83,689.94.” (Compl. ¶ 12.) 
 
The Complaint alleges that
Anthem’s Policy requires Anthem to pay for all medically necessary health care
services. (Compl. ¶ 7.) The Policy included added endorsements , including the
“Maximum Allowed Amount” (MAA) which states that for services provided from a
Non-Participating Provider (a provider that does not have a contract with
Anthem), the following applies: 
For Covered Services You
receive from a Non-Participating Provider, the Maximum Allowed Amount for Your
Policy will be one of the following: 
 
1. An amount based on our Non-Participating Provider fee
schedule/rate, which we have established, and which we may modify from time to
time, after considering one (1) or more of the following: reimbursement amounts
accepted by like/similar Providers contracted with us, reimbursement amounts
paid by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for the same services or
supplies, and other industry cost, reimbursement and utilization data; or 
 
2. An amount based on reimbursement or cost information from
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”). When basing the Maximum
Allowed Amount upon the level or method of reimbursement used by CMS, Anthem
will update such information, which is unadjusted for geographic locality, no
less than annually; or 
 
3. An amount based on information provided by a third party
vendor, which may reflect one (1) or more of the following factors: 1) the
complexity or severity of treatment; 2) level of skill and experience required
for the treatment; or 3) comparable Providers’ fees and costs to deliver care,
or 
 
4. An amount negotiated by Us or a third party vendor which
has been agreed to by the Provider. This may include rates for services
coordinated through case management, or 
 
5. An amount based on or derived from the total charges
billed by the Non- Non-Participating Provider.
 
(Compl. ¶ 9; RJN Ex. B at p. 5,
attached to the Decl. of Kathi Loppnow.) As part of the above endorsement,
Anthem changed the insured’s responsibility for “Professional Services” to “30%
of the Maximum Allowed Amount plus all charges in excess of the Maximum Allowed
Amount unless Special Circumstances apply.” (Comp. ¶ 10.)
 
After providing Anthem with the
information requested related to her surgery, Anthem, through Carelon
Global,  determined that the surgery was
“medically necessary under your plan” but “processed the claim with an Explanation
of Benefits form stating that the total MAA for Plaintiff's surgery was
$1,350.36 and that Plaintiff owed $82,339.58.” (Compl. ¶¶ 14, 16.) The
Complaint alleges that “Anthem has created and used unreasonable criteria for
developing the MAA for various procedures including the type of surgery
performed on Plaintiff. Anthem has misapplied and/or misinterpreted claims data
and other information to arrive at an artificially low reimbursement amount for
various procedures including Plaintiff’s surgery. These actions are part of a
scheme by Anthem to use its MAA as a device to underpay claims and improve its
bottom line.” (Compl. ¶ 18.) 
 
“Anthem's offshore claims
personnel at Carelon Global failed to recognize that a given surgery may be
more extensive and complicated than a routine surgery of the same general type.
Although they recognized the medical necessity of the surgery and had the
medical records demonstrating the complexity and length of the surgery, they
failed to note, understand, or apply the facts the claim and drastically
underpaid it as routine.” (Compl. ¶ 19.) 
 
Plaintiff filed a complaint
about the low reimbursement amount which was handled by Anthem's Grievances
& Appeals Department.  “Cynthia R,” a
Grievances & Appeals Analyst, advised that “We reviewed the claim and find
that claim was processed correctly according to your plan benefits for
utilizing an out of network provider." (Compl. ¶ 20.) “In rejecting
Plaintiff's complaint, the Grievances & Appeals Department failed to
conduct any investigation into whether the MAA was a reasonable reimbursement
for the surgery and failed to determine whether Carelon Global personnel had
failed to review and appreciate the complexity and length of the surgery in
applying the low reimbursement amount.” (Compl. ¶ 21.) 
 
Defendant Anthem now demurs to
the two causes of action alleged against it. 
 
            A.        Breach
of Contract
 
The elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: "(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff." (Oasis West Realty,
LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821.) In addition, the complaint must
demonstrate damages proximately caused by the breach. (St. Paul Ins. v.
American Dynasty (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1060.) “If the action
is based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must
be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459 [internal citations
omitted].)
 
Defendant Anthem alleges that
Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim is insufficiently pled because it alleges
that Anthem underpaid Plaintiff’s claim, not that it breached the terms of the
insurance policy. The court agrees. The purported fact that Anthem sought to
use the MAA endorsement to lower its financial exposure is not a sufficient
fact to support a breach of contract claim unless Plaintiff seeks to void the
endorsement by alleging unconscionability. (Compl. ¶¶ 8, 18.) The fact that
Carelon Global employees are underpaid and not properly trained or supervised
is irrelevant to this action unless Plaintiff alleges that the lack of training
and supervision resulted in Plaintiff’s claim being wrongfully processed.
(Compl. ¶ 15.) 
 
Plaintiff also fails to allege
Anthem wrongfully applied the MAA endorsement criteria(s) and fails to state
under which of the five criteria Plaintiff’s claims was processed. Without such
information, the allegation that Anthem “misapplied and/or misinterpreted
claims data and other information to arrive at an artificially low
reimbursement amount” is irrelevant unless Anthem used criteria 3 under the
MAA. (Compl. ¶ 18.) Specifically, Plaintiff must allege what MAA endorsement
criteria was applied to Plaintiff’s claim and why the applicable criteria was
wrongfully applied such that Anthem breached the Policy terms. 
 
The Complaint also alleges that
the “language of Anthem's MAA provision is indefinite, vague and ambiguous as
it fails to provide any useful reference for determining Anthem's payment
responsibility. Anthem manipulates claims data to end up with unreasonably low
reimbursement amounts. Additionally, Anthem failed to recognize that the
complexity and length of Plaintiff's surgery required a higher reimbursement
amount.” (Compl. ¶ 28.) 
 
If Plaintiff alleges that the
MAA is ambiguous, Plaintiff must allege what specific language in the MAA
endorsement renders it ambiguous, and if the ambiguity were resolved in
Plaintiff’s favor, what the MAA endorsement should state. Without such facts, the
Plaintiff’s allegation is conclusory. “Conclusionary
allegations without facts to support them are ambiguous and may be
disregarded.” (Interior Systems, Inc. v. Del E. Webb Corp.
(1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 312, 316.) 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to
the first cause of action for breach of contract is sustained. 
 
            B.        Breach
of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“Every contract contains an
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing that no party to the
contract will do anything that would deprive another party of the benefits of
the contract.¿The implied covenant protects the reasonable expectations of the
contracting parties based on their mutual promises.” (Digerati Holdings, LLC
v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885; see also
Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349–350.) 
 
The Complaint alleges that
Anthem breached the duty of good faith and fair dealing by: 
 
(a) Creating and using unreasonably low MAA rates for the
purpose of underpaying claims and applying one such unreasonably low MAA
reimbursement amount to drastically underpay Plaintiff's claim;
 
(b) Failing to acknowledge that Plaintiff's complicated and
lengthy surgery should not be limited to any type of pre-determined
reimbursement rate much less the unreasonably low rate paid by Anthem;
 
(c) Using offshore claims personnel who were not properly
trained or supervised and who Anthem knew were making repeat errors, including
failing to recognize and process complicated and lengthy surgeries with an
appropriate reimbursement amount;
 
(d) Failing to recognize, investigate, and resolve
Plaintiff’s grievance as part of a pattern and practice of a broken grievance
system, as alleged herein;
 
(e) Misrepresenting to Plaintiff that it had reviewed the
relevant information relating to her grievance when, in fact, the grievance
department used template language to say they had performed an investigation
when, in fact, no investigation had been performed.
 
(f) Other acts of which Plaintiff is currently unaware. 
 
(Compl. ¶ 32.) 
 
Defendant Anthem asserts that the facts
as pled in the Complaint do not support a claim for breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. That Plaintiff finds the MAA
endorsement unreasonable is not sufficient to support a claim for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing because the provision is part
of the Policy and “the implied covenant is limited to assuring compliance with the
express terms of the contract and cannot be extended to create obligations not
contemplated in the contract. (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v.
Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026,
1032.) “‘The covenant of good faith is read into
contracts in order to protect the express covenants or promises of the
contract, not to protect some general public policy interest not directly tied
to the contract's purpose.’ ” (Id. at p. 1031,
citing Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654,
690.) 
 
Here, the Complaint alleges no facts to
show that Plaintiff did not agree or consent to the MAA endorsement provisions.
The MAA endorsement also gives Anthem unfettered discretion to choose any of
the five criteria in processing Plaintiff’s claim and the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing cannot be used to impose obligations that would be at
odds with the express language of the contract. (See Prager
University v. Google LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 1022, 1039.)
 
The allegation that
Anthem failed to acknowledge Plaintiff’s complicated and lengthy surgery does
not show how Anthem frustrated Plaintiff’s entitlement to the benefits under
the Policy or resulted in the MAA endorsement(s) being misapplied. Moreover, as
previously stated, the fact that offshore claims personnel were used is
irrelevant unless Plaintiff alleges that the lack of training and supervision
resulted in a processing error in relation to Plaintiff’s claim. Plaintiff also
fails to allege what Anthem was required to investigate apart from the fact
that she used a Non-Participating Provider for the surgery, and what Anthem
failed to recognize and resolve related to Plaintiff’s grievance. Plaintiff
also fails to allege what specifically about her grievance claim Anthem failed
to adequately investigate. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to
the second cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Defendant Anthem seeks to
strike Paragraphs 22 and 34 from Plaintiff’s Complaint as well as the prayer
for punitive damages. In part, the relevant portions of the Complaint that
Defendant Anthem seeks to strike, read as follow: 
 

“Anthem Blue Cross has been
     repeatedly cited by the California Department of Managed Health Care
     ("DMHC") for Anthem Blue Cross's deficient complaint procedures,
     causing it to pay fines and make promises to correct its practices.” ¶ 22.
     

 

“Anthem's conduct, described
     herein, was intended to cause injury to Plaintiff or was conduct carried
     out by Anthem with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights of
     Plaintiff, subjected Plaintiff to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
     disregard to Plaintiffs rights, and was an intentional misrepresentation,
     deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to Anthem with the
     intention to deprive Plaintiff of property, legal rights, or to otherwise
     cause injury, such as to constitute malice oppression or fraud under
     California Civil Code section 3294, thereby entitling Plaintiff to
     punitive damages in an amount appropriate to punish or set an example of
     Anthem.” ¶ 34.

 

WHEREFORE, Plaintiff prays for
     judgment against Anthem as follows: . . . 3. Punitive damages in an amount
     appropriate to punish or set an example of Anthem.

 
the
court agrees that references to the DMHC investigation are irrelevant because
the enforcement action relates to a different entity, Blue Cross of California.  Defendant Anthem is not regulated by the DMHC
and was not the subject of the DMHC’s investigation. 
 
Accordingly, the
request to strike Paragraph 22 in its entirety from the Complaint is granted
without leave to amend. 
 
As the demurrer to
the second cause of action was sustained with leave to amend so is Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages, as alleged in Paragraph 34 and the Prayer for
Punitive Damages.  
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Anthem’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
Defendant Anthem’s motion to strike is granted without leave to amend as to
Paragraph 22, and with leave to amend as to Paragraph
34 and the Prayer for Punitive Damages. 
 
The Plaintiff is
granted 30 days leave to amend. The OSC re: amended complaint is set for __. 
 
Defendant to give
notice. 


