  Case Number:  23STCV06368    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, February 22, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV06368
CASE NAME:                        Angel Gallego-Botello, et al v. Architectural Surfaces, Inc.,
et al
MOVING PARTY:                 Special Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza
LLC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Angel Gallegos-Botello
and Araceli Mejia
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Quash Service of
Summons
OPPOSITION:                        7 February 2024
REPLY:                                  14
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Special
Appearing Defendant Stylenquaza’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is
granted. 
Defendant to give notice. 

                                                                                                                        

 
Background
 
On March
22, 2023, Angel Gallegos-Botello (“Angel”) and Araceli Mejia (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed this toxic tort action against various Defendants.  The Complaint alleges six causes of action:
(1) negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability -
design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties;
and (6) loss of consortium. Plaintiffs allege Angel developed silicosis and
other injuries due to his work with stone products manufactured, distributed,
and/or supplied by various named Defendants.  
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) alleging the same causes of action in the original
Complaint. 
 
On December 4, 2023, specially
appearing Defendant Stylenquaza LLC (“Stylenquaza”) moved for an order to quash
the service of summons due to lack of personal jurisdiction. Plaintiffs oppose
the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
 
 
MOTION TO
QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
CCP § 418.10(a)
states: “A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve or
file a motion…[t]o quash service of summon on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”¿¿¿ 
 
A court of this
state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the
California or United States Constitutions. (CCP § 410.10.) When a nonresident
defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to the plaintiff
to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that all necessary
jurisdictional criteria are met. (Jewish Defense Org. v. Superior Court¿(1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054-55; see also Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568 [“When a motion to quash is properly brought,
the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the facts of
jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence”].) This burden must be met by
competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary evidence. (Jewish
Defense Org., at p. 1055.) “A court may exercise specific jurisdiction over
a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed
himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or
arises out of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of
personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice.” (Snowey
v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.) 
 
II.        Evidentiary Objections
 
Special
appearing Defendant Stylenquaza filed objections to the Declaration of Raphael
Metzger. The court rules as follows: 
 
Objections
Nos. 1-11 are sustained 
 
III.      Discussion
 
Stylenquaza asserts that
despite Plaintiffs being given time to conduct discovery on jurisdiction, Plaintiffs
failed to present evidence of sufficient contacts with the State of California for
the court to exercise personal jurisdiction over it. 
 
Stylenquaza is a limited
liability company with its principal place of business in Dallas, Texas,
including its main office and where its registered agents are located. (Nguyen
¶ 3.) Stylenquaza’s sole business is to distribute stone slabs supplied by Vicostone
JSC, a Vietnamese manufacturer, and it does business under the name Vicostone
USA. ( Nguyen Decl. ¶ 3.)
 
Pursuant to a
distribution agreement with Vicostone JSC, Stylenquaza primarily operates in
other states, an area that does not include the West Coast or California.
(Nguyen Decl. ¶ 5.) Stylenquaza states: 
 
On rare occasions between 2018 and 2022,
Stylenquaza distributed insubstantial amounts of pre-fabricated tops directly
to California. Pre-fabricated tops are ready to be installed without any
further fabrication and thus are not the allegedly hazardous dust-producing
products at issue in this lawsuit. Stylenquaza also supplied, via six (6)
shipments to California, 22 total stone slabs representing approximately 0.001
percent of all of the square footage of product it has ever distributed in its
more than a decade of business.
 
Other than these extremely rare instances of
shipments to California, Stylenquaza does not conduct, nor has it ever
conducted, any business in California.
 
Other than the extremely rare instances of
shipments to California, Stylenquaza does not produce, promote, sell, market,
or distribute any products in California. 
 
Other than the extremely rare instances of
shipments to California, Stylenquaza does not directly sell, ship, or otherwise
introduce any products into commerce in California.
 
(Nguyen Decl. ¶¶ 9-11.) 
 
Plaintiffs provide no evidence
to show that any of the 22 stone slabs that Stylenquaza shipped to California were
involved or responsible for Angel’s injuries.  The FAC asserts that Angel worked as a
“fabricator of stone countertops” and this work included cutting, grounding,
drilling, edging, and polishing artificial stone countertops. (FAC ¶¶ 54-56.) Plaintiffs’
counsel argues that even pre-fabricated countertops have to be polished upon
installation, resulting in crystalline silica dust, but Plaintiffs’ counsel
provides no evidentiary support for this assertion nor evidence that Angel was
an individual who polished one of the 22 stone slabs for installation. (Metzger
Decl. ¶ 16.) Moreover, Plaintiff fails to show that the website
“us.vostone.com” is owned, operated, or maintained by Stylenquaza, or that
information provided on the website is admissible and falls under a hearsay
exception. (See Nguyen Decl. ¶ 21.)
 
In
opposition to a motion to quash based upon lack of personal jurisdiction,
Plaintiffs have the initial burden of demonstrating facts showing minimum
contacts with the forum state. (See Muckle v. Superior Court (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 218, 228.) “It is plaintiff's burden to prove facts of jurisdiction
by a preponderance of evidence.” (Cornelison v. Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d
143, 155.) “This burden must be met by competent evidence in affidavits and
authenticated documentary evidence. An unverified complaint may not be
considered as an affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Ziller Electronics
Lab GmbH v. Superior Court¿(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1233.) Plaintiffs
have failed to meet this burden. 
 
On December 23, 2023, the
Plaintiffs served jurisdictional discovery requests to Stylenquaza consisting
of 25 special interrogatories, 31 requests for production, 21 requests for
admission, and 11 form interrogatories. (Hale Supp. Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4, Ex. 2-6.)
Stylenquaza asserts that it responded to the discovery requests. (Hale Supp.
Decl. Ex. 2-6.)
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel admits that
he had the opportunity to conduct jurisdictional discovery but asserts that
Stylenquaza’s attorney has not provided written responses.  Defendant’s counsel, Michael Hale, asserts
Stylenquaza did respond on January 17, 2024, and attached copies of
Stylenquaza’s responses to Plaintiffs’ written discovery request in his reply
declaration. (Metzger Decl. ¶ 24; Hale Supp. Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 2-6.) 
 
Plaintiff further insists that
Stylenquza’s person most knowledgeable must be produced for deposition
regarding jurisdictional issues but fails to explain what additional discovery
the Plaintiffs hope to discover that could not be discovered via written discovery.
Accordingly, the court denies the Plaintiffs’ request to conduct additional
jurisdictional discovery. 
 
Based
on the above, the Motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Special Appearing
Defendant Stylenquaza’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons is granted. Defendant
to give notice. 