 Case Number:  22STCV11951    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  B HEARING DATE:    Tues.,
July 9, 2024                              JUDGE /DEPT:        Moskowitz/Dept. B
CASE NAME:           Byron
Walker v. Sebastian Huesca, et al.
CASE NUMBER:     22STCV11951                                    COMP.
FILED:        04-07-22

NOTICE:                   OK                                                      TRIAL DATE:          08-12-24

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE
 
MOVING PARTY:   Defendants
Sebastian Huesca and Luis Daniel Huesca
RESP. PARTY:         Plaintiff Byron Walker
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE
(CRC Rule 3.1332)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants Sebastian Huesca, et al.’s Motion to Continue
Trial Date is GRANTED.
 
The Court
continues the trial date to 01/13/2025 at 9:30 am in Department B at the VAN
NUYS COURTHOUSE EAST (“VNE”). Final Status Conference is continued to 01/03/2025
at 9:30 am in Department B of the VNE.  Motion
and discovery cut-off dates are to follow the new trial date.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On April 7, 2022, Plaintiff Byron Walker (“Walker”) filed
an action against Defendants Sebastian Huesca, Luis Daniel Huesca, Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, Uber, Portier, LLC, Uber Eats,
Postmates, Inc., Postmates, LLC, Postmates, and City of Rancho Palos Verdes
(collectively “Defendants”) for (1) negligence, (2) negligent
hiring/retention/supervision/training, (3) statutory liability/dangerous
condition of public property, and (4) negligence-premises liability arising out
of an alleged motor vehicle collision that took place on March 10, 2021.
 
On July 25, 2023, the Court continued the trial date to
August 12, 2024, pursuant to the request of Defendant City of Rancho Palos
Verdes. 
 
On May 29, 2024, Defendants Sebastian Huesca and Luis
Daniel Huesca filed the instant Motion to Continue Trial Date (“Motion”).
 
            On June 6,
2024, the matter was assigned to Judge Karen Moskowitz in Department B of the
Van Nuys Courthouse East.
 
On the same day, the Court denied Defendants Sebastian
and Luis’s Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial and All Related Dates, or
Alternatively, for an Order Shortening Time to Advance the Currently Set Motion
to Continue Trial. 
 
            On June 11, 2024, Defendants Uber
Technologies, Rasier, Rasier-CA, Portier, and Postmates filed a Notice of
Joinder to the Motion to Continue Trial Date.
 
Plaintiff filed an Opposition to the Motion on June 25,
2024 and Defendants Uber Technologies, Rasier, Rasier-CA, Portier, and
Postmates filed a Reply on July 1, 2024.
 
            On July 2, 2024, the Court denied
Defendants Uber Technologies, Rasier, Rasier-CA, Portier, and Postmates’s Ex
Parte Application for Order to Continue Trial and All Trial-Related Dates, or,
in the Alternative, Extension of Time to File Motions in Limine.
 
II.                
Legal Standard
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request
for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (Ibid.)  Good cause includes the unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness, party, or trial counsel; “the substitution of
trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the
substitution is required in the interests of justice;” the addition of a new
party; a party’s excused inability to obtain evidence; or a significant,
unanticipated change in the case.  (Ibid.)
 
Furthermore, the Court may look to the following factors in
determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
 
(1) The proximity of the trial
date;
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;
(4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
(9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
(10) Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11) Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)
 
III.             
Discussion
 
Defendants Sebastian and Luis move to continue the trial
date currently set for August 12, 2024, for a period of 180 days or an
available date thereafter, along with all discovery and motion cut-off dates.  They argue that good cause exists to continue
the trial date for the following reasons: (1) Defendants discovered new
information related to Plaintiff’s medical expenses during a recent Demand for
Settlement which compels them to engage in additional discovery, (2) there are
outstanding depositions of witnesses and expert witnesses, (3) meet and confer
efforts have been delayed, and (4) Defendants will be prejudiced if the trial
date is not continued.
 
On June 11, 2024, Defendants Uber Technologies, Rasier,
Rasier-CA, Portier, and Postmates filed a Notice of Joinder to the instant Motion.  The Court finds that Defendants have complied
with the procedural requirements for filing the joinder pursuant to California
Rules of Court 3.1112, as they have filed a Notice, Motion, and Memorandum
outlining the basis of the relief sought, and they properly served these
papers.  (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1112(a),
(d).)  Defendants present arguments
regarding the need for additional discovery due to newly discovered evidence
and note that trial had only been continued once at the request of the City of
Rancho Palos Verdes, a party that has been dismissed from the case.  The Court grants Defendants’ request to join
the Motion to Continue Trial.
 
            Plaintiff opposes the Motion on the
ground that Defendants have failed to present sufficient evidence of good cause
for a continuance.  Plaintiff argues that
Defendants have had sufficient time to prepare for trial and should complete
discovery by the already-set date, including the final depositions set at the
end of July.  Plaintiff adds that a
continuance, particularly for a period of 180 days, would cause prejudice and
unnecessary expense to the parties.
 
            In their Reply, Defendants Uber
Technologies, Rasier, Rasier-CA, Postmates, and Portier dispute Plaintiff’s
statements that the medical expenses were disclosed .  Furthermore, Defendants argue that Plaintiff
himself has served over 536 requests for production before the close of
discovery.
 
The Court considers the circumstances of the instant case
and the arguments presented by all parties in the Motion, Joinder, Opposition,
and Reply.  The Court finds that there is
good cause to continue the trial.  First,
trial has only been continued once at the request of a party that has since
been dismissed from the case.  Second,
based on the facts presented by the parties, it appears that discovery has not concluded
and there are outstanding depositions set at the end of July.  Due to the proximity of the present trial
date, interests of justice would be best served by allowing parties sufficient
time to complete discovery and prepare for trial.  The Court also finds Defendants’ request for
a 180-day continuance to be reasonable.
 
For this reason, Defendants’
Motion to Continue Trial Date is GRANTED.
 
The Court
continues the trial date to 01/13/2025, at 9:30 am in Department B, VNE.  Final Status Conference is continued to 01/03/2025
in Department B, VNE. Motion and discovery cut-off dates are to follow
the new trial date.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
 
Defendants Sebastian Huesca, et al.’s Motion to Continue
Trial Date is GRANTED.
 
The Court
continues the trial date to 01/13/2025 at 9:30 am in Department B, VNE.  Motion and discovery cut-off dates are
to follow the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 