

 
ANALYSIS: 
 
                   
I.Background  
 
On March 1, 2024, Petitioner The
Fountains La Verne MHP Associates, L.P. (“Petitioner”) filed the instant
Petition for Abandonment of Mobilehome (the “Petition”) against Respondents
Sylvia Vargas and Armando Vargas (collectively, “Respondents”). Under Civil
Code section 798.61, Petitioner seeks a court order deeming Respondents’
mobilehome, Decal No. LBB9896 (the “Mobilehome”) located on Space 62 at 3530
Damien Ave., La Verne CA 91750 (the “Mobilehome Park”) to be abandoned, and an
award of rent and storage fees, attorney’s fees and costs, and a determination
that Petitioner is entitled to sell the Mobilehome under Section 798.61. (Pet.,
pgs. 1-5.) Default was entered against Respondents on April 4, 2024.
 
On July 5, 2024, the matter was
continued to allow Petitioner to show that the notice of belief of abandonment
and petition were mailed with return receipt requested. 
 
 
                
II.Legal Standard & Discussion  
 
A.               
Determination
of “Abandoned Mobilehome”—Civ. Code § 798.61(a)(1) 
 
Pursuant to Civil Code, section
798.61, subdivision (a)(1), an “‘abandoned mobilehome’ means a mobilehome about
which all of the following are true: 
 
(A) It is located in a mobilehome park on a site for which
no rent has been paid to the management for the preceding 60 days. 
 
(B) It is unoccupied. 
 
(C) A reasonable person would
believe it to be abandoned. 
 
(D) It is not permanently affixed
to the land.” 
 
Petitioner has submitted the declaration of its On-Site
Manager, Keith Rumbolo, who states that no rent has been paid to Petitioner
since September 1, 2023. (Rumbolo Decl., ¶¶ 1, 7.) Rumbolo periodically
inspected the mobilehome since approximately September 1, 2023, and has not
found any indication that the mobilehome has been occupied or entered by a
person. (Id., ¶ 9.) On December 13, 2023, Rumbolo posted the Notice of Belief
of Abandonment on the mobilehome for a period of 30 days. (Id., ¶ 10.) No person
has contacted Petitioner or its agent in response. (Id., ¶ 15.) The mobilehome
is not permanently affixed to the land. (Id., ¶ 16(d).) This evidence supports
the allegation in the Petition that no rent has been paid for the space for the
60 preceding days, that the mobilehome is not occupied and that a reasonable
person would believe the mobilehome to be abandoned. Therefore, Petitioner has
demonstrated through admissible evidence that the Mobile Home is abandoned
within the meaning of Civil Code section 798.61, subdivision (a)(1).  
 
B.                
Notice
of Belief of Abandonment—Civ. Code § 798.61(b) 
 
Civil Code, section 798.61,
subdivision (b) requires:  
 
“After determining a
mobilehome in a mobilehome park to be an abandoned mobilehome, the management
shall post a notice of belief of abandonment on the mobilehome for not less
than 30 days, and shall deposit copies of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the homeowner at the last known address and to
any known registered owner, if different from the homeowner, and to any known
holder of a security interest in the abandoned mobilehome.  This notice
shall be mailed by registered or certified mail with a return receipt
requested.” 
 
(Emphasis added.)  
 
Petitioner filed
a proof of service stating a Notice of Belief of Abandonment was posted on the
Mobilehome and thereafter mailed via certified mail to Respondents at the
Mobilehome address on December 13, 2023. (Pet., Exhs. 3-4.) However,
the notice shall be mailed with a return receipt requested under Civil Code, section 798.61, subdivision (b). The attached certified mail receipts do not check off
the boxes indicating a return receipt was requested. Petitioner also did not
submit copies of return receipts. 
 
This petition was continued on July 5, 2024
to allow Petitioner to correct this issue. Petitioner has filed
another declaration of Rumbolo, and he states that he deposited a copy of the
notice of belief abandonment in the mail (Rumbolo Decl., ¶ 15), however, the attachments are missing. In any event,
Rumbolo does not state that it was mailed with a return receipt. As such, this
has not been corrected.
 
C.                
Petition
for Judicial Declaration—Civ. Code § 798.61(c) 
 
Civil Code section 798.61,
subdivision (c)(1) states: 
 
“Thirty or more days following posting pursuant to
subdivision (b), the management may file a petition in the superior court in
the county in which the mobilehome park is located, for a judicial declaration
of abandonment of the mobilehome. A proceeding under this subdivision is a
limited civil case. Copies of the petition shall be served upon the homeowner,
any known registered owner, and any known person having a lien or security
interest of record in the mobilehome by posting a copy on the mobilehome and
mailing copies to those persons at their last known addresses by registered or
certified mail with a return receipt requested in the United States
mail, postage prepaid.”   
 
(Emphasis added.)  
 
On
March 1, 2024, Petition filed this petition. On April 4, 2024, Petitioner
submitted proof that a copy of the Petition was served on Respondents by
posting a copy of the Petition at 3530 Damien Ave, Space 62 in La Verne, on March
7, 2024, and mailing the Petition to the same address via certified mail,
return receipt requested.  (4/4/24 Proof of Service by Posting.) 
 
However, the attached certified mail receipts do not check off
the boxes indicating a return receipt was requested. Petitioner also did not
submit copies of return receipts. 
 
This petition was continued on July 5, 2024
to allow Petitioner to correct this issue. Petitioner has made no attempt to
correct this issue.
 
 
D.               
Charges,
Attorney’s Fees, and Costs 
 
Civil Code section 798.61,
subdivision (d)(2) states: 
 
“If, at the hearing, the petitioner shows by a
preponderance of the evidence that the criteria for an abandoned mobilehome has
been satisfied and no party establishes an interest therein at the hearing and
tenders all past due rent and other charges, the court shall enter a judgment
of abandonment, determine the amount of charges to which the petitioner is
entitled, and award attorney's fees and costs to the petitioner.” 
 
In the petition, Petitioner seeks
rent, charges, attorney’s fees, and costs. In the submitted declaration of the
on-site manager, Petitioner states that it is not seeking any monetary damages
at this time. (Rumbolo Decl., ¶ 17.)
 
 
 
 
 
             
III.Conclusion & Order 
 
For the foregoing reasons,
Petitioner’s Petition to Declare Mobilehome Abandoned is CONTINUED TO 09/19/2024
at 10:00 a.m. at Department 25 of the SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE. 
 
At least 16 court days before
the next scheduled hearing, Petitioner must file and serve supplemental papers
addressing the issues noted herein. Failure to do so will result in the
Petition being placed off calendar or denied.   
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  
 
 