 Case Number:  22STCV19629    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  14 Del Vecchio, et al v. The Regents of the University of California, et al.Case Background
 
Plaintiffs were dietitians at the UCLA
Medical Center. They complain that they were driven into retirement by a new
supervisor, who wanted to replace them with younger employees.
 
On August 17, 2022, Plaintiffs
filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) FEHA Discrimination, (2) FEHA
Harassment, (3) FEHA Retaliation, (4) Failure to Prevent, (5) CFRA Violation,
(6) Violation of Sick Leave and Kin Care Law, and (7) Violation of Labor Code
§ 1102.5[1] against
Defendants The Regents of the University of California (“Regents”), Angel Maree
Jones (“Jones”), and DOES 1-10. Only the second and seventh causes of action are
asserted against Defendant Jones.
 
On October 24, 2022, Defendant Regents
filed their Amended Answer.
 
On November 9, 2022, this court
sustained the demurrer of Defendant Jones to the Labor Code § 1102.5 claim,
without leave to amend.
 
On January 3, 2023, Defendant Jones
filed her Amended Answer.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for July 1, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
            On December
1, 2023, this court ordered Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
requests for production off-calendar, on the grounds that it was moot.
 
Plaintiffs now move this court for
reconsideration of both rulings.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED. 
 
Governing Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 1008
states in pertinent part as follows:
 
“(b) A party who originally made an
application for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted
conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be
shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on ex parte motion.
…
(c) If a court at any time
determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a
prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and enter a different
order.
…
(e) This section specifies the
court's jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its
orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to
reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous
motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or
final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous
motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.”
 
“The party seeking reconsideration
must provide not just new evidence or different facts, but a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce it at an earlier time.” Glade v.
Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457. This requirement also applies to
new or different law. Baldwin v. Home Sav. Of America (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 1192, 1200.  New law is authority
arising after the court’s decision, and different law is a principle different
than that originally produced. Id. at 1196-97.
 
Discussion
 
            The court
took the motion off-calendar as moot because counsel represented at the hearing
that supplemental responses had been served one or two days prior. (Court Order
filed December 1, 2023, p. 2). This motion does not address that point. It does
not deny that supplemental responses were served. No evidence is presented
about those responses. Plaintiffs merely assert that the motion isn’t moot
because the supplemental responses didn’t give them everything they wanted.
(Motion p. 2:2-6).
 
            The court
does not deal with discovery questions piecemeal, tracking which ones have
changed over various supplementations and which ones haven’t. Each new set
becomes the operative set, mooting out the previous set even if some of the
answers haven’t changed. Otherwise discovery would be too chaotic to manage,
with jurisdictional deadlines (see e.g. Code of Civil Procedure 2031.310(c))
varying on a question-by-question basis. A new set means a new meeting and
conference, and a new motion.
 
            Plaintiffs’
arguments about the relevance and admissibility of “me too” evidence are not to
the point. The court has not made a substantive ruling on that point and has
not barred the discovery or admission of any such evidence.
 
            What the
court has done is instructed counsel to speak to Ms. Gopaldas. Counsel have
apparently done so, and she does not wish to be involved in this case.
Plaintiffs complain that they cannot “control” her, and that no one can force
her to be deposed. 
 
            In point of
fact, Plaintiffs have this wrong. Counsel may issue a deposition subpoena for
Ms. Gopaldas. Code of Civil Procedure § 1985(c). If Ms. Gopaldas fails to
appear, this court is empowered to order her appearance. Code of Civil
Procedure § 1987.1. If she still fails to comply, she may be held in
contempt of court and/or subject to monetary sanctions in accord with the Discovery
Act. Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1991 and 1991.1.
 
            If
Plaintiffs wish to present what happened to Ms. Gopaldas as a “me too” incident,
they will want her to testify. That, in turn, means that she will need to be
deposed. Plaintiffs would be well advised to begin the process of deposing her
sooner rather than later.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiffs
have failed to dispute that a new set of responses was served after the motion
was filed. As the court previously stated, that new set of responses supersedes
the prior set and renders the motion moot. There are no new facts which compel
a different result. The motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
 


