 Case Number:  21STCV01810    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  14 Meyerink v. Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences, et al.Case Background
 
Plaintiff was forced to take the
stairs into the Defendant’s facility because an event was blocking the access
ramp. Plaintiff then fell on the stairs.
 
On March 11, 2021, Plaintiff filed her
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Premises Liability, (2) Negligence Per
Se, and (3) Violation of the Unruh Act against Defendants Academy of Motion Picture
Arts & Sciences (“Academy”) and DOES 1-50. On April 13, 2021, Defendant Academy
filed its Answer. 
 
On April 19, 2021, Plaintiff filed an
“Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant The Vine Street Archive
Foundation (“Archive”) in lieu of DOE 1. On April 26, 2021, Defendant Archive
filed its Answer.
 
On June 13, 2022, Judge Michael E.
Whitaker determined that the case was “complicated,” and it was assigned to
this department.
 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an “Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant Offenhauser/Mekeel Architects
(“Architects”) in lieu of DOE 2.
 
On November 28, 2023, Defendant Architects
filed their Answer.
 
On December 18, 2023, this court
signed a stipulation and order dismissing the third cause of action as asserted
against Defendant Architects.
 
Bench Trial is currently set for March
25, 2024.
 
Instant Motion
 
Defendant Architects now moves this
court for orders (1) declaring that their settlement with Plaintiff was entered
in good faith and (2) barring any future actions for indemnity, contribution,
or comparative fault that may be filed against them.
 
Decision
 
The “Response” filed by Plaintiff
is STRICKEN from the record and not considered by the court. It was filed too
late to be a proper joinder, after the opposition had already been submitted,
and expressly disavows any opposition to the request. The properly opposing
parties, Defendants Academy and Archive, have not had a fair opportunity to
respond.
 
The motion is GRANTED.
 
Governing Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 877.6 provides in relevant
part as follows:
 
“(a)(1) Any party to an action in
which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the
manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005…
…
(b) The issue of the good faith of
a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served
with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the
court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.
(c) A determination by the court
that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor
or co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
(d) The party asserting the lack of
good faith shall have the burden of proof on that issue.”
 
“[T]he intent and policies underlying section 877.6 require
that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough approximation
of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the
amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than
he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant considerations
include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling
defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct
aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation]. Finally,
practical considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the
basis of information available at the time of settlement.” Tech-Bilt, Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.
 
            “The Tech–Bilt
factors are nonexhaustive and may not apply in all cases…The determination as
to whether a settlement is in good faith is a matter left to the discretion of
the trial court.” Dole Food Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 242
Cal.App.4th 894, 909 (internal quotations and citations omitted). “Equity
is the aim of section 877.6. The dual equitable goals of section 877.6 are: equitable
sharing of costs among the parties at fault and encouragement of settlements.” Long
Beach Memorial Medical Center v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
865, 872. One “key factor” and “important consideration” not mentioned in Tech-Bilt
is the extent to which a settling defendant may bear liability for indemnity to
a non-settling defendant. Id.
 
Discussion                       In the instant motion, Defendant Architects estimate the total damages exposure (assuming
Plaintiff wins) to be somewhere between $1 million and $4 million. (Motion p.
11:15-21). They expect the liability to be joint and several, meaning that it could
be evenly split among the three Defendants. This would give Defendant Architects
an exposure range of $333,333.33 to 1,333,333.33.
 
            On the
other side of the ledger, Defendant Architects have a $500,000 insurance policy
with “burning limits” – that is, the defense costs come out of the policy
limit. The possible insurance payout in the event of liability is therefore now
somewhat less than $500,000, and may be dramatically less after a trial. Any
remaining money would have to come directly out of Defendant Architects’
pocket. No evidence has been submitted on Defendant Architects’ financial
condition.
 
            In their
opposition, Defendants Academy and Archive argue that the settling party has an
initial burden to make a prima facie showing of good faith. That is incorrect,
and flies directly in the face of Section 877.6(d), quoted above. In fact, the
only burden the settling party bears in the moving papers is to establish that
there is, in fact, a settlement to talk about. City of Grand Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261-62 (“a showing made by the
settlor of the settlement”). Nor is there any requirement that the moving party
submit a copy of the settlement agreement. Such a submission may be wise, but
it is not legally necessary. It is enough that both client and counsel have
submitted declarations attesting to the basic terms.
 
            The burden
falls on Defendants Academy and Archive to present evidence showing that the
settlement was not in good faith. Defendant Architects only bears the burden of
responding on reply to evidence submitted in the opposition. See Mattco
Forge Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337,
1350 fn.6. But no real evidence was submitted in opposition. 
 
            Defendants
Academy and Archive do not supply any alternative estimate of potential
exposure. They do not supply any alternative estimate of Defendant Architects'
ability to pay. They wonder about how the settlement apportions damages,
because it may be an offset for certain damages and not others. The only
evidence that they submit is a declaration from counsel indicating that she has
no information. Defendants Academy and Archive do not even request a
continuance so that they can do limited discovery on the subject of the
settlement.
 
            The bottom
line is that Defendants Academy and Archive have attempted to shift their
burden rather than carry it. The settlement amount is for a policy limit which,
according to counsel, will fall somewhere between $400,000 and $500,000. This
is above the exposure floor calculated by Defendant Architects ($333,333.33)
and below the ceiling ($1,333,333.33). In other words, right in the normal
settlement range. There is no evidence of collusion, and no reason to suspect
it. And given the nature of “burning limits” policies, Plaintiff may reasonably
have decided to choose the certain recovery of less money now rather than the
uncertain prospect of collecting more later.
 
Conclusion
 

            Defendant
Architects have settled the case for the policy limit on a burning limits
policy. The settlement amount is in the appropriate range for the settlement,
and there is no evidence of collusion. Nothing indicates that this settlement
is unreasonable, and Defendants Academy and Archive have not borne their burden
to show that the settlement was not in good faith. Therefore, the motion is
GRANTED.