 Case Number:  22STCV20357    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  14 Akbarnejad v. Safaie, et al.Case Background
 
This is a legal malpractice case.
 
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed
their Second Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Professional Negligence, (2) Breach
of Fiduciary Duty, and (3) Fraud against Defendants Majid Safaie (“Safaie”),
Arya Law Center PC (“Arya”), and DOES 1-40. 
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an “Amendment to Complaint” substituting Defendant Brian T. Stuart in lieu of
DOE 1.
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
(1)        Demurrer
 
            Defendant
Safaie, joined by Defendant Arya, now demurs to the FAC on the grounds that it
fails to state facts sufficient to support any cause of action and is uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer to the first and second causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to
amend.
 
First Cause of Action: Professional Negligence
 
            The
elements of a professional negligence claim are as follows: “(1) the duty of
the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as to other members
of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3)
a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss of damage resulting from the professional
negligence.” Budd v. Nixen (1971) 6 Cal.3d 195, 200.
 
            Plaintiff alleges
that they hired Defendants to pursue a civil action in this court, bearing case
number 20 STCV 00197. (SAC ¶ 3). They further allege that Defendants
refused to respond to a motion for summary judgment and intentionally dismissed
the case without client consent and without any communication. (FAC ¶ 9). And
they allege that this resulted in damages. (FAC ¶¶ 10-12).
 
            Defense
argues that the complaint is uncertain because (a) it does not allege
sufficient facts to determine when the statute of limitations would run and (b)
does not allege sufficient facts to show causation. Neither argument is
persuasive.
 
            The statute
of limitations is an affirmative defense. Plaintiff is not obliged to plead it,
or even plead around it, in the complaint. It is a matter for the answer and
for discovery.
 
            Likewise,
Plaintiff is only obliged to plead ultimate facts, not evidentiary ones. C.W.
Johnson & Sons, Inc. v. Carpenter (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 165,
169. Causation is an ultimate fact that has been pled. The evidentiary facts
that support causation are a matter for discovery.
 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The elements of a cause of action
for breach of fiduciary duty are: 1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; 2) a
breach of the fiduciary duty; and 3) resulting damage. (City of Atascadero
v. Merill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1999) 68 C.A.4th
445, 483).” Pellegrini v. Weiss (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 515, 524.
 
The SAC pleads breach of fiduciary
duty at paragraphs 15-22. Here again Defendants’ argument is that the pleading
lacks specificity. As explained above, it does not. The ultimate facts of
causation and damages have been pled.
 
Third Cause of Action: Fraud
 
            The
elements of a cause of action for fraud are: (1) a false representation, actual
or implied, or concealment of a matter of fact material to the transaction
which defendant had a duty to disclose or defendant’s promise made without the
intention to perform; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the falsity; (3) defendant’s
intent to deceive; (4) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance thereon; and (5)
resulting damage to plaintiff. Mosier v. Southern Calif. Physicians Ins.
Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022, 1045. 
 
Fraud must be specifically pled,
and the particularity requirement necessitates the pleading of facts that “show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. The
purpose of the rules of fraud pleading is to inform the defendant and the court
of the specific grounds of the charge and enable them to evaluate it. See Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231.
 
The SAC pleads fraud at paragraphs 23-30.
That pleading appears to be a carbon copy of the previous claims, created by a
word processor. It does not show “how, when, where, to whom, and by what means”
the representations were made. It is impossible to tell what Plaintiff’s fraud
theory is or would be. Plaintiff is entitled to make one more attempt at
satisfying the rules of fraud pleading.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff
has properly pled a claim for legal malpractice and breach of fiduciary duty.
They have not, however, satisfied the rules of fraud pleading.
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the
first and second causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
            The
demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to
amend.
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike
 
            Defendant
now moves this court for an order striking certain allegations from the SAC. 
 
Decision
 
The motion is GRANTED, with 10
days leave to amend.
 
            Plaintiff
admits in their opposition that an amendment is in order. Plaintiff has brought
opposing counsel in as a Doe Defendant and will need to allege their claims
against him more specifically.
 
            One other
thing demands official notice from this court: counsel’s argument that he was
ill when the SAC was prepared and that he “relied on his office” to prepare and
file it. The court is unaware whether there are other lawyers in counsel’s
office, and thus will not treat this as evidence of the unauthorized practice
of law. However, counsel’s signature appears on the SAC. That signature renders
him responsible for the contents of the document. Code of Civil Procedure
§ 128.7. That responsibility may not be passed to anyone else.