  Case Number:  22VECV01970    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  107 BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability case. On November 10, 2022, Plaintiff Mary
Howard (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants RCLP Property
(erroneously sued as El Camino Shopping Center, LLC) (“Defendant”) and Does 1
to 10, asserting one cause of action for premises liability. 
 
The Complaint alleges the following: on December 2, 2020, Plaintiff was
near her handicap parking spot at El Camino Shopping Center when she fell in a
recessed paint and hidden parking lot area. As a result of the fall, she
suffered a chest aneurysm and other injuries. She would not have sustained
those injuries if not for El Camino Shopping Center’s negligence in maintaining
its parking lots’ safety. 
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motions, seeking an order
deeming her Request for Admissions, Set One, admitted and compelling Defendant
to provide initial responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of
Documents, Set One. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Defendant and its
counsel of record for necessitating the motions. 
 
As of December 7, 2023, no opposition to the motions has been filed. 
 
[Tentative] Rulings
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Mary Howard’s (1)
Motion for an Order to Have Plaintiff’s Request For Admissions, Set One Deemed
Admitted and (2) Motion for an Order Compelling Defendant to Provide Responses
to Plaintiff’s Request For Production of Documents, Set One as follows. 
 
The truth of the matters specified in the plaintiff’s Request for
Admissions, Set One, are hereby deemed admitted. 
 
Defendant El Camino Shopping Center, LLC is ordered to provide code-compliant responses, without objections, to the
plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, within 30 days of this ruling. 
 
The Court further orders the defendant and its counsel
of record, Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith, to pay the plaintiff sanctions
of $2,920, jointly and severally. This amount represents the total sanctions
for both motions.   
THE REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION MOTION
 
“Within 30 days after service” of a demand for
inspection, the responding party shall serve responses to the discovery “unless
on motion” the court has shortened or extended the time for response. (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.260, subd. (a).) The propounding and responding parties can
also agree to extend the time for response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.270(a).)
 
If a party to whom a demand for inspection fails
to serve a timely response to it, (1) the responding waives all objections to
the demand (unless the court on motion relieves the party from the waiver) and
(2) the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses to the
demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subds. (a)-(b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s
initial responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One (“RPD”). 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel attests to the following
facts in support of the RPD motion. On or about June 5, 2023, counsel’s office
served Plaintiff’s RPDs on Defendant via email and resent them again on or
about July 18, 2023, after defense counsel’s firm stated that it had not
received the discovery. (RPD Motion, declaration of Jackie Rose Kruger (“Kruger
Decl.”), ¶¶ 2-5.) On or about July 18, 2023, defense counsel responded to the email
thanking Plaintiff’s counsel for sending the discovery and stating that the
firm “will provide a response as soon as possible.” (Kruger Decl., ¶ 6.) On or about August 14, 2023, defense counsel’s
law firm requested an extension to serve the responses, but Plaintiff only
agreed to grant an extension for Defendant to serve responses to Plaintiff’s
form interrogatories. (Kruger Decl., ¶¶
7-12.) As of the date counsel signed her declaration on November 15, 2023, no
responses to the RPDs had been served. (Kruger
Decl., ¶ 13.)
 
In light of Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration and Defendant’s failure to
oppose the motion, the Court finds it proper to grant the request to compel
Defendant’s responses to the RPDs. 
 
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction . .
. against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
 
Here, there are no circumstances that would make the imposition of
sanctions unjust. 
 
Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $4,185 for the RPD motion. The requested
sanctions consist of 0.5 hours Plaintiff’s counsel spent reviewing the file and
on communications, 2 hours she spent preparing the moving papers, 1 hour she
anticipated spending reviewing an opposition, 1 hour she expected to spend on a
reply to the opposition, and 1 hour she anticipates spending at the hearing, a
total of 5.5 hours at counsel’s billing rate of $750 per hour (equals $4,125),
plus a $60 filing fee.
 
The Court finds the requested sanctions and counsel’s billing rate
excessive, given that the RPD motion is not complex and no opposition or reply
was filed. 
 
Therefore, for the purposes of the instant motions only, the Court finds a
billing rate of $400 reasonable. 
 
Accordingly, for the RPD motion, the Court will only award sanctions of
$1,460, consisting of 3.5 hours of counsel’s time at the hourly rate of $400
(equals $1,400), plus a $60 filing fee. 
 
THE REQUEST FOR ADMISSION MOTION
 
If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a
timely response, a “party may move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Plaintiff moves for an order deeming the truth of the matters
specified in her Request for Admissions, Set One (“RFA”) admitted. 
 
Similar to the RPD motion, Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that her office
initially propounded the RFAs on or about June 5, 2023, but when defense
counsel’s law firm stated they had not received the RFAs, emailed the RFAs to
Defendant again on or about July 18, 2023. (RFA Motion, Kruger Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.) Thereafter, the parties did not agree on an
extension to serve the response. (Kruger
Decl., ¶¶ 6-12.) As of the date counsel signed her declaration in
support of the RFA motion on November 15, 2023, Plaintiff had not yet received
Defendant’s responses to the RFAs. (Kruger
Decl., ¶ 15.)
 
The RFAs at issue asked the defendant to admit the following:

Admit that You owned the
     PREMISES on December 2, 2020, the date of the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU were
     responsible for operating the PREMISES on December 2, 2020, the date of
     the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU had a duty
     to maintain the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT in a safe manner on December 2,
     2020, the date of the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU were
     negligent in your maintenance or use of the PREMISES.
Admit that YOUR
     negligence was the proximate cause of the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU failed to
     make regular inspections of the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT prior to the
     INCIDENT.
Admit that there was a
     DANGEROUS CONDITION at the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU were aware
     that there was a DANGEROUS CONDITION at the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT prior
     to the date of the INCIDENT.
Admit that the DANGEROUS
     CONDITION at the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT existed for such a period of
     time before the INCIDENT that YOU should have discovered the condition.
Admit that YOU did
     nothing to repair the DANGEROUS CONDITION at the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT
     prior to the date of INCIDENT.
Admit that PLAINTIFF was
     on the PREMISES on December 2, 2020, the date of the PLAINTIFF’S REQUESTS
     FOR ADMISSIONS TO DEFENDANT, SET ONE SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that PLAINTIFF was
     injured on December 2, 2020, the date of the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that PLAINTIFF was
     caused to suffer various injuries as a result of the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that the Plaintiff
     was injured when she fell due to the DANGEROUS CONDITION at the LOCATION
     OF THE INCIDENT at the time of the INCIDENT.
Admit that YOUR
     negligence was a substantial factor in causing the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU do not
     dispute that YOU were at fault with respect to this INCIDENT.
Admit that there is no
     evidence that PLAINTIFF committed any negligent acts that contributed to
     causing the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU do not
     dispute liability for Plaintiff’s injuries resulting from this INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU do not
     dispute that YOU were negligent in causing the INCIDENT.
Admit that no third party
     or entity created the DANGEROUS CONDITION at the LOCATION OF THE INCIDENT
     that Plaintiff fell on.
Admit that PLAINTIFF was
     not negligent in causing the SUBJECT INCIDENT.
Admit that YOU have no
     evidence to support the affirmative defense that the PLAINTIFF assumed the
     risk of her injuries.
Admit that YOU have no
     evidence to support the affirmative defense that the PLAINTIFF was
     contributorily negligent.
Admit that PLAINTIFF was
     injured as a result of the SUBJECT INCIDENT caused by YOU.
Admit that The PLAINTIFF
     did require necessary medical treatment as a result of the SUBJECT
     INCIDENT.
Admit that the medical
     treatment rendered was medically necessary as a result of the SUBJECT
     INCIDENT complained of in the PLAINTIFF’s Complaint.

(RFA Motion, Kruger Decl., ¶
2; Exhibit A – a copy of the RFAs.)
 
“The court shall make [an] order [admitting the truth of any matters
specified in the RFAs], unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
Here, there is no evidence that Defendant has served, before the hearing on
the instant motion, a proposed response to the RFAs. In light of the evidence
before the Court and Defendant’s failure to oppose the RFA motion, the request
to deem the truth of the matters specified in the RFAs admitted is granted.
 
Sanctions are mandatory in connection with a motion to deem matters
specified in a request for admissions as true against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes the motions unless the court
“finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Here, like for the RPD motion, Plaintiff seeks sanctions of $4,185,
consisting of 0.5 hours Plaintiff’s counsel spent reviewing the file and on
communications, 2 hours she spent preparing the moving papers, 1 hour she
anticipated spending reviewing an opposition, 1 hour she anticipated spending
on a reply to the opposition, and 1 hour she anticipates spending at the
hearing, a total of 5.5 hours at counsel’s billing rate of $750 per hour
(equals $4,125), plus a $60 filing fee.
 
The Court will only impose sanctions of $1,460 for the RFA motion for the
same reasons it has awarded that amount in connection with the RPD motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff Mary Howard’s motions are GRANTED. 
The truth
of the matters specified in the plaintiff’s Request for Admissions, Set One,
are hereby deemed admitted. 
Defendant
El Camino Shopping Center, LLC is ordered
to provide code-compliant responses, without objections, to the
plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, within 30 days of this ruling. 
 
The Court further orders the defendant and its counsel of record, Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith, to pay the plaintiff sanctions of $2,920,
jointly and severally. This amount represents the total sanctions for both
motions.  
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
Dated:             December 12, 2023                             _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court