  Case Number:  21STCV17649    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
FIRE
  GUARD CORPORATION dba BUILTRIGHT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
STANFORD
  AND 12TH STREET, LP, et al., 
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV17649
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Complaint
  Filed: 05/11/21
Cross-Complaint
  Filed: 07/07/21
Trial
  Date: N/A
 
 



 
Hearing date:              June 6, 2024
Moving Party:             Cross-Defendant Mayer Separzadeh  
Responding
Party:      Unopposed  
 
Motions to Compel Responses 
 
The court has
considered the moving papers. No opposition papers were filed. 
The motions to
compel responses are granted.  
Background
            This
is an action that arises from the alleged failure to pay monies owed pursuant
to a contract for renovating a property located at 901 East 12th Street, Los
Angeles, CA 90021 (the “Property”). On May 11, 2021, Plaintiff Fire Guard
Corporation dba Builtright Engineering and Construction (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Stanford and 12th Street, LP, Shu C. Kou, Shan C.
Kou, and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; (4) quantum meruit; and
(5) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. 
            On
July 7, 2021, Defendants Shu C. Kou and Shan C. Kou filed an Answer to the
Complaint. 
            Also,
on July 7, 2021, Defendants Shu C. Kou and Shan C. Kou (collectively
“Cross-Complainants”) filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Stanford
and 12th Street, LP; Stanford Mart, LP; Mayer Separzadeh; Shahin S. Zackary;
Said Bral (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”); and ROES 1 through 25, inclusive,
alleging causes of action for: (1) implied contractual indemnity; (2) expressed
contractual indemnity; (3) breach of lease; (4) breach of guaranty; and (5)
account stated. 
            On
March 7, 2022, Cross-Defendant Mayer Separzadeh (“Separzadeh”) filed an Answer
to the Cross-Complaint. 
            On
August 15, 2023,  Cross-Defendant Separzadeh
filed and served the instant two unopposed discovery motions: (1) a motion to
compel Cross-Complainant Shu C. Kou (“Shu”)[1]
to serve verified responses to Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Sanctions (the “Shu Motion”); and (2)
a motion to compel Cross-Complainant Shan C. Kou’s (“Shan”) responses to
Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Sanctions (the “Shan Motion”)
(collectively, the “Motions”). The Motions each request monetary sanctions in
the sum of $3,310.00 against Cross-Complainants Shu and Shan, respectively. Given
that the Motions are unopposed, there is an inference that the Motions are
meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403,
1410.)  
Initially, the
Court notes that the motion as to Cross-Complainant Shan requests to compel
responses to both form and special interrogatories. Cross-Defendant Separzadeh
should have filed two separate motions as to Cross-Complainant Shan instead of
requesting responses to form and special interrogatories in the same motion.
Cross-Defendant Separazadeh cannot attempt to avoid the filing fee. However,
the Court will still consider the Shan Motion. The Court will address the
Motions in this one ruling. 
On May 8, 2024,
the Motions came for hearing before the Court. 
Counsel informed the Court that parties agreed to a continuance of the
Motions, so that responses could be filed by the opposing party.  The matter was continued to June 6,
2024.  No further documents were filed
since the May 8, 2024 hearing date and the Motions remain on calendar for today,
June 6, 2024.
Legal Standard 
            “Within
30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories
are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the
propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has
shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party
the court has extended the time for response.” 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.260(a).) If the party to whom interrogatories
are propounded does not serve a timely response, “[t]he party to whom the
interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce
writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (a).) “The party propounding
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.290(b).) Unverified discovery response “are tantamount to no responses at
all.” (Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) 
Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or
opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to
compel or limit discovery.”  A court may
impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (c).)
A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions.  (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v.
Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)
The Shu Motion 
            In
support of the Shu Motion, counsel for Cross-Defendant Separzadeh, Shab D.
Kerendian (“Kerendian”), provides a declaration. Counsel states the following:
on April 18, 2023, his office served set one of Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s
form interrogatories, special interrogatories, requests for admission, and
requests for production of documents on counsel for Cross-Complainants.
(Kerendian Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Cross-Complainant Shu has failed to provide
verified responses to the discovery requests. (Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; Exh.
B.) To date, no verified responses have been provided. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            Counsel
states that his hourly rate is $750.00 per hour, and he has incurred two (2)
hours preparing the Shu Motion. (Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) Counsel anticipates
spending one (1) hour reviewing any opposition and preparing reply papers.
(Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 11.) Counsel states that four (4) hours will be necessary
to prepare for, travel to, and attend the hearing. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 12.) Counsel
states that he has been practicing law since 1996 and his billing rate is
within the range of rates charged in Los Angeles County for attorneys with
comparable experience in similar practice areas. (Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 10, 13.)
A $60.00 filing fee was incurred. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 14.) Cross-Defendant
Separzadeh therefore requests monetary sanctions against Cross-Complainant Shu
in the amount of $3,310.00. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 15.) 
 
 
            Appropriateness
of Compelling Responses 
            Based
on the declaration of counsel, Cross-Complainant Shu has failed to provide
discovery responses. The Court therefore finds it appropriate to compel Cross-Complainant
Shu’s responses to Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s Form Interrogatories, Set One
and the Court GRANTS the Shu Motion. Cross-Complainant
Shu is ORDERED to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses,
without objections, to Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s Form Interrogatories, Set
One within 30 days of notice of this order. 
            Monetary Sanctions as to
Cross-Complainant Shu
            As to monetary sanctions, the Court
finds that the Motions are straightforward in nature and not complex. The Court
therefore GRANTS IN PART Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s request for monetary
sanctions and awards a reasonable amount of monetary sanctions as to the Shu
Motion in the amount of $810.00. Such an amount represents one (1) hour of work
on the Shu Motion at the rate of $750.00 per hour plus the $60.00 filing fee.
The Court reduces the total hours given the lack of complexity of the Motions.
Monetary sanctions in the amount of $810.00 are to be paid by Cross-Complainant
Shu to Cross-Defendant Separzadeh within 30 days of notice of this order. 
The
Shan Motion 
            In support of the Shan Motion, Kerendian
declares the following: on April 18, 2023, his office served set one of
Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
requests for admission, and requests for production of documents on counsel for
Cross-Complainants. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Cross-Complainant Shan has
failed to provide verified responses to the discovery requests. (Kerendian
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4; Exh. B.) To date, no verified responses have been provided.
(Kerendian Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            Counsel states that his hourly rate
is $750.00 per hour, and he has spent two (2) hours preparing the Shan Motion.
(Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) Counsel anticipates spending one (1) hour reviewing
any opposition and preparing reply papers. (Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 11.) Counsel
states that four (4) hours will be necessary to prepare for, travel to, and
attend the hearing. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 12.) Counsel states that he has been
practicing law since 1996 and his billing rate is within the range of rates
charged in Los Angeles County for attorneys with comparable experience in similar
practice areas. (Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 10, 13.) A $60.00 filing fee was incurred.
(Kerendian Decl., ¶ 14.) Cross-Defendant Separzadeh therefore requests monetary
sanctions against Cross-Complainant Shan in the amount of $3,310.00. (Kerendian
Decl., ¶ 15.) 
            Compelling Responses 
            Based on the declaration of counsel,
Cross-Complainant Shan has failed to provide discovery responses. The Court
therefore finds it appropriate to compel Cross-Complainant Shan’s responses to
Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and the Court GRANTS the Shan Motion.
Cross-Complainant Shan is ORDERED to provide verified, complete, and
code-compliant responses, without objections, to Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s
Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 30
days of notice of this order. 
            Monetary Sanctions as to
Cross-Complainant Shan
            As to monetary sanctions, the Court
finds that the Motions are straightforward in nature and not complex. The Court
therefore GRANTS IN PART Cross-Defendant Separzadeh’s request for monetary
sanctions and awards a reasonable amount of monetary sanctions as to the Shan
Motion in the amount of $435.00. Such an amount represents 0.5 hours of work on
the Shan Motion at the rate of $750.00 per hour plus the $60.00 filing fee. The
Court reduces the total hours given the lack of complexity of the Motions and
the Motions being essentially identical. Monetary sanctions in the amount of $435.00
are to be paid by Cross-Complainant Shan to Cross-Defendant Separzadeh within
30 days of notice of this order.  
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
June 6, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
