 Case Number:  22STCV25707    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
YEVGENY
  OSTROVSKIY;
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
MIKHAIL
  SIRETSKIY, et al.;
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  22STCV25707
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  08/09/22
Trial
  Date:  02/03/25
 
 
 



 
Hearing Date:             June
6, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant
Big Block Realty, Inc.
Responding Party:       Plaintiff
Yevgeny Ostrovskiy
 
Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint with Motion to Strike
 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
The court SUSTAINS
Defendant’s demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the Complaint,
with 30 days leave to amend.
            The
motion to strike is MOOT given that the Court granted leave to amend. 
Background
Plaintiff Yevgeny
Ostrovskiy filed this action on August 9, 2022 against defendants Mikhail
Siretskiy; The Siretskiy Organization, LLC; Siretskiy Real Estate Inc.; and Big
Block Realty, Inc., alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Fraud; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (4) Theft. The First Amended Complaint
alleges Plaintiff invested $100,000 with Defendants pursuant to their
Investment Agreement on August 21, 2018. (FAC ¶ 14.) Defendants allegedly only
returned $60,000 and have not repaid $40,000, despite Plaintiff’s demands. (Id.
at ¶¶ 14-16.)
Plaintiff filed
Amendments to Complaint on October 13, 2022, adding Ronny Santana (Doe 1),
Realty Source Incorporated (Doe 2), and eXp Realty of California, Inc. (Doe 3)
as doe defendants.
Defendant Big
Block Realty, Inc. filed its first demurrer to the Complaint on October 13,
2022. On July 19, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the first
and second causes of action of the Complaint with 30 days leave to amend. The
Court also overruled Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action of the
Complaint. 
On October 11,
2023, Defendant Big Block Realty, Inc. filed its Demurrer and Motion to Strike
the First Amended Complaint. On May 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the opposition. On
May 30, 2024, Defendant filed the reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of
the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Discussion
Meet and Confer
CCP § 430.41(a) states, in relevant part:
“Before filing a demurrer . . . the demurring party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
Defendant’s counsel attests that multiple meet
and confer efforts were made and on October 11, 2023, he spoke with Defendant’s
counsel via telephone regarding the Demurrer and Motion to Strike. (Bell Decl.
¶¶ 2-4.) Given the circumstances, the court finds Defendant sufficiently
satisfied the meet-and-confer requirements of CCP § 430.41. The court exercises
its discretion to proceed with ruling on the merits of the demurrer.
 
Demurrer
Defendant Big Block Realty, Inc. demurs to the first
and second causes of action on the ground they fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) 
 
First Cause of
Action – Breach of Contract
Defendant
contends that the first cause of action for breach of contract does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action because the First Amended Complaint’s
allegations fail to establish any actionable agreement between plaintiff Yevgeny
Ostrovskiy and defendant Big Block Realty, Inc. Defendant further argues that plaintiff’s
Investment Agreement (Exhibit C- First Amended Complaint “FAC” at p. 102.)
fails to show that defendant Big Block Realty, Inc. was a party to the
contract. Plaintiff alleges that a contract exists which was “executed by
Plaintiff and Siretskiy, in his capacity as agent for SRO (the collective of
Siretskiy, the Siretskiy Organization, LLC, and Siretskiy Real Estate, Inc.)”
(Opposition at 6.) Plaintiff also argues that California Code, Business and
Professions Code section 10010.5(b)(2) is sufficiently plead because the FAC
sets forth that “BBR, from September 8, 2020, until April 25, 2020, was the
responsible broker under California Real Estate statutes for defendant Siretskiy.”
(FAC ¶ 6.) In reply, Defendant argues that Defendant BBR was not associated
with Siretskiy or Plaintiff at the time the Agreement was executed and could
not have supervised and oversaw Siretskiy’s act of entering into the Agreement,
regardless of whether such act requires a license pursuant to Bus. & Prof.
Code section 10010.5(b)(2). 
“To
establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must plead
and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting
damages to the plaintiff.”  (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98 [internal citation omitted].) For
a written contract, the plaintiff may “plead the legal effect of the contract
rather than the price language.” (Ibid.) To “plead a contract by its
legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This
is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument,
comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.’ ” (McKell
v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  
The court finds
Defendant’s arguments have merit. The First Amended Complaint alleges that “Siretskiy
has been a licensed California real estate agent and is an agent of Big Block
Realty, Inc. [(“BBR”)] and subject to its supervision as a responsible broker,
and on information and belief at all times was and is acting within the scope
of such agency.” (FAC ¶ 2.) The FAC further alleges “Although defendant BBR was
not the responsible broker for defendant Siretskiy at the date the investment
agreement was executed, defendant Siretskiy continued to renew the Investment
Agreement with plaintiff Ostrovskiy and continued to make representations about
the Investment Agreement during the period of time that defendant BBR was the
responsible broker for defendant Siretskiy and was obligated by law to
supervise all of defendant Siretskiy’s activities, including his activities as
relate to plaintiff Ostrovskiy.” (FAC ¶ 7.) The FAC further alleges “Defendant
Siretskiy, on behalf of himself and on behalf of the other Siretskiy
Defendants, promised plaintiff before and on or about August 21, 2018, that his
investment in real estate was safe and secure and would be returned to him with
the guaranteed investment income within less than one year.” (FAC ¶ 28.) 
Nevertheless,
these facts are insufficient to state a cause of action for breach of contract
because there is no agreement between Defendant Big Block Realty, Inc. For
instance, Plaintiff concedes that “defendant BBR was not the responsible broker
for defendant Siretskiy at the date the investment agreement was executed”
which fails to show that there was an agreement between BBR and Plaintiff. (FAC
¶ 7.) 
The court
therefore SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurer to the first cause of action because it
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (CCP §
403.10(e).) The court grants Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Fraud
Defendant argues
the second cause of action for fraud does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action because (1) it is duplicative of and arises from
the same duty as Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim; (2) the fraud
allegations are not pled with the requisite specificity.
Plaintiff
asserts that the second cause of action is sufficiently pled because the broker
is liable for the torts of its real estate salesman under the doctrine of
respondeat superior. Plaintiff contends that the FAC’s allegations show the Siretskiy
Defendants made false representations to Plaintiff, knew they were false, and
never intended to repay Plaintiff.
“A person may not ordinarily recover in
tort for the breach of duties that merely restate contractual obligations.
Instead, courts will generally enforce the breach of a contractual promise
through contract law, except when the actions that constitute the breach
violate a social policy that merits the imposition of tort remedies.” (Stop Loss Ins. Brokers, Inc. v. Brown &
Toland Medical Group (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1041, internal quotations
omitted, quoting Aas v. Superior Court (2000)
24 Cal.4th 627, 643.)
The elements of
fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006)
145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including negligent
misrepresentation, must be pleaded with specificity. (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The
particularity demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where,
to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469, quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotations omitted.)
The court finds
Defendant’s arguments have merit. The FAC alleges that the Siretskiy Defendants
“promised plaintiff before and on or about August 21, 2018, that his investment
in real estate was safe and secure and would be returned to him with the guaranteed
investment income within less than one year.” (FAC ¶ 28.) This is the exact
same duty Plaintiff alleges for his breach of contract claim. (See id.
at ¶¶ 21-22.) Plaintiff once again does not address this issue in his
opposition.
The court notes
that, while Plaintiff maintains the Siretskiy Defendants never intended to
repay Plaintiff, this is not specifically alleged in the Complaint. (See
Compl., ¶¶ 21-22.) The FAC also alleges “[t]he Siretskiy Defendants and the
responsible broker, BBR, knew or should have known that plaintiff Ostrovskiy
was a person of limited means and that he could not afford to make the $100,000
investment requested by defendants.” (FAC ¶ 32.) 
The FAC further
alleges “Defendant Siretskiy made representations to the plaintiff Ostrovskiy
which were false and known by Siretskiy to be false when made. The
representations made by defendant Siretskiy as agent for BBR were intended to
cause reliance on each representations by plaintiff Ostrovskiy. These
representations were reasonably relied upon by plaintiff Ostrovskiy to his
detriment. These representations were: a. Your money is safe with me and will
be returned in one year, guaranteed; b. I shall return your money with a
substantial profit; c. I will make you a millionaire; d.
I am invested in multimillion dollar real estate projects in the Los Angeles
area; e. You should sell your house, rent your residence, and give me the
proceeds of the sale of your house so I can make you a fortune; and f. I will
return your investment with a substantial profit.” (FAC ¶ 11.) The FAC further
alleges “[t]hese representations were made in writing in text messages to
plaintiff and are attached to this First Amended Complaint and incorporated in
this First Amended Complaint as Exhibit “A,” as well as in e-mails attached and
incorporated in this First Amended Complaint as Exhibit “B.”” However, the
allegations do not provide dates as to when these statements were made. 
The FAC also
alleges “[i]n fact, Siretskiy is a crook and a fraud, taking money from
unsophisticated people who cannot afford to make the investment demanded of
them on the pretense of being part of a massive investment real estate group
when in fact he is not. The Siretskiy Defendants take the money of unsuspecting
and somewhat naive immigrants to the United States and not only makes false
promises of having a great return on income, never fully returns the principal
of the transferred funds which constituted the business opportunity.” (FAC ¶
14.)
However, these
alleged facts are insufficient to state a cause of action for fraud because
they are conclusory. Accordingly, the court also finds Plaintiff’s allegations
are not pled with the requisite specificity for fraud.
The court
therefore SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action because
it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (CCP §
430.10(e).) The court grants Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike 
            Defendant
BBR moves to strike improper matters from the FAC filed by Plaintiff on the
grounds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts supporting his claim for
attorneys’ fees and punitive damages against Defendant.
            The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The
grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.) 
 
            The
motion to strike is MOOT given that the Court granted leave to amend. 
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated:
June 6, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court