 Case Number:  23TRCV03914    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Plaintiff Ally BankResponding Party: NoneApplication for Writ of PossessionThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition has been received.RULINGThe application for writ of possession is DENIED without prejudice.BACKGROUNDOn November 27, 2023, plaintiff Ally Bank (“Ally”) filed a complaint against defendant Charhonda L. Bridges aka Charhonda Bridges (“Bridges”). The Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) claim and delivery of personal property; and (2) money due on a contract. The complaint alleges that Ally became the owner of a written contract through written assignment in which Bridges purchased from Plaintiff’s assignor a 2018 Mercedes-Benz GLE-Class, and said contract is in defect based on Bridges’ failure to make payment due and owing on April 11, 2023.On January 18, 2024, Ally filed the instant application for writ of possession relating the subject vehicle.LEGAL STANDARD“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.010(a).)Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 512.010(b), the application must be submitted under oath and include:(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.(2) A showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.(3) A particular description of the property and a statement of its value.(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such property is located there.(5) A statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.Before the hearing on the Writ of Possession, the defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in support thereof. (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.030.)“The writ will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 512.040(b).) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 511.090.)Prior to the issuance of a writ of possession, the Plaintiff must file an undertaking, unless it finds that the defendant has no interest in the property. (Code Civ. Proc. § 515.010.) The valueof the defendant’s interest in the property is determined by the market value of the property less the amount due and owing on any conditional sales contract. (Id.)DISCUSSIONAs a preliminary matter, the court is not in receipt of any proof of service for the summons and complaint, nor the notice of application and hearing. Nor has Ally sought to proceed on an ex-parte basis under Code of Civil Procedure § 512.020. Thus, Ally has failed to show that it complied with Code of Civil Procedure § 512.030. For this reason, the application is denied without prejudice.Accordingly, the application for writ of possession is DENIED without prejudice.Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.