 Case Number:  24STCV09146    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EAST
  WEST BANK 
  
         vs.
 
VALENTINA
  PAPAZIAN, et al. 
  


 Case No.: 
  24STCV09146 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 13, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  
 
On 4/11/2024,
Plaintiff East West Bank (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Valentina
Papazian, Takuhi Papazian, Arshavir Khachikian, Gevork Papazian, and Hagop
Papazian (collectively, Defendants) for unlawful detainer.  
 
            On
12/4/2024, Plaintiff moved for summary judgment, or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that it is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. More specifically,
Plaintiff contends that it:
 
(H)as
established that Defendants are guilty of unlawful detainer of the subject
premises as holdover occupants following a non-judicial foreclosure sale of the
premises, proper service of the notice to quit, failure of Defendants to vacate
the premises within the time given in the notice to quit, and entitlement to
holdover damages in the amount at least $900/day since expiration of the notice
to quit on February 23, 2024 through the date of entry of judgment.
 
            (MSJ,
2: 13-18.) 
 
            In
support, Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
On or about November 7, 2017, Defendant
Valentina Papazian (“Valentina”) executed a Deed of Trust (the “Deed of Trust”)
encumbering the real property commonly known as 2025 East Live Oak Drive, Los
Angeles, CA 90068 (“the Property”). The Deed of Trust was recorded in the
Official Records, County of Los Angeles, on November 15, 2017, as Document No.
20171310503. (SS 1.) 
 
-        
On March 15, 2021, a Substitution of
Trustee was executed. First American Title Insurance Company (“First American”)
was named as the Trustee. The Substitution of Trustee was recorded in the
Official Records, County of Los Angeles, on March 22, 2021, as Document No.
20210449612. (SS 2.) 
 
-        
On March 23, 2021, First American
executed a Notice of Default and Election to Sell Under Deed of Trust and
included a declaration verifying that the requirements of Civil Code §2923.5
have been met. The Notice of Default was recorded in the Official Records,
County of Los Angeles, on March 25, 2021, as Document No. 20210473903. (SS 3.) 
 
-        
In 2022, Valentina filed a Chapter 11
bankruptcy case. On February 21, 2023, Valentina and East West Bank entered
into a Stipulation for Resolution of East West Bank’s Objection to Debtor’s
Amended Chapter 11 Plan (“Stipulation”) and the United States Bankruptcy Court
approved the Stipulation on February 22, 2023 (“BK Stipulation and Order”). (SS
4.) 
 
-        
On August 29, 2023, a Notice of
Trustee’s Sale was executed. The Notice of Trustee’s Sale was recorded in the
Official Records, County of Los Angeles, on August 30, 2023, as Document No.
20230577084. The sale was properly postponed until December 12, 2023. (SS 5.) 
 
-        
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff
purchased the Property at a Trustee’s Sale held in accordance with Civil Code §
2924 under a power of sale contained in the Deed of Trust. (SS 6.) 
 
-        
On January 31, 2024, title to the
Property was duly perfected in Plaintiff by the recording of a Trustee’s Deed
Upon Sale in the Official Records, County of Los Angeles, as Document No.
20240067623. (SS 7.) 
 
-        
On February 19, 2024, a registered
process server served on Defendants, and each of them, a notice to quit and
deliver up possession of the Property to Plaintiff within three (3) days after
service of the notice to quit. (SS 8.) 
 
-        
More than three days have elapsed since
service of the notice to quit. However, Defendants remain in possession of the
Property. (SS 9.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff has incurred holdover damages
at a rate of at least $900/day due to Defendants’ unlawful possession since
February 23, 2024. (SS 10.) 
 
To establish
that there is no merit to Defendants’ affirmative defenses of (1) protection
under the Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance and (2)  protection under the California Tenant
Protection Act of 2019, Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
            
-        
The property is a single-family
residence comprised of only one “rental unit” at the Property. (SS 11.) 
 
-        
Defendants Takuhi, Arshavir, Gevork,
Hagop, and Dickran occupy the Property with Valentina. (SS 12.) 
 
-        
Defendant Takuhi, Arshavir, Gevork,
Hagop, and Dickran are related to Valentina as follows: (1) sister-in-law
(Takuhi), (2) brother (Arshavir), (3) younger son (Gevork), (4) eldest son
(Hagop) and (5) husband (Dickran). (SS 13.) 
 
-        
Plaintiff has never entered into a
rental agreement for occupancy of the Property nor has Plaintiff ever accepted
any rental payments from Defendants after it purchased the Property at
foreclosure. (SS 14.) 
 
To establish
that Defendants’ third affirmative defense of defective notice under CCP
section 1161(b) is without merit, Plaintiff submitted the evidence set forth
above, along with evidence that:
 
-        
On February 19, 2024, a registered
process server served on Defendants, and each of them, a notice to quit and
deliver up possession of the Property to Plaintiff within three (3) days after
service of the notice to quit. (SS 20.) 
 
-        
This post-foreclosure unlawful detainer
action was filed to regain possession of the Property and title to the Property
was duly perfected in Plaintiff by the recording of a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale
in the Official Records, County of Los Angeles, as Document No. 20240067623.
(SS 21.) 
 
To establish
that Defendants’ fourth affirmative defense of breach of the warranty of
habitability is without merit, Plaintiff submitted the evidence set forth
above, along with evidence that:
 
-        
Plaintiff has never entered into a
rental agreement for occupancy of the Property nor has Plaintiff ever accepted
any rental payments from Defendants after it purchased the Property at
foreclosure. (SS 25.) 
 
-        
There are no habitability issues at the
Property and Defendants have never notified Plaintiff of any habitability
issues at the Property. (SS 26.) 
 
To establish
that Defendants’ fifth affirmative defense of waiver, change or cancellation of
the Notice to Quit is without merit, Plaintiff submitted the evidence set forth
above, along with evidence that:
 
-        
Plaintiff has never waived, changed, or
cancelled the notice to quit. (SS 29.) 
 
To establish
that Defendants’ sixth affirmative defense of the defense of equity has no
merit, Plaintiff submitted the evidence set forth above. 
 
To establish
that Defendants’ seventh and eighth affirmative defenses of retaliatory
eviction and discrimination have no merit, Plaintiff submitted the evidence
already set forth above that Plaintiff has never entered into a rental
agreement for occupancy of the Property nor has Plaintiff ever accepted any
rental payments from Defendants after it purchased the Property at foreclosure.
Plaintiff also submitted evidence that Plaintiff’s motivation for eviction was
based solely on its right to possession of the Property as a purchaser after a
validly conducted foreclosure sale. (SS 1-7.)
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that it is the rightful owner of the
property, that it is entitled to immediate possession of the property, that
Defendants have maintained unlawful detainer of the property as holdover
occupants, and that this has caused holdover damages in the amount of at least
$900/day since expiration of the notice to quit on February 23, 2024.
Accordingly, the burden shifts to Defendants to disclose a triable issue of
material fact. 
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that summary judgment should be denied pursuant to
the doctrine of promissory estoppel. 
 
Defendant
Gevork Papazian submitted a declaration stating that he was promised the
opportunity to purchase the subject property, that he relied upon said promise,
to the extent that he was instructed to obtain $500,000 down payment, and that
he has taken action to comply with the terms thereof. (See Gevork
Papazian Decl.) In support, Defendant submitted an email correspondence related
to his intent to purchase the subject property for $4.8 million, between
Plaintiff's counsel, Melissa Sgroi, Sanne Lee (seller’s agent), and John Gerro,
his former attorney who facilitated the negotiation. (Gevork Papazian Decl,
Exh. A.) 
 
As a
preliminary matter, Defendants did not allege promissory estoppel as an
affirmative defense, and thus this argument falls outside the four corners of
the pleadings.
 
However, even
if this defect were set aside, the correspondence submitted in no way
establishes that an agreement to allow Defendant Gevork to purchase the
property was made, or that he reasonably relied on a promise to purchase the
property. In fact, the email from Ms. Sgroi to Mr. Gerro, Jacob Parteyeli and
Sanne Lee expressly states that “[i]t is my understanding that Buyer was unable
to comply with the terms of Seller's Counter Offer No. 1. Among other things,
Buyer was unable to provide the initial deposit of $500,000 set forth in his
original offer….” Ms. Sgroi provides, 
 
 In an effort to move these negotiations
forward, my client is willing to entertain an offer that includes all of the
terms set forth in Seller's Counter Offer No. 1 (with accompanying Addenda), as
well as the following modifications/additions….
 
(Exh. A, p. 8.)
 
Then, Ms. Sgroi
states “[i]t is my hope that we can come to an agreement shortly and that you
will encourage your client to promptly submit a counter offer along the terms
set forth above.” (Id. at p. 10.) 
            
            As
such, this email in no ways shows that an agreement was made to allow Mr.
Papazian to repurchase his home. Rather, the email is clear that an offer was
extended, Mr. Papazian was unable to meet the terms of the offer, and another
counter-offer was extended. Mr. Papazian did not submit any correspondence to
show he accepted the offer, nor has he submitted any evidence to show that he
took any actions to comply with the offer in reasonable reliance only to
have Plaintiff rescind. In fact, the only other email is from Ms. Lee, who
states that the seller is staying firm based on the last countered terms as
presented by the Bank's counsel. Thus, this email confirms the fact that no
agreement had been reached and that the seller was staying firm on the terms. 
 
Defendants
did not submit any evidence which could show that they reasonably relied upon a
belief they could repurchase the property when the evidence presented shows a
clear communication of the terms for repurchase, and their failure to meet
them. Moreover, Defendants did not actually submit any evidence which could
show detrimental reliance—i.e., Defendants did not submit any evidence to show
that they actually took any steps towards complying with the agreement. A
failure to vacate the property based on an (understandable) desire to stay is
not synonymous with reasonable reliance on a belief that there has been an
agreement to allow you to stay. 
 
            Importantly,
Defendants did not substantively address any of their affirmative defenses
related to habitability, retaliation, or defective notice, nor did they address
damages in any way. The Court takes this failure to be a concession to
Plaintiff’s arguments on the merits. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is granted.  
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 