 Case Number:  23PSCV00895    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF'S
APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT is DENIED. The application is denied
without prejudice as service appears improper. In the alternative, the
application is denied without prejudice as Plaintiff has not filed adequate
evidence. 
 
Background
 
This is a unlawful detainer (UD) case. 


On March 24, 2023, Plaintiff 9920 Management LLC filed suit
against Defendant GV Yummy Inc.
 
On April 28, 2023, the default was entered against
Defendant. 
 
On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a ‘Declaration for Default
Judgment by Court.’ 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks default judgment against Defendant in the
total amount of $71,047.50 [calculated as follows: $60,000 in past-due rent,
$9,500 in holdover damages, $1,000 in attorney fees, and $547.50 in costs]. 
 
The application is denied for two reasons. 
 
1.    
Service
 
According to the proof of service (POS) filed on 4/28/23,
Plaintiff served a Hiedi Gao, an employee, of Defendant. More specifically, the
declaration of due diligence attached to the POS provides that the registered
process server “was waiting for hotel staff to finish talking on the phone when
I noticed a lady opening the door to the restaurant with a key, walked up to
her. confirmed her as an employee of the restaurant and served her on behalf of
the company.” 
However, service on an employee of a corporation
does not effectuate service of summons and complaint. 
 
To effectuate service on a corporation, summons may be delivered
to the agent for service of process or to the president, chief executive
officer, or other head of the corporation, a vice president, a secretary or
assistant secretary, a treasurer or assistant treasurer, a controller or chief
financial officer, a general manager, or a person authorized by the corporation
to receive service of process. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10(a), (b).) 
 
“By its terms, section 416.10 permits service
on a corporation [] by way of service on an individual or entity designated as
an agent for service of process (§ 416.10,
subd. (a)); service on one of the 11 officers or managers of the corporation
specified in section
416.10, subdivision (b); service on a person authorized by the corporation to
receive service (§ 416.10,
subd. (c)); or service in a manner authorized by the Corporations Code (§ 416.10,
subd. (d)). 
 
“[M]ere receipt of the summons by an unknown employee of the
corporation who is not a person specified in section 416.10 does not
necessarily establish substantial compliance. [Citation]. Evidence that shows the
name of the person who received the summons and complaint as well as the person's
title or capacity is required by statute (§ 417.10) and, without it, a
trial court need not infer that a person specified in section 416.10 actually received the summons and
complaint.” (Ramos v. Homeward Residential, Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
1434, 1443, emphasis and underline added.) 
 
Here, the POS indicates that the person is merely an
employee; not one of the designated persons specified in section 416.10. Absent
more information about this employee, service appears improper. 
 
Therefore, service upon the Defendant corporation is not
statutorily compliant, meaning default was improperly entered. 
 
2.    
Default Judgment Material
California Code of Civil
Procedure section 585 (“CCP”) permits entry of a judgment after a Defendant has
failed to timely answer after being properly served. A party seeking judgment
on the default by the Court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought; (7) a dismissal
of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for
separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each
judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for attorneys’ fees if
allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties. (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1800.)
Plaintiff has not complied
with most of the requirements such as providing evidence of damages (e.g.,
authenticated spreadsheet of rent) and providing a computation of attorney
fees. All Plaintiff has merely filed an authenticated lease and the eviction
notice. 
Therefore, absent compliance
with CCP section 585, the application is denied without prejudice. 
 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing—as
service appears improper and Plaintiff has not filed all application
material—the application is denied without prejudice. 
 