 Case Number:  24VECV01645    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV01645 U-Haul v
Manoukian
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendants U-Haul Co. of California,
U-Haul Co. of Arizona, and Arcoa Risk Retention Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED.
Cross-Defendants U-Haul Co. of
California, U-Haul Co. of Arizona, and Arcoa Risk Retention Group, Inc.’s
Motion to Strike Portions of the Cross-Complaint is NOT CONSIDERED (see below.)
Introduction 
Cross-Defendants U-Haul Co. of
California (UHCC), U-Haul Co. of Arizona (UHCA), and Arcoa Risk Retention
Group, Inc. (Arcoa) (collectively, Cross-Defendants) demurred to
Cross-Complainant Volodia Manoukian’s (Cross-Complainant) Cross-Complaint (XC).  The demurrer placed into issue all causes of
action (COA) alleged:  the first COA for
breach of contract, the second COA for breach of the covenant of god faith and
fair dealing, the third COA for negligence, the fourth COA for violation of the
Unfair Competition Law (Business and Professions Code secs. 17200) (UCL), the
fifth COA for fraud/deceit, and the sixth COA for intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED).
Cross-Defendants moved to strike
the request for punitive damages under the first COA for breach of contract,
the fifth COA for fraud, and the sixth COA for IIED.  
Procedure 
As to the concurrently filed
motion to strike, the only briefs received by the Court was the motion to
strike and the reply to the motion to strike. 
The opposition to the motion to strike was not received.  It is evident that an opposition was served
upon Cross-Defendant, as it was referenced in the reply brief.  Because not all briefs were submitted to the
Court for review, the Court did not consider the motion to strike.   The
court might continue the matter to allow the opposition to be properly
filed.  The court notes that there was a
rejected document at the time of the filings and that may have been the
opposition.  It is counsel's
responsibility to assure all documents are properly filed.
Discussion 
Cross-Defendants argued that all
COAs, and specifically the first COA for breach of contract, the second COA for
breach of the good faith and fair dealing, the third COA for negligence and the
fourth COA for UCL violation, are barred based upon the rental contract
provision excluding claims based upon Cross-Complainant’s crime/fraud and
Cross-Complainant’s breach of the rental contract based upon
Cross-Complainant’s crime/fraud. 
Cross-Defendants argued that Cross-Complainant’s claims were based upon
crime/fraud which was discovered during Cross-Defendants’ investigation of the
matter.  However, on a demurrer, the
facts alleged in the pleading are deemed true. 
Further, the demurrer is limited to a review of facts alleged within
the four corners of the pleading.  The
Cross-Complaint’s allegations expressly deny any involvement in any crime/fraud
or scheme to defraud Cross-Defendants (XC pars. 7-9) and any results of
Cross-Defendants’ investigation into the matter are outside the four corners of
the pleading.  Cross-Defendants
arguments asserting the crime/fraud provision of the rental contract are not
persuasive.
As to the first COA for breach of
contract, Cross-Defendants argued that the Cross-Complaint failed to attach a
copy of the rental agreement.  But the
argument is unfounded because the rental agreement is attached as Exhibit A,
despite Cross-Defendants’ asserting that the document is only an “equipment
contract”.  A review of the terms of the
attached document shows that the document is a rental agreement for a truck.  The argument is unfounded.
Cross-Defendants argued that
punitive damages are improperly requested under a breach of contract COA.  However, issues as to improper damages being
alleged is not a proper argument to be raised in a demurrer.  A demurrer only tests the sufficiency of the
pleading elements of each COA.  The
argument as to punitive damages are unpersuasive and improper for a
demurrer.
Cross-Defendants argued that the
second COA for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing failed to
allege facts to support bad faith conduct. 
However, the argument ignores Cross-Complainant’s allegation that
the reasons Cross-Defendants asserted for denying the claim were
fraudulent.  The argument ignores the
express factual allegations in the Cross-Complaint and the argument is
unpersuasive.
Specifically against the third
COA for negligence, the fourth COA for UCL violations, and the sixth COA for
IIED, Cross-Defendants argued that Cross-Complainant’s claim is based upon
crime/fraud and it is Cross-Complainant that breached the duties owed.  Cross-Defendants again disputed the
validity of the COAs arguing that it was Cross-Complainant that is being
fraudulent in making the claim.  However,
as reviewed above, the argument is unpersuasive and improper for the
demurrer stage.
Cross-Defendants argued that the
fifth COA for fraud failed to identify any false statement.  However, Cross-Complainant expressly alleged
that Cross-Defendants “represented that when claims are presented for damages
for the vehicle for which insurance coverage was purchased by
CROSS-COMPLAINANT, the CROSS-DEFENDANTS would not do anything to hinder and/or
deprive the CROSS-COMPLAINANT the rights and benefits under the policy.”  (XC par. 80.) 
Further, Cross-Complainant expressly alleged that Cross-Defendants
“misrepresented their intentions to him and deceived him into signing the
agreement to purchase the insurance coverage for the vehicle.”  (XC par. 81.)  These allegations are sufficient fact pleading
to identify the misrepresentations made by Cross-Defendants.  Cross-Defendants’ argument is unpersuasive.
The court considers whether
the demurrer was frivolous and a waste of the court's time, and will discuss
this at the hearing.  It refers to facts
outside of the cross-complaint to dispute the validity of the allegations (which
is not allowed on demurrer), it overlooks clearly stated allegations in the
cross-complaint, and it disregards the contract attached.
The Demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.