 Case Number:  22VECV01693    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  T TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
Plaintiff’s
Motions in Limine
 
1.
Grant.  Any evidence of alternate causes
to plaintiff’s injuries must be established "more probably true than not
true."  Anything less would be
speculation.  If needed, the court can
conduct a 402 hearing on defense expert’s opinions to assure they meet this
standard before presented to the jury.
2.
Grant.  Lack of prior incidents is
irrelevant if defendant was the direct cause of the negligence. However, if
this case is solely based on notice, then the information is relevant.  
3.
Grant.  The court will not allow evidence
of insurance, Medicare, or Medi-cal reimbursement rates as evidence of the
reasonable costs of medical services.
 
Defendant’s
Motions in Limine
1.
Grant.  If there is no claim for loss of wages,
then the issue of loss of wages should not be brought up by anyone.
2.
Grant.  There shall be no mention of
settlement or opportunities to settle or the failure of defendant to take
responsibility, just as there shall be no mention of plaintiff’s failure to
take responsibility for his own injuries.
3.
Deny.  An unpaid bill may be introduced
as evidence of liability for the bill.
4.
Grant.  It is irrelevant as to whether a
company, like Home Depot, had the resources to fix the issue.
5.
Denied in a vacuum.  There needs to be a
specific discovery request and discovery response in issue.
6.
Grant. (This is a change from the court's previous tentative.)  CCP Section 222.5, subdivision (b)(1)
provides, in pertinent part: “Upon completion of the trial judge’s initial
examination, counsel for each party shall have the right to examine, by oral
and direct questioning, any of the prospective jurors in order to enable
counsel to intelligently exercise both peremptory challenges and challenges for
cause. . . . During any examination conducted by counsel for the parties, the
trial judge shall permit liberal and probing examination calculated to discover
bias or prejudice with regard to the circumstances of the particular case
before the court.” Subdivision (b)(3) provides: “For purposes of this section,
an ‘improper question’ is any question that, as its dominant purpose, attempts
to precondition the prospective jurors to a particular result, indoctrinate the
jury, or question the prospective jurors concerning the pleadings or the
applicable law.”  Except in closing
argument, no counsel has the right to mention a dollar amount.  Voir dire “should not be used to educate the
jury panel to the particular facts of the case, to compel the jurors to commit
themselves to vote a particular way, to prejudice the jury for or against a
particular party, to argue the case, to indoctrinate the jury, or to instruct
the jury in matters of law.” (People v. Fierro (1991) 1 Cal.4th 173, 209.)
7. Grant. There shall
be no mention of insurance.  Also, Plaintiff
cannot mention “sending a message” or that the community safety is in issue in
this case, or to suggest that the jurors are setting a community standard of
safety by their decision in this case or to suggest that the decision in this
case has any broader effect than on the parties in this case, or to suggest
that the jurors are to follow their own personal standards, or otherwise make
statements which may induce jury nullification of the law.