 Case Number:  23VECV02577    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV02577 MAHTAB
GHARACHEHDAGY vs IRINA GRINBLAT
TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Irina Grinblat’s Demurrer to the
First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  Defendant to file and serve a proposed
Judgment of Dismissal.
Introduction 
Defendant Irina Grinblat
(Defendant), as an individual and as a trustee, demurred to Plaintiff Mahtab
Gharachehdagy’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).  Defendant’s demurrer placed into issue the
first cause of action (COA) for declaratory relief and the second COA for
breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. 
Discussion 
At the prior demurrer to the
original complaint heard on January 10, 2024, the Court sustained the demurrer
and required Plaintiff to amend the pleading to add factual allegations
regarding an actual controversy under the declaratory relief COA and to add
factual allegations regarding the alleged misconduct being levied against
Defendant.  The changes allegedly made in
the FAC, as outlined in the instant demurrer (see Demurrer, pg. 4:18-5:23), are
insufficient to cure the previously identified pleading defects.  
Plaintiff’s FAC attached the
document and/or alleged the property rights relevant to the alleged
controversy.  Plaintiff attached the
ingress/egress easement (i.e., driveway to access Defendant’s property).  (FAC par. 7, Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff further attached a copy of the
alleged “Covenant and Agreement for Community Driveway” easement, which
Plaintiff is requesting the Court to order Defendant to enter.  (FAC par. 14, Exh. 3.)  The form promulgated by Los Angeles Dept. of
Building and Safety (LADBS) expressly states: 
“This covenant and agreement …. shall continue in effect until the
Superintendent of Building of the City of Los Angeles determines the community
driveway easement covered by this covenant is no longer required in order to
comply with Section 12.21 A4 (h) of the Los Angeles Municipal Code relating to
required access to by law.”  (Id. at
“Page 1 of 1”, third full paragraph.) 
The “community driveway” easement is seen to add a third party to the
agreement – the City of LA.   The LADBS
form shows that the City of LA obtains rights in determining whether the
easement can continue to exist.  The
easement thus turns the current two-party easement into a three-party
easement.    
Plaintiff alleged that
Defendant’s refusal to terminate the current ingress/egress easement and enter
into a “community driveway” easement is an “intangible impediment” to
Plaintiff’s use of her own property. 
(FAC par. 12.)  To support the
claim, Plaintiff’s FAC expressly cited to Dolnikov v. Ezeikian (2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 419 (Dolnikov), as well as other case law to argue that
an “intangible impediment” is valid grounds for the two COAs.  (FAC par. 12.)  However, the Court’s ruling on the demurrer
to the original Complaint reviewed the Dolnikov case and held that it
was distinguishable to the facts alleged in the instant case and ordered
Plaintiff to plead additional facts to show how Dolnikov is
controlling.  As reviewed at the previous
hearing, Dolnikov opined that a “servient owner’s (defendant’s) refusal
to sign a retaining wall permit and a covenant for community driveway rendered
the dominant owner’s (plaintiff’s) easement useless for the purpose for which
it was intended.”  (See January 10, 2024
Minute Order, pg. 2 of 3.)  As reviewed
previously, the facts in the instant action is opposite to those reviewed in Dolnikov.  At issue here is the dominant owner’s
(defendant’s) alleged refusal to terminate the current easement and enter into
a community driveway easement.  Further,
the alleged “intangible impediment” does not affect the dominant owner’s use of
the easement.  There are no facts to show
that Defendant’s use of the easement is being infringed.  It is noted that Plaintiff alleged a
“possible temporary ‘encroachment’ on the easement” during
renovation/construction.  (FAC par.
11.)  However, the allegation is
speculative and unsupported by any facts. 
The potential issue is not a ripe issue. 
Without ripeness, there is no controversy for the Court to resolve.  None of the new allegations in the FAC
switches the relative positions of the parties.   
None of the new factual
allegations presents persuasive pleadings to show that Dolnikov is
controlling.  Termination of the current
easement and entry into a new easement is not sufficiently alleged to be a
right held by Plaintiff nor an obligation imposed upon Defendant.  Without curing this pleading defect,
Plaintiff also did not cure the failure to allege Defendant’s misconduct under
the second COA.  
For the above pleading defects,
there is good cause to sustain the demurrer.
Plaintiff made a conclusory
request for leave to amend.  However, the
opposition merely stood on the allegations already alleged in the FAC.  Plaintiff did not provide any facts to show
how the same pleading defects identified in the demurrer to the original
complaint and the instant demurrer can be cured.  A bald request for leave to amend is
insufficient.
Plaintiff’s request for leave to
amend is denied.  
The demurrer to the FAC is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Defendant to submit a proposed
Judgment of Dismissal.
Clerk of the court to give
notice.
 IT IS SO ORDERED.