 Case Number:  23STCV04278    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  30 MANUEL DESILVEIRA, et al. vs MARISCOS BAHIA, INC., et al.TENTATIVEModesto Irrigation District’s motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED.Modesto Irrigation District is ordered to file the proposed complaint-in-intervention attached as Exhibit A to the declaration of counsel as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (e) with the Court within 10 days of this order.Moving party is ordered to give notice.Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure, section 387, subdivision (d)(1) provides that the court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if “a provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene,” or “[t]he person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.” Additionally, upon timely application, a court may “permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).) A court will determine the timeliness of a motion to intervene based on the date when a nonparty “knew or should have known their interests in the litigation were not being adequately represented.” (Ziani Homeowners Assn. v. Brookfield Ziani LLC (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 274, 282.)Under Labor Code section¿3852, “[a]ny¿employer who pays, or becomes obligated to pay compensation . . . may likewise make a claim or bring an action against the third person.¿ In the latter event the employer may recover in the same suit, in addition to the total amount of compensation, damage for which he or she was liable including all salary, wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the employee or to his or her dependents.”¿ “If the employer is insured against workmen’s compensation liability, the insurer has the same right of action as the employer, or is subrogated to the employer’s right. In enforcing its cause of action the insurer may . . . join as party plaintiff in the suit previously filed by the employee.”¿¿(Burum¿v. State Compensation Ins. Fund¿(1947) 30 Cal.2d 575, 580-581.)¿¿Further, Labor Code section¿3853¿provides that “[i]f the action is brought by either the employer or employee, the other may, at any time before trial on the facts, join as party plaintiff or shall consolidate his action, if brought independently.”¿¿In terms of the form of the petition, Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (c) provides that a nonparty “shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or by ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.”DiscussionThe Court finds that Proposed Intervenor Modesto Irrigation District has satisfied the filing requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (c) by filing a noticed motion and declaration setting forth the grounds for intervention as well as a copy of its proposed complaint in intervention. (Langevin Decl. ¶ 2-5; Exh. 1.)Modesto Irrigation District seeks to intervene in the action under Labor Code sections 3852 and 3853 Plaintiff was an employee of Modesto Irrigation District. Modesto Irrigation District notes that pursuant to Plaintiff’s workers’ compensation insurance policy, it has been obligated to pay workers’ compensation benefits to Plaintiff following the injuries alleged in Plaintiff’s complaint.The Court finds that Modesto Irrigation District is entitled to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section 387. First, the Court finds that Modesto Irrigation District’s motion is timely because Labor Code section 3853 allows a nonparty to join as a party plaintiff “at any time before trial on the facts.” Second, the Court finds that Labor Code sections 3852 and 3853 grant Modesto Irrigation District the right to intervene under Code of Civil Procedure section 387 because Modesto Irrigation District has a right of subrogation as the insurer of Plaintiff and has incurred an obligation to continue paying workers’ compensation benefits to Plaintiff pursuant to Plaintiff’s insurance policy. (Lab. Code § 3852; see also Burum, 30 Cal.2d at 580-581.) Modesto Irrigation District may file a complaint-in-intervention to recover for the “total amount of compensation” paid to Plaintiff and related damages. (Lab. Code. § 3852.) Accordingly, the Court finds that Modesto Irrigation District has sufficiently claimed an interest relating to the disposition of the action for purposes of intervention.ConclusionBased on the foregoing, Modesto Irrigation District’s motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED.Modesto Irrigation District is ordered to file the proposed complaint-in-intervention attached as Exhibit 1 as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (e) with the Court within 10 days of this order.