 Case Number:  24TRCV00402    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  SWP DHA OPPORTUNITY 1 LP, etc.,
Plaintiff,
vs.
STEVEN A. TIMPER, etc., et al.,
Defendants.CASE NO: 24TRCV00402
[TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT FOR
DAMAGES Dept. P
8:30 a.m.
June 26, 2024 Having considered plaintiff’s motion and the associated exhibits, the court rules as follows: the
motion for leave to file a first amended complaint is GRANTED. I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn February 5, 2024, Plaintiff DHA Opportunity 1 LP (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Steven A. Timper, Hilda Timper, Fidelity National Title Company, Infinity Escrow Company, Home Team Realty, Eric Mori Schaub, and Does 1 through 100, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Fraud and Deceit; (2) Negligence; (3) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (4) Breach of Written Title Insurance Policy.On February 29, 2024, pursuant to a Request for Dismissal filed by Plaintiff, Defendant Fidelity National Title Company was dismissed from this action without prejudice.On March 13, 2024, Defendants Steven A. Timper and Hilma Timper filed a joint Answer to the Complaint, as well as a Cross-Complaint for Declaratory Relief against Cross-Defendant Richard Ovalle.On May 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant unopposed Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint for Damages (the “Motion”). Plaintiff seeks an order granting leave for Plaintiff to file a First Amended Complaint.As of June 21, 2024, the Motion is unopposed. Any opposition to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing. (CCP § 1005(b).)II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff alleges wrongful actions concerning the purchase of real property. (Complaint, ¶¶ 31-32.) Plaintiff alleges that due to Defendants’ fraud and deceit, it was induced to pay more than the value of the property and was also induced to incur expenses in past and current unlawful detainer lawsuits. (Complaint, ¶ 32.)III. LEGAL STANDARDThe trial court has discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “There is a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.” (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945, citation omitted.) “An application to amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.” (Ibid., citation omitted.)Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate declaration must accompany a motion for leave to amend and must specify: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) A party seeking leave to amend must attach a copy of the proposed pleading to the motion for leave to amend. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(1).) A motion for leave to amend must also state what allegations are proposed to be added or deleted to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number the additional or deleted allegations or located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a)(2)-(3).)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsPlaintiff contends that a court shall liberally grant leave to amend or supplement a complaint so that the action may be tried fully on its merits in a single action.Responding Party’s OppositionNo opposition filed as of June 21, 2024.Moving Party’s ReplyNo reply filed as of June 21, 2024.Merits of the MotionA. Procedural Defects in the MotionPlaintiff argues that the proposed First Amended Complaint deletes certain parties no longer intended to be defendants in this action, substitutes a correct entity for an individual, deletes a claim on a title insurance policy or against a title insurer, but otherwise is based on the same facts as the Complaint. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities at p. 9:9-13.)The Court finds that the Motion is procedurally sufficient and the declaration of H.G. Long (“Long”) in support of the Motion is compliant with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324. The declaration of counsel states: (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier, as required by Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).The Motion is GRANTED.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED