  Case Number:  22SMCV02253    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Finerty v.
Lobb & Plewe LLP, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV02253
MOTION:                  Motion
for Stay Pending Arbitration
HEARING DATE:   6/27/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.
 
If an application has been made
to a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, for an
order to arbitrate a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State and such application is
undetermined, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall,
upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or
proceeding until the application for an order to arbitrate is determined and,
if arbitration of such controversy is ordered, until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.
 
If the issue which is the
controversy subject to arbitration is severable, the stay may be with respect
to that issue only.
 
(CCP § 1281.4.)
 
“¿Every court shall have the
power to […] provide for the orderly conduct of proceedings before it, or its
officers.¿” (¿¿CCP § 128 (a)(3)¿¿.) “The ¿case management tools available to
trial courts includ[e] ¿the inherent authority to stay an action when
appropriate.¿” (Jordache Enterprises, Inc. v. Brobeck, Phleger &
Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 758¿¿.)  

 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
Plaintiff’s objections to the evidence submitted in reply
are SUSTAINED.
 
Analysis
 

Defendants, Wilfrid Lemann and
Fullerton, Lemann, Schaefer & Dominick LLP (Lemann Defendants) move for a
stay of proceedings pending conclusion of a separate matter that was ordered to
arbitration in Robert Howard Jr. v. Joseph Duerr, et al, (LASC Case No.
22STCV21063). Defendants Gaudy Law Inc and Jason Guady (Guady Defendants), and
Defendants Lobb & Plewe LLP, Kevin Abbott, and Chandra Winter (Lobb
Defendants) joined in the motion.
 
Defendants argue that Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.4 requires a stay of this action because this action and
the Duerr Arbitration are both brought by Plaintiffs and both actions concern
Joseph Duerr and his company, Realty Advisors & Asset Managers Inc. (RAAM).
There, Plaintiffs allege that Dueer and RAAM took advantage of Robert S. Howard
Jr., and depleted Howard’s assets through a series of asset and/or property
management agreements between Howard and RAAM executed in 2007, 2015, and 2017
(“the RAAM Agreements”). This lawsuit, however, alleges causes of action for
breach of fiduciary duties and professional negligence against Defendants.
Defendants were allegedly Howard’s attorneys in fact and represented him during
certain transactions involving Duerr. (SAC ¶¶23-29.)
 
Defendants do not show that Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.4 applies to the instant action. To invoke this
section, defendants must be parties to the underlying arbitration agreement and
litigation. The plain language of sections 1281.4 and 1280(d) “compels the
conclusion” that “the pending action involve both the arbitrable question and
the parties in the arbitration.” (Leenay v. Superior Court, (2022) 81
Cal. App. 5th 553, 563-564.) “[S]ection 1281.4 applies only when a court has
ordered parties to arbitration, the arbitrable issue arises in the pending
court action, and the parties in the arbitration are also parties to the
court action.” (Id. at 558, emphasis added.) Although CCP section
1281.4 “does not specify that any of the parties in the pending action must
also be parties to the litigation… the principle that the parties to the
arbitration must be parties in the pending action inheres in the statutory
definition of controversy.” (Id. at 563.) “Controversy” is a defined
under CCP section 1280(d) to mean “any question arising between parties to
an agreement whether the question is one of law or of fact or both.” (CCP §1280(d),
emphasis added.) “Incorporating the statutory definition of controversy,
section 1281.4 means that if (1) a court has ordered arbitration of a question
arising between parties to an agreement, and (2) the same question arises
between those parties in a pending action, then (3) the court ‘shall’ stay the
action (or enter a stay with respect to the arbitrable issue, if the issue is
severable).” (Leenay, supra, 81 Cal. App. 5th at 564.)
 
 From this definition, only litigants that are
parties to the arbitration agreement, litigation and arbitration can request a
section 1281.4 stay. Defendants do not dispute that they are not parties to the
arbitration agreement or involved with the Duerr Action.  Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.