 Case Number:  22STCV36601    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, response, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
On
November 21, 2022, Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) and “William, No Last
Name (Agent)” for general negligence, products liability, and premises
liability. 
On
February 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendant
for general negligence, products liability, and premises liability. 
On
March 13, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
June 10, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to compel
Hollywood Mental Health Center to comply with a business records subpoena,
to be heard on July 12, 2024.  On June
14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a response and objection.  On June 28, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for August 28, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant asks the Court to compel Hollywood Mental Health Center to comply with Defendant's deposition subpoena and produce responsive records. Plaintiff asks the Court to deny the motion and quash the subpoena. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
 “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2020.010 provides: 
“(a) Any of the following methods may be used to
obtain discovery within the state from a person who is not a party to the
action in which the discovery is sought: 
“(1) An oral deposition under Chapter 9 (commencing
with Section 2025.010). 
“(2) A written deposition under Chapter 11 (commencing
with Section 2028.010). 
“(3) A deposition for production of business records
and things under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410) or Article 5
(commencing with Section 2020.510). 
“(b) Except as provided in subdivision (a) of Section
2025.280, the process by which a nonparty is required to provide discovery is a
deposition subpoena.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.020 provides: 
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the
following: 
“(a) Only the attendance and the testimony of the
deponent, under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2020.310). 
“(b) Only the production of business records for
copying, under Article 4 (commencing with Section 2020.410). 
“(c) The attendance and the testimony of the deponent,
as well as the production of business records, other documents, electronically
stored information, and tangible things, under Article 5 (commencing with
Section 2020.510).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
“(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
“(b) The following persons may make a motion pursuant
to subdivision (a): 
“(1) A party. 
“(2) A witness. 
“(3) A consumer described in Section 1985.3. 
“(4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. 
“(5) A person whose personally identifying
information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil
Code, is sought in connection with an underlying action involving that person’s
exercise of free speech rights. 
“(c) Nothing in this section shall require any person
to move to quash, modify, or condition any subpoena duces tecum of personal
records of any consumer served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of
Section 1985.3 or employment records of any employee served under paragraph (1)
of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)              
DISCUSSION 
          “On or about” April 10, 2024, Defendant subpoenaed the
records of Plaintiff’s treatment by Kaytlin Sironian of Hollywood Mental Health Center,
with a production date of April 29, 2024. (Laughead Decl., ¶12.)  According to Defendant, the treatment took
place within one year before the accident at issue in this case.  Defendant argues the records are relevant because
Plaintiff’s first amended complaint alleges damages for “mental psyche.”  (See First Amended Complaint ¶ 11g.) 
          Plaintiff objected to the subpoena.  Citing Plaintiff’s objection, Hollywood
Mental Health Center has refused to produce the records.  Defendant now moves to compel production of
the records. 
          In her response and objection to the motion, Plaintiff asks
the Court to “modify and/or dismiss” the subpoena based on Plaintiff’s privacy
rights.  Plaintiff also argues that her “claims
for psyche are from pain and suffering and did not entail any treatment from
Hollywood Mental Health . . . .” 
(Response and objection p. 2.) 
“
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . .
. an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only
discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 842 (Vinson); see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy
interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus
courts must balance the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts
against the privacy interests of persons subject to discovery”].) 
“[A]lthough
in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have
unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient
privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they
have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to
information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not
automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 (Britt) [trial court
erred by placing “absolutely no limit on defendant's efforts to obtain
wholesale disclosure of each plaintiff's lifetime medical history”].)
“[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a
specific [physical,] mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold
information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have
put in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the
confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they
may have undergone in the past.” (Id. at p. 864, fn. omitted.) 
“Even
when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues
of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be
a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the
fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be
narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the
least intrusive manner. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) 
The
Court has weighed Defendant’s interest in obtaining the records of Plaintiff’s
treatment by Hollywood Mental Health Center against Plaintiff’s interest in protecting
those records from production.  The Court
concludes that Defendant is entitled to production of the records of Plaintiff’s
treatment by Hollywood Mental Health Center from December 27, 2020 to the present (not
December 27, 2011 to the present as the deposition subpoena states). 
The
Court orders Hollywood Mental Health Center to comply with the modified deposition subpoena
within 30 days of this order.  The Court
denies Plaintiff’s request to quash the subpoena.  
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS in part Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s motion to compel
Hollywood Mental Health Center to comply with the deposition subpoena served on
or about April 10, 2024.  The Court
MODIFIES the deposition subpoena to require Hollywood Mental Health Center to produce responsive records
only from December 27, 2020 to the
present.  The Court ORDERS Hollywood
Mental Health Center to comply with the modified deposition subpoena by
producing responsive business records within 30 days of the Court’s ruling. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Carmeletta Mobley’s request to quash the deposition subpoena
served by Defendant Starbucks Corporation. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.