  Case Number:  22STCV05353    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 14, 2022, Plaintiff Julio Alberto Pineda
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Estate of Larry Edward Voit
(“Estate”) and Does 1-25 for general negligence. 
On
September 7, 2022, Estate filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
May 16, 2023, the Court granted Barrett Business Services, Inc.’s motion to
intervene.  On June 14, 2023, Plaintiff-in-Intervention
Barrett Business Services, Inc. (“Barrett”) filed a complaint against Estate and
Moes 1-100. 
On
July 24, 2023, Estate filed an answer to Barrett’s complaint. 
On
February 5, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendants Bruce
Wilson as Doe 1, Allied Aerospace, Inc., doing
business as Allied Aircraft Engine, doing business as Allied Aero Engines, as
Doe 2, Great American Aviation as Doe 3, Baker Aero Electric as Doe 4, Corona Aircraft Engines, Inc., doing business as Corona
Engines, as Doe 5 (“Corona”), Bob Walmsley as Doe 6, David Baker as Doe 7, R.G.
Walmsley as Doe 8, and Dan Woodside as Doe 9. 
On
May 17, 2024, Corona filed a demurrer to be heard on June 18, 2024.  On June 5,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On June 11, 2024, Corona filed a reply.
The Court continued the hearing to July 12, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 13, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Corona
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer to Plaintiff’s general negligence claim. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer. 
LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10 provides: 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not
have the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the
same parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by
Section 411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any
ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the
face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)   
DISCUSSION 
A.  
Plaintiff’s
complaintPlaintiff’s
complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about February 19, 2021, at 2500 Navy Way in the City of San Pedro, County
of Los Angeles, State of California, Decedent Larry Edward Voit (“Decedent”)
negligently and carelessly entrusted, managed, maintained controlled, flew and
operated his Piper PA-32-260 Cherokee Six aircraft, and failed to use
reasonable care while flying and landing the aircraft among other negligent and
unlawful acts, directly and proximately causing the aircraft to collide with
the semi-tractor trailer that Plaintiff was operating.  Decedent’s negligence and carelessness caused
Plaintiff to sustain injuries and damages. 
Estate
and Does 1-25 were the legal (proximate) cause of Plaintiff’s damages. 
Does
1-15 were the agents or employees of other named defendants and acted within
the scope of that agency or employment. 
Plaintiff later amended the complaint to name Corona as Doe 5. 
B.   Corona’s demurrer 
Corona argues that Plaintiff has failed to plead facts (1) showing that Corona breached a duty to Plaintiff or (2) showing that any breach of Corona’s duty
caused Plaintiff’s injuries. 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Corona has no standing
to demur because the complaint “had mistakenly and improperly been served” on
Corona and the Court did not sign the Doe amendment. 
Corona has standing to demur.  Whether “mistakenly” or not, Plaintiff served
the complaint on Corona.  And the Court
does not require an order for this kind of amendment.  (See Amendment to Complaint form, LASC CIV
105 (Rev. 09/23) on Los Angeles Superior Court website.)  Because Plaintiff filed the Doe amendment and
served the complaint on Corona, Corona is a defendant in this case. 
Plaintiff also asserts that Corona violated the meet
and confer requirement of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41.  Corona disputes the assertion, pointing to
his counsel’s efforts to contact Plaintiff’s counsel before filing the
demurrer.  (See LaScola dec. ¶¶ 4-6;
Reply, fn. 1.)  The Court need not resolve this dispute because “[a] determination by the
court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)  In a misleading gloss on his complaint, Plaintiff
contends that he alleged: “[Defendants] negligently and carelessly entrusted,
managed, maintained, controlled, flew and operated… [the] aircraft.”  (Opposition p. 5.)  In fact, the complaint alleges that “Decedent
LARRY EDWARD VOIT negligently and carelessly entrusted, managed, maintained
controlled, flew and operated his Piper PA-32-260 Cherokee Six aircraft . . . .”  (Capitalization in the original.)  Misrepresentations do not advance Plaintiff's arguments. 
 “[A] bare allegation
that ‘defendant’s negligence caused plaintiff injury’ is not sufficient.  Plaintiff must allege the acts or omissions that
are claimed to have constituted the negligence.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:129,
p. 6-44.) 
Here, Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing Corona’s
acts or omissions constituted negligence or caused Plaintiff’s injuries.  The Court sustains the demurrer. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer of Corona Aircraft
Engines, Inc., doing business as Corona Engines, to Plaintiff Julio Alberto
Pineda’s complaint with 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 