 Case Number:  22STCV32420    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and response papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 4, 2022, Plaintiff Suzanna Sahakian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Nathaniel Kissell (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for
negligence—motor vehicle and negligence per se. 
On
January 23, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
December 19, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be
relieved as counsel. 
On
June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash or modify subpoenas for production
of business records and request for sanctions, to be heard on July 12, 2024.  On July 2, 2024, Defendant filed an
opposition. On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a response to Defendant’s opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 22, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to quash or modify Defendant's subpoenas for Plaintiff’s records issued to USC Verdugo Hills Hospital, Keck Medicine of USC, Farmers Insurance Company, Inc., “Interinsurance
AAA,” and “Allstate Insurance.”  Plaintiff
also asks the Court to impose sanctions on Defendant. 
Defendant
asks the Court to amend the subpoenas issued to USC Verdugo Hills Hospital and Keck Medicine of USC and deny the request for sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: 
"(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon
those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. 
"(b) The following persons may make a motion
pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer
described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A
person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b)
of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an
underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part: 
“(g)  Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records. 
* * *
 “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to
produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been
brought by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action
is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. .
. .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (g).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides: 
“(a) Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making
an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under
Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2,
subd. (a).) 
When
a party seeks discovery which impacts a person’s constitutional right to
privacy, limited protections come into play. (Shaffer v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 993, 999.) The protections cover a person’s personal and
financial matters. (Ibid.) The court must balance competing rights — the
litigant’s right to discover relevant facts and the individual’s right to
maintain reasonable privacy — in determining whether the information is
discoverable. (Ibid.) 
For
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
(Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) 
“
‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of
one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver”
must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not
be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their
private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . .
. an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only
discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On
occasion [a party's] privacy interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's
right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance the right of civil litigants to
discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons subject to
discovery”].)  “[A]lthough
in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have
unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient
privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they
have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to
information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not
automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt
v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 [trial court
erred by placing “absolutely no limit on defendant's efforts to obtain
wholesale disclosure of each plaintiff's lifetime medical history”].)
“[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a
specific [physical,] mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold
information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have
put in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the
confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they
may have undergone in the past.” (Id. at p. 864, fn. omitted.) 
“Even
when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues
of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be
a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the
fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be
narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the
least intrusive manner. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On July 15, 2021, on Barrington Avenue near its
intersection with Wilshire Boulevard in the City of Los Angeles, Defendant’s vehicle
swerved into Plaintiff’s lane, causing the Defendant’s and Plaintiff’s vehicles
to collide.  Defendants negligently,
carelessly, and unlawfully managed, maintained, drove, operated, and entrusted Defendant’s
vehicle, causing the vehicle to collide with Plaintiff’s vehicle and causing
Plaintiff to suffer and sustain injuries, loss, and damages.
Plaintiff prays for general damages and special damages
for medical and related expenses, loss of wages and earning capacity, and
property damage. 

B.   Defendant’s subpoenas for business records 
On May 14, 2024, Defendant served the following deposition
subpoenas: 
 1.    To:         (a) USC
Verdugo Hills Hospital/Medical Records and (b) Keck Medicine of USC/Medical
Records 
For:    “Any and
all medical documents, paper and digital records pertaining to the care,
treatment and examination of Suzanna Sahakian, born on [obscured], with SS#
unknown, including but not limited to all office, emergency room, inpatient and
outpatient charts and records either in hard copy or electronic and/or faxed. from
07/15/2011 to present. including all electronic communications from and to the
patient.  Medical Record [obscured]” 
2.    To: (a) USC Verdugo Hills Hospital/Billing and (b)
Keck Medicine of USC/Billing 
For: 
“Any and all paper and digital records of payment
and/or discount regarding any medical billing as well as the bills themselves,
billing information, including but not limited to procedure, service, and diagnostic
codes, CPT codes, statements, computer printouts, itemized breakdown of all
charges, payments, adjustments/write-offs or balance due, including but not
limited to, all charges, credits, payments, adjustments and/or write-offs, and
the sources of each, such as EOB’s, Explanation of benefits form and statement
of charges rendered, including but not limited to any records or documents that
may be stored digitally or electronically from any insurance carrier,
reflecting any and all credits and adjustments and write offs to the billing by
virtue of any payments and/or contractual agreements/adjustments, including
fees for professional services and medicare, medicaid, either in hard copy or
electronic and/or faxed pertaining to Suzanna Sahakian, DOB [obscured] with SS#
unknown, from 07/15/2011 to present.  Medical Record [obscured] Treated by [obscured]” 
 3.    To:  (a) USC
Verdugo Hills Hospital/Radiology and (b) Keck Medicine of USC/Radiology 
For: 
“Any and all x-ray films, to include MRI films, CAT
scans, myelograms, radiological images, ultrasounds, and any other films
specific to Suzanna Sahakian, born on [obscured], with SS#UNK, either in hard
copy or electronic and/or faxed, from 07/15/2011 to present.  Please provide breakdown of films and or
studies reflecting body parts, dates taken, number of films and or studies,
with associated cost for approval prior to production. Medical Record [obscured]  Treated by [obscured]” 
 4.    To: Farmers Insurance Company, Inc. 
For: 
     “Any and all documents and records
pertaining to the insurance and claim file of Suzanna Sahakian, including, but
not limited to, all payments, policy information, listing of providers,
correspondence, all log notes, declaration of coverage, medical records,
property damages, repair estimates and repairs, color photographs pertaining to
Suzanna Sahakian.  DOB:  [omitted], with SS# UNK, [omitted]." 
C.   Plaintiff’s motion to quash 
Plaintiff
has moved to quash the subpoenas listed above, arguing (1) they request privileged
or confidential information, (2) they violate Plaintiff’s privacy rights, (3) they
are overly broad, vague, ambiguous, and (4) they request documents that are
irrelevant to the case. 
Plaintiff states that in addition to the subpoenas listed above, Defendant
has also served subpoenas on “Interinsurance AAA” and “Allstate Insurance.” 
D.   Defendant’s opposition 
Based
on the parties’ meet and confer efforts, Defendant agrees to modify the subpoenas
issued to USC Verdugo Hills Hospital (“USC”) and Keck Medicine of USC (“Keck”).  As modified, the subpoenas would request “any and all records pertaining to Plaintiff’s
left and right hip, left and right leg, including left and right knees for the
5 years prior to the date of loss.” 
(Opposition p. 1.)  Defendant contends
that the modifications address Plaintiff’s objections to the subpoenas and the
Court therefore should deny the motion. 
Defendant’s
opposition does not address the subpoena issued to Farmers
Insurance Company, Inc. and any subpoenas issued to “Interinsurance AAA,” and “Allstate Insurance.” 
E.    Plaintiff’s response to Defendant’s opposition 
Plaintiff
contends that Defendant’s proposed modifications are not consistent with the
parties’ agreement when they met and conferred on June 28, 2024. 
F.    Analysis 
The Court
has weighed Plaintiff’s privacy rights against Defendant’s right to discover relevant
information.  The Court concludes that,
as modified to request “any and all records pertaining to Plaintiff’s left and
right hip, left and right leg, including left and right knees for the 5 years
prior to the date of loss,” the subpoenas issued to USC and Keck do not violate
Plaintiff’s privacy rights.  The Court
therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion to quash the subpoenas issued to USC and
Keck but modifies the subpoenas as stated. 
The
Court quashes the subpoena issued to Farmers Insurance Company, Inc. and any
subpoenas issued to “Interinsurance AAA” and “Allstate Insurance.” 
The Court
denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION
The
Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Plaintiff Suzanna Sahakian’s motion to
quash or modify Defendant Nathaniel Kissell’s
subpoenas for production of business records and request for sanctions as
follows: 
The
Court MODIFIES Defendant Nathaniel Kissell’s subpoenas issued to USC Verdugo
Hills Hospital (including USC Verdugo Hills Hospital/Medical Records, USC
Verdugo Hills Hospital/Billing, and USC Verdugo Hills Hospital/Radiology).  As modified, the subpoenas require production
of any and all records pertaining to Plaintiff’s left and right hip, left and
right leg, including left and right knees for the 5 years prior to July 15,
2021 (the date of loss). 
The
Court MODIFIES Defendant Nathaniel Kissell’s subpoenas issued to Keck Medicine
of USC (including Keck Medicine of USC/Medical Records, Keck Medicine of USC/Billing,
and Keck Medicine USC/Radiology).  As modified,
the subpoenas require production of any and all records pertaining to
Plaintiff’s left and right hip, left and right leg, including left and right
knees for the 5 years prior to July 15, 2021 (the date of loss). 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Suzanna Sahakian’s motion to quash Defendant Nathaniel
Kissell’s subpoena issued to Farmers Insurance Company, Inc., and quashes the
subpoena. 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Suzanna Sahakian’s motion
to quash Defendant Nathaniel Kissell’s subpoena issued to “Interinsurance AAA”
and quashes the subpoena. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Suzanna Sahakian’s motion to quash Defendant Nathaniel
Kissell’s subpoena issued to “Allstate Insurance” and quashes the subpoena. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Suzanna Sahakian’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.