 Case Number:  23SMCV06082    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Mendoza v.
Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, et al., Case No. 23SMCV06082 Hearing
date September 13, 2024 
Defendants
I.A.T.S.E. Local 80 and Local 80 IASTE Building Corporation’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 
 
Mendoza sued
defendants Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation (“TCFF”), I.A.T.S.E. Local 80,
Local 80 IASTE Building Corporation, Hernandez and Farrands, alleging she was
wrongful termination after reporting Hernandez sexually assaulted her. IATSE
Local 80 and Local 80 IATSE Building Corporation (collectively “Local 80
Defendants”) demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, filed after the court
sustained a prior demurrer. 
 
Local 80 contends
the FAC fails to cure defects identified in the court’s minute order sustaining
the prior demurrer. In opposition, Mendoza argues Local 80 is liable for ratifying
Hernandez and Farrands’ actions because they showed deliberate indifference
when Mendoza reported the incident to them. 
 
The specific
defects in the pleadings are noted on page 7 of 8 of the 6/17/24 Minute Order.
While Mendoza now pleads Hernandez and Farrands are members of Local 80, the
FAC has not addressed the other enumerated defects. Compl. ¶5. The FAC still
does not address how Conover’s statements allegedly bind Local 80. As alleged,
Conover was an Assistant Business Representative, member and employee of IATSE.
Id. ¶16e. Conover’s statements are still not alleged to have a binding
effect because it is not alleged that he either was in a position of authority
or had authority to make such statements on Local 80’s behalf. Second, while it
is alleged that Conover’s supervisor, Davis, later apologized to Mendoza, such
action does not indicate ratification of either Conover’s statement or
Hernandez and Farrands’ actions.
 
Without making
such allegations, Mendoza has not sufficiently alleged respondent superior
liability because Local 80 was not adequately alleged to be the assailant's
employer or that Local 80 engaged in a cover-up as defined by CCP
¶340.16(e)(4)(A). SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to Local 80 Defendants. 