  Case Number:  22STCV36344    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 7-29-24
Case # 22STCV36344 
Trial Date: 11-12-24 c/f 10-21-24 c/f 8and rour-19-24 c/f
7-22-24 c/f 6-3-24
 
FURTHER DOCUMENTS/ADMISSIONS/SPECIAL
INTERROGATIRES
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, 1016 Industries
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Giavanna Papasavvas
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motions to Compel Further Responses
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff VAV Plastics, Inc. manufactures plastic
bottles. Plaintiff also offers custom design services. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant Arminak Solutions dba KBL Cosmetics was a customer. Between August 3,
2020 and October 22, 2020, Defendant ordered $2,540,000 in manufactured
products. The order also required the development of special molds, plus
pallets for delivery, which Plaintiff alleges was separately invoiced for
$11,000 and $1,036 ($12,306 total).
 
Plaintiff alleges “most of the product ordered” has been
delivered, but Defendant refuse to take the remaining portion of the order and
ordered the cessation of future production. 
Plaintiff alleges a remaining balance due of $4342,540.21. Finally,
Plaintiff also alleges an entitlement to reimbursement for special equipment
acquisitions totaling $54,337.91. The total sum for the bottles, molds and
pallets, and equipment amounts to $408,914.12. 
 
On February 17, 2021, Plaintiff filed its complaint for Breach
of Oral Contract, and Common Counts. On June 4, 2020, Defendant answered and
filed a cross-complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach of the Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, Declaratory Relief, Breach of Express Warranty, Breach
of Implied Warranty of Merchantability, Breach of Implied Warranty of Fitness
for a Particular Purpose, and Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage. On August 2, 2021, Cross-Complainants filed a first amended
cross-complaint for Breach of Contract, Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing, Declaratory Relief, Breach of Express Warranty, Breach of
Implied Warranty of Merchantability, Breach of Implied Warranty of Fitness for
a Particular Purpose, and Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage 
 
RULING: OSC re: Discovery Referee.
Defendant, 1016 Industries scheduled four concurrent
motions to compel further responses. While the court specially set the subject
motions, it appears the parties continue to file more and more motions to
compel further responses even well after the trial date, and ask the court to
adjust the parties’ latest developments, including the latest rejected
stipulation. A review of the history of the parties’ discovery disagreements
shows multiple previously filed motions, ongoing disputes, and at least four
prior trial continuances, at least in part, presumably due to said discovery
disputes. 
 
The court
favors robust discovery thereby allowing the best prosecution and defense
during the adjudication of all actions presented. The court however also
declines to schedule Independent Discovery Conferences due to an already
impacted calendar. Any and all law disputes must be addressed by law and motion
with applicable new motion limits instituted. Given the reviewed history of the
disputes, and voluminous and complexity level of the disputes, the Court hereby
sets this matter for an OSC re referral to a discovery referee. 
 
“When the court in any pending action determines that it is
necessary for the court to appoint a referee to hear and determine any and all
discovery motions and disputes relevant to discovery in the action and to
report findings and make a recommendation thereon.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 639,
subd. (a)(5).) Appointment requires a court finding of “exceptional
circumstances.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 639, subd. (d)(2).) Absent agreement of all
parties, courts may not make blanket
referrals, except “in the unusual case where a majority of factors” favor
reference, including: “(1) there are multiple issues to be resolved; (2) there
are multiple motions to be heard simultaneously; (3) the present motion is only
one in a continuum of many; (4) the number of documents to be reviewed
(especially in issues based on assertions of privilege) make the inquiry
inordinately time-consuming. (Taggares v.
Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal. App. 4th 94, 105.) “Where one or more of the
above factors unduly impact the court’s time and/or limited resources, the
court is clearly within its discretion to make an appropriate reference.” (Id.
at 106.)
 
Again, the court understands the prior use and perhaps
reliance on the IDC system. The court also faces impacts from the recent
ransomware attack and ongoing impacted calendars preceding the operations shut
down now further exacerbating the situation. The court is also mindful of the
November 12, 2024, trial date. 
 
The court therefore sets an OSC re: Discovery Referee for August
16, 2024 at 8:30 a.m., with the purpose of allowing the parties to consider
their options while still allowing for potential appointment well before the
trial date. If the parties wish to stipulate in advance of the hearing, the
court invites such an agreement. The parties may consider criteria such as
costs of the respective referee, allocation of costs for any discovery
involving third parties, authority to award sanctions and/or attorneys by the
referee, availability, etc. 
 
The court can and has set expedited referee referrals in
the past, and therefore strongly encourages the parties to check availability. The
court will also accelerate the referee report review in order to facilitate
resolution of the claims. If the parties refuse to
stipulate, the parties may submit any opposition to the appointment no later
than nine (9) court days before the August 16, 2024 hearing date—due date of August
5, 2024. Any briefs shall be no more than five (5) pages of points and
authorities, plus any declarations. The court will issue a tentative ruling
following a review of the briefs, if applicable. The four motions are
placed off-calendar pending the OSC and subject to either presentation before
the referee or reset on the court calendar. 
 
Defendant to give notice.