  Case Number:  20STCV40992    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  T Motion for Summary
Judgment
 
Moving Party:                         Defendant Ritz Carlton
Hotel Company
Responding Party:                   Plaintiff Vivian Powers
Tentative Ruling:                    Denied
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Vivian
E. Powers (“Plaintiff”) and Chris V. Powers filed this action against
Defendants, including Defendant Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company LLC (“Defendant” or
“Ritz”) for injuries Plaintiff sustained after falling at Defendant’s hotel
property located at 900 W. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90015
(“premises”), because of an alleged dangerous condition.  Plaintiff contends that on October 29, 2018,
Plaintiff began walking from her vehicle in the valet area towards the front
door entrance to the lobby of the hotel when she tripped in the driveway due to
an uneven tile that was of disproportionate height to the remainder of the
tiles.  (Complaint ¶ 15.)  Plaintiff alleges the disproportionate tile
created a dangerous condition, causing her to trip and sustain injuries.  (Id.) 
Plaintiff filed the operative complaint on October 26, 2020, alleging
causes of action for (1) general negligence; (2) premises liability; and (3)
loss of consortium. (Id.)
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
            Defendant Ritz now moves for summary
judgment and on October 23, 2024, filed the motion, along with a proposed
order, a compendium of evidence, an original flash drive of the incident
surveillance video (“Exhibit N”), and a separate statement.  Plaintiff opposed the motion on May 6, 2024,
along with filing a response to Defendant’s separate statement, evidentiary
objections, and the declaration of Plaintiff’s attorney, Tom Schultz.  On May 15, 2024, Defendant filed their reply.
Moving
Argument 
Defendant argues
that it is entitled to summary judgment because Plaintiff has failed to
establish any triable issue of fact as to whether the alleged defect was
anything more than trivial.  (MSJ, pg.
17.)  
Defendant first argues it is undisputed that the tile was misleveled by no more than ¼” and
thus, the trivial defect doctrine applies.  Under this doctrine, a property owner is not
liable for damages caused by a minor, trivial, or insignificant defect in
property unless a plaintiff can plead and prove additional factors bearing on
whether the defect presented a substantial risk of injury.  (Motion for Summary Judgment “MSJ”,
pgs.12-14.)  
Next, Defendant contends that even if the misleveled tile constituted a “dangerous
condition,” Defendant had no notice. 
(MSJ, pg. 19.)  Further, the
California State Supreme Court has emphasized hotels, like landlords, “are
subject to liability. . .  only for
conditions of which he is aware, or of which he could have known in the
exercise of reasonable care.  (Peterson
v. Sup. Ct. (Palm Springs Marquis Hotel) (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185,
1197-1198.)  And it is not enough to be
actually or constructively aware of a condition; the landlord must be on notice
of unreasonable dangerousness.”  (MSJ,
pg. 19.)  Defendant argues that it is
undisputed that Defendant Ritz had no actual notice of such condition and
Plaintiff presented no evidence that Defendant had even constructive notice of
any unreasonable level of danger from the tile. 
(MSJ, pgs. 19-20.)  Further,
Defendant argues that landlords are not liable for a plaintiff’s injury arising
from a trivial defect, even if the Defendant had actual notice.  (MSJ, pg. 19.)
Lastly, Defendant
argues that the American Disability Act (ADA) is not applicable to the
instant claim.  (MSJ, pg. 20.)  Although the ADA provides that paving or
tiles which deviate in level between ¼” to ½” must be beveled, such rule only
applies to a property’s designated and accessible route, not to the whole
property.  (Id.)  Given Defendant has a designated ADA
passenger drop-off (which is marked by yellow and black stripes), the rule
applies to Defendant’s designated route and not to the valet driveway where
Plaintiff fell.   (MSJ, pgs. 20-21.) 
Opposing
Argument 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment should be
denied because there are several disputed material facts concerning the
dangerousness of Defendant’s valet area where Plaintiff tripped.  (Opposition (“Opp.”), pg. 13.)  
Plaintiff
represents there is a dispute as to whether there was a loose paving stone
which contributed to Plaintiff’s injury and caused her to lose her balance and
fall.  Plaintiff relies on the testimony
of Defendant’s doorman, William Madrid, who was working for Defendant’s
contractor, Classic Parking, on the date of the incident.  (Opp., pg. 11.)  Mr. Madrid later testified that there was a
tile or paver that was like a “floorboard that was loose, and there was
like—like a crack where it—if you—if you were a female and you were wearing
heels and you stepped there, you would—chances are you would probably fall.
(PUMF No. 16).”  (Opp., pg. 14.)
 Next, Plaintiff states that the size and
dangerousness of the misleveling is disputed. 
(Id.)  Although Defendant
maintains the misleveling was less than ¼”, Defendant’s own designated witness
said it was larger (PUMF No. 32) and Plaintiff’s safety experts measured the
misleveling to be 3/8”, making the defect unreasonably dangerous. (PUMF No.
33.) (Opp., pg. 14.). Additionally, Plaintiff asserts that a “tape measure
alone cannot be used to determine whether the defect was trivial.”  (Fajardo v. Dailey, (2022) 85 Cal.
App. 5th 221, 227.)  “A party seeking
summary judgment must offer admissible evidence about the surrounding context
that would allow the factfinder to know if the defect is more dangerous than
the tape measure would suggest.”  (Id.).
Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff has provided contextual evidence by
establishing the valet was busier than usual which required Plaintiff to walk away
from the designated pedestrian path she typically used and expert testimony
established the location of the stone, its dark color, and the limits of human
perception all contributed to the danger. 
(Opp., pg. 15.)  Although
Defendant discussed context, such evidence constitutes unsworn statements of
counsel which are not evidence because in summary adjudication, facts must be
set forth in the separate statement otherwise the Court may not permit
them.  (Id.)
Third, Plaintiff argues that by failing
to comply with building codes and industry standards, including 2008 Los
Angeles Building Code Section 1003.4, (requiring flush walkways), breached Defendant’s duty.
Lastly, Plaintiff
contends that Defendant’s negligence is disputed because (a) Defendant had a
non-delegable duty to keep the valet parking area safe, as California holds
landowners liable for the negligence of their agents, regardless of whether the
agent was an employee or independent contractor.  (Opp., pg. 16.)  Next, (b) Defendant’s failure to conduct
inspections of the valet area is negligent because Defendant had a duty to
exercise ordinary care in the management of their premises.  (Opp., pg. 18.)  Finally, (c) Defendant had constructive
notice of the defect because constructive notice can be established by
demonstrating a defendant’s failure to make reasonably regular inspections and
Defendant had actual notice because Mr. Madrid testified he had actual
knowledge of the misleveling.  (Opp.,
19.) 
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff’s objections
to Defendant’s Declaration of Roy Riley, Defendant’s Loss Prevention Associate and
Declaration of Arthur Dennis, Defendant’s Director of Loss Prevention are
overruled.  
 Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections
Defendant submits 34
objections to the Declaration of Brad Avrit, Plaintiff’s retained expert:
 Sustained: ¶ 8, ¶ 24,
¶ 33
All others are overruled.
 Defendant submits 15
objections to the Declaration of Tarun Kapoor, Plaintiff’s retained expert:
 Sustained: ¶ 6
All others are overruled.
 Reply
Argument
 In Reply, Defendant states that Plaintiff fell
“on a maximum 3/8 inch mislevelling” and cites to Plaintiff’s response to
Defendant’s Material Fact (“DMF”) no. 7. 
(Reply, pg. 3.) Defendant further argues that building codes, industry
standards, and defendant’s own internal height standards do not raise a triable
issue of fact on a trivial defect MSJ according to the courts because in the
instant case, it is not at issue whether there is a defect, but instead,
whether it is substantially dangerous. (Reply, pg. 5.)  Defendant cites to appellate case, Caloroso
v. Hathaway which stated that “elevations ranging from ¾” to 1 ½” were
noted to commonly indicate a trivial defect” and “the court properly found no
foundation for Avrit’s opinion that that non-compliance of certain building
codes and standards made the crack dangerous.” 
(Caloroso v. Hathaway, (2004) 122 Cal.App.44th 922,
928.)
 
Defendant also addresses Plaintiff’s argument
concerning contextual evidence of substantial dangerousness and states that
Defendant’s trivial defect MSJ was granted and affirmed in Nunez v. City of
Redondo Beach, (2002) 81 Cal.App.5th 749 on 11/16” misleveling
whereby plaintiff's expert opined that "there was no color or texture
differentiation between the concrete slabs forming the height differential (Id.
at p. 754).”  (Reply, pg. 8.)  Lastly, Defendant maintains that notice does
not create liability when a defect is considered minor or trivial.  (Reply, pgs. 7-8.)
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
Motion
for Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§437c(c).) The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) A defendant moving
for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause
of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that
cause of action. (Id. at §437c(p).) A defendant may discharge this
burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or
(2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option, he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out
that plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence....” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal. 4th at 865-66.)
 
[A] defendant may simply show the plaintiff
cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by showing that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”
(Id. at p. 854.) Thus, rather than affirmatively disproving or negating
an element (e.g., causation), a defendant moving for summary judgment has the
option of presenting evidence reflecting the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to prove that element. “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's cause of
action. The defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by
the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has
discovered nothing” to support an essential element of his case. (Aguilar,
supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a defendant's initial evidentiary
showing may “consist of the deposition testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses,
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses, or admissions by the
plaintiff in deposition or in response to requests for admission that he or she
has not discovered anything that supports an essential element of the cause of
action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) In other
words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support
an element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's
factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be
reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69
Cal.App.4th 64, 83.) 
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two means by which
to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute: “The defendant
may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the 
cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the
defendant may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’)
an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) (Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095,
1103.) 
 
Until the moving defendant has discharged its
burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come forward with any
evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden as to a
particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion by
producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action. (Id. at §437c(p)(2).) On a motion for
summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the
propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion. (D’Amico
v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 
Premises Liability 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are
the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause
resulting in injury.  Premises liability
‘ “is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to
control and manage the premises” ’; accordingly, ‘ “mere possession with its
attendant right to control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for
the imposition of an affirmative duty to act.” ’ But the duty arising from
possession and control of property is adherence to the same standard of care
that applies in negligence cases. (Kesner v.
Superior Court, (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159 [210 Cal.Rptr.3d 283, 384 P.3d
283.])
Application
to Facts
Defendant is the
moving party in the instant case so Defendant must show either that (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established, or (2) there is a
complete defense to that cause of action. 
 
Here, Defendant
states that although the trivial defect doctrine does not serve as an
affirmative defense, it is an aspect of duty that plaintiff must plead and
prove.  Thus, Defendant must demonstrate
that Plaintiff is unable to establish that Defendant (1) had a duty to exercise
a legal duty of care; (2) breached that care; or (3) was the proximate cause
resulting in the jury. 
Defendant contends that when the size of a defect in
a premises liability case falls within the definition of triviality under the
appellate course case, Huckey v. City of Temecula, Plaintiff must prove
additional factors bearing on whether the defect presented a substantial risk.
(MSJ, pg. 14.)  Such additional factors include
whether there were any broken pieces or jagged edges in the area of the defect,
whether any dirt, debris or other material obscured a pedestrian’s view of the
defect, the plaintiff’s knowledge of the area, whether the accident occurred at
night or in an unlighted area, the weather at the time of the accident and
whether the defect has caused any other accident.”  (MSJ, pg. 15.)  
Defendant cites to
case law declaring that misleveling ranging between ¼” to 1 ½” is considered a
trivial defect. Although Defendant initially claims in its moving papers that
it is undisputed that the misleveling constituted no more than ¼ inches,
Defendant quotes 3/8” in its Reply, as Plaintiff asserted the evidence pointed
to 3/8” and not ¼”.  Assuming, arguendo,
that the misleveling of 3/8” in this case is considered trivial, Defendant must
then negate Plaintiff’s evidence that such additional Huckey factors did
not contribute to making the trivial defect substantially dangerous. 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff does not demonstrate these factors because the partial crack
depicted is not the paver Plaintiff fell on and even if it was, a crack does
not constitute a “broken piece” because the partial crack is not all the way
through.  (Id.)  Defendant states there are no broken pieces of
jagged edges. (Id.)  However,
Plaintiff alleges that the tile was dark in color and that Plaintiff was
walking along a pathway she did not usually walk around because she had to
navigate through the valet drive on the busy night.  Although Defendant argues in its reply that
the court in Nunez granted its MSJ despite plaintiff’s expert stating
there was no color or texture differentiation, Defendant’s argument is
inapposite. The Huckey factors do specify that the color of the tile and
the pedestrian’s view is a relevant factor and Defendant does not assert that
the Nunez court found the paving color irrelevant in their
determination.  Moreover, the Huckey factors
are factors to be weighed on balance. There is no assertion that any one factor
is dispositive or that the factors provided are even an exclusive list. Additionally,
Plaintiff asserted the tile was loose and provided supporting testimony from
Mr. Martin.  Finally, the Court finds
Defendant has merely asserted its opinion and is not a binding authority in
distinguishing the risk or danger due to “partially cracked tile” from the risk
of a fully cracked or loose tile, especially considering that Mr. Martin
testified the tile was loose.
Given that the Huckey
factors determine whether a trivial defect constitutes a substantial risk which
create a legal duty of care to Plaintiff which Defendant breached, the facts
giving rise to such factors are material facts in this case.  It is disputed whether the color of the stone,
the location of incident, the nature of the crack, and Plaintiff’s familiarity
with the walkway was a trivial misleveling that created a substantial risk.  It is also disputed whether the tile was
loose. Further, Plaintiff contends that Defendant had a duty to regularly
inspect and maintain the premises which it breached. Thus, the facts that would
create a substantial risk are in dispute, and Defendant has not negated Plaintiff’s
arguments or evidence demonstrating so.
A defendant moving for MSJ may discharge its
burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or
(2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case.   In this case, Plaintiff has not conceded in
discovery that it lacks evidence to establish an essential element of premises
liability. Defendant has proffered arguments and evidence attempting to negate
facts that can establish premises liability but such evidence must be
affirmative.  Here, the Court finds
Defendant’s evidence is not.
  Moreover, even if
such evidence was affirmative, the burden would then shift to Plaintiff to give
Plaintiff the opportunity to defeat the motion through producing evidence
demonstrating a triable issue of material fact. Here, Plaintiff asserted
material facts in its opposition relating to the Huckey factors, thereby,
creating a triable issue of material fact.  Defendant has been unable to negate such facts
in its reply.  It remains that the moving
party’s supporting documents are to be strictly construed on a motion for
summary judgment, its opponent’s documents are to be liberally construed, and
doubts are to be resolved against granting the motion.
Thus, the Court hereby denies Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment. 
CONCLUSION
            The Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
            Defendant to give notice.