 Case Number:  22STCV29914    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




fernando lara

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
kaiser foundation health
   plan, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV29914




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   24, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to strike portions of first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously sued as Kaiser
Permanente Panorama City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical
Center), and Southern California Permanente Medical Group
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Fernando Lara
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the demurrer.  The court
considered the moving and opposition papers filed in connection with the motion
to strike.  No reply papers were filed as
to the motion to strike. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Fernando Lara (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First
Amended Complaint in this action on March 24, 2023, against defendants Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Southern California
Permanente Medical Group, Kaiser Permanente Panorama City Medical Center, and
Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical Center (“Defendants”), alleging three causes
of action for (1) professional negligence, (2) dependent adult abuse, and (3)
fraud and concealment. 
Defendants now move the court for an order (1) sustaining their
demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, and (2) striking from the First
Amended Complaint Plaintiff’s requests for attorney’s fees and punitive damages
and the related allegations.
DEMURRER
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
because the allegations indicate that Plaintiff does not have legal capacity to
sue since (1) if a person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions is a party
to an action, “that person shall appear either by a guardian or conservator of
the estate or by a guardian ad litem appointed by the court in which the action
or proceeding is pending, or by a judge thereof, in each case[,]” (2) Plaintiff
alleges that he is an incompetent adult due to congenital disorders, and
further alleges that he, as a person “who has physical or mental limitations
that restrict his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect
his or her rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or
developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have
diminished because of age[,]” is a “dependent adult” as defined by statute, and
(3) Plaintiff appears to concede that he lacks legal capacity to make decisions
and requires a guardian ad litem by stating, in his opposition, that “this is
easily cured by filing a Guardian Ad Litem, which Plaintiff is willing to
complete.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.10,
subd. (b), 372, subd. (a); FAC ¶¶ 1-2; Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610,
subd. (a) [defining dependent adult].)
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of action
for dependent adult abuse/neglect because it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing, with the requisite particularity, that Defendants “denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet [Plaintiff’s] basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall [Plaintiff][,]”
in order to allege oppression, fraud, or malice, “or with conscious disregard
of the high probability of such injury” in order to allege recklessness.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407
[discussing elements to allege neglect within the meaning of the Elder Abuse
Act], 407 [“the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link
between the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in
accordance with the pleading rules governing statutory claims”].)
The court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action
for fraud and concealment on the ground of uncertainty because it is ambiguous
and unintelligible since Plaintiff appears to plead two theories of fraud
(i.e., intentional misrepresentation and concealment) in one cause of action,
and instead should plead those claims separately.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f);
FAC ¶¶ 68 [Plaintiff relied on the representation that Defendants could provide
Plaintiff with adequate care], 69-70 [Defendants concealed from Plaintiff their
inadequate staffing and underfunding].) 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendants request that the court strike Plaintiff’s prayers for
attorney’s fees and punitive damages and the related allegations from the First
Amended Complaint. 
The court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages because (1) the allegations of malice, fraud, recklessness,
and oppression, and the requests for punitive damages set forth in paragraphs
51-52, 55, 61-63, and 83-84 are included within the second and third causes of
action, to which the court has sustained Defendants’ demurrer and therefore
those allegations are removed from the First Amended Complaint, and (2)
Plaintiff has not pleaded facts establishing that Defendants are guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice in connection with the remaining cause of action
for professional negligence.  (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (a).) 
The court grants Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for
attorneys’ fees pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657 because
the court has sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the sole cause of action
alleged under the Elder Abuse Act and therefore Plaintiff cannot recover attorneys’
fees under that statute. 
 
 
ORDER

The court sustains defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously sued as Kaiser Permanente Panorama
City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical Center), and
Southern California Permanente Medical Group’s demurrer to plaintiff Fernando
Lara’s First Amended Complaint. 
The court grants defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously sued as Kaiser Permanente Panorama
City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical Center), and
Southern California Permanente Medical Group’s motion to strike portions of
plaintiff Fernando Lara’s First Amended Complaint. 
The court grants plaintiff Fernando Lara 20 days leave to file a
Second Amended Complaint that cures the deficiencies set forth above. 
The court orders defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (erroneously sued as Kaiser Permanente Panorama
City Medical Center and Kaiser Permanente Palmdale Medical Center), and
Southern California Permanente Medical Group to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 24, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court