 Case Number:  BC724250    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




emilio reyes

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lorraine ann escobar

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC724250




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   24, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to set aside and vacate
  order
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Emilio Reyes            
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant Alexandra R. McIntosh, APC
Motion to Set Aside or Vacate Order
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies plaintiff Emilio Reyes’s requests for judicial notice
as to Exhibits 4, 12, 15, and 21 because the matters to be judicially noticed
are not relevant to a material issue presented by this motion.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825.) 
The court grants plaintiff Emilio Reyes’s request for judicial notice
as to Exhibit 13.  (Evid. Code, § 452,
subd. (d).) 
The court denies plaintiff Emilio Reyes’s requests for judicial notice
as to Exhibits 14, 16, and 18 as improper subjects for judicial notice.  (Bounds v. Superior Court (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 468, 477 [a court may take judicial notice of a pleading party’s
discovery responses to the extent they contain statements of the party or his
agent which are inconsistent with the allegations of the pleading before the
court].)  
The court notes that, although it has denied certain of plaintiff
Emilio Reyes’s requests for judicial notice, the court has still considered the
matters as evidence. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on plaintiff Emilio Reyes’s evidentiary objections,
filed on October 4, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-18.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Emilio Reyes (“Plaintiff”) moves
the court for an order setting aside or vacating the February 15, 2019 order denying
his motion for a protective order, issued in this action by Judge Recana, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d) on the ground that the order
is void.  
Specifically, Plaintiff contends that relief
is warranted because (1) defendant Alexandra R. McIntosh, APC (“Defendant”)
made general appearances on behalf of defendants Lorraine Escobar (“Escobar”)
and Kizh Nation Resources Management (“KNRM”) and opposed Plaintiff’s motion
for protective order on their behalf, but (2) Escobar and KNRM have stated that
they did not retain Defendant to represent them.  (Reyes Decl., Ex. 13, p. 1, ¶ 4 [Escobar’s
Substitution of Attorney stating “I do not agree that Alexandra McIntosh was
ever authorized counsel”]; Reyes Decl., Ex. 16, p. 5:13-15 [stating that KNRM,
to the best of its knowledge, “never expressly retained or authorized
[Defendant]” to enter an appearance on behalf of KNRM or serve and file
documents on its behalf].)  In
opposition, Defendant has submitted her declaration, in which she (1) attests
that (i) Andrew Salas of KNRM and Escobar approached her to discuss her firm’s
representing them in this matter, (ii) on November 26, 2018, KNRM retained her
office to represent it in this matter, during which KNRM agreed to be
responsible for Escobar’s attorney’s fees and costs, and (iii) at all times,
“all steps [Defendant] took in this case were authorized by [KNRM] and Ms.
Escobar[,]” and (2) submits a redacted document entitled “Attorney-Client
Retainer Agreement,” which was signed by Defendant and Matthew Teutimez “on
behalf of the Kizh Nation[,]” i.e., KNRM. 
(McIntosh Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; McIntosh Decl., Ex. A, pp. 1, 7.) 
“The court may, upon motion of the injured party,
or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as
entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion
of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (d).)  Further, “‘[e]ven where
relief is no longer available under statutory provisions, a trial court
generally retains the inherent power to vacate a default judgment or order on
equitable grounds where a party establishes that the judgment or order . . .
resulted from extrinsic fraud or mistake.’” 
(Pittman v. Beck Park Apartments Ltd. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1009,
1025.)  
After considering the evidence and arguments
presented by the parties, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden
to show that the February 15, 2019 order denying Plaintiff’s motion for a
protective order and granting sanctions against Plaintiff and in favor of defendants
Escobar and KNRM (1) is void, or (2) “‘resulted from extrinsic fraud or
mistake.’”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (d); Pittman, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p. 1025.)  The court further finds that Plaintiff has
not met his burden to show that the court should set aside the February 15,
2019 order on the ground of lack of due process. 
The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s
motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (d).) 
ORDER

The court denies plaintiff Emilio Reyes’s motion to set aside and
vacate order. 
The court orders defendant Alexandra R. McIntosh, APC to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 24, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court