 Case Number:  22STCV38178    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.  68 Date:  7-18-24 a/f 8-26-24                                                        Case:  2STCV38178 (related to 23STCV13772) Trial Date: 8-19-24 c/f 6-17-24   PITCHESS MOTION   MOVING  PARTY: Plaintiff, Richard Tipping, et al. RESPONDING  PARTY: Defendant, City of Los Angeles, et al.    RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  for LAPD records   SUMMARY  OF ACTION Houston  Tipping, son of Shirley Huffman and Richard Tipping, was a Los Angeles Police  Department officer, suffered fatal head injury when a fellow officer conducted  an exercise causing blunt force trauma to the head and neck of Officer Tipping  during a “training exercise” purportedly to simulate a fall from a certain  height. The training program was part of the Arrest and Control Bicycle  Training Program. Officer Tipping was not provided any protective gear normally  associated with such a training program, and other padding was not properly  placed.    Plaintiffs  allege that at the time of the fatal injury, Officer Tipping was investigating  a fellow officer allegedly responsible for sexually assaulting a person,  thereby providing motivation to an officer to cause harm to Officer Tipping.   On  December 7, 2022, Shirley Huffman, Houston Tipping, and the Estate of Houston  Tipping, filed a complaint for Battery, Whistleblower Retaliation, Bane Act,  and Wrongful Death against City of Los Angeles and Richard Tipping (nominal  defendant). On June 14, 2023, Richard Tipping and the Estate of Houston Tipping  filed a complaint for Assault, Battery, Violation of Civil Code section 52.1,  Violation of Civil Rights 42 USC 1983, Bane Act, and Wrongful Death against  City of Los Angeles, and David Cuellar.   On  March 6, 2024, the court entered the stipulation of the parties to consolidate  the actions.   RULING: Denied in Part/Granted  in Part. Plaintiffs  move for the following records from the City of Los Angeles Police Department  (LAPD):   1.  All WRITINGS related to the investigation conducted by the Los Angeles Police  Department (“LAPD”) Administrative Bureau into the injury and death of Houston  Tipping, including without limitation witness statements, findings, and  conclusions of said investigations. The term “WRITINGS” as used throughout this  motion has the meaning of “writing” as defined in California Evidence Code §  250 (i.e., tapes, recordings, transcripts of same, etc. are part of this  request).  2.  With respect to the LAPD Administrative Bureau investigation into the injury  and death of Houston Tipping, all WRITINGS related to the video/audio interview  of Officer David Cueller conducted by the Administrative Bureau in connection  with the investigation into the injury and death of Houston Tipping, together  with the handwritten notes taken concurrently by the interviewing officers  during the interview. This interview is approximately one (1) hour in length.  The Interview occurred in or around 2022.  3.  All documents and recordings related to the investigation conducted by LAPD  Internal Affairs into the injury and death of Houston Tipping, including  without limitation witness statements, findings, and conclusions of said  investigations.  4.  Produce all WRITINGS, interview notes, summaries, transcripts of interviews,  chronologies showing follow up and all other documents showing the follow up to  the investigation of L.K. by Officers Tipping and Ramos.  5.  Produce all WRITINGS, interview notes, summaries, transcripts of interviews,  chronologies showing follow up and all other documents showing the follow up to  the investigation of L.K. by Detective Stefani Valdes. This would include but  is not limited to Reference No. 211710752.  6.  The TEAMS and TEAMS II Reports for Officer David Cuellar.  7.  The TEAMS and TEAMS II Reports for Officer Marc Ferris.  8.  The TEAMS and TEAMS II Reports for Officer Robert Villegas.  9.  All WRITINGS contained in Officer Mark Ferris’ personnel records concerning his  voluntary demotion from Police Officer III to Police Officer II in or around  November 2022.  10.  All WRITINGS contained in Officer Robert Villegas’ personnel records concerning  his retirement from the LAPD in or around 2022.  11.  Produce all Body Worn Camera (BWC) and Body Worn Video (BWV) footage, videos,  audio and photos showing L.K., any LAPD officer's interaction with L.K., and/or  depicting her home at any point in the past five years, including without  limitation: a. The BWC footage taken by Officer Tipping and/or his partner  Officer Ramos at the Hospital on or about July 16, 2021, in connection with  Incident No. 210716004284, Reference No. 211710752; b. The BWC footage taken by  any Detectives or other Officers interviewing LK at any time.  12.  All recorded interviews of L.K. by any LAPD officers in the last ten years,  including without limitation concerning allegations of assault, sexual assault,  and/or rape.   Plaintiffs bring a “Pitchess” motion but also  qualifies their request with a disclaimer that categories 4, 5, 11, and 12 are  actually not within the purview of a “Pitchess” motion in that said records are  not part of any personnel file. Plaintiffs move for said “non-personnel records”  in regards to officers Marc Ferris and Robert Villegas based on a claim that  said officers were likely going to be identified in a sexual assault report  being compiled by Houston Tipping, and the officers sought to “silence” Tipping.  City of Los Angeles in opposition cites to limitations in Pitchess motions in  discovery and the impropriety of the subject Pitchess motion for admittedly  non-personnel related material. City of Los Angeles also challenges categories  1-3 as not constituting personnel records or a complaint within the purview of  the motion. Plaintiffs in reply maintains the motion establishes good cause for  production of the records, and the sought after records are proper subject  matter for a Pitchess motion.    The court considers the standard as to all categories.  “The Pitchess statutes provide for two categories of confidential  records: (1) ‘“personnel records,”’ and (2) records of citizen complaints about  individual officers, and reports or findings relating to investigation of such  complaints.” (Pasadena Police Officers Assn. v. Superior Court (2015)  240 Cal.App.4th 268, 285.)   “A party seeking discovery of a peace officer's personnel  records must follow a two-step process.   (Citation.) First, the party must file a written motion describing the  type of records sought, supported by ‘[a]ffidavits showing good cause for the  discovery. . ., setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter  involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the  governmental agency identified has the records or information from the  records.’ [Evid. Code § 1043(b)(3).] This initial burden is a ‘relatively  relaxed standard [ ]. (Citation.)’  Information  is material if it ‘“will facilitate the ascertainment of the facts and a fair  trial.”’ (Citations.) ‘[A] declaration by counsel on information and belief is  sufficient to state facts to satisfy the “materiality” component of that  section.’” (Haggerty v. Superior Court  (2004) 117 Cal. App. 4th 1079, 1085–1086.)   City of Los Angeles also emphasizes the lack of  applicability on categories 1-5, and 11-12, under the guise of a Pitchess  motion, and counters Plaintiffs should have brought a motion to compel. Plaintiffs  represent in discovery that City of Los Angeles objected to production on  grounds of a required Pitchess motion and now moves the argument saying proper  procedure was a motion to compel under the discovery statutes.    Penal Code section 832.7 states in part:   (b)(1)  Notwithstanding ... the following peace officer or custodial officer personnel  records and records maintained by a state or local agency shall not be  confidential and shall be made available for public inspection ... (A) A  record relating to the report, investigation, or findings of any of the  following: (i) An  incident involving the discharge of a firearm at a person by a peace officer or  custodial officer. (ii) An  incident involving the use of force against a person by a peace officer or  custodial officer that resulted in death or in great bodily injury. (iii) A  sustained finding involving a complaint that alleges unreasonable or excessive  force. (iv) A  sustained finding that an officer failed to intervene against another officer  using force that is clearly unreasonable or excessive. (B)(i)  Any record relating to an incident in which a sustained finding was made by any  law enforcement agency or oversight agency that a peace officer or custodial  officer engaged in sexual assault involving a member of the public. (ii) As  used in this subparagraph, “sexual assault” means the commission or attempted  initiation of a sexual act with a member of the public by means of force,  threat, coercion, extortion, offer of leniency or other official favor, or  under the color of authority. For purposes of this definition, the  propositioning for or commission of any sexual act while on duty is considered  a sexual assault. (iii) As  used in this subparagraph, “member of the public” means any person not employed  by the officer's employing agency and includes any participant in a cadet,  explorer, or other youth program affiliated with the agency. (C) Any  record relating to an incident in which a sustained finding was made by any law  enforcement agency or oversight agency involving dishonesty by a peace officer  or custodial officer directly relating to the reporting, investigation, or  prosecution of a crime, or directly relating to the reporting of, or  investigation of misconduct by, another peace officer or custodial officer,  including, but not limited to, any false statements, filing false reports,  destruction, falsifying, or concealing of evidence, or perjury. (D) Any  record relating to an incident in which a sustained finding was made by any law  enforcement agency or oversight agency that a peace officer or custodial  officer engaged in conduct including, but not limited to, verbal statements,  writings, online posts, recordings, and gestures, involving prejudice or  discrimination against a person on the basis of race, religious creed, color,  national origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical  condition, genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity,  gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or military and veteran status. ...   (Pen.  Code, § 832.7.)   (a) In  any case in which discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial  officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of  the Penal Code or information from those records, the party seeking the  discovery or disclosure shall file a written motion with the appropriate court  or administrative body upon written notice to the governmental agency that has custody  and control of the records, as follows: (1) In a civil action, the  written notice shall be given at the times prescribed by subdivision (b) of  Section 1005 of the Code of Civil Procedure.  ... (b) The  motion shall include all of the following: (1)  Identification of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought,  the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose  records are sought, the governmental agency that has custody and control  of the records, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or  disclosure shall be heard. (2) A  description of the type of records or information sought. (3)  Affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting  forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending  litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency  identified has the records or information from the records. (c) Upon receipt of a notice served pursuant to subdivision  (a), the governmental agency shall immediately notify the individual whose  records are sought. (d) No hearing upon a motion  for discovery or disclosure shall be held without full compliance with the  notice provisions of this section except upon a showing by the moving party of  good cause for noncompliance, or upon a waiver of the hearing by the governmental  agency identified as having the records.   (Evid.  Code, § 1043)   The court agrees with Plaintiffs  that to the extent the Pitchess statute encompasses records arising from a  citizen complaint, the Pitchess procedures and protections apply. (City of Eureka v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 755, 765; Pasadena Police Officers Assn.  v. Superior Court, supra, 240 Cal.App.4th at p. 291.) The statutes  however also specifically define the categories of applicable records. Plaintiffs concede the Pitchess categories 4, 5, 11 and 12  remain outside the scope of discovery guidelines (motion, 8:1-2) [“records  requested in Request Numbers 4, 5, 11, and 12 should not require a Pitchess  motion since they are not ‘personnel records [sic].”]. Plaintiffs in reply somewhat circle back to the argument  with a broader interpretation based on production for impeachment purposes. (Fletcher v. Superior Court  (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 386, 400 [“However, once materiality has been shown,  nothing in this procedure excuses the trial court from examining information  that might reasonably lead to evidence relevant to the defense”].)    The key terms in the disputed  items include “WRITINGS” and “documents and recordings,” “recorded interviews,”  and body camera footage. While the “report(s)” remains categorically  discoverable, information, including statements and general camera footage  utilized as part of internal investigations appear to remain protected. (Pasadena  Police Officers Assn. v. Superior Court, supra, 240 Cal.App.4th at  p. 290.) The court additionally finds the broad nature of the request renders  the request well outside the specific incident, and the pursuit of the  motivation for the coverup of a potential sexual assault while allowable (see  below), insufficiently supports the sought after broad based review of files  for the last five years. (City of Eureka v. Superior  Court, supra, 1 Cal.App.5th at pp. 764-765.)   Thus, the court finds the expansive  requests improperly lack a sufficient nexus to the exact incident or even a sufficient  enough link to the alleged motivation for purposes of compelling the requested  information beyond the reports. While public policy supports discovery for  purposes of establishing motivation, accountability, liability, etc., the rules  in no way provide for general discovery absent more specific connections. (Pasadena  Police Officers Assn. v. Superior Court, supra, 240 Cal.App.4th at  p. 291-292; City of San Jose v. Superior  Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1150.) The  court also finds said items in no way constitute personnel records.    To the extent the argument comes  full circle as to the impropriety of bringing a Pitchess motion for non-covered  items in the first place, the court also finds no support in the motion or  reply for utilizing the Pitchess protocol for compelling review of said  items under applicable statutory or case authority. The court also declines to  grant the motion on grounds of estoppel. The court finds no basis to compel  said records under the Pitchess statute regardless of the representation  or objections from City of Los Angeles. Estoppel will not overcome a finding of  insufficient authority.    The court agrees with City of Los Angeles and DENIES  the motion as to categories 1-5, and 11-12. The court finds no basis of  authority to compel said documents within the purview of the instant motion and  will not allow Plaintiffs to graft on such relief under the guise of a Pitchess  motion since it’s now two months before trial and the discovery and law and  motion windows are closing.    As for items 6-10, the TEAMS  reports and personnel records, City of Los Angeles offers no dispute as to the  propriety of the motion to obtain said records, and instead challenges a lack  of “good cause” and “plausible factual foundation.” The declaration of Mr. Gage  seeks the records of Officer Cuellar, as the person responsible for performing  the movement leading to the fatal injury. The files of Officers of Ferris and  Villegas tie into the alleged cover-up scheme regarding the purported sexual  assault.   City of Los Angeles challenges the  qualitative nature of the basis as not providing a “special factual scenario.”  (City of San Jose v. Superior Court, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1150.) While the death  may very well have been unintentional, the deposition testimony of Cuellar  specifically admits that a direct blunt force drop to the ground head first (a  “piledriver”) was not an authorized move for an LAPD officer. Such an admission  raises valid skepticism over the open use of the move during a training  exercise. Cuellar also admitted to the “fight club” reputation of the bicycle  unit. As for other circumstances, Officer Ferris in deposition confirms his  presence, along with retired officer Vellegas, at the home of “L.K.,” a person  purportedly responsible for filing a sexual assault complaint.   The court finds the scenario  presented by Mr. Gage of a link between the admittedly improper fatal pile  driver and report from citizen L.K. far more factually supported than the  general claims rejected in the City of San Jose action notwithstanding  the hyperbolic references to movies of police department corruption. The  “enforcement” culture scenario whereby Cuellar effectively executed Tripping  certainly lacks specific support of a direct admission or criminal conviction,  but the court also appreciates the inability to gather additional information  without the ability to seek potential review of the records. The court  therefore finds Plaintiffs make a sufficient showing for review based on  reasonable circumstantial inference. (Garcia v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 63, 70; Warrick v. Sup. Ct., supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1016; Zanone v. City of Whittier (2008)  162 Cal.App.4th 174, 189; California Highway Patrol v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1010, 1020–1021; City of San Jose v. Superior Court, supra,  67 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1146–1147.)    Given that moving party made a showing of good cause for  category numbers 6-10, the court must engage in an in camera review. “Second,  if ‘the trial court concludes the defendant has fulfilled these prerequisites  and made a showing of good cause, the custodian of records should bring to  court all documents “potentially relevant” to the defendant's motion. . . .  The trial court “shall examine the  information in chambers” [Evid. Code § 1045(b).], “out of the presence and  hearing of all persons except the person authorized [to possess the records]  and such other persons [the custodian of records] is willing to have present.”.  . . Subject to statutory exceptions and limitations. . . the trial court should  then disclose to the defendant “such information [that] is relevant to the  subject matter involved in the pending litigation.”’” (Id. at p. 1086.)    The court will exclude all complaints more than five years  old, conclusions of an officer investigating any complaint, and facts  determined too remote of offer little or no practical effect. (Evid. Code,  1045, subd. (b); Warrick v. Superior Court, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1019 accord City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 1, 9.) Any disclosure shall conform to  names, addresses and telephone numbers of complainants and witnesses. (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 84; Carruthers v. Municipal Court  (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 439, 442; Kelvin  L. v. Superior Court (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d  823, 829.) The determination of admissibility of any alleged statements  made during the course of the investigation will not prevent discovery into the  information. A party is entitled to discovery of inadmissible evidence.    Plaintiffs’  argument seeking to distinguish the noted limitations under Evidence Code  section 1043 and 1045, and subsequent cited cases lack a direct factual or  legal statement overruling the noted limitations. Plaintiffs are entitled to  the witness information and limited contact information only. (Haggerty v. Superior Court, supra,  117 Cal.App.4th 1089-1090.)   The motion is therefore GRANTED as to items 6-11.   Discovery or disclosure is protected. “The court shall, in  any case or proceeding permitting the disclosure or discovery of any  peace or custodial officer records requested pursuant to Section  1043, order that the records disclosed or discovered may not be used for any  purpose other than a court proceeding pursuant to applicable law.” (Evid. Code,  § 1045, subd. (e).) The court is required to conform to the requirements of  Evidence Code section 1045, subdivision (e) regarding the dissemination of any  and all protected information from public file disclosure. The parties are to  submit a stipulated protective order.   Moving party to give notice.   Trial remains set for August 19, 2024.   Plaintiffs to provide notice.  Dept.
68

Date:
7-18-24 a/f 8-28-24                            
                         

Case:
2STCV38178 (related to 23STCV13772)

Trial Date: 8-19-24 c/f 6-17-24

 

LEAVE TO AMEND ANSWER

 

MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, City of Los Angeles, et al. 

RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Richard Tipping, et al.

 

RELIEF
REQUESTED

Motion
for Leave to File a First Amended Answer

 

SUMMARY
OF ACTION

Houston
Tipping, son of Shirley Huffman and Richard Tipping, was a Los Angeles Police
Department officer, suffered fatal head injury when a fellow officer conducted
an exercise causing blunt force trauma to the head and neck of Officer Tipping
during a “training exercise” purportedly to simulate a fall from a certain
height. The training program was part of the Arrest and Control Bicycle
Training Program. Officer Tipping was not provided any protective gear normally
associated with such a training program, and other padding was not properly
placed. 

 

Plaintiffs
allege that at the time of the fatal injury, Officer Tipping was investigating
a fellow officer allegedly responsible for sexually assaulting a person,
thereby providing motivation to an officer to cause harm to Officer Tipping.

 

On
December 7, 2022, Shirley Huffman, Houston Tipping, and the Estate of Houston
Tipping, filed a complaint for Battery, Whistleblower Retaliation, Bane Act,
and Wrongful Death against City of Los Angeles and Richard Tipping (nominal
defendant). On June 14, 2023, Richard Tipping and the Estate of Houston Tipping
filed a complaint for Assault, Battery, Violation of Civil Code section 52.1,
Violation of Civil Rights 42 USC 1983, Bane Act, and Wrongful Death against
City of Los Angeles, and David Cuellar.

 

On
March 6, 2024, the court entered the stipulation of the parties to consolidate
the actions.

 

RULING: Denied.

City
of Los Angeles (City) moves for leave to file a first amended answer to the
operative complaint in order to allege a 16th Affirmative Defense: “Plaintiffs’
claims are barred by the exclusivity provisions of the Worker’s Compensation
Act.” Plaintiffs in opposition contend the motion fails to comply with the
requirements for leave to amend, due to the failure to establish diligence in
bringing the motion at an earlier date. Plaintiffs also maintain prejudice as a
result of the potentially allowed delay. Finally, Plaintiffs challenge the
basis of the proposed affirmative defense and maintain an evidentiary bar to
such evidence. Cross-Defendant Richard Tipping filed a notice of joinder in
opposition to the motion. City in reply denies any showing of prejudice as a
result of the amended answer. 

 

On
May 15, 2024, court specially advanced the hearing from August 28, 2024, to
July 17, 2024. Notwithstanding, the amended notice of hearing, opposition and
reply—all filed after May 15, 2024—identify the hearing date as August 28,
2024. The court disregards the typographical error and proceeds with the
motion.

 

A
motion for leave to amend must comply with the requirements set forth in
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324, which states as follows:

 

“(a)      Contents of motion

A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must:

(1)              
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments;

(2)              
State what allegations in the previous pleading are
proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the deleted allegations are located; and 

(3)              
State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.

 

(b)        Supporting declaration

A
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:

(1)        The effect of the amendment;

(2)        Why the amendment is necessary and
proper;

(3)        When the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and 

(4)              
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made 

earlier…” (emphasis added).

 

Dilatory delays and prejudice to the opposing parties is a
valid ground for denial. (Hirsa v.
Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 

 

Leave to amend is generally liberally granted. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 473(a); Mesler v. Bragg
Management Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 290, 296.) The court will not generally
consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion
for leave, instead deferring such determinations for a demurrer or motion to
strike, unless the proposed amendment fails to state a valid claim as a matter
of law. (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Marker, U.S.A.) (1989) 213
Cal. App.3d 1045, 1048; California
Casualty Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280–281
disapproved of on other grounds by
Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)

 

City essentially admits to only discovering the potential
defense during the week of May 9, 2024, while reviewing the action in
preparation for trial. City indicates the proposed affirmative answer was
otherwise not incorporated due to an omission from the “intake attorney” to
determine the warranted defenses. [Declaration of Steven McGuire.] 

 

The court generally favors robust adjudication of claims,
and tends to favor leave to amend, where the changes lack significant
alteration to the common core of facts or otherwise present no substantive
material change to the underlying action. The court also considers the context
of the motion when determining dilatory conduct. 

 

The court accepts the inadvertence leading to the omission. The
court also finds no legal bar to the proposed affirmative defense.
Determination of workers compensation preclusion for the acts of a co-employee
constitutes consideration beyond the scope of the proposed pleading, and the
court therefore declines to find a bar as a matter of law under the scope of
the motion.

 

Nevertheless, the nature of the defense and filing of the
motion more than one year and five months after the December 7, 2022, filed
complaint, almost 11 months after the June 14, 2023, filed complaint, and more
than two months after the stipulation consolidating the actions, presents a
strong finding supporting prejudice given the impending trial date.

 

The City’s request to seek a complete
preclusion of all actions does not constitute a de minimus addition to
the proposed affirmative defenses. Rather, the incorporation of this defense
can in fact lead to complete preclusion of all claims presented. (Lab. Code, §§
3600, subd. (a)(2), 3602; Charles J.
Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2001) 24 Cal.4th 800, 813; Fermino v. Fedco, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 701, 708; Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1,
16.)

 

While the cases share a common
core of facts, the proposed change constitutes a potential substantial material
change to the adjudication of the underlying action. Plaintiffs represent completing
extensive discovery in preparing the case for trial, and the necessity of
reopening discovery to address this defense. City concedes as much. City admits
that the majority of discovery in fact conducted lacked any association with
any affirmative defense yet challenges the opposition as insufficiently
articulating the additional burden required in conducting said new discovery. 

 

Given the potential impact of the
affirmative defense, and burden on City to justify the lack of prejudice, the
court finds the argument in reply essentially challenging the showing of
prejudice lacks support. The potential impact of the new affirmative defense,
thereby necessitating the reopening discovery two months before trial and even
closer to the discovery cutoffs, plus the invitation for a potential pretrial
challenge, such as a motion for judgment on the pleadings on the eve of trial,
constitutes a significant showing of undue prejudice caused by the oversight of
City.

 

Even if the court considered a
further continuance of the trial (not requested by either party), the court
still finds the discovery and potential new law and motion burden unfairly
prejudicial. Plaintiffs are entitled to prepare their case pursuant to the
framed issues, and City is not in a position to force such a material
alteration to the action based on workflow assignment office protocol. (See Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-487; Hulsey v.
Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150, 1159.) 

 

The motion is therefore DENIED.

 

Trial remains set for August 19, 2024.

 

City of Los Angeles to provide notice.

     