 Case Number:  23STCV01323    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
          On January 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Yoana
Noemi Chicas (“Chicas”) and Andrew Hernandez (“Hernandez”), by and through his
guardian ad litem Chicas, filed this action against Defendants Latura Jenkins,
City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation, MV Transportation, Inc., and
Does 1-50 for motor vehicle negligence, general negligence, violation of Civil
Code section 2104, violation of Civil Code section 2100, violation of Civil
Code section 2101, negligent entrustment, respondeat superior, and negligent
hiring/retention. 
On
March 1, 2023, the Court appointed Chicas to serve as Hernandez’s guardian ad
litem. 
On
April 4, 2023, Defendants Latura Jenkins, City of Los Angeles Department of
Transportation, and MV Transportation, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
April 24, 2024, Defendants filed (1) a motion to compel Hernandez to provide
further responses to form interrogatory 17.1, set two, and for sanctions and
(2) a motion to compel Hernandez to provide further responses to requests for
admission, set two, and for sanctions. 
The motions were set to be heard on June 25, 2024.  On June 11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
oppositions.  On June 17, 2024,
Defendants filed replies. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for October 7, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
The
parties participated in an IDC on May 20, 2024. 
B.       Timeliness of Motion 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of
the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before
any later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c) [interrogatories]; Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (c)
[requests for admission].)  Failure to
file a motion by this deadline constitutes a waiver of any right to compel
further responses. 
Plaintiffs
do not dispute the timeliness of Defendants’ motions. 
C.   Meet and Confer 
A
motion to compel further responses to interrogatories or requests for admission
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2016.040.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1) [interrogatories]; 2033.290, subd. (b)(1)
[requests for admission].)  “A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Plaintiffs
dispute the adequacy of Defendants’ meet and confer efforts. 
D.      Separate Statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Defendants
filed separate statements. 
APPLICABLE LAW 
A.            
Interrogatories 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 provides: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the
propounding party deems that any of the following apply: 
“(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete. 
“(2) An exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate. 
“(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit
or too general. 
“(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories. 
“(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further
response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
“(e) If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are
just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300.) 
B.             Requests for admission 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.290 provides: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to requests for
admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a
further response if that party deems that either or both of the following
apply: 
“(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete. 
“(2) An objection to a particular request is without
merit or too general. 
“(b) (1) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(2) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the requesting party waives any right
to compel further response to the requests for admission. 
“(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. 
“(e) If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
further response to requests for admission, the court may order that the
matters involved in the requests be deemed admitted. In lieu of, or in addition
to, this order, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Defendants’ motion to compel Hernandez's
further responses to form interrogatory 17.1, set two 
Served:
February 12, 2024          Responses:   March
14, 2024          Motion filed: April 24, 2024 
Denied:
All 
The
Court denies Defendants’ and Plaintiffs’ requests for sanctions. 
B.   Defendants’ motion to compel Hernandez's
further responses to requests for admission, set two 
Served:
February 12, 2024 Responses:   March 14, 2024 Motion
filed: April 24, 2024
  Denied:
All 
The
Court denies Defendants’ and Plaintiffs’ requests for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion to compel Plaintiff Andrew Hernandez's further
responses to form interrogatory 17.1, set two, filed by Defendants Latura
Jenkins, City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation, and MV
Transportation, Inc. 
The
Court DENIES the motion to compel Plaintiff Andrew Hernandez's further
responses to requests for admission, set two, filed by Defendants Latura
Jenkins, City of Los Angeles Department of Transportation, and MV
Transportation, Inc. 
The
Court DENIES the request for sanctions of Defendants Latura Jenkins, City of
Los Angeles Department of Transportation, and MV Transportation, Inc. 
The
Court DENIES the request for sanctions of Plaintiffs Andrew Hernandez and Yoana
Noemi Chicas. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.