 Case Number:  21STCV41551    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 10, 2021, Plaintiff Juan Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants The Kroger Co., dba
Food 4 Less, Matthews Real Estate Investment Services, and Does 1-25 for
premises liability. 
On
May 16, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Carmenita
Place, LLC (“Carmenita”) as Doe 1. 
On
June 12, 2023, Defendant Alpha Beta Company dba Food 4 Less (incorrectly named
and served as The Kroger Co., dba Food 4 Less) (“Alpha Beta”) filed an answer. 
On
January 29, 2024, Carmenita filed an answer. 
On January 30, 2024, Carmenita filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Roes 1-50 for equitable indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
On
May 2, 2024, Alpha Beta filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint, to
be heard on June 25, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 20, 2025. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Alpha
Beta asks for leave to file a cross-complaint against Carmenita and Roes 1-10
for indemnification, apportionment of fault, declaratory relief, and breach of
contract. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 426.50 provides:           
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject
to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.10 provides: 
“A party against whom a cause of action has been
asserted in a complaint or cross-complaint may file a cross-complaint setting
forth either or both of the following: 
“(a) Any cause of action he has against any of the
parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him. Nothing in this
subdivision authorizes the filing of a cross-complaint against the plaintiff in
an action commenced under Title 7 (commencing with Section 1230.010) of Part 3. 
“(b) Any cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint against any
of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her
before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
“(b) Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any
time before the court has set a date for trial. 
“(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b).  Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50.) 
          “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the
course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is
demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”  (Silver Org. Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  “Cross-complaints
for comparative equitable indemnity would appear virtually always
transactionally related to the main action.” 
(Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American Development
Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
November 10, 2019, as Plaintiff went to
enter a Food 4 Less store at the Santa Fe Springs Plaza in Whittier, California,
he tripped and stumbled on a broken brick on the main brick paved sidewalk at
the storefront. When he regained his balance he felt a stinging sensation in
his foot and he sustained injuries and damages as a result. He looked back to
see that he tripped on a missing broken brick that was part of the entrance
walkway. The missing broken brick near the entrance to the store was a
dangerous condition that Defendants knew about or should have known about.  Defendants failed to warn about or correct
the dangerous condition, causing Plaintiff’s injuries and damages. 
B.    Alpha Beta’s motion for leave to file
cross-complaint 
Alpha
Beta requests leave to file a cross-complaint alleging that Carmenita breached
the lease between Carmenita, the owner of the shopping plaza, and Alpha Beta,
the tenant, (1) by failing to maintain the common areas of the shopping plaza and creating
the condition that allegedly caused Plaintiff’s injuries, (2) by failing to
maintain commercial general liability insurance on Alpha Beta’s behalf, and (3)
for failing to accept Alpha Beta's tender of defense and/or indemnity. 
The
Court has seen no evidence that Alpha Beta has acted in bad faith in seeking to
file a cross-complaint.  The Court grants
the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Alpha Beta Company dba Food 4 Less’s motion to file a
cross-complaint.   The Court orders Defendant Alpha Beta Company
dba Food 4 Less to file its cross-complaint within 30 days of the hearing on
this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.