  Case Number:  19STCV25174    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, reply, supplemental, and objecting papers,
the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 18, 2019, Plaintiffs Esmeralda Gomez (“Gomez”) and Glenda Rodriguez
(“Rodriguez”) filed this action against Defendants Erika Lisbeth Lopez
(“Lopez”) and Does 1-50 for negligence, loss of consortium, and vehicle use
exception. 
On
December 17, 2019, Lopez filed an answer. 
On
July 27, 2020, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to include Defendant Stars
Behavioral Health Group, Inc. (“Stars”) as Doe 12. 
On
October 6, 2020, Stars filed an answer. 
On
February 13, 2024, Lopez filed a motion to compel Gomez’s examination by a
hand/wrist specialist, to be heard on May 6, 2024. On April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. On April 19, 2024, Lopez filed a reply. 
On
May 6, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling, heard argument, and continued
the hearing to June 25, 2024.  The Court
gave the parties leave to file supplemental declarations. 
On
June 20, 2024, Lopez filed a supplemental declaration by her counsel. 
On
June 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an objection to Lopez’s counsel’s supplemental
declaration. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 17, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Lopez
asks the Court to compel Gomez to attend an examination by a hand/wrist
specialist. 
Plaintiffs
ask the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.220 provides: 
“(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking
recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical
examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The examination does not include any diagnostic
test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. 
“(2) The examination is conducted at a location within
75 miles of the residence of the examinee. 
“(b) A defendant may make a demand under this article
without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in
the action, whichever occurs first. 
“(c) A demand under subdivision (a) shall specify the
time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well
as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the physician who will perform
the examination. 
“(d) A physical examination demanded under subdivision
(a) shall be scheduled for a date that is at least 30 days after service of the
demand. On motion of the party demanding the examination, the court may shorten
this time. 
“(e) The defendant shall serve a copy of the demand
under subdivision (a) on the plaintiff and on all other parties who have
appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210) . . . , the party shall obtain leave of court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.310.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part: 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical . .
. examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
 “(d) An order granting a physical . . . examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination." 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320,
subds. (a), (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Lopez
asks the Court to compel Gomez’s examination by an orthopedic surgeon who is a
hand/wrist specialist.  Lopez contends
that she has established good cause because the examination is directly
relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims, Lopez cannot obtain the information by other
means, Gomez will use an expert to support her claim of a hand/wrist injury,
Gomez is claiming ongoing injuries, and Gomez has placed her hand/wrist
injuries in controversy.  
Gomez
has already submitted to three physical examinations, including one with an
orthopedic surgeon.  The orthopedic
surgeon who conducted the examination was aware that Gomez claimed her hands
and wrists were injured and had access to Gomez's medical records. 
Lopez
argues the Court should find good cause for an additional physical examination
because Gomez (1) reported at her recent deposition that she had sustained
severe hand and wrist injuries to both upper extremities, (2) demonstrated that
she can no longer open either hand, and (3) testified that these injuries have
deteriorated over time. (McCabe dec. ¶
4.) 
In
the Court’s previous tentative ruling, the Court observed that Lopez had not
asserted that the condition of Gomez’s hands and wrists had materially changed
since Gomez’s prior examination by an orthopedic surgeon. 
Lopez’s
counsel’s supplemental declaration does not address whether the condition of
Gomez’s hands and wrists have materially changed since Gomez’s examination by a
defense orthopedic surgeon.  Instead, the
supplemental declaration provides a letter from Dr. Kuschner stating that he
must conduct an in-person physical examination of Gomez to carry out a thorough
and complete assessment and provide an opinion to a reasonable degree of
medical certainty.  The letter does not
explain why Gomez’s previous defense examinations did not provide this
information. 
The
Court does not find good cause for an additional defense examination.  The Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Defendant Erika Lisbeth Lopez to compel Plaintiff
Esmeralda Gomez’s examination by a hand/wrist specialist. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.