 Case Number:  24STCV00384    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  73 10/04/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
LOPEZ-REYES v. COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (24STCP00384)
 
Counsel for Petitioner/opposing
party: Rigoberto Lopez-Reyes (Pro Per)
Counsel for Respondent/moving
party:  Dawyn Harrison (Los Angeles
County Counsel)
 
Demurrer TO THE PETITION OF WRIT OF
MANDATE (filed 7/26/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Respondent’s
demurrer to the Petition of Writ of Mandate is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to
amend. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed a petition against County of
Los Angeles Department of Regional Planning.  
 
The Petitioner alleges the County of Los Angeles Planning
Department leadership is in violation of the following State Laws: Title
7 chapter 4.3 section 65915(a)(1), 65915(d)(1) and 65915(e)(1) because they are
physically precluding the construction of a housing development by denying a
building permit. The Petitioner is seeking relief under CCP 1094.5 and is
requesting an order from the Court and monetary damages. 
 
On July 26, 2024, Respondent
filed a demurrer to the Petition, arguing:
·       The entire
Petition is uncertain, since a traditional writ under section 1085 and an
administrative writ under section 1094.5 review different actions by an agency.

·       There are no
allegations to support either request for relief.
·       There are no
facts alleged, or any evidence presented that Respondent violated the
Government Code sections that Petitioner claims it did.
 
Petitioner filed an opposition, arguing:
·       The petition
sets forth sufficient facts that Respondent is in violation of various state
laws
·       Respondent
has refused Petitioner’s application and is preventing him from moving forward
with his housing project
 
Respondent filed a reply maintaining that the Court should sustain
its demurrer.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Respondent submitted a declaration stating that
the parties discussed the grounds of the demurrer via telephone on July 24,
2024 and via email on July 25, 2024. (Cooper Decl., ¶¶
3-6.) The Court finds the moving party has satisfied its meet and confer
obligation and the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
B.      Discussion
 
Respondent
demurs to the Writ of Mandate Petition on the grounds that the Petition is uncertain
and fails to state sufficient facts.
 
Under CCP
section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the respondent has
proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether
there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is
established if the agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the
decision is not supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by
the evidence.  (CCP § 1094.5(b).) 
 
“Where the
writ is issued for the purpose of inquiring into the validity of any final
administrative order or decision made as the result of a proceeding in which by
law a hearing is required to be given, evidence is required to be taken, and
discretion in the determination of facts is vested in the inferior tribunal,
corporation, board, or officer, the case shall be heard by the court sitting
without a jury.” (CCP §1094.5(a).)
 
A respondent
may demur to a petition for writ relief.  (See generally Woods v.
Superior Court (1981) 28 Cal.3d 668, 673 (demurrer to petition for writ of
administrative mandamus properly overruled where petitioner sought review of
adjudicatory decision of the Department of Social Services which was alleged to
be invalid because it was based on an invalid regulation).)  “All that is
required is that plaintiff state facts entitling him to some type of relief,
and if a cause of action for mandamus or certiorari has been stated, the
general demurrer should have been overruled.”  (Scott v. City of Indian
Wells (1972) 6 Cal.3d 541, 546 (plaintiff stated claim for administrative
writ relief under CCP 1094.5 based on allegations that respondent issued
conditional use permit for project without providing abutting landowners,
including plaintiff, notice of the project and potential permit, without
considering their interests and without hearing their views); see also Carloss
v. County of Alameda (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 116.)
 
Here,
the Petition states that relief is being sought under CCP 1094.5. (Petition, p. 1.)
However, there are no allegations or indication that there was a final
adjudicative action of an administrative body as required by CCP 1094.5. Petitioner’s
allegations that Respondent unlawfully denied his application for proposed
housing for homeless veterans does not provide a basis for bringing a Writ of
Mandate under CCP 1094.5. Therefore, Court finds the Petition is uncertain and
Respondent cannot reasonably respond. "If a pleading is so uncertain that
a party cannot reasonably respond, the pleading is properly subject to a
special demurrer." (Khoury v. Maly's of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) The inability to reasonably respond occurs when a party
cannot determine which issues to admit or deny, or which claims are made
against him. (Id. at 616, 618 (sustaining demurrer on the grounds that
demurred cause of action was based on conclusory pleading and was simply
duplicative of one of plaintiff's other causes of action).)
 
As such, the demurrer
to the Petition of Writ of Mandate is SUSTAINED.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Respondent’s demurrer to the Petition of Writ of Mandate is
SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 