  Case Number:  21STCV30828    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  73 10/04/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
YEDAM, INC., et al. v. DANIEL LEE, et
al. (21STCV30828)
 
Counsel for Cross-Complainants/moving
party:  Dale Park (Law Offices of Dale J.
Park)
Counsel for Cross-Defendants/opposing
party: Frederick Lee (Frederick W. Lee Law Firm APC)
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS DANIEL LEE’S MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET
ONE) PROPOUNDED ON CROSS-DEFENDANT EUN KYUNG CHOI AND REQUEST FOR COSTS (filed on 06/17/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, propounded
on Cross-Defendant Eun Kyung Choi is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant
Choi shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s order.
Choi is also ordered to pay sanctions to Cross-Complainant Lee, by and
through counsel of record, in the total amount of $2,700.00, within 30 days. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 20, 2021, Plaintiffs Yedam, Inc. (“Yedam") and Eun
Kyung Choi (“Choi") brought this breach of loyalty and unfair business
practices action against Daniel N. Lee (“Lee") and Jin Sook Lee (together,
“the Lees"), and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“DM Cosmetics"). 
 
On March 15, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) asserting 5 causes of action for: (1) Breach of Duty of Loyalty; (2) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (3) Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage; (4) Unfair Business Practices; and (5) Declaratory
Relief.
 
The FAC alleges the following. Yedam imports and purchases
products including candles and scented oils that are sold at various retail
locations such as department stores in South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 9.) On or about February 2017 Defendant Daniel Lee
began working for Yedam in South Korea. (FAC, ¶
10.) In his capacity as an employee, Defendant Daniel Lee was significantly
involved in dealing with: a) manufacturers that produced candles, scented oils
or related products; b) the manufacturers’ decision makers and the purchase
terms such as price; c) the buyers at the department stores in Korea that
purchased such products from Yedam; d) the buyers’ decision makers and the
purchase terms such as price; and e) the retail locations in both the United
States of America and South Korea where such items were sold at. (FAC, ¶ 22.) Notwithstanding his duty of loyalty,
Defendant Daniel Lee, in conjunction with his wife Defendant Angela Lee, have
misused Yedam’s proprietary information in order to enrich themselves
financially. (FAC, ¶ 24). Defendants’ actions
have caused Buyers for Department Stores in South Korea to cease purchasing
products from Plaintiff Yedam and/or have caused the closure of retail
locations in South Korea. (FAC, ¶ 26).
 
The Lees and DM Cosmetics, Inc. (“Cross-Complainants" or
“Defendants”) cross-complained against Yedam, Choi, Olive House LLC, and Lamis
Tania, LLC (“Cross-Defendants"). On August 10, 2023, Cross-Complainants
filed their third amended cross-complaint (“TACC”) asserting 8 causes of action
against Cross-Defendants: (1) Breach of Oral Contract I; (2) Breach of Oral
Contract II; (3) Breach of Oral Contract III; (4) Breach of Oral Contract IV;
(5) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets; (6) Trademark Infringement; (7) Unfair
Competition in Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq. and
California Trademark Law; and (8) Declaratory Relief.
 
The TACC alleges the following. Prior to 2017,
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Choi owned Yedam. (TACC, ¶
11.) Yedam was experiencing serious financial problems. (Ibid.) In
February of 2017, Choi approached Defendant/Cross-Complainant Lee asking for
help. (Id., ¶ 12.) Choi proposed Lee
serve as Yedam’s general manager, whereby Lee would oversee the Korean market
and Choi would oversee the Chinese market. (Ibid.) In exchange, Lee
would be paid a $10,000 per month salary. (Ibid.) In addition, Choi
would give Lee 49% ownership of Yedam if Lee could help Yedam “overcome [its]
financial hardship and become profitable." (Ibid.) Lee agreed and
moved from the US to Korea to serve as Yedam’s general manager. (Id., ¶ 13.) To help Yedam solve its financial issues, Lee
loaned Yedam $70,000.00 in operating capital. (Id., ¶ 14.) Choi promised that the $70,000.00 would be
paid back when Yedam become profitable, along with 7% interest per annum from
April 1, 2017. (Id., ¶ 12.) Lee
successfully managed Yedam thereafter, and Yedam went from net losses in 2016
and 2017 to net profits of over a million dollars per year by the end of 2019.
(Id., ¶ 15.) However, in July of 2019,
Yedam faced supply chain issues when the “Milk House Candle" company in
the United States refused to renew its exclusive distribution contract with
Yedam. (Id., ¶ 16.) In response, the
Lees created a new brand of merchandise named “Dani Mackenzie" under DM
Cosmetics, Inc. (Id., ¶ 17.) The Lees
trademarked Dani Mackenzie in the United States in May of 2020. (Id., ¶ 18.) Around that same time, Choi proposed that
Yedam purchase Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics in exchange for
Yedam having the right to use the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶ 19.) Choi told the Lees that there was no need to
have a written licensing and distribution agreement because Choi would transfer
49% of Yedam’s ownership interest to Lee by the end of December 2020. (Id.,
¶ 20.)
 
Dani Mackenzie became highly popular in Korea, and Yedam’s sales
and profit soared to the point that Yedam was valued at over $50 million. (Id.,
¶ 22.) On December 20, 2020, Lee demanded that
Choi transfer 49% of Yedam to him. (Id., ¶
23.) Lee also demanded that Choi and Yedam repay the $70,000 operating capital
loan with 7% interest from April 1, 2017. (Ibid.) However, Choi
terminated Lee from Yedam shortly thereafter and refused to convey the 49%
ownership share. (Id., ¶ 25.) Further,
Choi and Yedam stopped purchasing Dani Mackenzie merchandise from DM Cosmetics
and started using other suppliers to manufacture products bearing the Dani
Mackenzie trade name. (Id., ¶ 28.) On
March 18, 2021 and April 14, 2021, Cross-Complainants demanded that
Cross-Defendants cease and desist manufacturing, supplying and/or selling
products under the Dani Mackenzie name. (Id., ¶
32.) 
 
A.      Motion to
Compel Further Answers to Request for Production of Documents (Set One)
 
On June 17, 2024, Cross-Complainant Daniel Lee filed the Motion to
Compel Further Answers to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) against
Choi, arguing: 
·      
Lee
moves to compel further responses to Requests for Production, Set One, Nos. 1-13

·      
Choi provided responses that were improper, deficient, incomplete,
and/or without merit 
·      
Lee requests
that the Court award monetary sanctions against Choi and her attorney of record
in the sum of $2,700.00.
Choi filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Moving party fails to establish relevant
specific facts which warrant the production of documents
·      
Lee’s Motion to Compel Further Responses
to the Requests for Production of Documents are tied to Form Interrogatories
12.4, 12.5, 12.6 and 15.1. The Court had denied further response to these form
interrogatories based on the term “incident”
·      
Sanctions should be awarded to Choi in
the amount of $6,247.50
 
Lee filed a reply arguing:
·      
Responding Party’s attempts to tie the
previous form interrogatories to the prior request for production of documents,
and to the present Requests is, again, irrelevant and without merit because the
present Motion is based on Propounding Party’s Cross-Complaint, and not
Responding Party’s Complaint.
·      
Choi’s boilerplate objections fails to
respond to respond with any substance
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer 
 
Before
bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the
moving party is required to make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and
must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A meet and confer declaration in
support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here,
counsel for Cross-Complainant Lee submitted a declaration attesting that the
parties met and conferred. (Park Decl. ¶¶
6-16.) The Court
finds the moving party has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer
requirement.
 
B.      Legal
Standard 
¿  
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under CCP §
2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Under CCP §
2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action..., if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section
specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that
discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having
knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description,
nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored
information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
C.      Discussion
 
Lee requests further responses to Requests Nos.
1-13.
 
Requests Nos. 1-13 seek any and all documents and ESI identified or mentioned in
response to Form Interrogatories, Set No. One, Nos. 12.3-12.6, 15.1, 50.1, 50.30-50.6.
 
Choi responded with the following objections: “Asked and
Answered”, “Duplicative”, and “Not applicable by virtue of response to [the concurrent
Form Interrogatory].”
 
The Court
finds that further response is warranted. Choi’s boilerplate objections are too
general and unmeritorious because they do not state how or why Choi believes responses
are not applicable. Even where a responding party cannot comply with a request
for production, a “representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.230.) The statement shall include the reason why the responding
party is unable to comply and “set forth the name and address of any natural
person or organization known or believed by that party to have possession,
custody, or control of that item or category of item.” (Ibid.) Further, Choi
fails to show that these requests are duplicative or asked and answered.
 
Based on the foregoing, Lee’s Motion to Compel
Further Discovery Responses to Production of Documents, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
D.    
Sanctions
 
The court may impose sanctions against any party for engaging in conduct
constituting a “misuse of the discovery process.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030
(a).)¿Misuse of the discovery process includes “failing to respond or submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 (d).) 
 
Both parties
request the Court impose monetary sanctions. Since the Court grants Lee’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Production of Documents, Set One, the Court also
grants Lee’s request for attorneys’ fees incurred in bringing the motion. Lee requests
reasonable
attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $2,700.00. (Park Decl. ¶ 18.) 
 
The Court GRANTS Lee’s request. Choi is ordered to pay sanctions to
Cross-Complainant Lee, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of
$2,700.00, within 30 days. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Cross-Complainant
Daniel Lee’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, propounded
on Cross-Defendant Eun Kyung Choi is GRANTED. Cross-Defendant
Choi shall serve supplemental responses within 30 days of the Court’s order.
Choi is also ordered to pay sanctions to Cross-Complainant Lee, by and
through counsel of record, in the total amount of $2,700.00, within 30 days. 