  Case Number:  23TRCV03016    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
HECTOR
  MUNOZ, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03016




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
FORD
  MOTOR COMPANY, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 27,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiffs Hector Munoz and Cruz Munoz
Responding Party:                  Defendant Ford Motor Company
Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Complaint
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
The
motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs are
ordered to file a First Amended Complaint within ten days.
BACKGROUND
            On September 12, 2023, plaintiffs
Hector Munoz and Cruz Munoz filed a complaint against Ford Motor Company and
Peyton Cramer Ford dba AutoNation Ford Torrance for violations of Song-Beverly
Act and negligent repair.
            The matter is presently set for
trial March 26, 2026.  Defendants were
both served with the Complaint on September 22, 2023.  Answers of the two defendants were filed
October 20, 2023.
            On May 9, 2024 Plaintiffs filed
their motion to file the First Amended Complaint.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party,
or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other
respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.”
 “This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.”  Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal. App. 3d 1045, 1047.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion
to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or
amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and
line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Even if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting
it may be a good reason for denial.  In
most cases, the factors for timeliness are: 
(1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal. App. 3d 486, 490.  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 471, 486-488.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
request leave to file a First Amended Complaint to add a cause of action for
fraudulent concealment and a prayer for punitive damages.
            The
complaint alleges that on January 18, 2020, plaintiffs entered into a warranty
contract with Ford Motor Company regarding a 2019 Ford F-150.  Complaint, ¶16.  Defects and nonconformities to warranty
manifested themselves with the applicable express warranty period.  The nonconformities substantially impaired
the use, value, and/or safety of the subject vehicle.  Id., ¶17. 
Plaintiffs delivered the vehicle to an authorized FMC repair facility
for repair of the nonconformities.  Id., ¶18.  FMC was unable to conform the subject vehicle
to the applicable express warranty after a reasonable number of repair
attempts.  Id., ¶19.  FMC has failed to promptly make
restitution.  Id., ¶20.
            Plaintiffs
contend that they are seeking to add allegations that defendant Ford has
fraudulently induced consumers, like plaintiffs, to purchase vehicles with a
defective transmission by actively concealing this defect.  Plaintiffs assert that the allegations
outline Ford’s pre-sale knowledge of the transmission defect, Ford’s failure to
disclose the defects, and plaintiffs’ experience with the vehicle’s repair
history.  
            In
opposition, defendant argues that plaintiffs’ amendment is futile as it is
barred by the economic loss rule and three-year statute of limitations and that
the allegations are insufficient to meet the elements.  Defendant also contends that the proposed
amendment is prejudicial to Ford because the new claim will greatly expand the
scope of this case, including discovery and duration of a trial.  Defendant further contends that plaintiffs’
counsel was aware of the potential fraudulent concealment claim when the
complaint was filed but “chose to omit it from their pleading.” 
            In
reply, plaintiffs argue that Ford fails to establish prejudice beyond merely
defending against a new claim. 
Plaintiffs further contend that Ford’s “timeliness” argument lacks merit
and any “small delay alone is insufficient grounds to deny the motion.”  Plaintiffs argue also that Ford’s challenge
to the merits of plaintiff’s proposed amended complaint is premature.  Plaintiffs further assert that, in any event,
they have properly alleged a cause of action for fraudulent concealment and a
transactional relationship, and that the economic loss rule does not bar
plaintiffs’ claim.  Moreover, plaintiffs
contend, as to statute of limitations, the discovery rule tolls plaintiff’s
claim.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that plaintiffs
complied with CRC Rule 3.1324.  Further, “[l]eave to amend is in general
required to be liberally granted, provided there is no statute of limitations
concern.  Leave to amend may be denied if
there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.”  Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal. App. 4th
402, 412 (citations omitted).  Defendants
have not shown prejudice.  Trial is set
for March 26, 2025 and there is ample time to conduct discovery.  As to whether amendment is futile, it does
not appear on the face.
            The motion is GRANTED.
            Nothing in this ruling should be
construed as determining anything beyond the granting of the motion to allow
the filing of the First Amended Complaint. 
In particular, the assertion that the statute of limitations has run
against the claim, or that the claim is barred by the economic loss rule are
not being decided by the Court in this motion.
 
(The Court notes that Song-Beverly actions allow for
an award of attorneys fees.  However, the
claim that Plaintiffs are adding in the First Amended Complaint does not appear
to support an award of attorneys fees. 
Therefore, the Court orders Plaintiffs’ counsel to keep time records reflecting
the time devoted to the new claim.  For
instance this motion involves no Song-Beverly claim and must be reflected in
time records so that should there be a need to seek an award of attorneys fees,
the time is appropriately identified as devoted to the non-Song Beverly claim.)
ORDER
The
motion is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff is ordered to file a First
Amended Complaint within ten days.
Plaintiffs’ counsel shall keep time
records that allow for the identification of time that is not devoted to the
non-Song Beverly claim.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.