 Case Number:  20STCV49949    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  57 DEFENDANTS MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION The Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  Contrary to Defendants' position, the "entrustment exclusion" in the insurance policy at issue in this case does not bar coverage for Plaintiff Peter Marco LLC's asserted losses.  The Court's determination in this regard is based on  Freedman v. Queen Insurance Co. of America (1961) 56 Cal.2d 45.  The California Supreme Court's decision in Freedman forecloses as a matter of law Defendants' interpretation of the entrustment exclusion.  Defendants' motion for Summary Adjudication as to five specified issues is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  Issue 1  Entrustment Exclusion For the same reason that Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED, Defendants' Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Issue 1 is DENIED.Issue 2   Lloyds Defendants' Duty to DefendDefendants' Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Issue 2 is DENIED.  "A liability policy is presumed to include a defense duty unless the duty is excluded by clear and unambiguous language . . . ."  (Maryland Casualty Co. v. Nationwide Ins. Co. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 21, 30.)  This statement of the law is embodied in Civil Code Section 2778, which provides that "a defense obligation is implied in all indemnity agreements," including insurance agreements, unless the agreement clearly shows a contrary intention.  (Id. at p. 31.)   The insurance agreement at issue in this case does not clearly and unambiguously exclude the Lloyds Defendants' duty to defend the named insured, Peter Marco LLC, against liability to third parties. Issue 3  The Cause of Action Against Defendant Underwriters For Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing Defendants' Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Issue 3 is DENIED.  There are disputed issues of material fact regarding the reasonableness of the Lloyds Defendants' denial of coverage for the asserted losses of Plaintiff Peter Marco LLC, and thus whether Defendants' coverage position breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Issue 4  The Availability of Punitive Damages Against the Defendant UnderwritersDefendants' Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Issue 4 is DENIED.  There are disputed issues of material fact regarding whether a jury could conclude by clear and convincing evidence that the Lloyds Defendants acted with malice, oppression, or fraud in denying coverage for Plaintiff Peter Marco LLC's asserted losses.Issue 5  Dismissal of Plaintiff Peter Voutsas Because He is not a Named InsuredDefendants' Motion for Summary Adjudication as to Issue 5 is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Peter Voutsas is not a named insured for purposes of the asserted first party losses and liability to third parties from which this case arises.  Peter Marco LLC is the named insured for those purposes.  Voutsas is a named insured in the "Jeweler and Gemologist Professional Appraisal Endorsement" that is part of the policy in question.  But the asserted first party losses and liability to third parties from which this cases arises do not stem from an appraisal to which the Endorsement Applies.  The reference in the Endorsement to coverage for "owners," "executive officers," and "directors" of the insured, Peter Marco, LLC, does not extend coverage to Voutsas across the board.   That reference plainly is for the Endorsement only. PLAINTIFFS' MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Defendants' Tenth, Eleventh, Twelfth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Affirmative Defenses is  DENIED.  The Court cannot determine from the face of the pleadings that those Affirmative Defenses are barred as a matter of law.  This is so notwithstanding the Court's ruling denying Defendants' Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the entrustment exclusion in the policy at issue in this case and the stipulated judgment in the related Lazar action against Peter Marco, LLC.    The motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the Defendants' Thirteenth Affirmative Defense is GRANTED.  That Defense posits that the Lloyds Defendants had no duty under the policy in question to defend Plaintiff and named insured Peter Marco, LLC against asserted liability to third parties.  That defense is foreclosed as a matter of law.  "A liability policy is presumed to include a defense duty unless the duty is excluded by clear and unambiguous language . . . ."  (Maryland Casualty Co. v. Nationwide Ins. Co. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 21, 30.)  This statement of the law is embodied in Civil Code Section 2778, which provides that "a defense obligation is implied in all indemnity agreements," including insurance agreements, unless the agreement clearly shows a contrary intention.  (Id. at p. 31.)   The insurance agreement at issue in this case does not clearly and unambiguously exclude the Lloyds Defendants' duty to defend the named insured, Peter Marco LLC, against liability to third parties.  Thus, as a matter of law, the Lloyds Defendants have a duty to defend and their Thirteenth Affirmative Defense fails as a matter of law.