 Case Number:  22STCV40862    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  20    Tentative Ruling Judge Kevin C. Brazile  Department 20  Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 10,  2024 Case Name:                            Jane Doe v.  Religious Technology Center, et al. Case No.:                                22STCV40862 Motion:                                  Motion for  Order Requiring Plaintiff to Substitute True Name Moving Party:                         Defendant Church of  Scientology International Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Jane Doe Notice:                                    OK       Ruling:                                    The motion  for order requiring Plaintiff Jane Doe to substitute her true name is DENIED.   Moving party to  give notice.       BACKGROUND             On  December 29, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against  defendants Does 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 through 100. On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff  filed a second amended complaint against defendants Religious Technology  Center, Church of Scientology International, David Miscavige, Gavin Potter,  Bridge Publications, Inc., and Does 6 through 100 (collectively, Defendants).  The complaint alleges that Potter sexually abused Plaintiff when Plaintiff was a  minor, and that Defendants knew or reasonably should have known of Potter’s  dangerous propensities and breached their duty of care to Plaintiff by placing  Potter in a position of contact with minors, failing to investigate allegations  of sexual abuse, and coercing Plaintiff into marriage with Potter. On July 12, 2024, Potter filed this motion  for an order requiring Plaintiff to substitute her true name for the pseudonym  “Jane Doe.” On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition to the motion. DISCUSSION Applicable  Law             California courts regularly grant  parties anonymity, particularly when “necessary to preserve an important  privacy interest.” (Dep’t of Fair Emp. & Hous. v. Superior Ct. of Santa  Clara Cnty. (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105, 110 (DFEH), citing Doe v.  Lincoln Unified Sch. Dist. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 758, 766.) The applicable  standard is the overriding interest test: “A party’s request for anonymity  should be granted only if the court finds that an overriding interest will  likely be prejudiced without use of a pseudonym, and that it is not feasible to  protect the interest with less impact on the constitutional right of access.” (DFEH,  supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 111.) “ ‘[A] party may preserve his or her  anonymity in judicial proceedings in special circumstances when the party’s  need for anonymity outweighs prejudice to the opposing party and the public’s  interest in knowing the party’s identity.’ ”  (Doe v. Lincoln Unified  School Dist. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 758, 767, quoting Does I thru XXIII  v. Advanced Textile Corp. (9th Cir. 2000) 214 F.3d 1058, 1068.)             Where  an anonymous plaintiff’s identity is known to the defendant, constitutional  concerns regarding confrontation and due process right are not implicated. (DFEH,  supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 110 [“Since the employee’s identity is known  to the defendant, proceeding anonymously would not . . . intrude on the  defendant’s rights.”].)    Application  to Facts             The Court finds that Plaintiff’s  need for anonymity outweighs any prejudice and the public’s interest in knowing  her identity.  Plaintiff argues that, should her identity  be made public, there is a substantial risk that “Defendants’ agents and  supporters who many not immediately be aware of Plaintiff’s true identity will  more easily be able to locate and further harass Plaintiff and her family.”  (Opp, p. 5.) Plaintiff has already experienced a sustained campaign of  harassment and been threatened with harassment. (Burtis Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) This is  sufficient to establish an overriding interest in anonymity, as a risk of harm  to Plaintiff or “retaliatory harm to family members… is precisely the kind of  interest that may justify allowing a party to litigate under a pseudonym.” (DFEH,  supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 112.) The protection of witnesses and  parties from harassment is an overriding interest and deserving of protection.  (See People v. Scott (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 524, 530.) The state also has  a strong interest in protecting the privacy of sex offense victims. (People  v. Ramirez (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 47, 53.) Furthermore, Defendants know Plaintiff’s  identity.  (Mot., p. 16.) Therefore, constitutional concerns regarding confrontation  and due process rights are not implicated. Defendants have had and will have  opportunities to conduct discovery to identify witnesses and evidence,  irrespective of Plaintiff’s use of a pseudonym. Defendants are minimally  prejudiced by Plaintiff’s use of a pseudonym. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s need for  anonymity outweighs any prejudice and the public’s interest in knowing her  identity.    Request for Judicial Notice Potter’s request for judicial notice is  GRANTED.  CONCLUSION             Potter’s motion for order to  substitute Plaintiff’s true name is DENIED. Plaintiff may proceed under the  fictitious name “Jane Doe.”             Moving party to give notice.   Tentative Ruling Judge Kevin C. Brazile  Department 20  Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 10,  2024 Case Name:                            Jane Doe v. Religious  Technology Center, et al. Case No.:                                22STCV40862 Motion:                                  Motion to Seal Moving Party:                         Defendant Church of Scientology  International Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Jane Doe Notice:                                    OK       Ruling:                                    The motion  to seal is granted.   Moving party to  give notice.         BACKGROUND On December 29, 2022, Plaintiff Jane Doe  (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants Does 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6  through 100. On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint  against defendants Religious Technology Center, Church of Scientology  International, David Miscavige, Gavin Potter, Bridge Publications, Inc., and  Does 6 through 100 (collectively, Defendants). The complaint alleges that  Potter sexually abused Plaintiff when Plaintiff was a minor, and that  Defendants knew or reasonably should have known of Potter’s dangerous  propensities and breached their duty of care to Plaintiff by placing Potter in  a position of contact with minors, failing to investigate allegations of sexual  abuse, and coercing Plaintiff into marriage with Potter. On July 12, 2024, Defendants filed a  notice of intent not to file under seal exhibits A through D of the declaration  of Ruth Speidel in support of Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct discovery. On July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  renewed motion to seal. On September 9, 2024, Defendants filed an  opposition to the motion to seal. On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  reply to the opposition. DISCUSSION Applicable  Law Courts  evaluate motions to seal documents under California Rules of Court, rules 2.550  and 2.551, which codify requirements for ordering sealing of court documents.  The requirements were stated in NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior  Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178 (NBC Subsidiary).    Among  the requirements articulated by California Rules of Court, rules 2.550 and  2.551 are that to grant a motion to seal court documents, the court must  expressly find that: (1) an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right  of public access to the record; (2) the overriding interest supports sealing  the records; (3) a substantial probability exists that the overriding interest  will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is  narrowly tailored; and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the  overriding interest.¿¿(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d);¿NBC Subsidiary,¿supra,  20 Cal.4th at pp. 1217—1218.) Under  California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(c), a record filed publicly in the court  must not disclose material that is sealed, conditionally under seal, or subject  to a pending motion or an application to seal.   Application  to Facts Here, Plaintiff moves the court for an  order sealing photographs of herself, provided by defendant Church of  Scientology international as exhibits in the declaration of Ruth Speidel in  support of Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct discovery in support of  motion to compel arbitration. (Speidel Decl., Exs. A-D [redacted]). The court  grants Plaintiff’s motion. The court finds that (1) there exists an  overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record  since the documents set forth (i) Plaintiff’s appearance and identity, (2) the  overriding interest supports sealing the record to ensure that Plaintiff’s  identity and sensitive, personal information about her are not disclosed, (3) a  substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced  if the record is not sealed, (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and  (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.   (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 2.550, subd. (d); Speidel Decl., Exs. A-D.)  Furthermore, photographs of Plaintiff set  forth Plaintiff’s identity, which is material contained in documents numbered  as CSI 00024-32, attached as exhibits 6 and 8 to the “Supplemental Declaration  of Sarah Heller in Support of Church Defendants’ Motion to Compel Religious  Arbitration.” These documents are subject to an existing motion to seal, for  which a tentative order granting the motion was adopted by the court on  September 20, 2024. The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s  motion.   CONCLUSION             The motion to seal is GRANTED.             Moving party to give notice.