 Case Number:  24STCV18438    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



INTEGRATIVE SURGICAL ASSOCIATES GROUP LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
BOBBY BAKHTIAR MOUSSAZADEH, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  24STCV18438
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 3, 2024
 Calendar Number: 11



 
 
Defendants Bobby Bakhtiar
Moussazadeh and B Moussazadeh, a Medical Corporation demur to the first,
second, fourth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth
causes of action in Plaintiffs’ complaint.
 
 
            The
Court OVERRULES Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first, fourth, twelfth, and
fourteenth causes of action.
 
The Court SUSTAINS WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ second, ninth, tenth, eleventh, and
thirteenth causes of action.  Plaintiffs
shall amend within thirty (30) days.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs
Integrative Surgical Associates Group LLC and Farnad Medical Corporation
(“Plaintiffs”) sued defendants Bobby Bakhtiar Moussazadeh (“Moussazadeh”) and
B Moussazadeh, a Medical Corporation (together “Defendants”) on July 23,
2024, asserting the following causes of action:
 
(1) accounting; 
(2) breach of fiduciary duty; 
(3) breach of contract; 
(4) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing; 
(5) goods and services rendered; 
(6) money had and received; 
(7) open book account; 
(8) restitution to avoid unjust enrichment; 
(9) intentional interference with contractual relations; 
(10) intentional interference with prospective economic relations; 
(11) negligent interference with prospective economic relations; 
(12) conversion; 
(13) violations of Penal Code § 496; 
(14) violations of Business & Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq.; and
(15) aiding and abetting.
 
As alleged in
Plaintiffs’ complaint and accepted as true upon Defendants’ demurrer (paragraph
citations to the complaint unless otherwise indicated):
 
Plaintiff Integrative
Surgical Associates Group LLC (“ISAG”) “is a state-of-the art ambulatory
surgical center designed for qualified doctors to perform their outpatient
surgery procedures as a more convenient alternative to hospital-based
procedures.” (¶ 12.) ISAG was founded in 2019 by medical doctors Shahbaz Farnad
(“Farnad”) and Parvaz Mizrahi. (Ibid.) Farnad remains a principal of
ISAG. (¶ 2.) Plaintiff Farnad Medical Corporation (“FMC”) is “Dr. Farnad’s
corporation through which he provides anesthesia services”, including services
provided at ISAG’s facility. (¶ 12.)
 
Defendants
provided medical services in Los Angeles County during all relevant times, including
in partnership with Plaintiffs on the terms discussed below. (See ¶¶ 1-3 and 13.)
 
Plaintiffs’ action
involves “a professional business relationship gone awry.” (¶ 1.) Dr. Farnad,
ISAG and FMC’s principal, and defendant Moussazadeh “once entered an agreement
[“Agreement”] to enable the treatment of Moussazadeh’s patients at ISAG’s
facilities.” (¶ 2.) At the outset, the Agreement’s terms were simple.
“Moussazadeh’s patients would be treated at ISAG”; FMC would sometimes provide
services in connection with that treatment. (Ibid.) “[T]hose patients
would then be billed separately” for the services they received, each party
paid for the services it provided. (Ibid.)
 
The Agreement
became more complicated because many of the parties’ patients “were personal
injury plaintiffs/claimants for whom Plaintiffs and Moussazadeh would provide
services on a ‘lien basis’ ”. (¶ 3.) Plaintiffs did not receive immediate
payment from these “lien patients” (Court’s term). (See ibid.) Rather,
they “would treat patients and retain the right to payment directly from a
settlement or award that the patient receive[d] or obtain[ed] in the future.” (Ibid.)
 
“ISAG incurs
expenses each time its facilities and staff are used for [lien patients’]
treatments[.]” (Ibid.) Because payment for lien patients’ treatments
were deferred, “the parties agreed that Moussazadeh would make monetary
advances to help defray some of ISAG’s expenses”, then “reconcile[ ] those
… advances against future payments made on ISAG’s liens.” (Ibid.)
 
“In many
instances, Plaintiffs entrusted Moussazadeh with the fiduciary responsibility
of billing, securing liens, and collecting” on services provided to lien
patients, then reconciling any advances with the amount the parties finally
recovered on their liens. (¶ 4.)
 
In August 2023,
Plaintiffs’ principal revoked Moussazadeh’s facility privileges for reasons
unrelated to the parties’ Agreement. (¶ 6.)
 
In December 2023,
Plaintiffs received an Explanation of Benefits from an insurer that referred to
services Moussazadeh had purportedly provided to a patient at ISAG. (¶ 7.)
Moussazadeh had not provided these services; as noted, his facility privileges
had been revoked months earlier. (¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiffs began
investigating Moussazadeh’s billing practices for their shared patients,
including the lien patients. (¶¶ 7-10.) They discovered that he had
fraudulently billed insurance providers multiple times for services he falsely
claimed he had performed at ISAG’s facilities. (¶¶ 7-9.) They also discovered
Moussazadeh had been providing false records to lien patients’ personal injury
attorneys, and he had been withholding payments on patient liens that should
have been directed to Plaintiffs. (¶¶ 9-10.)
 
Plaintiffs
attempted to resolve the parties’ dispute through informal mediation and
conference with Moussazadeh’s criminal defense counsel. (¶ 1.) When these
efforts were unsuccessful, Plaintiffs sued.
 
On October 16,
2024, Defendants demurred to Plaintiffs’ first, second, fourth, ninth, tenth,
eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth causes of action. Defendants
argue Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts sufficient to state any of these
claims.
 
On November 18,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On November 22, 2024, Defendants
replied.
 
Legal Standard
 
             Where pleadings are defective, a party may
raise the defect by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36
Cal.2d 257, 262.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
alleges facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 430.10; Young v. Gannon (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 209, 220.) 
 
When considering a
demurrer, a court reads the allegations stated in the challenged pleading
liberally and in context, and “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material
facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact
or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Put differently:
for purposes of demurrer, the court treats all facts alleged – but only the facts
alleged – in the complaint as true. (Picton v. Anderson Union High
School District (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 732.) “The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
Meeting and
Conference
 
“Before
filing a demurrer ... , the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer
for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a).)
 
Defendants’
counsel filed a declaration that satisfies section 430.41. (See Goodman
Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants argue
Plaintiffs have failed to state their claims for (1) an accounting, (2) breach
of fiduciary duty, (4) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (9-11) intentional and negligent interference with contractual
relations and prospective economic relations, (12) conversion, (13) civil
theft, and (14) unfair business practices.
 
First Cause of
Action for an Accounting
 
Plaintiffs have
stated a claim for an accounting.
 
An
action for an accounting has two elements: (1) ‘that a relationship exists
between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting’ and (2) ‘that
some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an
accounting.’ [Citations.]” (Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861, 869.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
have pled an ongoing business arrangement with a complicated payment scheme.
They have also pled Defendants embezzled funds in unknown amounts and failed to
cooperate with Plaintiffs’ efforts to reconcile the payments. The parties had a
relationship that requires an accounting, and at least according to the
Complaint, the balance owed to Plaintiffs cannot be ascertained without court
intervention.
 
The demurrer to
the first cause of action is overruled.
 
Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Plaintiffs have
not stated a claim for breach of fiduciary duty.
 
To state a claim
for breach of fiduciary duty a plaintiff must plead “the existence of a
fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that
breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.) 
 
“A
fiduciary relationship is ‘ “any relation existing between parties to a
transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty bound to act with the utmost
good faith for the benefit of the other party.’ ” (Wolf v. Superior Court
(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.) It is “ ‘ordinarily synonymous with a
“confidential relation.” It is ... founded upon the trust or confidence reposed
by one person in the integrity and fidelity of another, and likewise precludes
the idea of profit or advantage resulting from the dealings of the parties and
the person in whom the confidence is reposed.’ ” (Rickel v. Schwinn Bicycle
Co. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 648, 654.) “‘[B]efore
a person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation, he must either knowingly
undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of another, or must enter into a
relationship which imposes that undertaking as a matter of law.’” (Hasso v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th
107, 140 (quoting Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 221).) 
 
Plaintiffs do not allege any facts to
establish a fiduciary duty between the parties. They allege, as a conclusion,
that they “entrusted  Moussazadeh with
[a] fiduciary responsibility”. (¶ 4.) This is insufficient to sustain their
claim. Plaintiffs allege no facts to show Moussazadeh was bound to act in
“utmost good faith” or that he knowingly undertook such a duty. Also, other
allegations in the complaint suggest the parties’ arrangement might preclude a
fiduciary duty between them; Plaintiffs allege they and Defendants occupied a
contractual relationship meant to generate profits for both.
 
The allegations suggest a fiduciary
relationship, but they require more specifics to establish the necessary duty
and its breach. The demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained with
leave to amend.
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of the
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’
claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails
because it duplicates Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of contract. The Court
disagrees.
 
“ ‘The [implied]
covenant of good faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every contract.’
(Citation.) The covenant is read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to
the express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging
in conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)
frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract.’ (Racine
& Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks & Recreation (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031–1032.) The covenant also requires each party to do
everything the contract presupposes the party will do to accomplish the
agreement's purposes. (Harm v. Frasher (1960) 181 Cal.App.2d 405,
417.)  
 
Breach of the
covenant of good faith does not, per se, duplicate breach of contract.
(See Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) In fact, a claim for breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing does not stand without an underlying breach of contract.
(Green Valley Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
425, 433.) The breach of covenant depends on breach of contract and goes
beyond it. (Ibid.) The claim would be superfluous in all cases if it
both required a breach of contract and failed because it was duplicative of a
breach of contract.
 
Here, Plaintiffs’
claim does not rely on a simple breach of a specific contract term. They do not
only allege that Defendants failed to deliver money owed. They claim Defendants
intentionally neglected to manage the payments in the manner agreed. They also
allege Defendants failed to cooperate with Plaintiffs’ efforts to reconcile the
payments once Defendants’ alleged breaches were discovered. The case is more
complicated than simple failure to pay. Plaintiffs have stated a claim for
breach of the implied covenant, as a supplement to the express contract terms.
 
The demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is overruled.
 
Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Causes of
Action for Interference with Contractual and Prospective Economic Relations
 
Plaintiffs have
not stated claims for interference with contractual or prospective economic relations,
intentional or negligent. These three claims share substantially the same
elements; as relevant here, all require a plaintiff to plead (1) a contract or
economic relationship with a third party, (2) defendant’s knowledge of that
relationship, and (3) actual disruption to the relationship. (Reeves v.
Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148 [intentional interference with
contractual relations], 1152 fn.6 [intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage]; Golden Eagle Land Investment, L.P. v. Rancho
Santa Fe Assn. (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 399, 430 [negligent interference with
prospective advantage].) 
 
Plaintiffs allege
“Moussazadeh is continuing to … undermine Plaintiffs and bad-mouth them, and
interfere with Plaintiffs’ business and relationships.” (¶ 11.) They provide no
further specifics. The complaint does not place Moussazadeh on notice of the
basis of Plaintiffs’ claims, e.g., to whom he has bad-mouthed them, or how he
has interfered.
 
The Court sustains
the demurrer to the ninth through eleventh causes of action with leave to
amend.
 
Twelfth Cause of
Action for Conversion


Plaintiffs have
stated a claim for conversion, and that claim is not barred by the economic
loss rule as a matter of law at the demurrer stage.
 
a. Plaintiffs state a claim for conversion
because the object of their claim, though intangible, is capable of
identification.
 
“A cause of action
for conversion requires allegations of plaintiff's ownership or right to
possession of property; defendant's wrongful act toward or disposition of the
property, interfering with plaintiff's possession; and damage to plaintiff.
[Citation.] Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion
unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved, such as where an agent
accepts a sum of money to be paid to another and fails to make the payment.
[Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) However, “it is not necessary that each
coin or bill be earmarked” to state a claim for conversion. (Haigler v.
Donnelly (1941) 18 Cal.2d 674, 681.) The amount need only be “capable of
identification.” (Ibid.)
 
Although
Plaintiffs have not identified a sum of money in their pleading – in fact, they
ask the Court to do so via their claim for an accounting – the sum is
nonetheless capable of identification. Defendants cite PCO, Inc. v.
Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 384. The citation is unpersuasive. There, the Court of Appeal
observed that Plaintiffs may have stated a cause of action – their claim
failed at summary judgment because they failed to identify a specific
sum. (Id., at pp. 396-397.) 
 
The proper result
here is apparent from Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 202, 217-218 (“Welco”). There, the plaintiff proved his
agents “misappropriated a specific sum” – precisely what Plaintiffs claim here
– and, upon proving that sum, the plaintiff prevailed. 
 
If Plaintiffs
cannot identify the sum they are owed at summary judgment, their claim for
conversion might not prevail. But they have pled the claim sufficiently at this
stage.
 
            b. Plaintiffs’ claim for
conversion is not barred by the economic loss rule.
 
The economic loss
rule posits that a purchaser of a product that does not live up to the buyer's
expectations can only recover in contract and not a tort, “unless [the
purchaser] can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.”
(Food Safety Net Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1118, 1130 (quoting Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc. v. Dana
Corporation (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988).) A tort claim must be sufficiently
independent from a breach of contract claim for which the plaintiff suffered
economic loss. (Robinson Helicopter, supra, 34 Cal.4th at 991.) The
economic rule has also been characterized not to apply where “the means used to
breach [a] contract are tortious, involving deceit or undue conversion.”
(Freeman & Mills, Inc. v. Belcher Oil Co. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 85, 105,
italics added (conc. opn., J. Mosk).)
 
Plaintiffs allege
a deceitful, intentional scheme to deprive them of money they were owed.
Whether or not Defendants breached the terms of an express contractual
agreement, Plaintiffs’ complaint describes circumstances wherein Defendants
could be held liable in tort.
 
The economic loss
rule does not bar Plaintiffs’ claim for conversion. (The same reasoning applies
to Plaintiffs’ claim for civil theft, discussed below, although the demurrer to
that claim is sustained on other grounds.)
 
For pleading
purposes, Plaintiffs have stated their claim. The demurrer is overruled.
 
Thirteenth Cause of Action for Violation
of Penal Code Section 496 (“Civil Theft”)


Plaintiffs have
not stated a claim under Penal Code section 496.
 
Penal Code section
496 creates a private right of action for a plaintiff who has been the victim
of criminal theft as it is defined in Penal Code section 484. The elements of this
“civil theft” action are laid out in section 496, subdivision (a):
 
(1)       that the defendant bought or received property; concealed,
sold, or withheld property from its owner; or aided in concealing, selling, or
withholding the property from its owner;
 
(2)       that the property in question was stolen, or obtained in any
manner constituting theft or extortion;
 
(3)       that the defendant knew the property to be so stolen or
obtained; and
 
(4)       that the plaintiff suffered injury.
 
Plaintiffs’
complaint fails at the second element: that the property was stolen or obtained
by theft. 
 
For purposes of
section 496, the terms “stolen” and “theft” derive their meaning from Penal
Code section 484, defining criminal theft. Under that section, a “theft” occurs
when a defendant “feloniously steal[s], ... the personal property of another,
or … fraudulently appropriate[s] property which has been entrusted to him...,
or … knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or
pretense, defraud[s] any other person of ... property[.]” (Pen. Code, §
484(a).)
 
“[N]ot all
commercial or consumer disputes alleging that a defendant obtained money or
property through fraud, misrepresentation, or breach of a contractual promise
will amount to a theft. To prove theft, a plaintiff must establish criminal
intent on the part of the defendant beyond ‘mere proof of nonperformance or
actual falsity.’ [Citation.]” (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour
(2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 361.) In fact, to state a cause of action under Penal
Code section 496(a), a plaintiff must plead and prove not just intent, nor
malice or oppression, but “careful planning and deliberation reflecting
the requisite criminal intent.” (Ibid., italics added.) The
Supreme Court has suggested that a plaintiff must, at a minimum, show a
defendant possessed “animus furandi”, or the intent to permanently deprive a
plaintiff of its property. (See id., at p. 367 (conc. opn., J. Groban).)
 
Plaintiffs have
not pled specific facts to show Defendants possessed the criminal intent
required for a civil theft claim. The demurrer to the thirteenth cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Fourteenth Cause of Action for Unfair
Business Practices
 
The Unfair
Competition Law (“UCL”) “bars ‘unfair competition’ and defines the term as a
‘business act or practice’ that is (1) ‘fraudulent,’ (2) ‘unlawful,’ or (3)
‘unfair.’ … Each is its own independent ground for liability under the [UCL],
but their underlying purpose ‘is to protect both consumers and competitors by
promoting fair competition in commercial markets for goods and services’ … .” (Shaeffer
v. Califia Farms, LLC (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1135, citations omitted.)
“[T]he UCL is a chameleon. … Depending on which prong is involved, a UCL claim
may most closely resemble, in terms of the right asserted, an action for
misrepresentation …, misappropriation …, price fixing …, interference with
prospective economic advantage …, or any of countless other common law and
statutory claims. ” (Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013) 55
Cal.4th 1185, 1196.) 
 
Defendants argue
they cannot be held liable under the UCL solely because “there is no violation
of any other laws”. (Dem., 13:8.) But several of Plaintiffs’ claims have gone
unchallenged, and several others survive demurrer. Common-law as well as
statutory claims may establish unlawful practices for purposes of the UCL. (See
ibid.) 
 
Moreover,
Defendants have not directed any argument to the “fraudulent” or “unfair”
prongs of the law, both of which Plaintiffs cite in their opposition as
alternative bases for liabilty.
 
The demurrer to
the fourteenth cause of action is overruled.
 
 