 Case Number:  24STCV09276    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



LESLIE CRUZ, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
TAPESTRY INC., et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  24STCV09276
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 3, 2024
 Calendar Number: 10



 
 
            Defendants
Tapestry, Inc., Kate Spade LLC, and Coach Services, Inc. move for an order compelling
Plaintiff to submit her claims to arbitration and dismissing this action.
 
            The Court
DENIES Defendants’ motion.
 
Background
 
            Plaintiff
Leslie Cruz (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants Tapestry Inc.,
Kate Spade LLC, and Coach Services, Inc. (“Defendants”) on April 12, 2024 for
(1) unfair competition (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200 et seq.) and (2) false
advertising (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17500 et seq.).
 
            Defendants
Kate Spade LLC and Coach Services, Inc. are wholly owned subsidiaries of
defendant Tapestry, Inc.; together, the former two act as operating
subsidiaries for the latter’s “Kate Spade Outlet” website and stores. (Compl.,
¶¶ 12-14.) Plaintiff is or was one of Defendants’ customers. (Id., ¶
11.)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges Defendants “inundate[ ]” customers at their stores and website
with “signs advertising percentage discounts off the ticketed price of
merchandise”. (Compl., ¶ 4.) Defendants describe their sale prices as
percentage reductions from a “reference price”. (Id., ¶ 17.) Plaintiff
contends the advertised sale reductions are misleading because Defendants’
“reference prices” are false; “the merchandise is never (or almost never)
offered for sale at the reference price”. (Id., ¶ 18.) As a result, the
percentage sale discounts that Defendants advertise are falsely inflated.
 
            As
to herself specifically, Plaintiff alleges she purchased merchandise through
the Kate Spade Outlet website on February 2, 2024 and March 4, 2024; both of
her purchases suffered from the same false advertising scheme she alleges
generally in her complaint. (Id., ¶¶ 34-37.)
 
            Plaintiff
prays for “restitution and disgorgement of all unjust enrichment that
Defendants obtained from Plaintiff as a result of their unlawful, unfair, and
fraudulent business practices and their false advertising[.]” (Id.,
12:21-23.)
 
            On
July 10, 2024, Defendants moved to compel arbitration and dismiss Plaintiffs’
claims against them. On August 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition. On
September 19, 2024, Defendants replied.
 
Defendants filed supplemental
evidence along with their reply papers, and Plaintiff filed objections to that
evidence that Defendants contend amount to an improper sur-reply. Given the
lapse of time between those filings and the hearing, the Court considers all
evidence and argument submitted by both parties.
 
Evidentiary Matters and Supplemental Filings
 
            In support
of their reply, Defendants request judicial notice of screen captures from the
Kate Spade Outlet and Coach Outlet websites. Defendants have also introduced
responses to Limited Special Interrogatories they propounded pursuant to the
parties’ stipulation on August 16, 2024. Plaintiff objects to both.
 
            The Court
grants the request for judicial notice and overrules Plaintiff’s objections.
Plaintiff had sufficient opportunity to respond to the proposed noticed
materials, which were submitted on September 19, 2024. Also, Defendants
propounded their Interrogatories according to a stipulation that clearly
contemplates Defendants using the responses in support of their reply.
 
            In their
responses to Plaintiff’s objections, Defendants characterize the objections as
an improper sur-reply on the merits. The Court considers all arguments on the
merits (including also the “brief response” Defendants raise in their response
to Plaintiffs’ objections, which might reasonably be characterized as a reply
to Plaintiff’s sur-reply). The admission of Defendants’ late filings relies on
Plaintiff’s opportunity to respond to newly introduced evidence and argument; the
Court similarly permits Defendants a final opportunity to reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Under California
and federal law, public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less
expensive means of resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily &
Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9 (Moncharsh); AT&T Mobility LLC
v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an agreement
is governed by the California Arbitration Act or the Federal Arbitration Act,
courts resolve doubt about an arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of
arbitration. (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9.) 
 
            The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. 
(Engalla, supra, 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)  A petition to compel arbitration must allege
both a “written agreement to arbitrate” the controversy, and that a party to
that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.2.) It then becomes plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (Ibid.)

             
Discussion
 
            Defendants
have not established Plaintiff assented to the arbitration agreement.
 
            The
parties are primarily occupied with the first question posed by section 1281.2:
whether the parties executed an arbitration agreement at all.
 
            Defendant
contends Plaintiff agreed to the “Terms of Use” for Defendants’ website when
Plaintiff made her purchase. The Terms of Use contain an agreement to arbitrate
all claims arising from use of the website. Plaintiff does not dispute that her
claims arise from her use of the website, but she denies that she consented to
the arbitration agreement that appears in the Terms of Use.
 
“ ‘Contracts formed on the
Internet come primarily in two flavors: “clickwrap” (or “click-through”)
agreements, in which website users are required to click on an “I agree” box
after being presented with a list of terms and conditions of use; and
“browsewrap” agreements, where a website's terms and conditions of use are
generally posted on the website via a hyperlink at the bottom of the screen.’
[Citation.]” (Long v. Provide Commerce, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th
855, 862.) “In most instances, the contractual terms [in a clickwrap agreement
a]re not actually displayed on the same screen as the ‘ “I accept’ ”
button, but [a]re instead provided via a hyperlink that, when clicked, [takes]
the user to a separate page displaying the full set of terms.” (Sellers v.
JustAnswer LLC (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 463 (Sellers).)
“Clickwrap” and “browsewrap” fall on a broader spectrum of “ ‘wrap’ methods of
online contract-formation provid[ing] varying degrees of notice to users”,
browsewrap providing the least notice and a third method, “scrollwrap”,
providing the most. (B.D. v. Blizzard Entertainment (2022) 74
Cal.App.5th 931, 946. (Blizzard).)
 
Here, in order to place her orders,
Plaintiff navigated through several payment screens, arriving finally at a
large pink button with white lettering reading “PLACE MY ORDER >>”. (Bopp
Decl., Exh. B, p. 5.) Immediately underneath the button, there is a line of
gray text approximately a quarter of the button’s size. (Ibid.) That
text reads, “BY CLICKING SUBMIT YOUR ORDER, YOU ARE AGREEING TO OUR TERMS OF
USE AND PRIVACY POLICY.” (Ibid.) The words “terms of use” and
“privacy policy” are underlined because they are hyperlinks to the relevant documents.
(Ibid.) Neither hyperlink is highlighted in a different color from the
surrounding text. (Ibid.)
            
The courts’ inquiry into the
formation of “wrap” agreements is heavily informed by the circumstances of the
parties’ transaction. “ ‘[B]ecause the threshold issue of the existence of a
contract is for the courts to decide, the issue of conspicuousness is typically
characterized as a question of law.’ (Sellers, supra, 73
Cal.App.5th at p. 473 . . . .) But in deciding this issue, courts are actually
undertaking ‘a fact-intensive inquiry’ of ‘largely subjective’ criteria, such
as the size, color, contrast, and location of any text notices; the obviousness
of any hyperlinks; and overall screen ‘clutter.’ ” (Blizzard, supra,
76 Cal.App.5th, at pp. 946-947.)
            
To evaluate whether the terms of a
clickwrap agreement are sufficiently conspicuous, “the transactional context is
an important factor to consider and is key to determining the expectations of a
typical consumer.” (Sellers, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th, at p. 481.)
            
Blizzard, supra, is particularly
instructive here. The Court of Appeal there reversed a trial court’s order
denying the defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. It discussed the most
relevant precedent, Sellers, at length, and it enumerated the facts
justifying its ruling in great detail. 
 
In Blizzard, the Court
examined not a clickwrap agreement, but a “sign-in wrap agreement” – that is, the
plaintiff there signed up “ ‘for an ongoing account and, thus, it [was
reasonable] to expect that the typical consumer in that type of transaction
contemplates entering into a continuing, forward-looking relationship’ governed
by terms and conditions.” (Blizzard, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th, at p.
951, italics added, quoting Sellers, supra, 73 Cal.App.5th, at p.
471.)
 
The enforceable agreement in Blizzard
“consisted primarily of a scrollable text box that contained the entire …
License Agreement[, so] users did not need ‘ “to ferret out hyperlinks to
terms and conditions.” ’ ” (Id., at p. 951.) The agreement was
in white text against a black background, and “advised users to ‘CAREFULLY READ
TH[E] agreement,’ and admonished that they ‘MAY NOT INSTALL OR OTHERWISE ACCESS
THE PLATFORM’ if they ‘DO NOT AGREE WITH ALL OF THE TERMS OF TH[E] AGREEMENT.’
” (Ibid., bracketing in original, emphasis omitted.)
 
Given these circumstances, the
Court found the sign-in wrap agreement sufficient to incorporate the terms of
use, citing “ ‘[t]he general rule is that the terms of an extrinsic document
may be incorporated by reference in a contract so long as (1) the reference is
clear and unequivocal, (2) the reference is called to the attention of the
other party and he consents thereto, and (3) the terms of the incorporated
document are known or easily available to the contracting parties.’ (DVD
Copy Control Assn., Inc. v. Kaleidescape, Inc. (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th
697, 713 … .)” (Blizzard, supra, at p. 952.) The defendant in Blizzard
satisfied the standard because (1) the hyperlink to the parties’ agreement was
“a blue, underlined hyperlink”, and (2) the relevant section “unequivocally
refer[red] to the Dispute Resolution Policy by name and call[ed] it to the
parties’ attention.” (Blizzard, supra, 76 Cal.App.5th, at p. 952.)
And, as noted, the character of the “sign-in” agreement in Blizzard was
such that a consumer might expect a term that governed the disposition of the
parties’ future disputes.
 
None of the facts in Blizzard
are present here. There was no scrollable text box in the parties’ Agreement.
The transaction is a clickwrap agreement applicable to a single
purchase-and-sale transaction; the Agreement did not create an ongoing
relationship. The hyperlink to the Terms of Use was gray, against a white
background. The notice simply alerted customers that they were “agreeing to our
terms of use”, without further admonition or description.
 
“ ‘ “[T]he onus must be on website
owners to put users on notice of the terms to which they wish to bind
consumers.” ’ [Citation.]” (Herzog v. Superior Court (2024) 101
Cal.App.5th 1280, 1302 [distinguishing Blizzard].) Here, Defendant had
the option to place its Terms and Conditions in larger format, or more obvious
text, or to call customers’ attention to the fact it contained an arbitration
agreement. Instead, they underlined three words in faint text beneath a
“purchase” button four times larger than the notice, on a page heavily
cluttered with other payment information.
 
            Defendants
rely on two arguments. 
 
First, Defendants cite federal
case law (much of it unpublished) to insist the Court rule in its favor. But
for purposes of an arbitration provision, contract formation is governed by
State law. (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th
165, 173.) Blizzard is the controlling California case, and it is on
point. Even if federal precedents suggest a different result – and the Court is
not convinced they do – this Court’s rulings are governed by California law.
            
Second, Defendants stress Plaintiff’s
ongoing relationship with Kate Spade and Coach, insisting, in effect, that she
should have known about the Terms of Use because she purchased goods from them
often. But the frequency of Plaintiffs’ purchases are irrelevant. The question
for the Court is whether a typical consumer, in the abstract, would expect to
be bound by an arbitration agreement in the Terms of Use. Plaintiff bases her
claim here on a pure “clickwrap” agreement attached to a single
purchase-and-sale transaction. Regardless how many of these transactions
Plaintiff executed, a reasonable consumer would not expect to be bound by
stricter ongoing terms simply because they conducted successive transactions. 
 
            Plaintiff’s
responses to Defendants’ Limited Interrogatories, admitted into evidence, only
go to show that she had an ongoing relationship with Defendants in a general
sense. The Court is not persuaded that this ongoing relationship, assuming it
is established by the Interrogatories, is sufficient to show that the
arbitration agreements in the Terms of Use governed the particular transactions
in question.
 
            Defendants
have failed to establish Plaintiff assented to the arbitration agreement
contained within the Terms of Use. They have failed to carry their threshold
burden, and their motion must be denied.
 
The formation of the arbitration agreement has not
been delegated to the arbitrator.
            
Defendants contend a delegation
provision in the JAMS rules, incorporated by reference into the Terms of Use,
requires the Court to submit the question of mutual assent ot the arbitrator.
The Court disagrees. 
 
“ ‘[W]hen parties have agreed to
arbitration, challenges to the validity of the underlying contract [(as opposed
to challenges to the agreement to arbitrate)], including contract defenses such
as fraud in the inducement or illegality, are for the arbitrator to
decide.’ [Citation.] ‘However, challenges to the validity of the
arbitration clause itself are generally resolved by the court in the
first instance.’ [Citation.] This is because the usual presumption is that a
court, not an arbitrator, decides threshold issues of arbitrability such as
whether the arbitration agreement itself is valid and enforceable. [Citations.]”
(Jack v. Ring LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1186, 1196-1197.)
 
Defendants have failed to
establish the validity of the arbitration clause itself. This is a question
properly resolved by the Court.
 
Plaintiff’s argument regarding
injunctive relief.
 
Plaintiff also argues the
arbitration agreement cannot be enforced because it does not permit Plaintiff
to seek public injunctive relief if the dispute is referred to arbitration.
Because Defendants’ motion fails on other grounds, the Court need not decide
the question.