 Case Number:  24STCV17899    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BRAD BRECKENRIDGE, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No:  24STCV17899
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 3, 2024
 Calendar Number: 8



 
            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America, Inc. moves to compel Plaintiffs to arbitrate their
claims and to stay this action pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
            The Court tentatively
DENIES Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration.
 
            The Court,
however, requests that Plaintiffs address at the hearing Defendant’s reply
argument that Plaintiffs have not opposed arbitration based on the Owner’s Handbook
and Warranty Information (“Handbook”),
and that Plaintiffs’ claim of express warranty is based on the Handbook and
therefore must include the arbitration clause. 
 
Background
 
            Plaintiffs
Brad Lee and Kathy Louise Breckenridge (“Plaintiffs”) filed this Lemon Law
action against defendant Hyundai Motor America (“Defendant”) on July 18, 2024.
Plaintiffs allege they purchased a 2024 Hyundai Tucson (“the Vehicle”) manufactured
and/or distributed by Defendant in February 2024. The Vehicle allegedly
exhibited substantial defects that could not be repaired after a reasonable
number of attempts, and Defendant failed to promptly replace the Vehicle or
make restitution.
 
            On
September 26, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiffs to
arbitrate their claims and to stay this action pending the outcome of
arbitration.
 
            On November
18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. 
On November 25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ complaint.
The Court denies the request. Judicial notice is unnecessary for filings
appearing within the same docket.
 
Legal Standard
 
             Under California and federal law, public
policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving
private disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1,
8-9 (Moncharsh); AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563
U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed by the California
Arbitration Act or the Federal Arbitration Act, courts resolve doubt about an
arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of arbitration. (Moncharsh, supra,
3 Cal.4th at p. 9.) 
 
            The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. 
(Engalla, supra, 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)  A petition to compel arbitration must allege
both a “written agreement to arbitrate” the controversy, and that a party to
that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. §
1281.2.) It then becomes plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion, to prove
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her opposition. (Ibid.)

 
Discussion
 
Defendant’s
motion relies on two separate asserted arbitration agreements. 
 
First,
Defendant contends Plaintiffs are bound by an arbitration provision located in
the “Owner’s Handbook and Warranty Information” (“Handbook”) that Plaintiffs
purportedly received when they purchased the Vehicle.
 
Second,
Defendant relies on an arbitration provision within the “Bluelink Connected
Services Agreement” (“CSA”) associated with Defendant’s “Bluelink” services, “a
connected car system that includes various functions and features”. (Rao Decl.,
Exh. 2; Mot., 6:9-10, citing Rao Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant contends that despite the
CSA’s ancillary relationship to the Vehicle’s warranty, the language of the CSA
is broad enough to encompass Plaintiffs’ claims here.
 
Defendant has not established the parties mutually
assented to the arbitration agreement purportedly contained within the Owners’
Handbook.
 
As
to the arbitration terms within the purported Owner’s Handbook: Defendant’s
evidence does not establish the Handbook was executed by Plaintiffs. Their
signature does not appear anywhere on the document. The only testimony
supporting the existence of the agreement is Defendant’s counsel’s statement
characterizing it as “Plaintiffs’ Owners Handbook & Warranty Information
for Plaintiffs’ vehicle.” (Ameripour Decl., ¶ 3.) The exhibit lacks foundation,
and even if it had proper foundation, there is no evidence Plaintiffs assented
to its terms.
 
Defendant
has not established Plaintiffs ever agreed to the terms contained in the
Owner’s Handbook, so it has not carried its burden as to that agreement.
 
Defendant has not established that the parties
mutually assented to the Bluelink Connected Services Agreement.
 
Defendant
has not established Plaintiffs executed the CSA at all. Defendant advances the
declaration of Vijay Rao, who only offers general testimony about what
consumers who subscribe to Bluelink “would do” or “must do”. (See Rao Decl., ¶
6.) Rao attests “[o]n February 12, 2024[,] Plaintiff [sic] enrolled
their Vehicle in Bluelink services.” (Id., ¶ 5.) But he lays no
foundation for this assertion; neither the Court nor Plaintiffs can ascertain
the basis for his knowledge of this fact.
 
This
lack of proof of mutual assent is, in itself, sufficient reason to deny the
motion.  The Court denies it on that
basis.
 
Plaintiffs’ claims do not fall within the scope of
the Bluelink Connected Services Agreement.
 
            Moreover, even if Defendant
established Plaintiffs executed the CSA, the CSA does not apply to this
dispute. The arbitration provision appears at paragraph 14 of the agreement,
and reads:
 
“Hyundai and you agree to arbitrate any and all disputes and
claims between us arising out of or relating to this Agreement, Connected
Services, Connected Services Systems, Service Plans, your Vehicle, use of the
sites, or products, services, or programs you purchase, enroll in or seek product/service
support for, whether you are a Visitor or Customer, via the sites or through
mobile application, except any disputes or claims which under governing law are
not subject to arbitration, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.”
 
(Rao Decl., Exh. 2, ¶ 14(C)(a).)
 
The document refers to connected vehicle services, not to
Plaintiffs’ purchase of the vehicle. The single inclusion of the term “your
Vehicle” in the arbitration provision cannot reasonably be held to extend to
statutory warranty claims far outside the subject matter of the CSA itself.  Moreover, as a matter of contract
interpretation, inclusion of the term “your Vehicle” in the CSA cannot be
construed to encompass all claims related to the Vehicle, regardless of how
attenuated the claims’ relationship is to Bluelink services themselves. The
courts interpret contract terms to avoid surplusage where possible. (See VFLA
Eventco, LLC v. William Morris Endeavor Entertainment, LLC (2024) 100
Cal.App.5th 287, 297.) If “the Vehicle” were construed to encompass any claim
the Vehicle’s purchaser could possibly have, then all other subsets of claims
in the same list would fall by the wayside. Such an interpretation does not
comport with law.
 
            Defendant
also relies on language appearing later in the same paragraph of the Agreement:
 
“The agreement to arbitrate
otherwise includes, but is not limited to: claims based in contract, tort,
warranty, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory; . . .
[and] claims relating to the Vehicle for which you seek product or service
support via the sites.”
 
(Ibid.)
 
This language does not further Defendant’s argument. Despite
referring to “warranty” and “statute”, the clause appears to be related to
Bluelink services, the subject of the agreement. Moreover, the CSA itself distinguishes
between the “Connected Services” it addresses and other issues that may be
covered by Defendant’s warranty. At its tenth paragraph, the CSA disclaims all
relation to a customer’s warranty agreement:
 
“10. NO
WARRANTIES. Warranties are special kinds of promises. THE VEHICLE’S LIMITED
WARRANTY does not cover the Connected Services . . . .”
 
The term “the Vehicle for which you seek product or service
support via the sites” also suggests the term does not apply to all
claims related to the Vehicle generally. It only refers to claims related to
the Vehicle once the Plaintiffs seek product or service support – and,
implicitly, only regarding that support, which is the subject matter of the
CSA. 
 
            Defendant
has not established that Plaintiffs are bound by either of the arbitration
agreements Defendant advances in support of its motion. Defendant has failed to
carry its threshold burden, and the motion must be denied.
 