 Case Number:  22STLC08091    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  26  
Peter Steigleder v. Garnik BadalyansPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer and
Motion to Strike to Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(CCP § 430.10)
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: SUSTAIN
without leave to amend.
 
            Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Peter
Steigleder’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety without leave to amend. As such, the Motion to Strike is
denied as moot.Background:
 
Procedural
History
            Plaintiff Peter Steigleder
(Cross-Defendant) filed a Complaint alleging (1) breach of contract, (2) open
book account, and (3) account stated against Defendant Garnik Badalyans
(Cross-Complainant) on December 6, 2022.
Cross-Complainant filed a Cross-Complaint for breach of contract, breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, and fraud against Cross-Defendant, on January 20, 2023.
 
            On
June 29, 2023, the Court sustained Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint with leave to amend. (Minute Order, 06/29/23.)
Cross-Complainant filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FAXC) on July 19,
2023. On October 9, 2023, the Court sustained the demurrer to the FAXC. On
October 25, 2023, Cross-Complainant filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (SAXC),
the operative complaint here. The motions now before the Court are Cross-Defendant’s Demurrer and Motion to
Strike to SAXC.
 
Factual
Background
            The
initial Complaint alleges that around May 22, 2021, the parties entered into an
oral agreement (the “Agreement”) for the sole benefit of Cross-Complainant
under which Cross-Defendant agreed to advance certain funds for the cost of an
environmental site assessment for the real property at 1767 Standard Avenue,
Glendale, California (“the Property”). (Complaint, ¶ 6.) In exchange,
Cross-Complainant agreed to timely reimburse Cross-Defendant upon demand for
the funds advanced. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Cross-Defendant made three payments
totaling $4,425.32 to Fulcrum Resources, Inc. for work done at the Property. (Id.
at ¶9.) On July 2, 2021, AdvancedGeo, Inc. proposed an additional environmental
site assessment at the Property and on July 8, 2021, Cross-Defendant entered
into an agreement with AdvancedGeo, Inc. to pay for its work. (Id. at ¶¶
10-11.) On July 24, 2021, Cross-Defendant paid AdvancedGeo $3,105.00 for the
work. (Id. at ¶ 12.) Despite
numerous demands, Cross-Complainant
has not reimbursed Cross-Defendant for the payments.
(Id. at ¶13-16.) Cross-Defendant
then filed the initial Complaint.
 
            The
operative SAXC alleges two causes of action against Cross-Defendant: (1)
fraudulent misrepresentation and (2) breach of contract. The SAXC alleges that
the parties entered into a written contract where Cross-Defendant would
represent Cross-Complainant in the potential sale of the Property. (SAXC, ¶ 3.)
Cross-Complainant then alleges that Cross-Defendant was to ensure that any
potential buyer of the Property was made award that if Cross-Complainant was
able to successfully refinance the Property, any sale would be cancelled
without any resulting obligations or compensation to the potential buyer.
(SAXC, ¶ 5.) Cross-Complainant alleges that after a buyer was identified, the
refinance of the Property was successful, however, Cross-Defendant failed to
inform the buyer, and Cross-Complainant thereby suffered losses amounting to
$12,057.98. (SAXC, ¶¶ 6-7, and 12.) Separately, Cross-Complainant alleges that
the parties agreed to an oral contract where both parties agreed to pay for
half of some expenses claimed by Cross-Defendant with a potential sale of the
property. (SAXC, ¶ 13.) Cross-Complainant then alleges that with the filing of
the instant lawsuit, Cross-Defendant, breached that oral contract.  
 
Discussion
 
Meet and Confer
Legal Standard and
Analysis  for Meet and Confer
            “Before
filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a); see
also CCP § 435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).)
According to the Declaration of Meagan Thompson-Mann (Thompson-Mann Decl.),
Cross-Defendant’s counsel reached out via email on November 17, 2023.
(Thompson-Mann Decl., ¶ 4.) The Thompson-Mann Decl. then states that the
parties attempted in good faith to settle the entire matter from November 2023
to March 1, 2024. (Thompson-Mann Decl., ¶ 5.) However, there is no indication
that the parties conferred in-person or telephonically as required by CCP §
430.41(a). Therefore, the requirements of CCP § 430.41(a) remain unsatisfied. However,
per CCP § 430.41(a)(4), “A determination by the court that the meet and confer
process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.”
Therefore, the Court turns its attention to the Demurrer and Motion to Strike.   
 
Demurrer
Legal
Standard for Demurrer
            “[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the
truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Analysis
for Demurrer
            Cross-Defendant demurs to both the
first cause of action for fraudulent representation and the second cause of
action for breach of contract. Cross-Defendant contends that the first and
second causes of action fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
cause of action and adds that as to the first cause of action for fraud, the
allegations are subject to the “sham pleading” doctrine and the allegations
fail to meet the heightened pleading standard for fraud. For the following
reasons, the Court agrees, sustains the Demurrer in its entirety, and denies
leave to amend.   
 
a)     
Fraudulent Misrepresentation
            “The
elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a
misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to
induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Daniels
v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) 
 
                                                       
i.           
Sham Pleading Doctrine
            Generally,
after an amended pleading has been filed, courts will disregard the original
pleading. However, an exception to this rule is found…where an amended
complaint attempts to avoid defects set forth in a prior complaint by ignoring
them. The court may examine the prior complaint to ascertain whether the
amended complaint is merely a sham.” (Vallejo Development Co. v. Beck
Development Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 929, 946.)
            
            Here,
Cross-Defendant argues that the alleged Representation Agreement in which
Cross-Defendant would represent Cross-Complainant in the potential sale of the
Property, is subject to the sham pleading doctrine because in the original
Cross-Complaint alleged that the agreement was oral. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 8.)
However, after the demurrer to the initial Cross-Complaint was sustained on
statute of frauds grounds, Cross-Complainant then alleged the contract was
written in both the FAXC, and here in the operative SACX. Cross-Defendant
points to Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th
408, which holds that “Under the ‘sham pleading doctrine,’ plaintiffs are
precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful allegations, without
explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks raised in demurrers or
motions for summary judgment.” (Id. at 426.) Within the SACX, there is
no explanation for why the allegation that the Representation Agreement, which
was initially oral, is now written. This is the precise category of allegations
the sham pleading doctrine is meant to target. The opposition papers are silent
as to this point. Accordingly, the Court sustains the Demurrer to the first
cause of action.      
 
                                                     
ii.           
Heightened Pleading Requirement
            In addition
to falling to the sham pleading doctrine, the allegations as written do not
meet the specificity requirement for fraud. As aforementioned, the policy of
liberal construction is not applied to fraud claims which must meet a
heightened pleading standard. “Generally, fraud actions are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading.” (Furia v. Helm (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 945, 956.) The SAXC states that Cross-Defendant informed
Cross-Complainant that he would make any potential buyer aware that if the
refinance was successful, then the Property’s sale would be cancelled. (SAXC, ¶
5.) However, the SAXC fails to make clear what exactly was said, and when it
was said. Additionally, there is no detail as to the communications between
Cross-Defendant and the potential buyer, Kim DeJesus. Moreover, the second and
third element of the cause of action are unclear from the SAXC. The opposition
papers point the Court back to the SAXC, which alleges that Cross-Defendant
knew the alleged misrepresentation was false, but the SAXC fails to explain
how. Likewise, the element of intent to deceive is baldly alleged, but with no
specific details. Accordingly, the cause of action falls for failure to meet
the heightened pleading requirement.
 
 
b)     
Breach of Contract
            To state a
cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish
“(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is
based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must
be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299,
307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of
the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
            This breach
of contract claim stems from a separate oral contract where allegedly, the
parties agreed to paid for half of “some expenses”. (SAXC, ¶¶ 13-14.) The first
step is for Cross-Complainant to establish the existence of a contract. As this
was alleged to have been an oral contract, Cross-Complainant may plead the
legal effect of the contract, however, the SAXC fails to do so. It is wholly
unclear to the Court what the terms of the alleged contract were, and what
action would have constituted a breach. The only detail regarding the effect of
the purported contract is that when Cross-Defendant filed the initial Complaint
in this matter this constituted a breach of the oral contract. But with no
detail as to how nor why this was a breach of the terms of the contract,
Cross-Defendant is left with no manner in which to assess the claim alleged
against him. Although such matters may be alleged on information and belief,
the SAXC must give notice of the issues in a manner sufficient to enable
preparation of a defense. (See Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 549-550.) Here, in the second cause of action they do
not.   
 
Leave
to Amend
Legal
Standard and Analysis for Leave to Amend
            Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”]. This is Cross-Complainant’s third attempt at successful amendment.
Seeing as the previous attempts were insufficient, the Court denies leave to
amend. 
 
Conclusion
            Accordingly, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Peter Steigleder’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety without leave to amend. As such, the Motion to Strike is
denied as moot. 
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 