  Case Number:  21LBCV00083    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 a.    
Parties’ Positions and Papers Received
Palo Woods, LLC seeks to recover
its fees and costs incurred in connection with this litigation.  Fitness opposes, contending (a) the results
of the action were a “mixed bag,” and (b) Palo Woods over-litigated the case.  Fitness argues the fees award should be
denied altogether or, at a minimum, reduced. 
Palo Woods, in reply, contends all costs should be awarded because they are
not contested.  It contends the fraud
cause of action was a lever that caused Fitness to settle its remaining claims,
and therefore was not a “wash.”  It
contends its rates are reasonable and all hours were reasonable and actually
incurred.  Fitness filed objections to Palo
Woods’s attorney declaration in support of the reply.  
 
b.    
Costs
As an initial note, Palo Woods seeks to recover costs by way of the motion.  Costs are recoverable by way of a memorandum
of costs.  CRC 3.1700.  Palo Woods has set forth no authority
permitting it to recover costs via noticed motion, and the Court knows of none.  The request for costs is therefore denied.  The ruling is without prejudice to Palo Woods’s
right to seek recovery of costs in a manner permitted by the Rules of
Court.  
c.    
Effect
of Ruling on Fraud and Other Tort Claims
Palo Woods amended its complaint to
add claims for fraud, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, and negligent misrepresentation. 
The Court sustained a demurrer to the implied covenant and negligent
misrepresentation causes of action, and Palo Woods dismissed its fraud cause of
action while Fitness’s summary adjudication motion was pending.  
 
Fitness argues the foregoing means
the results of the case were a “mixed bag,” and contends Palo Woods should not
be permitted to recover its fees spent attempting to prosecute the tort-based
claims.  Pursuant to Maxim Crane Works,
L.P. v. Tilbury Constructors (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 286, 298, the Court is not required
to apportion fees between contract and tort claims when the claims are so
intertwined that apportionment would not be possible.  
 
Such is the case here.  Palo Woods is the clear victor on the
contract-based causes of action.  Palo
Woods pursued fraud and other tort claims. 
The breach of implied covenant and negligent misrepresentation claims
were quickly dismissed on demurrer; at most, the Court would reduce the award
by the amount billed to oppose the demurrer in light of this result.  Palo Woods dismissed the fraud claim in the
face of Fitness’s pending summary adjudication motion, but Palo Woods shows, in
reply, that it did so in part because Fitness agreed to dismiss its remaining
claims from its cross-complaint.  
 
The Court finds Fitness was awarded,
in connection with its summary adjudication motion, the vast majority of the
relief is sought, such that it is the prevailing party in the case.  The Court finds the fees incurred in
connection with the tort causes of action are sufficiently intertwined with the
fees incurred in connection with the contract causes of action that the Court
need not apportion the fees.
 
d.     Over-Litigation
of Case
Fitness’s next argument is that
Palo Woods over-litigated the case by adding tort claims and complicating the
matter.  Fitness argues numerous other
landlords have litigated their similar rent claims against Fitness, and when
the landlords have prevailed, the attorneys’ fees awards have averaged $179,722,
with the top fee award to date being $276,565. 

 
The Court tends to agree that $ $671,537,
the amount of fees sought by Palo Woods, is very high.  While Fitness does not expressly contest the
billing rates charged, the Court notes that they are on the high end – Palo Woods’s
attorneys billed at rates ranging from $395 to $695/hour, and its paralegals
billed at rates ranging from $195 to $260/hour. 
These rates were billed for just over 1300 hours in connection with this
case.  
 
As Fitness correctly notes in
opposition to the motion, pursuant to Karton v. Ari Design & Constr., Inc.
(2021) 61 Cal. App. 5th 734, 744, fees can be reduced when the Court finds the
moving party over-litigated the case.  
 
The Court is inclined, in light of
the over-litigation, coupled with the high billing rates, to reduce the fees
sought by 50%.  This results in a fee award
of $335,768.50.  
 
Palo Woods is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting
on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the party
should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.   