 Case Number:  23LBCV00802    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Raeann Vengoechea filed this action against Defendant, City
of Long Beach for dangerous condition of public property.  
 
2.    
Motions
to Compel
a.     History
of Discovery Dispute
Defendant propounded FROGs, SROGs, and RPDs on Plaintiff on
5/24/23.  The parties agreed to an extension
of time to respond, and Plaintiff served responses on 7/03/23.  The parties met and conferred, culminating in
an 8/14/23 email from Defendant to Plaintiff setting forth the parties’ positions
and asking for a two-week extension of time to file a motion so the parties
could continue to meet and confer. 
Defendant sent a second similar email on 8/16/23 and, having received no
response, filed these motion on the statutory deadline, 8/17/23.  
 
b.    
Parties’
Positions
Defendant contends Plaintiff’s responses
to the discovery at issue are insufficient and should be supplemented.  Defendant seeks imposition of sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff, in opposition to the
motions, contends the parties have resolved all issues except a handful of
issues relating to FROGs, and contends no further responses to the FROGs are necessary.  She contends her failure to timely respond to
the emails was an oversight and she should not be sanctioned.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends that,
in addition to the FROGs Plaintiff says are in dispute, numerous RPDs are also
in dispute.  Defendant agrees that no
SROGs are in dispute.  Defendant contends
sanctions are necessary because Plaintiff’s conduct necessitated the filing of
the motions.  
 
c.    
FROGs
i.             
6.5
FROG 6.5 asks Plaintiff whether she
is taking any medications as a result of the accident.  Plaintiff responded by pointing Defendant to
her medical records.  Defendant wants
Plaintiff to provide an answer to the question, rather than referring it to her
medical records.  Plaintiff argues she is
within her rights to simply refer Defendant to her medical records.  
 
If an interrogatory seeks
information contained in files and records, the responding party is under a
duty to provide “complete and straightforward” answers.  CCP §2030.220(a).  However, if the answer would necessitate
making a compilation or summary of information contained in such records, the
responding party has the option to allow the interrogating party to inspect and
copy the records in question. In effect, the responding party may shift the
burden of compiling the information to the interrogating party. CCP § 2030.230.  To answer an interrogatory in this manner,
the following must be shown:
•       A
compilation, abstract, audit or summary of the responding party's records is
necessary in order to answer the interrogatory; and
·        
 No such compilation,
etc. presently exists; and
•       The
burden or expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for
the interrogating party as for the responding party.  CCP § 2030.230.
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has not
shown the final requirement is met here. 
Plaintiff is much more familiar with her own medical records and
medication history than Defendant is.  The
burden is therefore higher for Defendant to sift through the records than it is
for Plaintiff to simply detail which medications she was taking and when.  The motion to compel is granted.  
 
ii.            
FROG 8.7
FROG 8.7 asks Plaintiff to state
how much income she has lost as a result of the accident.  Plaintiff objects to the interrogatory as
premature and necessitating expert testimony. 
The Court finds expert testimony may be necessary to calculate future
lost earnings, but his interrogatory asks only how much the lost earnings have
been to date.  Plaintiff should be able
to calculate her lost earnings without the need for an expert.  Notably, Plaintiff has not articulated, in
her opposition, anything showing her income fluctuates or is difficult to
compute.  It appears she was employed and
her lost income should be straightforward. 
A further response must be provided.
 
iii.           
8.8
FROG 8.8 is the same as FROG 8.7, except
that it relates to future lost income.  In
this case, the Court agrees with Plaintiff; calculating future lost income
involves expert opinions about how long a person will be out of work, expert
opinions about how much future income would have gone up, expert opinions about
the loss of value of the employee as a result of taking time off work,
etc.  The motion to compel a further
response to this FROG is therefore denied.
 
iv.           
FROG 9.2
FROG 9.2 seeks identification of
documents that support the existence of any item of damages claimed in FROG
9.1.  Plaintiff identified her medical
records, which she produced concurrently with her responses.  If Plaintiff has no other responsive records,
then there is nothing else to identify in response to this FROG.  The request for a further response is denied.
 
v.            
All other FROGs
Defendant does not address any
other FROG in reply, and it appears all remaining issues have been
resolved.  
 
d.     RPDs
In reply, Defendant indicates RPDs
1, 5, 6, 9, and 10 remain in dispute. 
The issues relating to each of these RPDs are substantially the same.  Plaintiff responded to each RPD by stating
various objections, then stating, “Subject to and without waiving the
foregoing, Plaintiff will produce all non-privileged responsive documents in
her possession, custody, or control.”
 
It appears Defendant’s problem is
with the term “will produce” instead of “has produced.”  However, as Plaintiff notes in opposition to
the motion, CCP §2031.210(a) requires a party to state she “will produce” the documents,
not that she “has produced” the documents. 
The Court is not clear on the nature of Defendant’s ongoing issue with
the responses.  The motion to compel
further responses is denied.
 
e.     Conclusion
The motion to compel is granted in
part and denied in part as set forth fully above.  Plaintiff must serve further responses, in
compliance with this order, within ten days. 

 
f.      Sanctions
The Court is not inclined to grant
sanctions.  The Court is disappointed
that Plaintiff did not respond to the meet and confer letter asking for an
extension of time to file motions, but does note that the parties met and
conferred in late July and early August, then there was no communication until
8/14/23, which was three days prior to the due date for the filing of the
motions.  The Court notes that the
motions are granted in part in and denied in part and present novel
issues.  The Court finds both parties
took their positions in good faith.  
 
g.    
Notice
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.