 Case Number:  23LBCV02065    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     23LBCV02065
Plaintiff, Nicole Stacy Coe filed
23LBCV02065 against Defendants, Angel Ruelas, Fernando Ruelas, Claudia Lorena,
and Rodriguez Lopez for damages arising out of an automobile accident.  Defendants, Lopez, Ruelas, and Ruelas filed
an answer on 12/13/23.  
 
2.     23CMSC00902
Plaintiff, Claudia Lorena Rodriguez
Lopez filed 23CMSC00902 against Defendant, Nicole Stacy Coe for damages arising
out of the same accident.  23CMSC00902 is
a small claims case.  
 
3.     Motion
to Consolidate
Coe moves to consolidate the two
actions.  The motion is denied for
several reasons.  First, Lopez, Ruelas,
and Ruelas filed an answer on 12/13/23, and they filed their answer through
their attorney, Denise A. Smith-Mars. 
Coe’s proof of service on Lopez, Ruelas, and Ruelas indicates she served
them as individuals and not through their attorney.  Related, the motion violates CRC 3.350(a)(1)(A),
which requires the notice of motion to list each party to each case, the names
of the parties who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys
of record.  
 
Second, the notice of motion
indicates the motion is based on the Declaration of Aaron D. Fhima.  The Court cannot locate Fhima’s
declaration.  
 
Third, the Court has reviewed the
docket for 23CMSC00902 and finds Coe failed to file the notice of motion in
that case, as is required by CRC 3.350(a)(1)(C).   This is
of particular importance because, while Lopez has not yet appeared in 23LBCV02065,
she clearly appeared (by filing as the plaintiff) in 23CMSC00902, but there is
no proof of service of the moving papers on her.  See also CRC 3.350(a)(2)(B) and (C).  
 
Additionally, and on the merits, the
Court finds it is NOT in the interest of justice to consolidate the small
claims case.  Lopez chose to file in pro
per, which is acceptable and typical in small claims cases.  She chose to pay the much lower fee, to avail
herself of little to no discovery, and to proceed by way of a highly simplified
process.  She also elected to limit her
potential damages dramatically and voluntarily. 
To force her to proceed in unlimited jurisdiction court in connection
with the consolidated matter would be unduly prejudicial to her interests.  Even though Lopez is a plaintiff in the small
claims case and a defendant in the unlimited case, the Court is aware that defendants
in accident litigation are typically represented by their insurance companies
and/or defense attorneys, while they typically prosecute their own claims
through personal injury attorneys or, in small claims court, through
self-representation.  Thus, the fact that
Lopez is a party to both cases does not change the prejudice that would result
if the small claims case were consolidated with the unlimited case.  The motion to consolidate the small claims
case is therefore denied.
 
Coe is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.