 Case Number:  23LBCV01318    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jesse Silk filed this
action against Defendants, Beach Cities Management, Consennys Property
Management, Gavin K. McCann, Pina McCann, Pacific Coast Management, Inc.,
Daniel Plumbing & Son, Inc., Cecilia Chow, and Does 1 through 110 for
damages arising out of a leak in Plaintiff’s rented condominium unit.  Plaintiff was renting the unit from its owners,
Pina and Gavin McCann.  Beach Cities
Management was hired by the McCanns to manage the unit.   The other
defendants include the upstairs unit owner, the HOA, and the persons/entities
who performed work in connection with the leak. 

 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is
his original complaint, which he filed on 7/13/23.  It includes causes of action for breach of
the implied warranty of habitability, breach of the implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment, fraud, nuisance, premises liability, negligence, breach of contract,
retaliatory eviction, wrongful eviction, IIED, constructive eviction, and
negligence per se.   
 
2.     Motion
for Leave to Amend
a.    
Complaint
In Plaintiff’s original complaint,
filed on 7/13/23, Plaintiff sued Does 1-110. 
He then sued different does in connection with different causes of
action.  By way of example, the first cause
of action is pled against various named defendants and Does 1-5, the second
cause of action against named defendants and does 6-10, etc.  
 
b.    
Doe Designations
On 8/25/23, Plaintiff filed doe amendments
naming Lindenwood Condominium Association and Horizon Management Company as
Does 1 and 2.  Plaintiff had Lindenwood’s
default entered on 11/16/23.  Horizon
filed an answer on 12/22/23.  
 
c.    
Relief Sought
On 11/22/23, Plaintiff filed this motion
for leave to amend the complaint.  He seeks
to change his doe designations so that, rather than suing Does 1-5, 6-10, etc.,
in connection with each cause of action, he sues Does 1-70 in connection with
each and every cause of action.  
d.     Law
Governing Leave to Amend
The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on such terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading. 
(CCP §§473 and 576.)  Judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters between the parties and,
therefore, leave to amend is generally liberally granted.  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  However, the court does have discretion to
deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.  (California Casualty General
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281.)  
 
The application for leave to amend should be made as soon as the need
to amend is discovered.  The closer the
trial date, the stronger the showing required for leave to amend.  If the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the Court has the
discretion to deny leave to amend. 
(Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would
require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added
costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
 
e.     Analysis
Despite the fact that Horizon had
not yet appeared in this action when Plaintiff filed this motion, Plaintiff filed
proof of service of the moving papers on the attorney who ultimately answered
on behalf of Horizon.  Horizon is the
only party materially affected by this motion, as Lindenwood is in
default.  Any opposition to the motion
was due on or before 1/11/24.  Neither
Horizon nor any other party to the action has filed opposition to the
motion.  In light of the liberal standard
in favor of leave to amend, the motion is granted.
Plaintiff is ordered to file a
separate copy of the First Amended Complaint within ten days.  Any defendant who wishes to file an answer to
the FAC must do so within the statutory time thereafter.  Any defendant who wishes to have its answer
to the original complaint deemed its answer to the FAC may opt not to file an
answer to the FAC, and those defendants’ original answers will be sufficient to
satisfy the obligation to respond to the FAC. 

            
3.     Demurrer
to Complaint
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact,
regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however
improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the
cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond.  CCP § 430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief.
Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP § 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP §430.41(a)(2).)
Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing
their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel, Nepoleon G. Tercero III, declares he and Plaintiff’s
attorney met and conferred, but were unable to resolve the issues presented by
way of the demurrer and motion to strike. 
 The meet and confer requirement is
therefore satisfied, and the Court will rule on the matter on its merits.  
 

Initial Note

The Court, above, ordered Plaintiff
to file a First Amended Complaint.  Ordinarily,
the filing of an amended pleading renders a pleading challenge to the original
pleading moot.  Because Plaintiff’s
amended complaint serves only to change doe designations, the Court will rule
on today’s pleading challenge on its merits.
 

First and Second Causes
     of Action, Breach of Warranty of Habitability and Breach of Warranty of
     Quiet Enjoyment

Defendant demurs to the first and
second causes of action, contending (a) the complaint admits the leak occurred
in the common area and therefore Defendant is not responsible, (b) the
complaint fails to adequately allege toxic mold in the unit, and (c) the
allegations re: punitive damages should be stricken.  
 
With respect to the first argument,
Plaintiff alleges the leak occurred in the common area (the ceiling between
Plaintiff’s unit and the upstairs unit), but also alleges Defendants are liable
for failure to prevent water intrusions and leaks from flooding into the
property and failing to repair the ceiling. 
Complaint, ¶¶84-85.  Issues
relating to whether the homeowner and management defendants were responsible
for fixing the ceiling and ultimately repairing the damage from the leak inside
the unit itself are not issues the Court can resolve on demurrer, as they are
factual in nature and will involve reviewing the HOA governing documents,
insurance policies, etc.  
 
With respect to the second
argument, Plaintiff alleges an ongoing problem with mold that Defendants
promised to remedy but repeatedly failed to remedy.  Plaintiff alleges that failure was dangerous
to his health and safety.  Whether the
mold was actually toxic or whether Plaintiff’s health was ultimately harmed are
both issues of fact that cannot be determined at the pleading stage.
Issues relating to punitive damages
are the proper subject of a motion to strike and will be discussed below; a
challenge to the request for damages does not render the cause of action
subject to demurrer.
 
The demurrer to the first and
second causes of action is overruled.
 

Third Cause of Action,
     Fraud

Defendants demur to the third cause
of action, contending (a) allegations of representations are not made with the
requisite specificity, (b) Plaintiff has not alleged reliance, and (c) to the
extent the cause of action is pled against the entity defendant, Plaintiff has
not alleged who acted on behalf of the entity defendant and that person’s
authority to act.  
 
The Court agrees that the cause of
action lacks specificity.  Throughout the
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants” said or did certain
things.  The cause of action, however, is
pled against five different defendants. 
Plaintiff must amend the complaint to allege who said what to whom,
when, by what means, etc., in order to state a claim for fraud.  This is particularly necessary in the case of
the claims being made against the entity defendant, where Plaintiff must allege
either that a person authorized to bind the corporation made the representations
or authorized or ratified the representations. 

 
Plaintiff argues the complaint
sounds in concealment, and therefore specificity is not required.  The Court has reviewed the complaint, however,
and finds it sounds primarily in active fraud; for example, at ¶113, Plaintiff alleges
Defendants “represented” that the property was in habitable condition.  See also ¶¶114 and 118.  To the extent Plaintiff wishes to plead
causes of action for fraud based on affirmative misrepresentation and also by
concealment, the Court asks that Plaintiff plead them as two separate causes of
action, to avoid confusion concerning the nature of the claim being pled.
Defendant argues Plaintiff failed
to plead reliance.  Plaintiff pleads, at
¶119, that he relied on the representations by continuing to live at the property,
pay rent on the lease, and maintain his possessions at the property.  At the pleading stage, this is
sufficient.  
 
The demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend on the ground that the complaint lacks specificity.  
 

Fourth Cause of Action,
     Nuisance

Defendants demur to the fourth
cause of action, contending it is duplicative of the negligence cause of action.  As Plaintiff correctly notes in opposition to
the demurrer, Defendants’ reliance on Van Zyl v. Spiegelberg (1969) 2 Cal.App.3d
376 is misplaced because the case was decided after a jury trial.  Pursuant to Oliver v. AT&T Wireless Services
(1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 521, 534, a nuisance occurs when a plaintiff is
deprived of the use and enjoyment of his property.  Plaintiff has, at the pleading stage, pled
facts showing this to be the case.  He is
permitted to plead theories in the alternative. 
The demurrer is overruled.
 

Tenth Cause of Action,
     IIED

Defendants demur to the tenth cause
of action, contending Plaintiff has not pled extreme and outrageous conduct to
support imposition of liability for intentional infliction of emotional
distress.  Plaintiff argues Burness v.
Chimney (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1062 and Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921 support his cause of action.  The refusal to repair toxic mold after
repeated notification, resulting in “severe physical injury and discomfort” and
the inability to occupy premises for business use was sufficient in Burnett to
state a claim for IIED.  
 
In Stoiber, the plaintiff alleged
the landlord knew about “leaking sewage, deteriorated flooring, falling
ceiling, leaking roof, broken windows, and other unsafe and dangerous
conditions” and therefore the question of the outrageousness of landlord's
conduct could go to the jury.  While
conclusory allegations of a failure to repair may not be enough to show
outrageous conduct, specific allegations of knowingly allowing continuing
leaking sewage -- conduct which directly implicates sanitation and health – justified
the cause of action as pled.
 
Plaintiff herein alleges the
demurring defendants not only allowed the problem to go on, but also made it
worse by opening and leaving gaps in the walls and ceiling, not rectifying
peeling paint, and allowing noxious odors to persist.  On these facts, it is up to the trier of fact
to determine whether the conduct at issue was extreme and outrageous.  The demurrer is overruled.
 

Twelfth Cause of Action,
     Negligence Per Se

Defendants correctly note that
negligence per se is not an independent cause of action, but rather a statutory
presumption re: liability.  They fail, however,
to state any reason the theory should not be pled separately.  As with the fraud cause of action, discussed
above, the Court finds it helps to streamline issues in the case if different
theories of liability are pled separately. 
The demurrer is therefore overruled.
 
4.     Motion
to Strike
Plaintiff seeks punitive damages in
connection with his first, third, fourth, eighth, tenth, and eleventh causes of
action.  Defendants move to strike the
prayer for punitive damages and all related allegations, arguing (a) all claims
arise out of contract, (b) the complaint fails to allege facts to support imposition
of punitive damages against a business entity, and (c) Plaintiff failed to
plead malice, fraud, or oppression.
 
Plaintiff, in opposition, correctly
notes that he is seeking punitive damages in connection with his tort-based
causes of action, not his contract-based causes of action.  There is no prohibition against seeking
punitive damages in connection with tort causes of action solely because the parties’
relationship was created by way of a contract. 

 
Plaintiff also articulates facts,
including both ongoing failure to repair despite health and safety issues, as
well as retaliatory eviction, that could lead a reasonable juror to determine
there has been malice and/or oppression. 

 
Plaintiff fails, however, to
address the argument made by Beach Cities Property Management that he failed to
plead facts sufficient to state a claim against a business entity for punitive damages.  Pursuant to Civil Code §3294(b), Plaintiff is
obligated to plead that the entity acted through its officer, director, or
managing agent when engaging in the acts that support imposition of punitive damages,
or that such person authorized or ratified the conduct.  The motion to strike on this ground is
therefore granted.
 
5.     Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to the fraud cause
of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
The demurrer is otherwise overruled. 
The entity defendant’s motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages and
related allegations is granted with leave to amend.  The individual defendant’s motion to strike
the prayer for punitive damages and related allegations is denied.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to file an
amended complaint within twenty days.  Defendants
are ordered to file a responsive pleading within the statutory time
thereafter.  
 
Moving Defendants are ordered to
give notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   