  Case Number:  20STCV29294    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Marion Lynette Chatmon-Eutsey as Assignee of Interest of Ashlei C.
  James,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV29294




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Novastar, LLC,


 
 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Petition to Vacate Arbitration Award;
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF’S PETITION TO VACATE
ARBITRATION AWARD IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT’S
PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD IS GRANTED. DEFENDANT TO SUBMIT PROPOSED
JUDGMENT WITHIN 10 DAYS.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and reply.
 
A. Plaintiff’s Petition to Vacate Arbitration
Award
 
Plaintiff moves to vacate the
arbitration award issued by arbitrator Irene M. Guimera on June 7, 2023, which
granted Defendant’s dispositive motion. Plaintiff asserts that the arbitrator
exceeded her authority by granting the motion without a formal evidentiary
hearing. Defendant also contends the arbitrator incorrectly interpreted the
law. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the arbitrator
should have allowed Plaintiff to depose Defendant’s officer, as requested in
the opposition to the dispositive motions, before issuing an award. In
opposition, Defendant represents that the parties had several months to conduct
discovery and mutually agreed on the briefing schedule for the dispositive
motion. Defendant also emphasizes that Plaintiff does not explain what evidence
would have come from the deposition. The Court finds the arbitrator did not
exceed her authority in refusing to allow the deposition. Plaintiff had ample
time and opportunity to investigate and argue her claims and Plaintiff’s only apparent
reason to take the deposition was to attack the deponent’s credibility. 
 
The arbitration award addresses three
issues: (1) whether Plaintiff had evidence supporting tender; (2) whether
Defendant violated Civ. Code § 2923.5; and (3) whether Defendant was required
to comply with Corp. Code § 17708.03. The arbitrator found that a sales
agreement and unsigned escrow agreement showing a closing date before the
foreclosure, that never actually resulted in a sale, was insufficient to
establish Plaintiff had the means to comply with the tender requirement. The
arbitrator found Civ. Code § 2923.5 and Corp. Code § 17708.03 did not apply
under the plain language of the statutes. The Court sees no issue with these
findings. 
 
Plaintiff’s petition to vacate
arbitration award is DENIED.
 
B. Defendant’s Petition to Confirm
Arbitration 
 
Defendant moves to confirm the arbitration award and issue a final
judgment which includes attorney’s fees awarded by this Court in response to
Defendant’s successful motion to expunge a lis pendens. Any party to an
arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm,
correct or vacate the award.  (CCP §
1285.)  Petitioner has complied with CCP
§ 1285.4. Plaintiff opposes the petition on the same grounds set forth in the
petition to vacate arbitration. As discussed, these arguments fail.
 
Defendant’s petition to confirm arbitration award is GRANTED.
 
 
 