 Case Number:  23STCV17871    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Heno Fagerian,


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV17871




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
 
Pacific Auto Body & Paint, Inc.,
  et al.,


 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 8, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Deem Requests for Admission
Admitted
Moving Party: Defendants Pacific Auto Body &
Paint, Inc. And Markar Hamlet Khanyan
Responding Party: Plaintiff Heno Fagerian
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO DEEM RFAS
ADMITTED IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS
DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.  
 
If a party fails to provide a timely
response to a request for admission, the party waives any objection to the
requests.  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(a).)  Moreover, “[t]he requesting party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction….”  (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) 
 
Defendants move to deem RFAs admitted
against Plaintiff on the ground that Plaintiff failed to serve responses to
RFAs. In opposition, Plaintiff asserts the motion is an improper motion to
compel further. In reply, Defendants acknowledge that Plaintiff has provided
responses to RFAs, but states they contain frivolous objections.
 
As Plaintiff has served responses to
RFAs, the Court will not deem RFAs admitted. If Defendants are unsatisfied with
the responses, Defendants may move to compel further responses after properly
meeting and conferring and, if necessary, scheduling an informal discovery conference
with the Court.
 
Defendants’ motion is DENIED.
Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.


 