  Case Number:  22BBCV00340    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT      I.         
Background Facts
This case arises from several agreements
to operate rodeo shows. 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Hansen Dam
Equestrian Center, LLC (the “Center”) possesses rights from the City of Los
Angeles to operate rodeo shows. Plaintiff Bronco Entertainment, Inc. (“Bronco”)
claims a contractual right to operate rodeos at the Center. The contractual right
to operate rodeo shows at the Center is also alleged by Cross-Complainant and
Defendant Lawrence Langer (“Langer”), Cross-Complainants Golden Bull
Entertainment, Inc. (“Golden Bull”), Jose Hernandez (“Hernandez”), and Miguel
Sahagun (“Sahagun”). (Motion, p. 3.)
On May 17, 2022, Plaintiff Bronco filed a
cause of action alleging breach of contract against Defendant the Center under
the Sublicensee Agreement for Facilities Use, dated June 9, 2014, by and
between the Center and Bronco (the “2014 Bronco Sublicensee Agreement”). (Compl.,
Exh. A.).
On May 17, 2022, Plaintiff Bronco filed a complaint
alleging intentional tort against Defendant Langer, the authorized agent and
managing member of the Center, and DOES 1-10 for allegedly interfering with Bronco’s
business property via lockout.
On December 8, 2022, Cross Complainants Langer
and the Center filed a cross complaint for breach of contract and tortious
interference with contractual relations, seeking indemnity and declaratory
relief against Cross-Defendants Jose De Los Santos (doing business as Bronco), Sagahun,
Hernandez, Golden Bull, and ROES 1-25.
On March 8, 2023, Cross-Defendant Bronco
filed an answer to the Center and Langer’s cross-complaint.
On May 12, 2023, Cross Defendants Golden
Bull and Hernandez filed an answer to the Center and Langer’s cross-complaint.
On May 12, 2023, Cross-Complainants Golden
Bull and Hernandez filed a cross-complaint alleging the following five causes
of action: (1) breach of written contract, (2) unjust enrichment, (3) declaratory
relief, (4) tortious interference with contract, and (5) negligent interference
with prospective economic advantage against Cross-Defendants Bronco, the
Center, Ice General Builder, Inc., Vanessa De Los Santos, Fabian De Los Santos
and MOES 1-50 inclusive.
On June 20, 2023, the Center filed an
answer to the May 12 cross-complaint.
On June 21, 2023, Bronco filed an answer
to the May 12 cross-complaint.
On July 31, 2023, Ice General Builder
Inc., filed an answer to the May 12 cross-complaint.
On September 15, 2023, Vanessa De Los Santos,
and Jose Fabian De Los Santos (erroneously sued as “Fabian De Los Santos”),
filed an answer to the May 12 cross-complaint.
Before the Court is a June 3, 2024, Motion
for Leave to File a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), filed by Cross-Complainants
Hernandez and Golden Bull (together “Cross-Complainants”). Cross-Complainants
concurrently filed a supporting declaration of Timothy R. Hanigan, Esq. (“Hanigan
Decl.”). 
Cross-Complainants seek to amend the cross-complaint
to include a sixth cause of action for breach of contract against Hansen.
(Hanigan Decl. ¶ 3.) Cross-Complainants bring this claim upon learning from
Hansen’s counsel, James White, that Hansen “did not intend to honor its
agreement with Cross-Complainants, and that Hansen has been seeking to enter a
new agreement with Sahagun regarding the operation of rodeos at the
facilities.” (Id., ¶ 5.) Attorney Hanigan sought a stipulation from the
parties to allow the amendment.  Unfortunately,
the parties could not reach an agreement. 
(Hanigan Decl., ¶ 6.)
As of July 5, 2024, no opposition has been
filed by cross-Defendants.
The hearing for the instant matter is set
for July 8, 2024.
    II.         
LEGAL STANDARD
A.    Motion for Leave to File
First Amended Complaint 
CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant
part:  “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” 
“This discretion should be exercised
liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the
validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since
grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to
deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of
action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further
amendment.  (See California Casualty
General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281,
overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins.
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to
amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. 
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. 
Even if a good amendment is proposed in
proper form, a long, unwarranted, and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a
good reason for denial.  In most cases,
the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts
or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the
delay on the adverse party.  If the party
seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.)
Here, per CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a
declaration has been filed with the motion, explaining (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.
Cross-Complainants Golden Bull and
Hernandez’s motion is made on good cause to file the FACC pursuant to CCP §§
473, 576. (Motion, p. 2.)  Cross-Complainants
argue that upon the filing of the May 12, 2023, motion, the Center’s counsel
assured them that Hansen intended to honor its agreement with Golden Bull above
the other agreements with the other parties in this lawsuit. (Id., p.
3.) Cross-Complainants argue that because of this assurance, the original
cross-complaint included a cause of action for declaratory relief, per
paragraph 19: “GBE and Hansen contend that the Bronco Sublicense Agreement is
not enforceable, and that GBE has the exclusive right to operate the Facilities
under the GBE Sublicense Agreement.” (Id.) Cross-Complainants allege
that on February 22, 2024, the Center’s counsel advised them that the Center and
Sagahun were “working together for several months to sign a new agreement that
would take precedent over the agreement that the Center has with
Cross-Complainants”. (Id.) Cross-Complainants sought to amend their
agreement, but an amendment was never reached.
Cross-Complainant’s motion is procedurally
sound and unopposed.  Counsel for
Complainants specifies the amendment’s effect, why it is necessary and proper,
when the facts supporting the amended allegations were discovered, and why the
request was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b)).
Therefore, Cross-Complainants’ motion for
leave to amend is granted.  Cross-Complainants
are ordered to file a separate copy of their proposed cross-complaint within
five (5) days of the date of this Order.
Cross-Complainants are ordered to give
notice. 
 
July
8, 2024
 




 


 




 


JUDGE JARED
  MOSES

 



