 Case Number:  21STCV43201    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  61 JILL GREENBERG 2019 TRUST vs ERNEST FINANCIAL, LLC, et al. (Commercial)TENTATIVEBrandon C. Murphy’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner is therefore DENIED.  Moving Counsel to give notice.Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. (“CCP”) section 284 states that “[t]he attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination” upon either consent of both client and attorney, or upon the order of the court under application of either the client of the attorney, after notice from one to the other. Cal. Rule of Court 3.1362 states the requirements for a motion to be relieved as counsel under CCP section 284. No memorandum is required, but the motion must be accompanied by (1) a declaration stating why a motion has been brought instead of filing a consent (without compromising attorney-client confidentiality), (2) proof of service of the motion, and (3) all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if know. Additionally, “[t]he proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel--Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers.”The present motions pertain to attorney Brandon C. Murphy of the firm Bice Murphy Law, counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner. The motion states there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship such that it would be impossible to continue rep resenting David Bogner, and that the client has refused to participate in this litigation. Trial has been set for April 2026.On the prior hearing on this motion on June 3, 2024, this court indicated that no proof of service of the motion had been filed. Murphy has since filed a proof of service on June 3, 2024, indicating service of the client and parties on May 9 and 10, 2023. However, on June 5, 2024, Plaintiff Jill Greenberg filed objections, indicating that the proposed order did not list among the future hearing dates motions to compel further that were filed after the present motion to be relieved, and further indicates as an address for Plaintiff only a US mailbox on North Robertson Road in Beverly Hills which has been confirmed by “electronic mail,” rather than a reliable mailing address for Bogner.The court agrees with Plaintiff that the order ultimately to be entered and served upon the client pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (e) must contain the motion to compel hearings currently set for July 16, 2024, and August 6, 2024, as well as the Mandatory Settlement conference set for October 22, 2024. The notice must likewise include pending due dates for discovery, if any, and the address where responses must be sent.Additionally, Plaintiff properly objects to the failure to serve Bogner at his “current residence or business address.” (CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. d)(1)(A).) Although the proof of service indicates service was by mail, Plaintiff indicates the address served is a PO Box. The declaration supporting a motion to be relieved as counsel must state, if service is made upon a client by mail, as here:(A) The service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or(B) The service address is the last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be relieved.(CRC Rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)–(B).)Brandon C. Murphy’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendant and Cross-Complainant David Bogner is therefore DENIED.