  Case Number:  22STCV22099    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  57                  PITCHESS MOTION Plaintiff
Medasia Matthews (“Plaintiff”) sued defendant City of Los Angeles (“the City”)
alleging the following causes of action: (1) discrimination in violation of the
Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) harassment in violation of FEHA;
and (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA. 
As relevant here, Plaintiff alleges she has been a sworn police officer
with the Los Angeles Police Department (“LAPD” or “the Department”) since
December 2020. (FAC ¶1.)  She currently
holds the position of Police Officer I and is an African American/Black female.
(Id., ¶17.) On or about January 31, 2022, Plaintiff was assigned to work
with Police Officer III Swan (“Swan”), who is Caucasian/White. (Id.,
¶18.) Plaintiff alleges Swan made racial comments about Jim Crow laws being
good. (Id.)  On or about February
1, 2022, Swan made comments about the black church and white church, and black
people using EBT. (Id., ¶19.)  On
or about February 2, 2022, Swan made comments about black women producing
chocolate milk. (Id., ¶20.) 
Plaintiff further alleges on or about February 3, 2022, she reported
Swan’s comments to Lieutenant Busiere (“Lt. Busiere”) and asked not to be
partnered with Swan. (Id., ¶22.)  Plaintiff
also alleges Lt. Busiere filed a personnel complaint regarding Swan’s
harassment of Plaintiff. (Id.) Between March 2022 and May 2022,
Plaintiff began to experience retaliatory conduct. (Id., ¶¶23-27.)
 
Pending
before the Court is Plaintiff’s motion for an order requiring the City to
disclose for in camera review by the Court certain peace officer personnel
records under Pitchess v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531 [“Pitchess”].
The Court is granting the motion. 
 
          Under Pitchess,
“a criminal defendant, upon a showing of good cause, [can] compel discovery of
information in a police officer’s personnel file that [is] relevant to the
defendant’s ability to defend against a criminal charge.”  (Riske v. Superior Court (City of
Los Angeles) (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 654.)  The principles and standards of Pitchess have
been codified in statutes applicable in both criminal and civil cases. (Long
Beach Police Officers Assn. v. City of Long Beach (2014) 59 Cal.4th 59,
68.)   Among the types of civil cases in
which Pitchess and the statutes codifying it have been applied and
enforced are cases alleging discrimination and retaliation in employment.  Riske, supra, 6 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 652, 658.)
 
A
motion under Pitchess must describe the type of records or information
sought and include an affidavit showing good cause for the discovery, which
explains the materiality of the information to the subject of the pending
litigation and states on reasonable belief that the governmental agency has the
records or information.  (People v.
Superior Court) (Johnson) (2016) 61 Cal. App.4th 696, 710.)   The required “good cause” showing reflects a
“relatively low threshold for discovery.”  
(Garcia v. Superior Court (City of Santa Ana) (2007) 42
Cal.4th 63, 71.)  Specifically, the
affidavit need only present ‘a plausible factual foundation” for the asserted
materiality of the records sought to the subject matter of the litigation.  (Warrick v. Superior Court (City of
Los Angeles Police Department) (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 1011, 1025.)  In deciding whether the moving party has
shown good cause for the disclosure of the records sought based on a plausible
factual scenario, the trial court does not assess credibility of either the
affiant or the version of the events set forth in the affidavit.  (Id. at p. 1026.) “When a trial court
concludes [that the] Pitchess motion shows good cause for discovery a
law enforcement officer's personnel files, the custodian of the records of the
agency is obligated to bring to the trial court all ‘potentially relevant’
documents to permit the trial court to examine them for itself.” (People v.
Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1228–1229.) 
That review is conducted in camera. 
(City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Court (Kennedy) (1989) 49
Cal.3d 74, 83.)
 
Here,
the peace officer personnel
records that Plaintiff seeks in her Pitchess motion fall in the
following categories: 
 
1.    
All materials
related to the LAPD Internal Affairs Investigation identified as CF No.
22-001145, including: 
 
a.     
The Complaint
Form (Form No. 1.28), Complaint Adjudication Form, Complaint Review Report, the
Letter of Transmittal, and the Complaint Investigation;
 
b.    
Investigation
addenda and exhibits, witness interviews and/or statements, photos,
correspondence, witness lists, rough notes, the investigator’s log, materials
related to the disposition of the investigation, including but not limited to
any disciplinary actions recommended or taken, any response by the accused,
military endorsement(s), and any other follow-up or action;
 
 
c.     
All audio, video,
and/or digital recordings and transcripts thereof of witness interviews or
statements; and 
 
d.    
Any Internal
Affairs “Investigative Package” associated with this investigation.
 
2.    
The same records, relating to any investigation initiated
as a result of Plaintiff’s lawsuit, filed on July 8, 2022 (Case No. 22STCV22099).
 
3.    
The same records, relating to any investigation initiated
as a result of Plaintiff’s claim filed with the Department of Fair Employment
and Housing on June 23, 2022 and amended on June 28, 2022 (DFEH No.
202206-17386223).
 
4.    
The same records, relating to any allegations/complaints
and/or investigation(s) of allegations/complaints initiated against Police
Officer III, Swan (hereinafter, “Swan”), Lieutenant Busiere (hereinafter,
“Busiere”), Lieutenant Tyler (hereinafter, “Tyler”), Captain Herredia (hereinafter,
“Herredia”), and/or Sergeant Rios (hereinafter, “Rios”), as a result of
complaints of race/ethnicity-based discrimination, harassment, and/or
retaliation for opposing, reporting, and/or complaining of perceived
unlawful conduct/unlawful employment practices, from January 2017 forward (5
years before January 2022, which is the earliest of the wrongdoing alleged in
the FAC occurred).
 
5.    
The same records, relating to all materials related to
the LAPD Internal Affairs Investigation identified as CF No. 23-000564.
 
6.    
The same records, relating to all complaints
and/or investigations initiated against Swan, Busiere, Tyler, Herredia, and/or
Rios as a result of Plaintiff’s complaints of discrimination, harassment,
and/or retaliation for opposing, reporting, and/or complaining of perceived
unlawful conduct/unlawful employment practices.
 
7.    
The same records, relating to all documents
containing allegations/complaints of discrimination, harassment, and/or or
retaliation against Swan, Busiere, Tyler, Herredia, and/or Rios from January
2017 forward (5 years before January 2022, which is the earliest of the
wrongdoing alleged in the FAC occurred). 
 
8.    
The same records, relating to all documents
containing/pertaining to allegations, reports, complaints, and/or investigations
from January 2017 forward (5 years before January 2022, which is the earliest
of the wrongdoing alleged in the FAC occurred) in any way to Swan, Busiere,
Tyler, Herredia, and/or Rios: preparing/submitting reports that are false,
misleading, and/or less than fully forthcoming; making statements that are
false, misleading, and/or less than fully forthcoming; engaging/participating
in alleged acts of planting evidence; engaging and/or participating in alleged
acts of failing to report or covering up alleged violation(s) of department
policy/law; using excessive force; and/or responding to complaints or making
statements in connection with investigation(s) into complaint(s), in a manner
that is false, misleading and/or less than fully forthcoming
 
PLThe City contends that Plaintiff’s requests
are overbroad.  The Court disagrees.  In the Court’s view, the Plaintiff has shown
good cause for disclosure of the records she is seeking through her Pitchess
motion. The affidavits supporting the motion establish a plausible factual
foundation for the materiality of the records to Plaintiff’s FEHA claims for
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation.  Specifically, Plaintiff’s requests in
categories  4 and 6-8 set forth above are
limited to the records related to the five officers whom Plaintiff alleges either
engaged in discriminatory and harassing behavior towards her; engaged in
retaliation towards her; or failed to prevent the discrimination, retaliation,
and harassment against her. As to records in category 1-3, and 5, Haggerty
v. Superior Court (Guindazola) (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1087
establishes that an internal affairs investigation directly related to the
allegations in the litigation may be disclosed through an order granting a Pitchess
motion.PLAINTIFF'S EX PARTE APPLICATION TO CONTINUE THE TRIALThe Court is inclined to grant the ex parte application to continue the trial, although not for the 120 days that Plaintiff seeks.  The Court is of the view that a continuance of just shy 90 days, to October 28, 2024 is appropriate.