  Case Number:  23AHCV00515    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



QUAN ZHENG, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
YILIANG
   ZHA, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00515
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEMURRER BY DEFENDANT CITY OF SAN MARINO 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   9, 2023



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
March 9, 2023, plaintiffs Quan Zheng and Aaron Zheng (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Yiliang Zha, San Marino Unified School
District (“District”) and the City of San Marino (“Defendant”). On June 30,
2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). Plaintiffs
allege that on September 20, 2022, “[Zha], a 51-year old male, punched the
minor Plaintiff [Aaron Zheng] in the head during afterschool pickup, sending
the 12-year-old to the hospital.” (FAC, ¶ 1.) Quan Zheng has been appointed as
Aaron Zheng’s guardian ad litem. Plaintiffs assert claims for general
negligence (First Cause of Action) and negligent selection, retention and
supervision (Second Cause of Action) against Defendant. 
          On
July 25, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer. On July 28, 2023, Defendant filed an
amended notice of the demurrer. 
          On
September 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition brief. 
          On
October 2, 2023, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith,
Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We treat the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true,
however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are stated
to support the cause of action asserted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) 
III.     DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Public entities cannot be liable for
common law theories of general negligence. (Miklosy v. Regents of University
of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899 [“section 815 abolishes common law
tort liability for public entities”].) Therefore, liability against a public
entity must be authorized by statute.  (Eastburn
v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1179; Gov.
Code, § 815, subd. (a) [“A public entity is not liable for an injury . . .
except as otherwise provided by statute”].) “Ordinarily, negligence may be
pleaded in general terms and the plaintiff need not specify the precise act or
omission alleged to constitute the breach of duty.  Citation]. However, because under the Tort
Claims Act all governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general
rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is
applicable. Thus, ‘to state a cause of action against a public entity, every
fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.’” (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal.3d 780, 795.) 
Defendant argues that the First and
Second Causes of Action fail to state sufficient facts because Plaintiffs do
not allege a statutory basis for liability. Defendant also argues that a public
entity is not liable for failing to protect individuals against crime and that
it owes no duty to Plaintiffs because there was no dangerous condition of
public property and or special relationship with Plaintiffs.
It is undisputed that Plaintiffs do not
identify any statutory basis in the FAC for imposing liability on Defendant. A
demurrer may be sustained where the plaintiff fails to allege a statutory basis
for liability against a public entity. (Tilton v. Reclamation Dist. No. 800
(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 848, 863-864 [affirming trial court’s sustaining a
demurrer without leave to amend as to four tort causes of action where
plaintiff failed to allege statutory basis—i.e., mandatory duty under
Government Code section 815.6—for liability against public entity].) Therefore,
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Plaintiffs essentially argue for an
opportunity to amend the complaint by arguing that Defendant owes a duty of
care based on Government Code section 815.2, which addresses the vicarious
liability of public entities, and Education Code sections 32280-32289, which
requires school districts to develop a “comprehensive school safety plan that
addresses the safety concerns identified through a systematic planning
process.” (Opp., p. 3.) Although Plaintiffs acknowledge that the Education Code
sections cited only apply to school districts, Plaintiffs claim that any duty
owed by a district is extended to Defendant because the parking lot used for afterschool
pickup is located between Crowell Library and Huntington Middle School;
therefore, Plaintiffs argue that both the District and Defendant exert control
over this area and equally owe duties of care to students like Aaron Zhang. Additionally,
Plaintiffs claim that whether Defendant can be held liable for third-party
criminal conduct is a factual issue because it depends on whether Zha’s attack
was foreseeable; Plaintiffs add that school fights occur at a very common
level, therefore violence on campus is foreseeable for all students. (Opp., pp.
5-6.) 
Defendant reiterates in its reply brief
that Plaintiffs cannot allege a claim for dangerous condition of public
property (Govt. Code § 835, et seq.) or impose vicarious liability for the act
or omission of a public employee (Govt. Code § 815.2) without a special
relationship. However, given that these statutes and allegations have been
raised for the first time in Plaintiffs’ opposition brief, the Court grants 20
days’ leave for Plaintiffs to amend their First and Second Causes of Action
against Defendant. 
IV.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED with
20 days’ leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 9th
day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 