Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCV22671
Plaintiff's Name: 
Defendant's Name: Avon Products, Inc.
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Avon Products, Inc., Johnson & Johnson, Imerys, Cyprus
Places: 
Dates: February 5, 2024, July 8, 2022
Events: Court Hearing, Motions in Limine
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: Proposition 51, California Code
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements: 
- The court cannot at this time determine whether the FDA report will be relevant.
- The motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at trial.
- The fact that it is naturally occurring is not prejudicial.
- The court cannot categorically say that evidence mentioning industrial talc is completely irrelevant.
- The evidence would have little probative value because foreign investigations do not result in regulations or law in the United States.
- The court cannot determine whether the FDA has designated talc in cosmetics as “generally regarded as safe” without further evidence.
```

And here is a summary in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on various motions in limine filed by both the plaintiffs and defendants. The judge has denied the plaintiffs' motions to exclude evidence of FDA reports, GRAS (generally regarded as safe) designations, and internal documents from other companies, finding that the evidence may be relevant and admissible. The judge has granted the defendants' motion to exclude evidence of diseases caused by talc other than mesothelioma, finding that the evidence is more prejudicial than probative and would confuse the jury.

The judge has denied the defendants' motions to exclude evidence of industrial talc mines and products, finding that the evidence may be relevant and admissible. The judge has also denied the defendants' motion to exclude evidence of foreign governmental investigations and proceedings into talcum powder, finding that the evidence is irrelevant and would consume an undue amount of trial time.

The judge has granted the defendants' motion to exclude all references to the IWGACP (International Who's Who of Cosmetic Products) formed in 2018 and its 2020-2022 recommendations and papers, finding that the evidence is irrelevant and misleading. The judge has also granted the defendants' motion to exclude evidence of products not at issue, finding that the evidence is too vague to be relevant.

The judge has denied the plaintiffs' motions to exclude evidence of judicial admissions in the complaint, finding that the evidence may be relevant and admissible. The judge has also denied the plaintiffs' motion to exclude arguments about the "substantial factor" test, finding that the motion is deemed made and denied pursuant to a previous order.

The judge has granted the defendants' motion to exclude all references to internal documents from Johnson & Johnson, Imerys, and Cyprus, finding that the motion is too vague but that the evidence may be excluded as hearsay and not relevant. The judge has also granted the defendants' motion to exclude all references to ovarian cancer and diseases other than mesothelioma, finding that the evidence is more prejudicial than probative and would confuse the jury.