 Case Number:  22STCV10623    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
            Defendant
Tile Council of North America, Inc. moves to exclude evidence of compliance
with OSHA labeling regulations because Plaintiffs were not employees of
Defendant and the  regulations did not
impose any obligation on Defendant.  To
the extent this motion seeks a ruling on Plaintiffs’ failure to warn claims, it
is an improper motion for summary adjudication. 
Otherwise, the motion is too vague. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1
Defendant Conwed
Corporation moves to exclude evidence of working conditions at its facility as
irrelevant and unduly prejudicial because Plaintiffs were never employed at the
facility.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something
like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
            Defendant
moves to exclude reference to its products as “asbestos-containing” because
there is no evidence the products contained asbestos.  This is an improper motion for summary
judgment.  The term “asbestos-containing”
is the foundation of Plaintiffs’ allegations. 
If Plaintiffs are prohibited from telling the jury about their
allegations that Defendant’s products contain asbestos, they cannot prove their
case.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.  
Defendants’ MIL No. 2
            Defendant
moves to exclude arguments that it had a duty to warn Plaintiffs about products
made by other entities.  To the extent
this motion seeks a ruling on Plaintiffs’ failure to warn claims, it is an
improper motion for summary adjudication. 
Otherwise, the motion is too vague. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 3
            Defendant
Tile Council of North America, Inc. moves to exclude the use of some common
words, such as “manufacturer,” “supplier,” etc. 
Excluding such common words is impractical.  The motion is denied without prejudice to
objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 4
            Defendant
moves to exclude a license agreement as irrelevant and more prejudicial than
probative because the license agreement was modified by a supplemental
agreement.  That means that both
agreements could be relevant.  Defendant
did not show the license agreement is prejudicial.  If Plaintiffs seek to introduce only the
license agreement, Defendant can then seek to introduce the supplemental
agreement.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.  
Defendants’ MIL No. 5
            Defendant
Tile Council moves to exclude the use of the word “trademark.”  That is a relatively common word.  If some party uses it improperly at trial,
the other side can object.  The motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 6
            Defendant
Tile Council of North America, Inc. filed a motion in limine to take judicial
notice of unspecified federal and state laws and regulations.  This request is too vague.  The specific request for judicial notice
should be made to the trial court.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice.
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
            Defendant
Tile Council of North America Inc. filed a motion to bifurcate an issue unique
to it.  Because Plaintiffs filed a notice
of settlement as to this defendant, the motion is off calendar.
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
Defendant Amcord, Inc.
moves to exclude a March 12, 1974 memorandum about blue asbestos in gun plastic
as irrelevant, prejudicial, and misleading. 
Defendant contends the reference to “blue asbestos” in the memo is to a
brand name, not to a specific type of asbestos. 
If the memo is otherwise admissible (e.g., it is authenticated), then
Defendant can have a witness explain that “blue asbestos” is a brand name and
can cross-examine any witness who contends that “blue asbestos” refers to
something other than a brand name.  The
jury will be able to understand the difference between a brand name and a
specific type of asbestos, and the jury can decide who is correct.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
Amcord moves to exclude
any evidence of lobbying activities.  The
motion is too vague and does not identify specific evidence to be
excluded.  Therefore, the motion is
denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
Amcord moves to exclude
evidence of working conditions at Amcord’s facility as irrelevant and unduly
prejudicial because Plaintiffs were never employed at the facility.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something
like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like
workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos
exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
            No
motion was filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
            Defendant
Mission Stucco seeks a time limit.  This
is not a proper motion in limine.  The
trial court will have its own rules about time limits.  The motion is denied.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
Defendant Mission Stucco
moves to require all evidence to be disclosed 72 hours in advance.  This is not a proper motion in limine.  The trial court will have rules about disclosing
witnesses and exhibits.  The motion is
denied.
Defendants’ MIL No. 13
Defendant Mission Stucco
moves to exclude evidence of a position statement from the Joint Policy
Committee of the Societies of Epidemiology published on July 24, 2012 as
hearsay, irrelevant and more prejudicial than probative.
            This
statement is hearsay and not subject to an exception.  It was published after the alleged exposure
occurred and therefore is not evidence of any defendants’ knowledge or notice
at the time of the exposure.  The
document was prepared by a body established “to coordinate and unify joint
policy actions globally,” and the document itself states it is a call for
political action against asbestos rather than an unbiased scientific
document.  Explaining the origins and
development of the document would consume an undue amount of time and confuse
the jury.
            Therefore,
the motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 14
Defendant moves to
exclude all references to foreign bans on the importation of chrysotile
asbestos.  Plaintiffs did not show any
defendant was aware of a foreign ban on chrysotile asbestos or the reasons why
the foreign governments banned it. 
Allowing that evidence will consume an undue amount of trial time
exploring the bases for and legislative history of the foreign bans.  The evidence would have little probative
value because foreign bans did not apply to workplaces in the United States and
would be confusing to the jury.
            The
motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL No. 15
            Defendant
Tile Council of North America Inc. moves to bifurcate punitive damages.  The motion is granted.
Defendants’ MIL Nos. 16-18
            No
motions were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 19
Defendant moves to
exclude lay opinions about whether products contained asbestos or released
asbestos fibers.  Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and denied.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart
from this order.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 20
            Defendant
Simpson Timber Company moves to exclude evidence of its employees getting sick
with asbestos-related diseases because Plaintiffs did not work at its
facility.  To the extent Defendant
contends it did not have notice of the dangers of asbestos or disputes that
asbestos causes injury, evidence that its employees were sick with
asbestos-related diseases may be relevant. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 21
Defendant moves to
exclude arguments that there is no safe level of asbestos and every exposure
contributes to a cumulative dose as unsupported by science and contrary to the
law.  This motion is too vague as Defendants
does not identify any specific expert testimony to be excluded.    
In addition, the motion
would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what
“substantial factor” means.  Under the
July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial
factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.  Defendants did not show good
cause to depart from this order.
Defendants also argue
OSHA and EPA reports are hearsay.  This
motion is too vague as Defendants did not identify any specific report to be
excluded.  If Plaintiffs ask to admit the
reports for the truth of the matter asserted in them, Defendants can object at
that time.  However, an expert may rely
on the reports even if they are hearsay.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
The moving party is to
give notice.