 Case Number:  22STCV35791    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




XIANG HAO CUI, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
DAE YONG LEE, aka DAVID LEE, et al.
                        Defendants.
STANFORD PLAZA ASSOCIATION,
  INC.,
                        Nominal Defendant.


Case No.:


22STCV35791




Hearing Date:


July 8, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF XIANG HAO CUI’S FIRST SET OF REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION,
  FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF
  DOCUMENTS TO SECURED PROPERTIES MANAGEMENT GROUP, INC.; REQUEST FOR MONETARY
  SANCTIONS
 




 
Background
On November 14, 2022,
Plaintiffs Xiang Hao Cui (“Cui”), for himself and derivatively on behalf of Nominal Defendant Stanford
Plaza Association, Inc., 800
East Pico Blvd, LLC, 808 East Pico Blvd, LLC, and Stanford Plaza Holdings, LLC
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Dae Yong Lee aka
David Lee, Hellen Lee, Young Sung Cho, William Hong (“Hong”), Stanford Pico
Plaza, LLC, and Secured Properties Management Group, Inc. (“SPMG”)
(collectively, “Defendants”). 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) removal of directors,
(2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty,
(4) accounting, (5) declaratory relief, and (6) injunctive relief. 
On February 18, 2023, Cui served SPMG with Cui’s Request for
Production (Set One), Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories
(Set One), and Requests for Admission (Set One) (collectively, the “First Set
of Discovery Requests”). (Sergenian Decl., ¶¶ 2-6, Exs. A-D.) On April 26,
2023, SPMG served responses to the First Set of Discovery Requests. (Sergenian
Decl., ¶¶ 7-11, Exs. E-H.) 
Counsel for the parties met and conferred regarding SPMG’s responses
to the First Set of Discovery Requests. (Sergenian Decl., ¶ 12.) On May 24,
2023, the parties participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”).
(Sergenian Decl., ¶ 12.) The Court’s May 24, 2023 minute order provides, inter
alia, “[t]he parties attended the IDC on 5/24/2023 regarding the issues
identified in the…IDC statement by Defendant dated 5/19/2023.[1]
The parties have fulfilled their IDC requirement regarding those issues. The
parties argued and the…Court ordered that Plaintiffs’ deadline for filing and
serving motions to compel further responses to the initial set of request for
productions, request for admissions, for interrogatories and special
interrogatories propounded to Defendant Dae Young Lee, Hellen Lee, Secured
Properties, Stanford Pico Plaza, LLC, William Hong, and Young Sung Cho is
extended through July 31, 2023.”
Cui’s counsel states that “[d]uring the meet and confer process, the
parties agreed to extend the time to move to compel to two weeks after the next
IDC, which was convened on October 24, 2023. Meet and confer efforts before and
after the second IDC did not lead to a resolution of these discovery issues.”
(Sergenian Decl., ¶ 12.) The Court’s October 24, 2023 minute order provides, inter
alia, that “[i]n open court, the Informal Discovery Conference is held. The
discovery issues were not resolved.” 
Cui now moves for an order compelling SPMG to serve further responses
to Cui’s First Set of Requests for Admission, Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents, served on SPMG on
February 18, 2023. SPMG opposes. 
 
Discussion 
A.    Procedural Issues 
 As an initial matter, SPMG’s counsel indicates
that on October 4, 2023, SPMG served amended responses to Cui’s Form
Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), Request for
Admissions (Set One), and Request for Production of Documents (Set One). (Kim
Decl., ¶¶ 5-8, Exs. 3-6.) As set forth above, Cui’s motion concerns SPMG’s initial
responses served on April 26, 2023 to the subject First Set of Discovery
Requests. (Sergenian Decl., ¶¶ 7-11, Exs. E-H.) Thus, the Court finds that
Cui’s instant motion to compel further responses directed to SPMG’s April 26,
2023 responses is moot. 
SPMG also asserts that Cui’s “separate
statement violates Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345
because it improperly requires the Court to refer to other documents.” (Opp’n
at p.13:5-6.) California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subdivision (c) provides as follows: 
 
“A
separate statement is a separate document filed and served with the discovery
motion that provides all the information necessary to understand each discovery
request and all the responses to it that are at issue. The separate statement
must be full and complete so that no person is required to review any other
document in order to determine the full request and the full response. Material
must not be incorporated into the separate statement by reference. The separate
statement must include--for each discovery request (e.g., each interrogatory,
request for admission, deposition question, or inspection demand) to which a
further response, answer, or production is requested--the following:
 
(1) The text of the request, interrogatory,
question, or inspection demand;
 
(2) The text of each response, answer, or
objection, and any further responses or answers;
 
(3) A statement of the factual and legal reasons
for compelling further responses, answers, or production as to each matter in
dispute;
 
(4) If necessary, the text of all definitions,
instructions, and other matters required to understand each discovery request
and the responses to it;
 
(5) If the response to a particular discovery
request is dependent on the response given to another discovery request, or if
the reasons a further response to a particular discovery request is deemed
necessary are based on the response to some other discovery request, the other
request and the response to it must be set forth; and
 
(6) If the pleadings, other documents in the file,
or other items of discovery are relevant to the motion, the party relying on
them must summarize each relevant document.” 
            SPMG
asserts that in violation of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subdivision (c), “Plaintiff chose to omit
Defendant’s Amended Responses (Kim Decl. Exs. 3-6) from the separate statement,
which now requires the Court to review the other documents submitted by
Defendant ‘to determine the full request and [Defendant’s] full response.’”
(Opp’n at p. 13:23-26.) Indeed, as discussed above, Cui’s motion concerns SPMG’s
responses served on April 26, 2023, despite the fact that amended responses
were served on October 4, 2023. (Sergenian Decl., ¶¶ 7-11; Kim Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
denies Cui’s motion to compel further responses.[2] 
B.    Requests for
Sanctions

            Cui also seeks monetary sanctions
against SPMG and its counsel. Cui asserts that “there is no excuse for
Defendant’s refusal to provide further responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery
requests. The concurrently filed Declaration of David A. Sergenian shows the
efforts made on the part of Plaintiffs to avoid this motion, and the
concurrently filed Separate Statement shows Defendant’s bad-faith assertion of
non-meritorious, boilerplate objections.” (Mot. at p. 14:1-4.) As discussed, SPMG
served amended responses to the discovery requests at issue, and the instant
motion (and separate statement) concern SPMG’s initial responses. The Court
does not find that Cui has demonstrated that sanctions are warranted against SPMG
here.
            Lastly, in the opposition, SPMG
asserts that sanctions against Cui are warranted. SPMG notes that Cui previously
filed another motion to compel further responses pertaining to responses served
by Hong. On December 20, 2023, the Court issued a minute order denying the
motion. The Court’s December 20, 2023 minute order noted, inter alia,
that “the Court finds that Cui’s instant motion to compel further responses
directed to Hong’s April 26, 2023 responses is moot.” (December 20, 2023 Minute Order at pp. 1-2.) The Court noted that
“Hong’s counsel indicates that on October 4, 2023, Hong served amended
responses to Cui’s Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set
One), Request for Admissions (Set One), and Request for Production of Documents
(Set One).” (Id. at p. 1.)  
            In the opposition to the instant
motion, SPMG asserts that “[t]he present motion should have been withdrawn
immediately after the Court’s December 20, 2023 ruling on Plaintiff Cui’s
substantively identical Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant
Hong.” (Opp’n at p. 19:4-6.) In her supporting declaration, SPMG’s counsel
states that “[o]n May 8, 2024, I met and conferred with Mr. Sergenian and asked
that, due to the Court’s December 20, 2023, ruling denying Plaintiff’s motion
to compel further responses from Defendant William Hong, he withdraw the nearly
identical motions remaining as to the other defendants. Mr. Sergenian refused
to withdraw the motions, stating that he was in the process of being relieved
as counsel.” (Kim Decl., ¶ 17.) 
On May 31, 2024, the Court issued an Order granting David A.
Sergenian’s motion to be relieved as counsel for, inter alia, Cui.
SPMG’s counsel states that “[o]n June 12, 2024, I called Plaintiff Cui, now
proceeding in propria persona, to request a meet and confer to discuss
the withdrawal of the nearly identical motions to compel in light of the
court’s denial of the motion to compel directed at Mr. Hong. However, Mr. Cui
did not pick up nor was I able to leave a voicemail because his phone was not
set up to receive voicemails; so, I emailed Mr. Cui…On June 17, 2024, not
having received a response from Mr. Cui to my June 12 request to meet and
confer, I sent a follow-up email to Mr. Cui…Since June 12, I have attempted
repeatedly to call Mr. Cui but each time he has not answered my call. To date,
Mr. Cui has yet to respond to my efforts to discuss withdrawal of the remaining
motions to compel, and the motions remain on calendar.” (Kim Decl., ¶¶ 19-21.) 
SPMG asserts that “[b]ecause Plaintiff refused to withdraw the motion
and has not responded to Defendant’s repeated efforts to meet and confer,
Defendant was forced to prepare the present opposition to the meritless motion…As
a result, Defendant is entitled to recover costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees
for having to oppose the baseless motion.” (Opp’n at p. 19:14-17.) 
SPMG notes that pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision (h), “[m]isuses
of the discovery process include, but are not limited to…(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without
substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery.”
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030, subdivision (a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds
that SPMG has demonstrated that Cui’s instant unsuccessful motion was made
without substantial justification. SPMG indicates that its counsel has “incurred
or will incur a total of $4,338.50 in connection with the present opposition…”
(Kim Decl., ¶ 25; see also Kim Decl., ¶¶ 22-24.) The Court finds that
this amount is reasonable. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
the Court denies Cui’s motion to compel further responses. The Court also
denies Cui’s request for monetary sanctions. 
The Court grants SPMG’s
request for monetary sanctions and orders Cui to pay $4,338.50
to SPMG
within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿  
The Court orders SPMG to
give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  July 8, 2024                                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


