  Case Number:  22STCV10379    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



MARIA DE JESUS GUZMAN PADILLA, et al., 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
LINDA V. ARMOR, et
  al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV10379




Hearing Date:


July 8, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANTS’
  MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 



Background
A
number of plaintiffs filed this action on March 25, 2022 against Defendants
Linda V. Armor, Taylor Equities 17, LLC (“Taylor Equities 17”), RI 1812
Apartments LLC (“RI 1812 Apartments”), and 1812 5th Street LLC (“1812 5th
Street”) (collectively, “Defendants”). The Complaint asserts causes of action
for (1) breach of warranty of habitability, (2) breach of covenant of quiet
enjoyment, (3) negligence, (4) breach of contract, (5) nuisance, and (6) unfair
competition in violation of California Business and
Professions Code section 17200, et seq. 
On
January 30, 2023, 1812 5th Street filed a Cross-Complaint against Linda V. Armor,
Taylor Equities 17, and RI 1812 Apartments, alleging causes of action for (1)
express indemnity, (2) contribution, (3) implied indemnity, (4) declaratory
relief, and (5) apportionment of fault. 
On
February 21, 2023, Taylor Equities 17 and RI 1812 Apartments filed a
Cross-Complaint against, inter alia, Linda V. Armor, as an individual
and as Trustee of the Armor Family Trust (“Armor”), asserting causes of action
for (1) nondisclosure of material facts, 
(2)
nondisclosure of material facts, (3) express indemnity, (4) breach of contract,
(5) duty to defend, (6) duty to indemnify, (7) negligence, (8) breach of
fiduciary duty, (9) negligent misrepresentation, (10) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (11) equitable indemnity, (12)
contribution, (13) apportionment of fault, and (14) declaratory relief.
On August 16, 2023, Ingenious Asset Group, Inc. filed a
Cross-Complaint against Taylor Equities 17 and RI 1812 Apartments, alleging six
causes of action.[1]  
Armor
previously demurred to the first, third, tenth, eleventh,
twelfth, thirteenth, and fourteenth causes of action of Taylor Equities 17 and RI 1812’s Cross-Complaint. On August 2, 2023, the Court issued an order sustaining
Armor’s demurrer to the third, eleventh, twelfth, and thirteenth causes of
action of the Cross-Complaint, with leave to amend. The Court sustained the
demurrer to the fourteenth cause of action without leave to amend. The Court
overruled the demurrer to the first and tenth causes of action. The August 2, 2023 Order provides, “[t]he
Court orders Cross-Complainants to file and serve an amended cross-complaint,
if any, within 20 days of the date of this Order. If no amended cross-complaint is filed within 20 days of this
Order, Armor is ordered to file and serve an answer within 30 days of the date
of this Order.” 
On
May 6, 2024, the Court issued an Order denying without prejudice a previous
motion by Taylor Equities 17 and RI 1812 for leave to
file a first amended cross-complaint. 
Taylor Equities 17 and RI 1812 Apartments (jointly,
“Cross-Complainants”) now move again for an order permitting them leave to file
a First Amended Cross-Complaint. Armor opposes.
Discussion
A.    Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, in
the reply, Cross-Complainants assert that “Armor did not timely or properly
serve the opposition on Cross-Complainant’s counsel.” (Reply at p. 2:8-9.)
Armor’s opposition was filed on June 25, 2024, eight court days prior to the
July 8, 2024 hearing. The proof of service attached to the opposition indicates
that it was served on June 25, 2024 by electronic service. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), opposition
papers must be served and filed with the court¿at least nine court days¿before
the hearing. In addition, under ¿Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6, subdivision (a)(3)(B)¿, “[a]ny period of
notice, or any right or duty to do any act or make any response within any
period or on a date certain after the service of the document, which time
period or date is prescribed by statute or rule of court, shall be extended
after service by electronic means by two court days.” 
In addition, in connection with the reply,
Cross-Complainants submit the declaration of their counsel Vanessa
L. Vinje, of the law firm of Everett Dorey LLP. (Vinje Reply Decl., ¶ 1.) Ms.
Vinje states that “[o]ur firm updated our address by a notice of change of
address on June 17, 2024…My assistant, Ashley Slomsky, served the notice of
change of address by email to Armor’s counsel, Sasha Shariati and Craig Holden,
who could see that myself and my associate Tiffany-Paige Hernandez were
included on the e-mail correspondence…Despite knowing that myself and Ms.
Hernandez were still working on this case, Armor’s counsel failed to serve
Armor’s opposition to us on June 25, 2024 and instead only served it to Seymour
Everett and Samantha Dorey…I only learned of the fact that these opposing
papers had been filed because my office checked the court’s website…” (Vinje Reply
Decl., ¶¶ 2-5.) 
However, Cross-Complainants acknowledge that Armor’s opposition was
served on Cross-Complainants’ counsel, Seymour Everett and Samantha Dorey of
the law firm of Everett Dorey LLP. (Vinje Reply Decl., ¶ 4.)[2] In
addition, Cross-Complainants submitted a substantive reply brief that
addresses the arguments made in Armor’s opposition. Thus, the Court elects to
exercise its discretion to consider the untimely
opposition.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1300, subd. (d).)
///
///
B.    Motion for Leave to Amend 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
 section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
576.) 
“[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit
amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend….”  
(Morgan v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial,
loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) The
motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by
page, paragraph, and line number. (Ibid.) Finally, “[a] separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: (1)
The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b), emphasis added.)
Cross-Complainants’
proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) is attached as Exhibit 1
to Cross-Complainants’ counsel’s declaration. (Vinje Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) The
proposed FACC alleges causes of action for (1) nondisclosure of material facts,
(2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach
of contract, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5) intentional
misrepresentation, (6) express indemnity, and (7) contribution. (Ibid.) 
Cross-Complainants’ counsel states that “[t]he proposed FACC seeks to
dovetail off the previous allegations in the Cross-Complaint. The dovetailed
facts proposed in the FACC include that Armor had knowledge of habitability
issues at the Subject Property during their ownership, and not only failed to
disclose these issues to Cross-Complainants, but also intentionally showed
Cross-Complainants certain units during a pre-purchase inspection that were in
the best condition in order to conceal habitability issues in other units. The
essence of these facts can be found in the first cause of action of operative
Cross-Complaint for non-disclosure of material facts.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 6.)
Cross-Complainant’s counsel states that “[t]he dovetailed facts
Cross-Complainants seek to add [to] the FACC are reflected in paragraphs 11-14,
and 41-65 of the proposed FAC [sic].” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 7.) 
In addition, Cross-Complainants’ counsel states that “[t]he Amendment
is also being made to remove certain parties and claims that have been
dismissed from the Cross-Complaint. Specifically, Cross-Complainants have
dismissed Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Services, Inc., Comstar
Insurance Solutions, Inc., and Heffernan Insurance Brokers. Therefore, all
causes of action and paragraphs related to the dismissed parties have been
eliminated from the FACC.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Cross-Complainants’ counsel asserts that “[t]he proposed amendment is
necessary and proper to allow removal of claims against dismissed parties and
to allow Cross-Complainants to litigate new legal theories of liability based
on the same set of facts alleged in the original cross-complaint. Specifically
stemming from Armor’s failure to disclose habitability issues at the Subject
Property.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 14.) As to “when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,” Cross-Complainants’
counsel states that “[a]s detailed in the declaration of Fred Trudeau
filed concurrently herewith, the proposed causes of action for negligent and
intentional misrepresentation are not based on ‘new’ facts, but are rather new
legal theories based on the facts already pled in the operative cross-complaint
under the first cause of action for non-disclosure of material facts. The facts
were known and alleged in the operative cross-complaint.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 15.)
In addition, as to the “reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier,” 
Cross-Complainants’ counsel states that “[a]s detailed in the
declaration of Fred Trudeau filed concurrently herewith, Armor had previously
successfully demurred to certain causes of action in the operative
Cross-Complaint. The Court granted leave to amend. Rather than invite another
demurrer, former defense counsel determined that additional discovery to
support the additional causes of action was necessary before this amendment
could be filed. The case was then transferred to my office.” (Vinje Decl., ¶
16.) 
Cross-Complainants submit the Declaration of Fred Trudeau, who was the
previous attorney of record for Cross-Complainants. (Trudeau Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr.
Trudeau states that “[t]he facts giving rise to the proposed additional causes
of action are based on the facts plead in the initial Cross-Complaint and thus
were known at the time the Cross-Complaint was initially filed…[Armor] demurred
to certain causes of action in the Cross-Complaint. On or about August 3, 2023,
the Court sustained part of Armor’s demurrer, including sustaining the demurrer
to the equitable indemnity and contribution causes of action. The Court granted
leave to amend…After review of the Court order sustaining the demurrer it was
clear additional discovery was necessary to support the additional causes of
action and rather than invite a second demurrer and possible order without
leave to amend...” (Trudeau Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.) Mr. Trudeau states that “a decision
was made not to file the amended Cross-Complaint prior to the leave expiring
with the goal of obtaining additional discovery…The case was then transferred
to new counsel.” (Trudeau Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)
Cross-Complainants’ current counsel states that “[w]hen my office took
over this case in February, 2024, there were several sets of outstanding
discovery that needed to be responded to, discovery responses from the
Plaintiffs that needed to be evaluated, and a serious evaluation of the
insurance related claims that defense counsel personally began working on with
Cross-Complainants and their separate insurance counsel, Josh Keane. I spent a
great deal of time reviewing these materials and discussing the facts of the
case with Cross-Complainants, and it was determined that an amendment was
proper and must be sought.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 17.) 
In the opposition, Armor first asserts that
“the motion to amend should be denied because it fails to comply with CRC
Rule 3.1324(b).” (Opp’n at p. 2:12-13.) As
discussed, Cross-Complainants’ counsel states that “the proposed causes of
action for negligent and intentional misrepresentation are not based on ‘new’
facts, but are rather new legal theories based on the facts already pled in the
operative cross-complaint under the first cause of action for non-disclosure of
material facts.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 15.) In the opposition, Armor argues that “Taylor
Equities still does not adequately address why it did not add the causes of
action it is now seeking to add…to the Cross-Complaint if it had all of the
facts forming the basis of the claims when the Cross-Complaint was first
filed.” (Opp’n at p. 3:15-18.)[3]
In the reply, Cross-Complainants counter that Mr. Trudeau’s
declaration explains that a decision was made to not file the amended
Cross-Complaint prior to the leave expiring “with the goal of obtaining
additional discovery.” (Trudeau Decl., ¶ 7.) The Court finds that Cross-Complainants
have adequately explained “[w]hen the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered,” and “[t]he
reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).) 
Armor also argues that “[o]nly the fact that Taylor Equities’ new
counsel does not agree with its former counsel as to their case strategy is not
a good enough reason to ask the Court to now undo its ruling on the demurrer
and ask for an amendment this late into the litigation on claims already
dismissed.” (Opp’n at p. 4:13-16.) In the reply, Cross-Complainants state that
they are “no longer seeking to amend the Cross-Complaint to add causes of
action that were dismissed by the former demurrer, therefore, Armor’s counsel
arguments on that subject are entirely moot.” (Reply at p. 3:22-24.) 
Indeed, as set forth above, Cross-Complainants’ original
Cross-Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) nondisclosure of
material facts, (2) nondisclosure of material facts, (3) express indemnity, (4)
breach of contract, (5) duty to defend, (6) duty to indemnify, (7) negligence, 
(8)
breach of fiduciary duty, (9) negligent misrepresentation, (10) breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (11) equitable indemnity, (12)
contribution, (13) apportionment of fault, and (14) declaratory relief.
            As discussed, on August 2, 2023, the
Court issued an Order sustaining Armor’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for express indemnity, eleventh cause of action for equitable indemnity,
twelfth cause of action for contribution, and thirteenth cause of action for
apportionment of fault, with leave to amend. (August 2, 2023
Order at p. 12.) The Court sustained Armor’s demurrer to the fourteenth
cause of action for declaratory relief without leave to amend. (Id. at pp. 12-13.) 
Cross-Complainants’ proposed FACC does not contain any causes of
action for equitable indemnity, apportionment of fault, or declaratory relief.
(Vinje Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) In addition, the sixth cause of action for express
indemnity and the seventh cause of action for contribution in the proposed FACC
are not alleged against Armor, they are only alleged against Ingenious Asset
Group, Inc. (Vinje Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) Thus, the Court does not see why Armor
is arguing that Cross-Complainants “ask the Court to now undo its ruling on the
demurrer…” (Opp’n at p. 4:15.)
Armor also argues that “[t]he Court should…deny this Motion to amend
because there has been a long and inexcusable delay and the requested amendment
would unfairly prejudice Ms. Armor.” (Opp’n at p. 4:22-23.) As discussed,
Cross-Complainants’ counsel states that “the proposed causes of action for
negligent and intentional misrepresentation…are…new legal theories based on the
facts already pled in the operative cross-complaint under the first cause of
action for non-disclosure of material facts.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 15.) The original
Cross-Complaint was filed on February 21, 2023. Armor argues that “[t]he fact
that…counsel chose not to plead these claims at the outset does not excuse a
delay of more than one year in requesting an amendment.” (Opp’n at p. 6:6-8.)
Armor asserts that she “would be greatly prejudiced by an amendment due to the
fact that it [sic] has already propounded discovery and received discovery
responses and would incur additional costs and burden in drafting and filing
another demurrer and propounding discovery again on new claims…” (Opp’n at p.
6:11-14.) 
In the reply, Cross-Complainants assert that “[t]he proposed amendment
[sic] to the cross-complaint are all related to the facts originally plead in
the original cross-complaint, so no prejudice will result by any ‘delay’ in
including the additional legal theories.” (Reply at p. 4:3-5.) 
In
addition, in her declaration in support of the motion, Ms. Vinje states that “Armor
only recently started conducting discovery, having served the first set of
discovery to Cross-Complainants on March 13, 2024. In fact, this discovery
included questions designed to address the intentional and negligent
misrepresentation claims. A copy of the Special Interrogatories recently served
by Armor on Cross-Complainants is attached hereto as Exhibit
4…Cross-Complainants responded to this discovery on May 23, 2024.” (Vinje
Decl., ¶¶ 9-10.) As noted by Cross-Complainants in the reply, Armor does not
appear to address Cross-Complainants’ argument that Armor has already conducted
discovery “designed to address the intentional and negligent misrepresentation
claims.” (Vinje Decl., ¶ 9.)  
Armor also argues that the “request for leave to amend the
Cross-Complaint should also be denied because the amendment would be futile.”
(Opp’n at p. 6:25-26.) Armor argues that the “proposed amended Cross-Complaint
is futile because it suffers from the same deficiencies as the original
Cross-Complaint that was successfully demurred [sic]. The amendment to add the
new claims of negligent and intentional misrepresentation would also be futile
because they are barred by the applicable statute of limitations.” (Opp’n at p.
7:3-6.) However, as noted in the Court’s May 6, 2024 Order on
Cross-Complainants’ previous motion for leave to amend, the Court does not find
that the asserted legal deficiency of the proposed FACC warrants
denial of leave to amend. (See Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“the preferable practice would be to permit the
amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings”]¿.)
Lastly, Armor argues that “[a]lthough
counsel for Taylor Equities, Ms. Vinje, states in her declaration at paragraphs
20-21 that she met and conferred with counsel for Ms. Armor, no meeting and
conferring ever took place as to the Motion at hand after the previous Motion
to Amend was denied. The Motion should be denied because counsel for Taylor
Equities never met and conferred with counsel for Ms. Armor and so it failed to
comply with the Judge’s requirements.” (Opp’n at p. 9:16-20.) However, as noted
by Cross-Complainants, Armor does not cite any legal authority requiring a
party to meet and confer in advance of filing a motion for leave to amend.
Cross-Complainants also asserts that “counsel did meet and confer prior to
filing the original motion which is substantially similar to this motion.
Armor’s counsel would not agree to an amendment, therefore no additional meet
[sic] would have been productive.” (Reply at p. 5:23-25.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Complainants have
demonstrated good cause to file the proposed First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, Cross-Complainants’ motion for leave to amend is granted. The
Court orders Cross-Complainants to file and serve the First Amended
Cross-Complaint within 3 days of the date of this Order.¿¿¿¿
 Cross-Complainants
are ordered to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  July 8, 2024                                    
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


