 Case Number:  23STCV31030    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




JENICA OLGUIN,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
BEVERAGES & MORE, INC., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV31030




Hearing Date:


July 8, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
 
DEFENDANTS
  BEVERAGES & MORE, INC.’S AND BEVMO! INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
  AND DISMISS PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 




            
            Background
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff Jenica
Olguin (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Beverages & More,
Inc., Beverages & More! Inc., and BevMo! Inc. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) FEHA
employment discrimination, (2) failure to accommodate in violation of FEHA, (3)
failure to engage in a timely and good-faith interactive process in violation
of FEHA, (4) FEHA harassment, (5) FEHA retaliation, (6) failure to prevent or remedy
discrimination, harassment, and/or retaliation in violation of FEHA, (7)
wrongful discharge in violation of public policy, (8) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and (9) failure to permit inspection or copying of
employment records. 
 Beverages
& More, Inc. and BevMo! Inc. (jointly, “Defendants”) now move for an order 
compelling
Plaintiff to submit all causes of action asserted against Defendants to binding
arbitration, and dismissing, or in the alternative, staying, all causes of
action asserted against Defendants. Plaintiff opposes. 
Evidentiary
Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1:
overruled. The Court notes that no “Declaration of Amanda Flanagan” was
filed in connection with the instant motion. In their response to Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections, Defendants state that they “are unfamiliar with an
individual named Amanda Flanagan associated with this matter. Amanda Flanagan
is not a declarant in support of Defendants’ Motion.” (Defendants’ Response at
p. 1:17-19.)
Objection No. 2:
overruled 
The Court rules on
Defendants’ evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2:
overruled
Objection No. 3:
overruled
Objection No. 4:
overruled
Objection No. 5:
sustained as to “there’s no proof of that,” and “[i]t would not have been hard for anyone with my BEVMO
job application to login under my name,” overruled as to the remainder. 
Objection No. 6: overruled 
Objection No. 7: overruled
Objection No. 8: overruled
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel arbitration,
the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the
arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the agreement. The
burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance of
evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)  
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of
California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th
677, 686.) “This strong policy has
resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be
said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an
interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Ibid. [internal quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the
liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts
“involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2,
et seq.; Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that she “started
working for BEVMO in or around June of 2021. Plaintiff worked as a Retail Sales
Associate with duties that included working as a cashier, sales floor
merchandising, replenishment, and receiving in BEVMO’s Torrance, California
store.” (Compl., ¶ 15.)
In support of the motion, Defendants submit the Declaration of Lyndsey
LePage, who is currently the “Director, People & Culture of Defendants” and
has “held this role since January 2021.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. LePage states
that “[t]o initiate the pre-employment onboarding process, Defendants sent each
prospective employee who had successfully completed the application stage an
e-mail to the individual’s email that the individual identifies on an
application. This e-mail contained a unique hyperlink that directed the
prospective employee to Defendants’ onboarding website. The unique hyperlink
the prospective employee received expired within several days after e-mail
receipt. Prospective employees then used this website to read, complete, and
electronically sign onboarding documents.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 7.) 
Ms. LePage states that “[p]rospective employees must log in to this
website using their full legal name and the last four digits of their social
security numbers. This information must exactly match the information the
prospective employee listed on the application. If it does not match exactly,
then the prospective employee cannot begin the onboarding process.” (LePage
Decl., ¶ 8.) “Once the prospective employee logged in using the individual’s
personal identification information, the ‘Welcome!’ page of the Employee
Onboarding process notifies employees that their signature to onboarding
documents are recorded electronically. Employees must click the box
acknowledging this fact before they are permitted to continue with the
onboarding process. After the employee clicks this box, the employee may
proceed with filling out a variety of new-hire forms, including Forms W-4 and
I-9. After filling out these forms, the next screen the employee is presented
with is a screen where the employee must consent to electronically filling out
the onboarding documents. This screen informs the employee that by consenting
to this agreement, they are agreeing to use their ‘click’ as a stand-in for
their written signature, which is electronically inscribed on the PDF document.
Employees must click to consent to this e-signature agreement to proceed with
the online onboarding documents.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 9.)  
Ms. LePage states that “[a]fter consenting to the e-signature
agreement, employees were presented with a screen where they can view and agree
to specific onboarding documents, such as the Employee Handbook and the
arbitration agreement. For important documents, like the Handbook and the
arbitration agreement, the employee cannot click to electronically sign the
document until they first ‘view’ this document. In other words, to sign the
arbitration agreement, the employee must first click ‘view,’ which opens the
text of the arbitration agreement in a separate pop-up window. Only after the
employee closes the pop-up window can the employee click a separate link to
sign the arbitration agreement. Once the employee clicks that separate link to
electronically sign the arbitration agreement, his or her electronic signature
is date stamped by the system.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 10.) 
Ms. LePage states that foregoing “safeguards and procedures” were “in
existence when Plaintiff was going through the onboarding process in June
2021.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 11.) Ms. LePage states that “[o]n information and
belief, based upon my review of Plaintiff’s records, Plaintiff must have
performed each of the identified tasks and steps to have completed the
onboarding documents.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 11.) Ms. LePage further states that
“[o]n June 17, 2021, Plaintiff electronically signed, and thereby agreed to the
terms of, Defendants’ arbitration agreement. Plaintiff’s ‘signature’ at the
base of the arbitration agreement would only appear after Plaintiff clicked to
electronically sign the arbitration agreement using the process described in
the preceding paragraphs.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 12.) Ms. LePage indicates that “[a]
true and correct copy of Plaintiff’s electronically signed arbitration
agreement is attached as Exhibit 1.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 12.) 
The “Arbitration Agreement” attached as Exhibit 1 to Ms. LePage’s
declaration provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Any
legally-cognizable controversy or claim arising out of or relating to my
employment or termination of employment (including any post-termination claim)
that cannot be resolved between the parties themselves, shall on the written
request of either party be submitted and resolved by final and binding
arbitration consistent with the Federal Arbitration Act, the California
Arbitration Act, or their successors…
 
The parties
intend that this arbitration procedure shall to the full extent permitted by
law be the exclusive means of resolving all claims whether founded in fact or
law between me, on one hand, and BevMo! and/or its associates, directors,
officers or managers, on the other hand, arising out of or relating to the
parties’ employment relationship and/or its termination, whether occurring
during or after the employment relationship, including, but not limited to, any
controversies or claims pertaining to wrongful or constructive discharge,
personal injuries or other civil wrongs, violations of public policies or
anti-discrimination statutes. The only claims not covered by this Agreement are
those claims by law that are not subject to mandatory binding pre-dispute
arbitration, and claims for workers compensation benefits and claims for
unemployment insurance benefits. The parties expressly waive any right to have
any such claim decided in a court of law and/or by a jury in a court proceeding…”
(LePage Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 1.) 
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s claims are within the scope of her
Arbitration Agreement. Because there is a valid Arbitration Agreement and all
of Plaintiff’s claims are covered by its scope, the Court should compel
arbitration.” (Mot. at p. 7:17-19.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that “there is no agreement to
arbitrate because Plaintiff never received, reviewed, or signed the arbitration
agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 3:16-17.) Plaintiff cites to Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 838,
where “Defendant and
appellant, Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (Moss Bros.),
appeal[ed] from an order denying its petition to compel arbitration of the
employment-related and putative class action, representative, and individual
claims of its service technician employee, plaintiff and respondent,
Ernesto Ruiz. The trial court denied the petition on the
ground Moss Bros. did not meet its burden of proving the parties
had an agreement to arbitrate the controversy.” The Court of Appeal
“conclude[d] Moss Bros. did not present sufficient evidence to
support a finding that Ruiz electronically signed the 2011
agreement,” and “affirm[ed] the order denying the petition.” (Ibid.)
 
The
Court of Appeal in Ruiz noted that “[u]nder Civil Code section 1633.7, enacted…as part of the Uniform
Electronic Transactions Act…an electronic signature has the same legal effect
as a handwritten signature (Civ. Code, § 1633.7, subd.
(a) [“A ... signature may not be denied legal effect or enforceability
solely because it is in electronic form.”] ).” (Ruiz v. Moss
Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at p. 843.)
However, “any writing must be
authenticated before the writing, or secondary evidence of its content, may be
received in evidence. Authentication of a writing means (a) the introduction of
evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the
writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is or (b)
the establishment of such facts by any other means provided by law.” (Ibid. [internal
quotations and citations omitted, emphasis in original].) “Civil Code section
1633.9 addresses how a proponent of
an electronic signature may authenticate the signature—that is, show the
signature is, in fact, the signature of the person the proponent claims it is.
The statute states: ‘(a) An electronic record or electronic signature is
attributable to a person if it was the act of the person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any
security procedure applied to determine the person to which the electronic
record or electronic signature was attributable.’ (Civ.
Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a), italics added.)” (Ibid.)
            In Ruiz, Moss. Bros. submitted the
declaration of its business manager, Mary K.
Main, in support of its petition to compel arbitration. (Id.
at p. 839.) The Court of Appeal found that “Main
did not explain how she ascertained that the electronic signature on the
[arbitration] agreement was ‘the act of’ Ruiz,” citing Civ. Code,
§ 1633.9, subd. (a). (Id. at p. 844.) After Ruiz stated that he
did not recall electronically signing the agreement, Main explained in her
reply declaration that the subject arbitration agreement “was part of an
employee acknowledgment form that is presented to all Moss Bros. employees as part
of a series of changes to the company’s employee handbook, and each employee is
required to log into the company’s HR system, using his or her unique login ID
and password, to review and sign the employee acknowledgment form.” (Id. at p. 844 [internal quotations omitted].) The Court of Appeal in Ruiz
found as follows:
 
“Again, however, Main did not
explain how, or upon what basis, she inferred that the electronic signature on
the 2011 agreement was “the act of” Ruiz. (Civ. Code, § 1633.9,
subd. (a).) This left a critical gap in the evidence supporting the
petition.
 
Indeed, Main did
not explain that an electronic signature in the name of “Ernesto Zamora Ruiz” could only have been placed on the 2011
agreement (i.e., on the employee acknowledgement form) by a person using Ruiz’s “unique login ID and password”; that the date
and time printed next to the electronic signature indicated the date and time
the electronic signature was made; that all Moss Bros. employees
were required to use their unique login ID and password when they logged into
the HR system and signed electronic forms and agreements; and the electronic
signature on the 2011 agreement was, therefore, apparently made by Ruiz on September 21, 2011, at 11:47 a.m.
Rather than offer this or any other explanation of how she inferred the
electronic signature on the 2011 agreement was the act of Ruiz, Main only offered her unsupported assertion
that Ruiz was the
person who electronically signed the 2011 agreement. In the face of Ruiz’s failure to recall electronically signing the
2011 agreement, the fact the 2011 agreement had an electronic signature on it
in the name of Ruiz, and a date
and time stamp for the signature, was insufficient to support a finding that
the electronic signature was, in fact, “the act of” Ruiz. (Civ. Code, § 1633.9,
subd. (a).) For the same reason, the evidence was insufficient to support a
finding that the electronic signature was what Moss Bros. claimed it
was: the electronic signature of Ruiz.
(Evid. Code, § 1400, item (a).) This was not a
difficult evidentiary burden to meet, but it was not met here.” (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra,
232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.)  
Plaintiff
argues that “[h]ere, like Ruiz…Defendants are missing critical
links in the analytical chain.” (Opp’n at p. 4:23-24.) Plaintiff asserts that “Ms.
LePage’s declaration contains no evidence of 1) the alleged email sent to
Plaintiff containing a unique hyperlink, 2) Plaintiff logging in and accessing
Defendants’ website, 3) Plaintiff clicking a box on Defendants’ website
acknowledging Plaintiff’s signature on onboarding documents would be recorded
electronically, 4) Plaintiff’s confirmation of consent to electronically
filling out onboarding documents, 5) Plaintiff’s confirmation of consent to
Defendants’ e-signature agreement, or 6) Plaintiff specifically viewing the
Arbitration Agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 5:15-20.) Plaintiff asserts that
“Defendants have access to all this information,” but do not appear to provide
any evidence to support this assertion. (Opp’n at p. 5:20.) 
Plaintiff also notes that the Arbitration Agreement does not contain a
time stamp for Plaintiff’s signature. In her supporting declaration, Plaintiff states
that “Defendants produced nine (9) other documents bearing my signature, my
manager’s signature, and a time stamp.” (Olguin Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff also
states in her declaration that “I have reviewed the ‘Arbitration Agreement’
(attached to the Lindsey LePage Declaration as Exhibit 1) and do not recall
receiving, reviewing, or signing this document.” (Olguin Decl., ¶ 3.)
However, the Court finds that Defendants have provided sufficient
evidence demonstrating the electronic signature on the subject Arbitration
Agreement was “the act of” Plaintiff. (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a).) As discussed above and as
noted by Defendants, Ms. LePage states, inter alia, that
“[t]o initiate the pre-employment onboarding process, Defendants sent each
prospective employee…an e-mail…[that] contained a unique hyperlink that
directed the prospective employee to Defendants’ onboarding website.” (LePage
Decl., ¶ 7.) Ms.
LePage states that “[p]rospective employees must log in to this website using
their full legal name and the last four digits of their social security
numbers.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 8.) Ms. LePage states that “…the employee is
presented with…a screen where the employee must consent to electronically
filling out the onboarding documents. This screen informs the employee that by
consenting to this agreement, they are agreeing to use their ‘click’ as a
stand-in for their written signature, which is electronically inscribed on the
PDF document.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 9.)  
As discussed, Ms. LePage states that “[f]or important documents, like
the Handbook and the arbitration agreement, the employee cannot click to
electronically sign the document until they first ‘view’ this document. In
other words, to sign the arbitration agreement, the employee must first click
“view,” which opens the text of the arbitration agreement in a separate pop-up
window. Only after the employee closes the pop-up window can the employee click
a separate link to sign the arbitration agreement. Once the employee clicks
that separate link to electronically sign the arbitration agreement, his or her
electronic signature is date stamped by the system.” (LePage Decl., ¶ 10.) Ms.
LePage states that foregoing “safeguards and procedures” were “in existence when
Plaintiff was going through the onboarding process in June 2021,” and that
“Plaintiff’s ‘signature’ at the base of the arbitration agreement would only
appear after Plaintiff clicked to electronically sign the arbitration agreement
using the process described in the preceding paragraphs.” (LePage Decl., ¶¶
11-12.)
By contrast, in Ruiz, the declarant “did
not explain how, or upon what basis, she inferred that the electronic signature
on the 2011 agreement was ‘the act of’ Ruiz.” (Ruiz v. Moss
Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra,
232 Cal.App.4th at p. 844.) The declarant “only offered her unsupported assertion that Ruiz was the person who electronically signed
the 2011 agreement.” (Ibid.) 
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff also asserts that “no arbitration agreement exists
between Plaintiff and Beverages & More, Inc.” (Opp’n at p.
6:20.) Plaintiff asserts that “[o]nly Bevmo! Inc. is a party to the agreement,
yet Beverages & More, Inc. is also a moving party.” (Opp’n at p. 6:21-22.)
The Court notes that the first paragraph of the subject Arbitration Agreement
provides that “In consideration of our mutual promises and our at-will
employment relationship, and as an express condition of my employment with BevMo!,
Inc. (‘BevMo!’), BevMo! and I agree as follows:…” (LePage Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 1.) 
In the reply, Defendants
assert that Beverages & More, Inc. is a proper moving party and
entitled to invoke the Arbitration Agreement. Defendants cite to Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 608-609, where “[a]n investment
advisor and related defendants appeal[ed] the order denying their petition to
compel an investor’s successor in interest to arbitrate claims alleging the
defendants mismanaged the investor’s accounts. The trial court denied the petition
on the grounds that the claims against two of the six defendants were not
subject to arbitration because those defendants were not parties to any
arbitration agreement, and that there was a possibility of¿conflicting rulings
on common questions of law or fact if arbitration of the claims against the
other four defendants were ordered.” The Court of Appeal reversed. (Id.
at p. 609.) 
The
Thomas Court noted that “John contended at oral argument…that the
allegations of agency he made in the operative complaint cannot be used to
require him to arbitrate his claims against the defendants which are not
parties to any of the agreements Katherine executed. According to John, agency
is only a theory of tort liability by which he may hold those defendants
responsible for the wrongdoing that allegedly arose out of the relationship
created by those agreements.¿We disagree. Having alleged all defendants acted
as agents of one another, John is bound by the legal consequences of his
allegations.¿And, as the cases cited above hold,¿a plaintiff’s allegations of
an agency relationship among defendants is sufficient to allow the alleged
agents to invoke the benefit of an arbitration agreement executed¿by their
principal even though the agents are not parties to the agreement.” (Thomas
v. Westlake,
supra, 204 Cal.App.4th at pp. 614-615 [internal citation
omitted].)  
Defendants
assert that here, “Plaintiff cannot on the one hand treat the
entities as one and the same for purposes of availing herself a benefit then
decline to accept the same proposition with respect to the Agreement.” (Reply
at p. 5:5-7.) Defendants note that in the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendants BEVERAGES & MORE, INC.; BEVERAGES & MORE! INC; BEVMO! INC.
are hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘BEVMO’ or ‘DEFENDANT EMPLOYERS.’
Plaintiff is informed and believes and based thereon alleges that DEFENDANT
EMPLOYERS acted in the capacity of ‘joint employers’ with respect to
Plaintiff’s employment.” (Compl., ¶ 5.) In addition, the Court notes that
Plaintiff alleges that she is “informed and believes and based thereon alleges
that at all times, each Defendant, whether named or fictitious, was acting as
an agent, employee, alter ego, joint venturer, joint employer, and/or
integrated enterprise for or with each of the other Defendants and each were
co-conspirators with respect to the acts and the wrongful conduct alleged herein,
and/or acted within the scope of their authority and/or ratified such conduct
of the other(s), so that each is responsible for the acts of the other in
connection with the wrongful acts of such other Defendants.” (Compl., ¶ 7.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court agrees with Defendants that
Beverages & More, Inc. can invoke the Arbitration Agreement. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have established that an
arbitration agreement exists and that it covers the claims alleged by Plaintiff
in this action. Therefore, the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to prove a ground for
denial.   
B.    Grounds to Deny
Arbitration: Unconscionability
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the
Arbitration Agreement is permeated with both procedural and substantive
unconscionability.” (Opp’n at p. 8:10-11.)  
i.       Procedural
Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability concerns the
manner in which the contract was negotiated and the parties’ circumstances at
that time. It focuses on the factors of oppression or surprise. (Kinney v. United Healthcare Servs. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.) “Oppression generally takes the form of a
contract of adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 [quotations and citations omitted].) Surprise occurs “where the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market
Development, LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th
223, 247.)
Plaintiff asserts that here, the Arbitration
Agreement is “oppressive.” Plaintiff asserts that 
“[a]ssuming Plaintiff saw the Arbitration Agreement,
there is no dispute that she had no meaningful opportunity to negotiate the
terms of the agreement; and (2) per Defendants’ argument, the Arbitration
Agreement was provided as a condition of employment.” (Opp’n at p. 14:1-4.) In
her supporting declaration, Plaintiff states that “[g]enerally speaking, at no
point did Defendants ever explain what any of the documents were or that we
could ask questions…Again, I do not even recall seeing the agreement at all,
but I also do not remember Defendants saying anything about arbitration to us.
During my time working for Defendants, nobody ever explained what arbitration
meant, the specific waiver of my right to a jury trial, the rules that would
govern arbitration or where to find them, how to initiate arbitration, how to
select an arbitrator, or how to appeal the arbitration decision. I was never
given an opportunity to negotiate any of the terms of my employment with
Defendants either.” (Olguin Decl., ¶ 6.) 
The
Court notes that “[w]hen…there is no other indication of oppression or
surprise, ‘the degree of procedural unconscionability of an adhesion agreement
is low, and the agreement will be enforceable unless the degree of substantive
unconscionability is high.’¿” (Serpa ¿v. California Surety Investigations, Inc.
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704¿¿¿.)¿Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that there is a low level of procedural unconscionability.¿¿ 
ii.             
Substantive Unconscionability
“Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and
to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided. A contract term
is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives one side a greater
benefit; rather, the term must be so one-sided as to shock the conscience.” (Carmona
v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 85 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) 
First, Plaintiff
asserts that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because
it is “overly broad in its unlimited scope.” (Opp’n at p. 8:21-22.) 
Plaintiff cites to Cook v. University of Southern California (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th
312, 321, where the
Court of Appeal noted that by its
express terms, the agreement in that case “requires the arbitration of ‘all
claims, whether or not arising out of Employee’s University employment,
remuneration or termination, that Employee may have against the University or
any of its related entities, including but not limited to faculty practice
plans, or its or their officers, trustees, administrators, employees or agents,
in their capacity as such or otherwise; and all claims that the University may
have against Employee.’ The plain language of the agreement requires Cook to arbitrate claims that are unrelated to
her employment with USC.” The Court of Appeal in Cook found that “the
trial court did not err in holding that the agreement’s broad scope is
substantively unconscionable.” (Id. at p. 325.) Plaintiff contends that
similarly here, the Arbitration
Agreement requires Plaintiff “to arbitrate every possible claim against
not just BEVMO, but a slew of other unnamed protected parties.” (Opp’n at p. 9:5-6.)

But as noted by
Defendants, unlike the agreement in Cook, the Arbitration Agreement here
provides that “[t]he parties intend that this arbitration procedure
shall to the full extent permitted by law be the exclusive means of resolving
all claims whether founded in fact or law between me, on one hand, and BevMo!
and/or its associates, directors, officers or managers, on the other hand, arising
out of or relating to the parties’ employment relationship and/or its
termination, whether occurring during or after the employment relationship…”
(LePage Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 1,
emphasis added.) By contrast, the Cook Court noted that “[t]he arbitration agreement drafted by USC applies to all
claims ‘whether or not arising out of Employee’s University employment,
remuneration or termination.’” (Cook v. University of Southern California, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at p. 325.)
Thus, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has shown that the Arbitration
Agreement here is substantively unconscionable because “it is overly broad in
its unlimited scope.” (Opp’n at p. 8:21-22.) 
Next, Plaintiff asserts
that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because “it is
infinite in its duration.” (Opp’n at p. 10:22.) 
In Cook, the
Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he trial court
also found the arbitration agreement was unconscionable because it survived
indefinitely following Cook’s termination
from USC. The agreement expressly states that it ‘shall survive the termination
of Employee’s employment, and may only be revoked or modified in a written
document that expressly refers to the ‘Agreement to Arbitrate Claims’ and is
signed by the President of the University.” (Cook v. University of
Southern California, supra,
102 Cal.App.5th at p. 325.) The Court of Appeal in Cook stated that “[w]e
reject the argument that the arbitration agreement is terminable at will after
a reasonable time and find the trial court did not err in holding the duration
of the arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable.” (Id. at
p. 326.) Plaintiff
notes that here, the Arbitration Agreement pertains to claims “arising out of
or relating to the parties’ employment relationship and/or its
termination, whether occurring during or after the employment relationship…”
(LePage Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 1,
emphasis added.) Plaintiff asserts that the Arbitration Agreement is thus
substantively unconscionable because it “purports to bind Plaintiff
forever…” (Opp’n at p. 11:13-14.)  
In the reply, Defendants
assert that “the infinite duration language in Cook is
distinguishable from BevMo!’s Agreement. Unlike in Cook, the instant
Agreement contains no language requiring a specific process for revocation or
termination. An agreement without a duration and procedure for terminating the
contract, by default, terminable at will after a reasonable time period.”
(Reply at p. 7:12-15.) Defendants cite to Reigelsperger v. Siller (2007) 40 Cal.4th 574, which is discussed in Cook.
The Reigelsperger Court noted that “like other contracts, arbitration agreements that do not
specify a term of duration are terminable at will after a reasonable time has elapsed.”
(Reigelsperger v. Siller, supra, 40 Cal.4th at p. 580.) 
In Cook,
the Court of Appeal found that “[t]he arbitration agreement
specifically provides that it will survive unless and until Cook and USC’s president
specifically terminate the agreement in a writing, signed by both parties,
which expressly mentions the arbitration agreement. As in Zee, this is an express term of
duration; thus Reigelsperger does not apply. However, the inclusion of such language also shows the
parties did not contemplate that the arbitration agreement would be terminable
at will.” (Cook v. University of Southern California, supra, 102
Cal.App.5th at p. 326.) Plaintiff does not point to any similar language in the
Arbitration Agreement here providing that the agreement will survive unless the
parties terminate the agreement in writing.
In light of
the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has shown that the
Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because it is “infinite
in duration.” 
Plaintiff also
asserts that Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because “it lacks mutuality
as to all parties purportedly protected by the Agreement.” (Opp’n at p.
11:15-16.) Plaintiff notes that the subject Arbitration Agreement provides that
“[t]he parties intend that this arbitration procedure shall to the full
extent permitted by law be the exclusive means of resolving all claims whether
founded in fact or law between me, on one hand, and BevMo! and/or its
associates, directors, officers or managers, on the other hand…” (LePage Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 1.) Plaintiff
asserts that “[i]n Cook, the court invalidated a nearly identical
provision…” (Opp’n at p. 11:27.) 
The Court of Appeal in Cook noted that “[t]he trial court also found the agreement was unconscionable because it
lacked mutuality. The agreement requires Cook to arbitrate any and all claims she may
have against USC ‘or any of its related entities, including but not limited to
faculty practice plans, or its or their officers, trustees, administrators,
employees or agents, in their capacity as such or otherwise.’ However, the
agreement does not require USC’s ‘related entities’ to arbitrate their
claims against Cook.” (Cook v.
University of Southern California, supra, 102 Cal.App.5th at p. 326.) The Court of Appeal in Cook found that
“the trial
court did not err in holding the arbitration agreement was substantively
unconscionable for lack of mutuality in the claims that are subject to
arbitration.” (Id. at p. 328.) 
As discussed, the
Arbitration Agreement here provides that “[t]he parties intend that this
arbitration procedure shall to the full extent permitted by law be the
exclusive means of resolving all claims whether founded in fact or law between
me, on one hand, and BevMo! and/or its associates, directors, officers
or managers, on the other hand, arising out of or relating to the parties’
employment relationship and/or its termination…” (LePage Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. 1, emphasis added.) Defendants
assert that “[t]he use of the term ‘and/or’ in conjunction with
identifying Plaintiff, BevMo! and its affiliates collectively as ‘parties’ is
inclusive and indicates mutuality exists should Plaintiff wish to bring a claim
in arbitration against one of BevMo!’s affiliates.” (Reply at p. 8:7-10.) The Court finds that Defendants have
the better argument on this point. Thus, the Court does not find that Plaintiff
has demonstrated that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable because
it lacks mutuality. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the Arbitration
Agreement here is substantively unconscionable. As noted by Plaintiff, “[t]he
prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability]
must both be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a
contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.” (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 [emphasis
in original].) 
C.    Plaintiff’s Request for Discovery and an Evidentiary Hearing
Lastly, Plaintiff states
that she “requests the ability both to conduct discovery on the matters
set forth in the accompanying declaration of Peter Javanmardi, and to present
oral testimony at a hearing before this Court.” (Opp’n at p. 15:7-9.) 
            With regards to the request to
conduct discovery, Plaintiff’s counsel states in his supporting declaration
that “[t]o fully evaluate whether there is an agreement to arbitrate, I believe
we need discovery, including at least the following: (i) emails, in their
native format, pertaining to the sending, receiving, and signing of the
Arbitration Agreement; (ii) other agreements, whether or not they are related
to arbitration; and (iii) all applicable Employee Handbooks; (iv) any documents
or data related to Plaintiff’s alleged online access, review and signature on
the Arbitration Agreement. Plaintiff may also need limited testimony from the
following individuals: (i) Lyndsey LePage; and (ii) Fernando Figueroa.”
(Javanmardi Decl., ¶ 8.) 
However, as discussed in further detail above, the Court finds that Defendants have
established that an arbitration agreement exists here and that it covers the
claims alleged by Plaintiff in this action. In addition, Plaintiff does not
appear to cite to any legal authority supporting her request to continue the
hearing on the instant motion such that Plaintiff may conduct discovery. 
            With respect
to her request to present oral testimony, Plaintiff cites to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1306, which provides that “[a] party seeking permission to
introduce oral evidence, except for oral evidence in rebuttal to oral evidence
presented by the other party, must file, no later than three court days before
the hearing, a written statement stating the nature and extent of the evidence
proposed to be introduced and a reasonable time estimate for the hearing. When
the statement is filed less than five court days before the hearing, the filing
party must serve a copy on the other parties in a manner to assure delivery to
the other parties no later than two days before the hearing.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1306, subd. (b).) It does not appear that Plaintiff filed
any such written statement. 
            Plaintiff also cites to Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14
Cal.4th at page 414, where the Court of Appeal noted that “we agree that where--as is common with allegations of fraud
such as are made here--the enforceability of an arbitration clause may depend
upon which of two sharply conflicting factual accounts is to be believed, the
better course would normally be for the trial court to hear oral testimony and
allow the parties the opportunity for cross-examination.” However, the instant
matter does not appear to involve allegations of fraud. The Rosenthal Court also
noted that “[t]here is simply no authority for the proposition
that a trial court necessarily abuses its discretion, in a motion proceeding,
by resolving evidentiary conflicts without hearing live testimony.” (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 414.)[1] 
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request to conduct discovery and to
present oral testimony.
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is granted. The entire
action is stayed pending completion of arbitration of Plaintiff’s arbitrable
claims.  
The Court sets an arbitration completion status conference
on July 8, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. The parties are ordered to file a
joint report regarding the status of the arbitration five court days prior to
the status conference, with a courtesy copy delivered directly to Department
50.  
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  July 8, 2024                                    
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


