 Case Number:  23STCV000357    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant’s employee negligently pumped a few hundred gallons of caustic into a
peroxide tank at Plaintiff Tri-Star’s premises, which set off a chemical
reaction that caused a fireball to erupt, followed by a geyser of caustic and
peroxide mixture that damaged the premises.
Defendant Brenntag Pacific, Inc. moves
for leave to file a Cross-Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendant Brenntag Pacific,
Inc.’s  motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is
GRANTED. Defendant is to file a stand-alone copy of the Cross-Complaint today.
The Cross-Complaint is deemed served as of the date of this order.
Motion For Leave
To File Cross-Complaint
Defendant Brenntag Pacific, Inc.
moves for leave to file a Cross-Complaint. 
Civ. Proc. Code, § 428.50 provides: 
(a) A party shall file a cross-complaint
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint.
 
(b) Any other cross-complaint may be
filed at any time before the court has set a date for trial.
 
(c) A party shall obtain leave of
court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within the time
specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave
may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the
action.
 
(Civ. Proc. Code, §
428.50(a)-(c)[bold emphasis added].)
 
Civ. Proc. Code § 426.50 provides:
 
A party who fails to plead a cause of action
subject to the requirements of this article, whether through oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for
leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the
adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such
cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This
subdivision shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.)
 
            Leave to
file a cross-complaint may be granted in the interest of justice at any time
during the action. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 428.50(c). 
            “A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time during the course of the
action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving party is demonstrated
where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors
such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are
insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.”
(Silver Orgs. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99 [bold emphasis
and underlining added].)
            Here, Defendant has explained why
the request to file a Cross-Complaint is inly being made now: Brenntag first
learned about facts which gave rise to the cross-claims in May and June 2024 at
the depositions of Tri-Star corporate representatives. There is no indication
the delay in seeking leave to file the Cross-Complaint was made in bad faith. A
copy of the proposed Cross-Complaint is attached to the Declaration of Nicole
N. Wentworth as Exh. A.
            Plaintiff’s counsel S. Young Lim
filed an untimely declaration in opposition, claiming that this motion could
have been avoided if Defendant agreed to allow Plaintiff to file a First
Amended Complaint. However, both motions require leave of court at this point
of the litigation, so Plaintiff’s argument is without merit.
            The motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint is GRANTED. Defendant is to file a stand-alone copy of the
Cross-Complaint today. The Cross-Complaint is deemed served as of the date of
this order.     