 Case Number:  23LBCV01036    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Senator Corner LLC filed
this action against Defendant, Hans Peter Koch for commercial unlawful detainer,
alleging failure to pay rent due on the subject premises.    
 
2.     Motion
to Enforce Settlement
Plaintiff moves to enforce the
parties’ settlement pursuant to CCP §664.6. 
The Court has the following concerns, each of which must be addressed at
the hearing before the Court will grant the motion.  
 
First, Plaintiff’s notice of motion
indicates the motion is based on the moving papers and the declarations of Leon
Adhoot and Debra Friedman.  There is no
declaration of Debra Friedman with the moving papers.  There is a declaration of Leon Adhoot, and
the declaration states, at ¶3, that a copy of the parties’ stipulation for
entry of judgment is attached as Exhibit A. 
There are no exhibits attached to the declaration.
 
The Court has, however, located a
copy of the stipulation, which was filed on 9/29/23.  The stipulation, at ¶2, indicates the parties
have agreed that Defendant will cede possession of the premises, plus pay past
due rent, holdover damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs by way of installment
payments.  Despite the stipulation
indicating possession would be ceded, Plaintiff’s motion, page 2, lines 6-7,
indicates Defendant remains in possession of the premises.  Plaintiff must clarify.  
 
At ¶4, the stipulation states that
a writ of possession will issue immediately, but no lockout will occur before
10/01/13.  Clearly, this date is
wrong.  The parties likely meant 10/01/23,
as the stipulation was filed on 9/29/23. 
In any event, the Court wishes, again to clarify whether a writ of
possession has been issued and whether a lockout has occurred.
 
At ¶6a, the stipulation indicates
judgment will be entered “now.”  This
contrasts with what Plaintiff appears to be doing, which is having judgment
entered upon default, which would have properly been ¶6b, not ¶6a.  Regardless, it appears entry of judgment is
proper per the parties’ stipulation.
 
At ¶7, the stipulation states,
“File is to be sealed and remain sealed as long as there is no breach.  File can be unsealed with a declaration from
plaintiff attorney.”  There has, to date,
been no motion to seal the file, and the Court notes that the file is not
sealed.  Plaintiff must clarify whether
such motion will be filed and when.  
 
If Plaintiff addresses each of
these issues to the satisfaction of the Court, the Court will grant the
motion.  If Plaintiff fails to do so, the
motion will be denied without prejudice and Plaintiff will be required to
re-file the moving papers and cure the defects. 

 