 Case Number:  23LBCV01452    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.     Petition
for Release of Property from Lien
a.    
Prior Hearing
The Court denied a prior petition
to release property from lien on 1/04/24. 
It denied the petition on three grounds. 
First, it noted that the proof of service indicated only that the
“petition and related docs” had been served, which was insufficient.  Second, it held that, as Respondent correctly
indicated in opposition, Petitioner had failed to attach copies of Exhibits A,
B, and C to the moving papers.  Third, it
noted that Respondent contended the lien had been removed, such that the petition
was moot.  The Court denied any request
for fees because the petition itself was denied.
 
b.    
New Documents
On 2/06/24, Petitioner filed
documents rescheduling the motion for hearing; the new papers set the motion
for hearing on 9/10/24.  However, on
3/04/24, the Court rescheduled the hearing and set it for 6/06/24; on 3/06/24, Petitioner
gave notice of the ruling.
 
The two documents filed on 2/06
were: (a) Declaration of Brian J. Wagner and (2) Notice of Hearing.  The Notice of Hearing indicates the petition
is based on all previously filed papers, including a Notice of Errata, which
was filed on 12/29/23 and which includes copies of the previously missing
Exhibits A, B, and C.  Notably, Petitioner
also filed a proof of service on 2/05/24, which clarified that all relevant
documents were served with the original petition.  Thus, the first two defects upon which the Court
previously based its ruling have been cured.
 
c.    
Lien Removed Previously
None of Petitioner’s newly filed
papers contain any discussion of whether the lien has been previously removed,
as was stated in Respondent’s original opposition papers, and which would
render the motion moot.  The Court wishes
to hear from Counsel, at the hearing, concerning whether the motion is moot or
not.  Counsel should bring evidence
concerning the current status of the lien. 
If the Court is satisfied that the lien has not been removed, it will
grant the petition.  
 
d.    
Attorneys’ Fees
Petitioner seeks to recover
attorneys’ fees in connection with the petition.  The prayer of the petition seeks “fees and
costs in the amount of $5583.50 pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
8488(c).”  There is no CCP §8488(c).  It appears Petitioner is referring to Civil
Code §8488(c), which permits recovery of attorneys’ fees in favor of the party
prevailing on a petition to release a mechanic’s lien.  If the petition is granted, fees will be
awarded.  The Court is inclined, however,
to limit fees to the $5583.50 sought in the petition, rather than the
$12,852.18 sought in Petitioner’s attorney’s declaration in support of the
petition.  
 
2.     Motions
to be Relieved as Counsel
Platinum’s Attorney, Omar S. Anorga, seeks to be relieved as counsel of
record for Platinum in both the above case, and also related case 23LBCV02437,
contending there has been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship, such
that relief is necessary.  
 
The Court has one minor concern with the moving papers, which must be
addressed at the hearing prior to the Court granting the motion.  Counsel failed to check box 3a(1) or 3a(2) on
the declaration form, one of which must be checked in order to grant the
motion.  The Court presumes Counsel
intended to check box 3a(2) in light of his response to 3b(1)(b), but Counsel
must clarify at the hearing.
 
If and only if the Court is satisfied with Counsel’s responses, the Court
will grant the relief sought.  
 
3.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar in both related cases today.  The Court asks the parties to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the petition, motions to be
relieved, and CMCs.