  Case Number:  21STCV11207    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Adam Dolewski filed this
action against Defendants, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Berkshire Bakersfield,
LLC, and Brentwood Group, LLC for premises liability and negligence arising out
of an incident that occurred at a Dollar Tree location in Long Beach.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ negligence
caused him to be confined in a freezer for a substantial period of time, which
caused him injuries and damages.  
 
Defendants filed a cross-complaint
against Hill Phoenix, Inc. and Hill Phoenix WIC, LLC, the entities that
manufactured the subject freezer. 
Thereafter, Plaintiff amended his complaint to include a claim for
manufacturing defects against Hill Phoenix. 

 
2.    
Motion for Sanctions
a.     Relief
Requested
Hill Phoenix seeks terminating
sanctions against Dollar Tree due to its destruction of the freezer in which
the incident occurred.  Specifically, it
seeks an order dismissing Dollar Tree’s cross-complaint against it, as well as
an order that Dollar Tree must indemnify it to the extent Plaintiff ultimately
prevails on any claim against it. 
Alternatively, Hill Phoenix seeks issue, evidentiary, and/or monetary
sanctions against Dollar Tree.
 
b.     Chronology
The chronology of events leading up
to the filing of this motion is not disputed. 
Plaintiff filed his lawsuit on 3/23/21. 
Dollar Tree cross-complained against Hill Phoenix on 1/11/23.  Hill Phoenix swiftly communicated a desire to
inspect the freezer, which Dollar Tree agreed to.  On 2/03/23, an unrelated arsonist set fire to
the subject store.  Hill Phoenix became
aware of the fire, and made Dollar Tree’s attorney aware of the fire on
4/16/23.  Around the same time, unaware
of the litigation, Dollar Tree’s construction department dismantled and
disposed of the freezer.  
 
c.     Law
Governing Spoliation of Evidence 
“Spoliation” is the destruction or
significant alteration of evidence, or the failure to preserve property for
another’s use as evidence, in pending or future litigation.  There is no tort liability for intentional spoliation
of evidence committed by a party to the action to which the evidence is
relevant and which is, or reasonably should have been, discovered by the
spoliation victim (opposing party) before conclusion of the underlying action.  (Cedars-Sinai Med. Ctr. v. Superior Court
(1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 17–18 [defendant in medical malpractice action allegedly
destroyed plaintiff's medical records].) 
Nor is a tort remedy available for negligent spoliation committed by a
party to the action.  (Coprich v.
Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1089–1090.)
 
There are adequate non-tort
remedies for such misconduct, including: discovery sanctions, including
exclusion of evidence on affected issue, striking pleadings and rendering
default judgment, or contempt; Evidence Code section 413 presumption that
destroyed evidence would be adverse to spoliator; CACI 204, and BAJI 2.03 to
the same effect; etc.  (Cedars-Sinai Med.
Ctr., supra, 18 Cal.4th at p. 10.)  There
is uncertainty of harm resulting from the destruction of evidence.  It involves a speculative assessment on
whether the evidence would have affected the outcome and if so, the amount of
damage caused thereby.  (Id., at p. 14.)
Public policy is against creating additional tort remedies for
litigation-related misconduct because it perpetuates litigation and burdens
judicial resources. (Id., at p. 9.)  
 
The Discovery Act does not
specifically prohibit the intentional destruction of relevant evidence
(“spoliation”) before a lawsuit has been filed or before a discovery
request.  See Dodge, Warren & Peters
Ins. Services, Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 CA4th 1414, 1419.  Courts disagree whether spoliation is
sanctionable under the Discovery Act; some cases authorize discovery sanctions
for spoliation absent any discovery request: “Destroying evidence in response
to a discovery request after litigation has commenced would surely be a misuse
of discovery within the meaning of section 2023 as would such destruction in
anticipation of a discovery request.” Cedars-Sinai Med. Ctr. v. Sup.Ct.
(Bowyer) (1998) 18 C4th 1, 12 (dictum); see Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 CA4th
1215, 1227—terminating sanction imposed for allowing destruction of relevant
records.  Other courts reject sanctions
for spoliation on the ground that the Discovery Act authorizes sanctions only
“(t)o the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery
method or provision of this title,” and no discovery method applies to
spoliation before a discovery request. 
CCP § 2023.030 (emphasis added); New Albertsons, Inc. v. Sup.Ct.
(Shanahan) (2008) 168 CA4th 1403, 1430–1431. 

 
Where there is evidence of
suppression, the court may instruct the jury: “You may consider whether one
party intentionally concealed or destroyed evidence. If you decide that a party
did so, you may decide that evidence would have been unfavorable to that
party.” CACI 204; see also BAJI 2.03; see Cedars-Sinai Med. Ctr. v. Sup.Ct.
(Bowyer) (1998) 18 C4th 1, 11–12.
 
d.     Analysis
The crux of Dollar Tree’s
opposition is that there is no evidence that it acted willfully.  Hill Phoenix, however, argues that such
evidence is not necessary.  Hill Phoenix
relies on Williams, supra, which the Court has read and considered at
length.  In Williams, a client was suing
his attorney for breach of fiduciary duty and related claims.  Prior to litigation, the attorney turned over
the client files pursuant to the client’s request.  The client then rented a storage facility for
the sole purpose of housing the files. 
The client chose and copied some of the files that supported his claims,
but did not copy the entire file. 
Thereafter, the client ceased paying for the storage facility, and
received multiple notices that the contents of the facility would be destroyed
if payment was not received.  Despite the
notifications, the client continued to fail to pay, and ultimately the files
were destroyed.  The trial court granted
the attorney’s request for terminating sanctions, and the court of appeals affirmed.  Importantly, the trial court found myriad of
the client’s factual contentions, including that he had not received notice
that the files would be destroyed, that he believed someone at the attorney’s
office had copied the files, and that he had fallen behind on the rent due to
back surgery and financial difficulties, all to be unsupported by the evidence
submitted.
 
Hill Phoenix argues the instant
case is similar because Dollar Tree, in choosing to have absolutely no policy
ensuring evidence in ongoing litigation is preserved, must accept the
consequences of the resulting destruction of the freezer.  It contends intent to destroy evidence is not
necessary, only intent to do the thing that results in the destruction of the
evidence.  
 
A full reading of Williams,
however, is in line with the general authority holding that terminating
sanctions should be used sparingly, and only in the most egregious of
circumstances.  The crux of Williams was
that the client did something so egregious, and so clearly likely to lead to
the destruction of necessary evidence, that no other sanction would be
appropriate.  
 
The Court finds such sanctions is
not appropriate in this case for three reasons. 
First, the evidence of what Dollar Tree did wrong is that it failed to
have a policy in place to prevent spoliation of evidence.  There was, however, no reason to suspect the
freezer was going to be in a fire and thereafter destroyed.  The Court finds this is not nearly as
egregious as the spoliation in Williams and the other cited cases.  Second, Dollar Tree has offered to permit
Hill Phoenix the full raw metadata of its own experts’ inspection of the
freezer.  The Court is hopeful that
Plaintiff will offer the same.  Third,
the Court is unclear on whether it can order the sanction sought – Hill Phoenix
seeks an order not just striking the cross-complaint, but also requiring Dollar
Tree to indemnify Hill Phoenix in the event Plaintiff prevails on any claims
against it.  Hill Phoenix has not cited
authority permitting that remedy to be imposed in the context of a terminating
sanction.    
 
Notably, Dollar Tree concedes a jury instruction under CACI 204
would be appropriate.  The Court finds
such a jury instruction is the most appropriate redress for the wrong that
occurred.  The jury can be fully apprised
of the facts relating to the destruction of the freezer, and the jury can then
determine whether to draw any inferences from the destruction of the
freezer.  
The alternative request for issue,
evidentiary, and/or monetary sanctions is also denied.  Again, the Court finds Dollar Tree did not
engage in egregious misconduct, and finds a jury instruction is the most
appropriate means of addressing the loss of the freezer.  
 
Hill Phoenix is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If
the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting
on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be
placed off calendar.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not
submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely
at the hearing on this matter.   