 Case Number:  22LBCV00049    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 Willow propounded the discovery
that forms the basis of this motion on 12/26/23.  SEJ served responses on 1/29/24.  On 2/21/24, Willow sent a meet and confer
letter.  On 3/12/24, SEJ sent an
additional meet and confer letter and offered an extension of time to further
respond in exchange for an extension of time to file motions to compel further
responses.  Willow filed these motions on
4/08/24.  
 
On 5/24/24, SEJ filed opposition to
the motions.  Notably, the opposition was
one day late, likely due to the Memorial Day holiday on 5/27/24.  The Court has read and considered the
opposition despite the one-day delay in filing, but asks SEJ to ensure timely
filing in the future.  The crux of the
opposition is that the motions were not filed within the 45-day limit, and
therefore they must be denied.
 
The Court has reviewed the evidence
in this regard and finds the motions were not timely filed.  Willow’s attorney declares that the parties,
on 3/12/24, appeared at a hearing on SEJ”s attorney’s motion to be relieved as
counsel, and at that time, the Court extended the deadline to file motions to
compel further responses until 4/08/24. 
See Declaration of Stephanie C. Goldstein, ¶12.  As SEJ correctly notes in opposition to the
motion, nothing in the Court’s minute order indicates there was an extension of
time to file motions to compel, and there was no notice of ruling so
indicating.  Additionally, SEJ’s attorney
declares he telephonically conferred with SEJ’s prior attorney (who was seeking
to be relieved on 3/12/24), and the prior attorney told him there was no
discussion concerning discovery at the hearing. 
The Court has no recollection of any discussion of a discovery motion
extension at the 3/12/24 hearing.
 
Importantly, pursuant to Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1409-1410, the prior
version of the Discovery Act permitted the court to extend the 45-day limit to
file discovery motions, but the current version of the Discovery Act omits that
ability, permitting an extension ONLY on stipulation of the parties.  Thus, even if the Court found in favor of
Willow on the evidentiary issue, the purported extension would have no effect,
and the motions would still be untimely. 

 
The motions are summarily denied as
untimely.  
 
Willow is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.
 