 Case Number:  21STCV21475    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  CEBERT GREEN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  KAMERON LEE KAI, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV21475  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 22, 2024  Defendants Kameron Lee Kai and Geoffrey Kai (“Defendants”) filed this motion to compel the physical examination of plaintiff Cebert Green (“Plaintiff”), and for Plaintiff to pay monetary sanctions. Plaintiff opposes the motion. As of March 15, 2024, no reply was filed.  Plaintiff’s opposition provides that the parties agreed to Plaintiff’s physical examination with Dr. Paul Asdourian for April 10, 2024. Plaintiff does not argue that Defendants are entitled to a defense medical examination. Plaintiff opposes the monetary sanctions, contending that he inadvertently missed defense counsel’s single meet and confer e-mail, and that Plaintiff had objected 48 hours prior to the examination that Plaintiff would not be able to attend on the noticed date. Defendants did not file a response.  Thus, in consideration of the parties having mutually agreed to Plaintiff’s examination to commence on April 10, 2024, the Court declines to rule on the motion at this time. The hearing on the motion is continued to ___________, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse to provide the parties the opportunity to complete Plaintiff’s physical examination, and potentially render this instant motion moot.  Defendants are ordered to notify the Court at least five (5) court days prior to the rescheduled hearing date as to whether Plaintiff appeared for his physical examination with Dr. Asdourian, and whether Defendants will be taking the motion off-calendar.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 21st day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  