  Case Number:  20STCV08853    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SEYEDEH MASOUMEH RAZAVIAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  WEST VALLEY OCCUPATIONAL CENTER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV08853  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 22, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Seyedeh Masoumeh Razavian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants West Valley Occupational Center and Does 1 through 100 for injuries arising from a slip and fall on slippery yellow traction plates. The operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) sets forth three causes of action for (1) negligence – against Does 1 through 100, (2) premises liability against Does 1-100, and (3) dangerous condition of public property pursuant to Gov. Code § 835 against West Valley Occupational Center – Los Angeles Unified School District.  Los Angeles Unified School District, erroneously sued as West Valley Occupational Center, (“LAUSD”) moves for summary judgment. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and LAUSD filed a reply.  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE & EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Judicial Notice LAUSD requests the Court take judicial notice of (1) LAUSD is a public entity school district, (2) Plaintiff’s Complaint, (3) Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, (4) Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint, and (5) the Declaration of Toni Tosello (“Tosello”) stating that LAUSD does not contain a claim for money or damages form by Plaintiff.  Request 1 is denied, Requests 2-4 are granted, and Request 5 is denied.   Evidentiary Objections Plaintiff submits 9 evidentiary objections to LAUSD’s evidence. Objections 1-2 to the declaration of Daniel Barrientos are overruled. Objections 2-9 to the declaration of Tosello are overruled. LAUSD submits 7 objections to the declaration of Plaintiff’s expert, Eris J. Barillas on the ground of materiality. The court need only rule those objections to evidence that were material in the disposition of the MSJ. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q); Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 532.)      III. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  A. Burdens on Summary Judgment A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)    The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)  B. Discussion –Presentment of Tort Claim LAUSD contends it is entitled to summary judgment, because Plaintiff is barred from asserting a claim against it for failure to comply with the claim presentation requirements of the California Government Tort Claims Act. California Government Code § 911.2(a) states, “[a] claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal property or growing crops shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.” A tort claim for money damages against a public entity must be filed with the public entity within six months of the accrual of the cause of action.  (Gov. Code, § 911.2.) “A claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to personal property or growing crops shall be presented as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.” (Gov. Code, § 911.2.) “The timeliness of such actions is governed by the specific statute of limitations set forth in the Government Code, not the statute of limitations applicable to private defendants.” (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1267.)  Gov. Code, § 915.2 also provides in relevant part:  If a claim, amendment to a claim, or application to a public entity for leave to present a late claim is presented or sent by mail under this chapter, or if any notice under this chapter is given by mail, the claim, amendment, application, or notice shall be mailed in the manner prescribed in this section. The claim, amendment, application, or notice shall be deposited in the United States post office, a mailbox, sub-post office, substation, mail chute, or other similar facility regularly maintained by the government of the United States, in a sealed envelope, properly addressed, with postage paid. The claim, amendment, application, or notice shall be deemed to have been presented and received at the time of the deposit. …  As applied to this section, proof of mailing may be made in the manner prescribed by Section 1013a of the Code of Civil Procedure. (Gov. Code, § 915.2 (a), (c).)   Here, the undisputed material facts are as follows. Plaintiff slipped and fell on October 23, 2019 on the campus of LAUSD’s West Valley Occupational Center. (UMF 1.) LAUSD is a public entity school district. (UMF 28.) Plaintiff alleges a claim was properly presented via U.S. mail on her behalf on November 25, 2019 via certified mail-return receipt requested. (UMFs 29-30.) At all times relevant, Tosello has been the Liability Claims Coordinator for LAUSD. (UMF 31.) LAUSD’s Executive Officer of the Board of Education is located at 333 South Beaudry, 24th floor, Los Angeles, CA 90017. (UMF 32.) Tosello is responsible for maintaining records with respect to persons or entities that present claims for damages to LAUSD. (UMF 33.) Tosello conducted a diligent search for records or documents related to a claim presented by Plaintiff, or persons acting on her behalf, and did not find any claim. (UMFs 34-35.) It is further undisputed that Plaintiff does not have proof that the Certified Mail return receipt was attached to the claim for damages, and that it was deposited for mailing by the United States Post Office (“USPS”), or that the claim for damages was delivered by USPS. (UMFs 36-37.) Plaintiff has no proof that the certified mail was postmarked by USPS. (UMF 28.) LAUSD has met its prima facie burden that Plaintiff failed to timely present a claim to LAUSD prior to bringing suit, and is therefore barred from asserting a claim against LAUSD for the incident. The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable issue of material fact. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the claim for damages was placed in the building mailbox on November 25, 2019 by Plaintiff’s counsel’s secretary, Maria Magallanes (“Magallanes”). Plaintiff cites to the “Mailbox Rule” Cal. Civ. Code § 684.120, which is a statute drawn in part from Cal. Civ. Code §§ 1005 and 1013. Here, Gov. Code § 915.2¿states that “proof of mailing¿may be made¿in the manner prescribed § 1013a of the Code of Civil Procedure.”   Cal. Civ. Code § 1013a, subd. (1), provides that proof of service by mail may be made by:  “An affidavit setting forth the exact title of the document served and filed in the case, showing the name and residence or business address of the person making the service, showing that he or she is a resident of or employed in the county where the mailing occurs, that he or she is over the age of 18 years and not a party to the cause, and¿showing the¿date and¿place of deposit in the mail,¿the name and address of the person served as shown on the envelope, and also showing that the envelope was sealed and deposited in the mail with the postage thereon fully prepaid.”   Only substantial compliance is required. (Him v. City & Cnty. of San Francisco (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 437, 443.) Here, Magallanes declares she is the senior legal assistant/secretary employed by Plaintiff’s counsel, and that she has personal knowledge of the mailing of the claim. (Magallanes Decl. ¶¶ 1, 5). Magallanes provides she personally prepared Plaintiff’s claim against LAUSD, printed the envelope, and placed the claim in the envelope. (Id. ¶¶ 7-9.) Magallanes declares that on November 25, 2019, she “personally to personally took the mail to the building mailbox and deposited it in the mailbox.” However, Magallanes affidavit is not in substantial compliance with Cal. Civ. Code § 1013a to demonstrate proof of service. As pointed out by LAUSD, Magallanes declaration fails to address whether the mail was deposited with fully prepaid postage in compliance with Cal. Civ. Code § 1013a. There is also ambiguity as to whether the “building mailbox” purportedly utilized was a mailbox regularly maintained by the government of the United States. (Gov. Code, § 915.2(a).) Further, the attachment provided to Magallanes’ affidavit does not show any envelope that purportedly contained the claim, nor does it show an envelope with prepaid postage stamped by USPS. Merely filling out a certified mail card, without more, is insufficient to satisfy the aforementioned statutory provisions. “The filing of a claim is a condition precedent to the maintenance of any cause of action against the public entity and is therefore an element that a plaintiff is required to prove in order to prevail.” (Del Real v. City of Riverside (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 761, 767.) “The failure to timely present a proper claim … bars a plaintiff from filing a lawsuit against that entity. [Citation.]”  (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.) Thus, Plaintiff fails to raise a triable issue of material fact regarding the failure to timely present a claim to LAUSD. The Court need not reach the issues of dangerous condition and notice.   IV. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, LAUSD’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: The Court is not available to hear oral argument on this date.  If the parties do not submit on the tentative and want oral argument, the hearing will have to be continued, and the parties must work with the clerk to find an available date for the continuance. Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 21st day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    