 Case Number:  23STCP00999    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Motion Of Respondent Dr. Shirley N. Weber, In
Her Official Capacity as California Secretary of State to Dismiss Petition.
The motion to dismiss is denied.
BACKGROUND
A group of several senior individuals (“Petitioners”) filed
this petition against Dr. Shirley N. Weber, in her official capacity as
California Secretary of State (“Respondent”), claiming that they are entitled
to payment from the Victims of Corporate Fraud Compensation Fund (the “Fund”) (Corp.
C. § 2280 et seq.), which is administered by Respondent to compensate victims
of corporate fraud. 
Petitioners allege that they purchased Long Term Care
Planning Packages from a corporation called Senior Care Advocates (“SCA”) based
on SCA’s misrepresentations that the packages would provide long term health
care at a savings to them. SCA allegedly charged Petitioners exorbitant fees
for the packages, which did not result in savings to the Petitioners because
they were already eligible for Medi-Cal benefits. (Verified Petition ¶ 3.) The
packages also allegedly harmed Petitioners because Petitioners were advised by
SCA to misreport their assets to Medi-Cal, thereby risking the loss of
Petitioners’ Medi-Cal coverage. (Id.) 
Petitioners allege that SCA filed for bankruptcy in
the Eastern District of California in 2009. (Id., ¶ 5.) That same year,
a group of senior clients of SCA (not the Petitioners in this case) filed
adversary proceedings in bankruptcy court. The bankruptcy court entered default
judgments against SCA, in which the court ordered that SCA defrauded the
petitioners and that the fraud claims were not dischargeable under the
bankruptcy code. (Id., ¶¶ 1, 5-6.) The petitioners then sought
compensation from the Fund based on the default judgments, but the Respondent
denied the claims. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.) In 2012, the petitioners filed a
lawsuit in LASC entitled Lawrence Nier; Robert Rendon et al. v. Debra Bowen,
in her official capacity as California Secretary of State, et al., Case No.
BC 484761 (the “Nier Action”) to challenge Respondent’s denial of the claims. (Id.)
In the Nier Action, the court ordered that most of the petitioners were
entitled to compensation from the Fund based on the default judgments issued by
the bankruptcy court. (Id., ¶ 7, Ex. B.) 
In 2021, the bankruptcy court reopened the SCA bankruptcy
case. (Id., ¶ 10.)  Petitioners
allege that in 2021 they also obtained a default judgment from the bankruptcy court
confirming that SCA defrauded Petitioners and that the fraud claims are not dischargeable
(the “In Re SCA Action”). (Id., Ex. A.) Just as in the Nier Action, Respondent
denied Petitioners’ claims for compensation based on the bankruptcy court
default judgment in the SCA Bankruptcy. Petitioners then filed a petition under
Corporation Code §2287(a) for an order directing Respondent to compensate
Petitioners from the Fund based on the default judgment. 
Respondent has now filed a motion to dismiss this case,
which Petitioners oppose. 
LEGAL STANDARD
In a case involving the Fund, the Secretary of State may
move to dismiss “when it appears there are no triable issues, and the petition
is without merit.” Corp. C. § 2288(d). Such motions can be supported by an
“affidavit of any person or persons having knowledge of the facts” and may be
made on the bases that the “petition, and the judgment referred to therein,
does not form the basis for a meritorious recovery claim within the purview of
Section 2282....”  Ibid.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Respondent’s unopposed request for judicial notice of
court filings from the In Re SCA Action is granted.  Hamilton v. Greenwich Investors (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 1602, 1608 n.3 (court did not err in taking judicial notice of
uncertified Bankruptcy Court documents where objecting parties did not dispute
that the documents were as they purported to be).
ANALYSIS
Statute of Limitations
Respondent contends that Petitioners’ 2021 fraud claims
in the In Re SCA Action were time-barred. The statute of limitations period for
a cause of action for fraud is three years. Broberg v. The Guardian Life
Ins. Co. of Amer. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 912, 920 (citing CCP §338(d)).  “Code of Civil Procedure section 338,
subdivision (d), effectively codifies the delayed discovery rule in connection
with actions for fraud, providing that a cause of action for fraud ‘is not to
be deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the
facts constituting the fraud or mistake.’” Brandon G. v. Gray (2003) 111
Cal. App. 4th 29, 35.
In support of its argument, Respondent references a bankruptcy
court ruling regarding the application of California law, and tolling only if
the statute of limitations has not expired before the bankruptcy case-- In
re Pascucci, 90 B.R. 438 (Bankr. C.D. Cal. 1988). (Mot., 12:21.)  However, that is not governing law in
California trial courts, and the case did not address the situation here of a preexisting,
older bankruptcy case, being reopened for additional victims of the same debtor.
California courts are not bound to follow decisions of lower federal
courts.  People v. Sup. Ct. (2002)
103 Cal. App. 4th 409, 431.
Therefore, the Court determines that no governing
authority directly on point exists as to the positions of the parties regarding
the statute of limitations.  “A legal
proposition asserted without apposite authority necessarily fails.” People
v. Taylor (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 628, 643.
Moreover, with respect to the underlying default judgment
issued in the In Re SCA Action, a statute of limitations defense is waived by a
defaulting party. See Travelers
Indem. Co. v. Bell (1963) 213 Cal. App. 2d 541, 547; Svetina v. Burelli
(1948) 87 Cal.App. 2d 707, 710 (“the appellant waived all defenses to the
prayer … by suffering the entry of default….”); Cal. Standard Finance Corp.
v. Cornelius Cole, Ltd. (1935) 9 Cal. App. 2d 573, 578 (“By the default …,
each of them waived the defense ….”). The court entered a default judgment
against SCA in the In Re SCA Action, which means that SCA had waived any defense
it had that the fraud claims asserted by Petitioners were time-barred. The
Court therefore concludes that the fraud claims adjudicated by the bankruptcy
court were not time-barred.      
Final Judgment Based on Fraud
Respondent contends that Petitioners cannot prove they
have a valid cause of action and judgment against SCA for fraud. The Court
takes judicial notice that the default judgment was supported by showings of
fraud, via the Petitioners’ declarations (Jeffrey Rich Decl., Ex. 6), and that
the petition is additionally supportive of triable issues.
The Court determines that the underlying default judgment
complies with the statutory requirements to be a final judgment under Corporations
Code section 2282(c)(8)(c)(3) and is therefore a qualifying judgment. (Rich Decl.,
Ex. 7). The default judgment plainly states that SCA defrauded Petitioners,
that the debts are not dischargeable, and that Petitioners are awarded the
damages sought in their complaint. (Id.)  
Therefore, the Court rejects Respondent’s position
that the underlying judgment does not qualify as a judgment that can be used to
seek compensation from the Fund.
 
 
Nier Action
Respondent also contends that the Nier Action has no
preclusive effect in this proceeding and that the Court should disregard allegations
regarding that case. The allegations regarding the Nier Action have no effect
on Respondent’s two arguments for why this case should be dismissed. The Court
concludes that the fraud claims at issue in the In Re SCA default judgment were
not time barred and that the default judgment is a qualifying judgment under
the Corporations Code. Respondent’s arguments about the Nier Action may be
asserted at the time of the hearing on the petition. 
 
 
 
            
 