  Case Number:  23CHCV03144    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    4/4/24     Case    Name:  BMO Bank N.A. v. Medina Truck    & Transportation, Inc., Salvador Medina, and Does 1-20     Case    # 23CHCV03144      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    APRIL 4, 2024    APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 23CHCV03144    Motion  filed: 10/23/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff BMO Bank N.A. (“BMO Bank” or  “Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: None NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order granting Plaintiff’s application for writ of possession.    TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is CONTINUED.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from an alleged breach of contract.  Plaintiff BMO Bank seeks a writ of possession against Defendants Medina Truck  & Transportation, Inc. (“MT&T”) and personal guarantor Salvador Medina  (“Medina”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for one 2023 Peterbilt tractor.    On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff initiated the action against  Defendants, and Does 1-20. The Complaint alleges: (1) Breach of Written  Agreement; (2) Breach of Continuing Guaranty; (3) Claim and Delivery; and (4)  Conversion.   On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Application for Writ  of Possession against Defendant Medina (the “Application”).               On November  20, 2023, Plaintiff filed two separate documents of Proof of Service, demonstrating  substitute service of the summons, complaint, Application, and supporting  documents on Defendants by leaving the papers with Christina Medina,  co-occupant, on October 30, 2023, and mailing papers to Defendants on November  3, 2023. On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amended Proof of Service in  response to Defendant’s Motion to Quash Service to MT&T, filed on December 13,  2023.               On  December 26, 2023, Defendants filed their Demur to the Complaint.    No Oppositions to the Application for Writ of Possession have  been received by the Court.    ANALYSIS   “Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time  thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a writ of  possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court in which  the action is brought.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (a).)    Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010(b), the  application must be submitted under oath and include:    (1) A  showing of the basis of the plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is  entitled to possession of the property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's  claim is a written instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.    (2) A  showing that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the  manner in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and,  according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of  the reason for the detention.    (3) A  particular description of the property and a statement of its value.    (4) A  statement, according to the best knowledge, information, and belief of the  plaintiff, of the location of the property and, if the property, or some part  of it, is within a private place which may have to be entered to take  possession, a showing that there is probable cause to believe that such  property is located there.    (5) A  statement that the property has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine,  pursuant to a statute; or seized under an execution against the property of the  plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.    Before the hearing on the  Writ of Possession, the Defendant must be served with (1) a copy of the summons  and complaint; (2) a Notice of Application and Hearing; and (3) a copy of the  application and any affidavit in support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  512.030.) If the defendant has not appeared  in the action, the writ and other papers must be served in the same manner as  is acceptable for a service of summons. (Id., § 512.030, subd. (b).)   “The writ will be issued if the court finds that the  plaintiff's claim is probably valid and the other requirements for issuing the  writ are established.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.040, subd. (b).)  “A  claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not that the  plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 511.090.)      Prior to the issuance of a writ of possession, the  Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an amount not less than twice the value  of the defendant's interest in the property or in a greater amount.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 515.010, subd. (a).)      A.     Notice   Notice upon Defendant Medina  is proper as stated above.    B.      Basis of  Plaintiff’s Claim   Plaintiff submits evidence  that on January 24, 2023, Defendant MT&T and BMO Bank entered into a loan  and security agreement to obtain a loan for one 2023 Peterbilt tractor at  issue. (Schrepel Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. “1”) and repayment of the loan is guaranteed  by Defendant Medina. (Ibid.) Schrepel demonstrates sufficient personal  knowledge of BMO Bank’s records as a custodian of these records. (Id., ¶  1.) Here, Plaintiff presents copies of Loan and Security Agreement and the  Continuing Guaranty, as exhibits to the declaration. (Id., Ex. “1.”)               Schrepel asserts  that Defendants have defaulted under the terms of the agreements, with the accelerated  balances now including a principal of $222,511.88 (Schrepel Decl., ¶ 12),  unpaid interest of $4,693.92 based on non-default rate of 8.63% per annum  through the date of acceleration on June 29, 2023 (Id., ¶ 14), and  interest continue to accrue at the default rate of 18% per annum until the date  of judgment. (Id., ¶ 15.) Pursuant to the terms of the Loan and Security  Agreement, Plaintiff is entitled to immediate possession of the equipment  described therein. (Id., ¶ 18.)               Despite  Defendant’s lack of opposition to the Application for Writ of Possession, they  have, through a Demurrer filed on December 26, 2023, invoked the choice of law  provision in the Continuing Guaranty, which stipulates that “This Guaranty is  subject to and governed by the laws of the State of Illinois ... regardless of  location of Guarantor or the Company.” (Dem., at 4, Schrepel Decl., Ex. “1.”) Defendants  argue that California’s Claim and Delivery Law, constituting the Third Cause of  Action of the Complaint, is inapplicable. (Dem., at 6.)                As  Defendants’ Demurrer has not been opposed by Plaintiff or decided by the Court,  the Court concludes that based on the evidence currently presented, the  validity of Plaintiff’s claim against Defendant Medina has not been  sufficiently established.                Consequently,  the Court CONTINUES the hearing for the Application for Writ of Possession against  Defendant Medina to be held concurrently with the hearing for the Demurrer.   C.     Wrongful  Detention   In accordance with Code of Civil  Procedure section 512.010(b)(2), the Application must include “a showing that  the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which  the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to the best  knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the  detention.”   Plaintiff presents that MT&T  breached the terms of the Loan and Security Agreement on April 1, 2023, by  failing to make monthly loan payment. (Schrepel Decl., ¶ 10.) Additionally,  MT&T has failed and continues to fail to make any subsequent payments. (Ibid.)  Under the terms of the Loan and Security Agreement and Continuing Guaranty,  Plaintiff has the right to repossess the equipment in the event of default.  (Schrepel Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. “1.”) Plaintiff asserts that Defendant MT&T  wrongfully detained the equipment after defaulting on the agreement. (Id.,  ¶ 20.)   The evidence reflects that  Defendant Medina is the president of MT&T (Schrepel Decl., Ex. “1”),  personally guaranteed the loan payment as an “individual” (Ibid.) Despite  the equipment being delivered to MT&T, Plaintiff’s demands for its return by  Defendants have not been fulfilled. (Id., ¶ 24.)    D.     Description  and Value of Property   Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 512.010(b)(3), the Application must include a particular  description of the property and a statement of its value.   Plaintiff has fulfilled this  requirement by providing an explicit description of the equipment, including  its make, model, model year, and VIN number, as well as stating its value. (Schrepel  Decl., ¶¶ 6, 29).    Consequently, Plaintiff adheres  to the mandates of Code of Civil Procedure section 512.010 subdivision (b)(3).   E.      Statutory  Statements   Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 512.010 subdivisions (b)(4) and (5), the application must  include:    (4) A statement, according to the  best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of  the property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private  place which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is  probable cause to believe that such property is located there.   (5) A statement that the property  has not been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or  seized under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so  seized, that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.   Here,  Plaintiff has provided a statement that the equipment has not been taken for a  tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to statute and has not been seized under an  execution against the Plaintiff’s property. (Schrepel Decl., ¶ 25.)   Furthermore,  Plaintiff states that “Plaintiff is informed and believes that the COLLATERAL  is currently located at: a. 12000 Paxton St., Sylmar, CA 91342; b. 14661  Chatsworth Dr., Mission Hills, CA 91345; or Such other location known to  Defendants.” (Id., ¶ 22.)    Notably,  records indicates that the address at 14661 Chatsworth Dr. serves dual  purposes: it is identified as residential address of Defendant Medina  (2023/12/20 Proof of Service, ¶ 5(b)(2) “home”), and it is also the principal  business address of MT&T. (2023/12/20 Proof of Service, at 4, Schrepel  Decl., Ex. “1.”) Consequently, the Court finds that this information, being the  registered business address, is sufficient to establish probable cause of the  current location of the equipment.    F.      Undertaking   According to Code of Civil  Procedure section 515.010, an undertaking must be filed before the writ issues  in the amount of “not less than twice the value of the defendant’s interest in  the property.”  However, if “the court  finds that the defendant has no interest in the property, the court “shall  waive the requirement of ... undertaking[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 515.010, subd.  (b).)    Here, Plaintiff provides evidence  showing that the amount owing on the equipment surpasses its market value, implying  that Defendants possess no equity in the equipment. (Schrepel Decl. ¶¶ 29, 30.)     Accordingly, based on this  specific circumstance, the requirement for undertaking should be waived  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 515.010 subdivision (b).   G.    Turn  Over Order   Plaintiff also seeks an  order directing the Defendants to turn over the equipment to Plaintiff,  pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 512.070. (Mot., at 7.)  Additionally, Plaintiff’s Notice of Application on Form CD-110 gave notice that  the court may issue a turnover order.                However,  as previously discussed, Plaintiff has not sufficiently established the probable  validity of its claims against Defendant Medina, as required by Code of Civil  Procedure section 512.010 subdivision (a); therefore, the turnover order  against Defendant Medina is also CONTINUED.   CONCLUSION   The Application  for Writ of Possession and a turnover order are CONTINUED as to Defendant  Salvador Medina.   Moving  party to give notice. 