 Case Number:  23LBCV02393    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background Facts
Plaintiff, Cristina Valencia Cruz-Madrid, as Trustee of the Cristina
Cruz-Madrid Revocable Family Trust, filed this action against Defendants,
Excellence RE Real Estate, Inc., Lupe Tomicic, Ronald Ruiz Macias, and Nena
Maynez for negligence, conversion, specific performance, and declaratory relief
arising out of the breach of a 2023 settlement agreement pursuant to which
Plaintiff was to purchase Maynez’s fifty percent interest in the subject
property for $305,000.  Plaintiff alleges
she paid Maynez the $305,000, but Maynez listed the property for sale on the
MLS with the other defendants acting as brokers.  Plaintiff thereafter learned that, in
addition to listing the property for sale, Defendants began collecting rents on
the property without authorization.    
The operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint, which Plaintiff
filed on 3/25/24.
 
2.     Demurrers


Legal Standard on
     Demurrer

A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 

Meet and Confer

Defense Counsel declares she met
and conferred with Plaintiff’s attorney via email prior to filing the
demurrers.  Per §430.41(a)(3), meet and
confer must be in person or on the phone. 

 

Initial Note

Each of the three demurring
defendants demurs to the first and second causes of action and raises the same
arguments.  The demurrers are therefore
all being considered together.  The Court
notes that the remaining defendant, Maynez, has filed an answer to the FAC.
 

Analysis

Any opposition to the demurrers was
due on or before 8/27/24.  Plaintiff has
not filed any opposition to the demurrers. 
The Court presumes this is because Plaintiff does not substantively
oppose the demurrers.  In light of the
lack of opposition, the demurrers are sustained without leave to amend.
 
If Plaintiff appears at the hearing
and indicates there has been an error, the Court will hear from Plaintiff in
this regard.  If the Court is satisfied,
the Court will continue the hearing and require the parties to meet and confer
in person or over the phone as required per Code.  
 
3.     Motions
to Strike
The motions to strike are moot in
light of the ruling on the demurrers.
 
4.     Case
Management Conference and Order to Show Cause
There is a CMC and an OSC re:
Plaintiff’s attorney’s failure to appear on calendar concurrently with the
hearing on the demurrers and motions to strike today.  The Court asks Counsel to make arrangements
to appear remotely at the hearing on the demurrers, motions to strike, CMC, and
OSC. 