  Case Number:  21LBCV00513    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Interpool, Inc. dba Trac
Intermodal filed this action against Defendants, HHM Intl., Inc., Mohan A.
Sharma, Shriak M. Sharma, and Vishu M. Sharma for breach of contract, common
counts, conversion, and possession arising out of Defendants’ use of Plaintiff’s
chassis without invoice payment.
 
Plaintiff filed the complaint on
10/01/21.  Plaintiff dismissed the
individual defendants.  HHM failed to
respond to the complaint, and on 4/04/22, the Court entered judgment by default
against HHM in the amount of just over $150,000.   
 
2.     Motion
to Amend Judgment
a.    
Relief Sought
Plaintiff seeks an order amending
the judgment to add HHM International LLC as a judgment debtor.  Plaintiff contends the LLC entity is the
alter ego of the Inc. entity, such that amendment of the judgment is appropriate.  Plaintiff also seeks an injunction precluding
Inc. and LLC from engaging in certain activities that harm Plaintiff.  
 
b.     Analysis
Despite the lack of opposition to
the motion, the motion is denied for two reasons.  First, Plaintiff has not served the proposed
LLC alter ego judgment debtor with the moving papers, which is a necessary
precondition to entry of judgment against it. 
See Milrot v. Stamper Medical Corp. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
182, 186.  
 
Second, to the extent this is a
motion for an injunction, it is procedurally fraught.  Plaintiff moves for injunctive relief
pursuant to Civil Code §3439.07(a)(3)(A). 
§3439.07 applies, however, “in an action for relief against a transfer
or obligation under this chapter.”  There
is currently no pending action for fraudulent transfer.  Absent a pending action for fraudulent
transfer, the Court cannot simply impose an injunction on noticed motion.    
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.