 Case Number:  23LBCV02163    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiffs, Tamika Jones, Debra
Danield, Jordan Cofey, and Zarian Jenkins (a minor by and through GAL Tamika
Jones) filed this action against Defendants, Equity Residential and Hathaway
and Equity Residential Management, LLC for habitability and related claims arising
out of the parties’ landlord-tenant relationship.  
 
2.     Matters
on Calendar Today
On 5/15/24, Plaintiffs filed two
motions to quash or for protective order – one on behalf of Jones and one on
behalf of Daniels.  They set the motion
re: Jones for hearing on 9/10/24 and the motion re: Daniels for hearing on
10/08/24.  
 
On 5/28/24 and 5/29/24, Plaintiffs
filed motions to compel the depositions of Brandi H., Guillermo Castellanos,
and Manager Kathleen, setting them for dates throughout September.  On 8/09/24, the Court granted an ex parte
application to specially set the hearing on all three motions for 9/10/24, at
the same date and time as the motion for protective order relating to
Jones.  
 
Thus, on calendar today are three
motions to compel depositions and one motion to quash and/or for a protective
order.  
 
3.     Motions
to Compel
Plaintiffs originally filed moving
papers relating to the motions to compel depositions in May of 2024.  On 8/05/24, Plaintiffs’ attorney filed a
supplemental declaration relating to the three motions.  In the supplemental declaration, Counsel
acknowledges that the three subject deponents, all Defendant’s employees, have
now been deposed, but goes on to declare facts relating to the deponents’
failure to produce documents at their depositions.  Counsel then discusses various depositions of
Defendant’s other employees, documents that were produced in connection with
those depositions (which Plaintiffs contend were responsive to the subject
deposition demands, and which Plaintiffs contend warrant additional sessions of
the subject depositions), and documents that remain unproduced.  
 
On 8/27/24, Defense Counsel filed a
declaration in opposition to the motions, as well as points and authorities in
opposition to each of the three motions. 
Defense Counsel declares all responsive documents to the categories at
issue in the original three deposition demands were produced, any documents
produced by the other four witnesses are not relevant to the first three
depositions, very few additional documents have been produced and nothing would
change the depositions, and there are no remaining outstanding documents to be
produced.  Defense Counsel also notes
issues relating to order of deposition that caused the motions to be filed in
the first instance.
On 9/03/24, Plaintiffs’ attorney
filed a declaration in reply to the opposition, as well as reply points and
authorities relating to each of the three motions.  The crux of Plaintiffs’ reply is that the
documents produced by the other witnesses were responsive to the three
deposition demands that form the basis of these motions, and Plaintiffs need to
re-depose the three witnesses now that the documents have been produced.  Plaintiffs also contend the document demands
were sufficiently broad to encompass all of the belatedly produced
documents.  Finally, Plaintiffs contend
the opposition admits that additional documents exist but have not been
produced.
 
The Court tends to agree with
Plaintiffs.  While the parties do not go
into detail about each and every document demand, they discuss a training video
mentioned by Defendant’s employee Sparrow at her deposition.  Defendant argues the three subject deponents
were not asked to produce training videos, citing the lack of words like
“training,” “manual,” “handbook,” etc., in the deposition demands.  Plaintiffs argue, in their reply papers, that
the demands are sufficiently broad to include such documents.  Plaintiffs do not cite specific demands.  The Court reviewed the separate statement
relating to Kathleen S., and finds that category 27, which seeks “all documents
which relate to any communication between you and any defendant concerning the
impact on individuals due to exposure to mold, dry rot, fungus, Asbestos, lead
pain, and/or bacterial growth and/or insects, roaches” would likely encompass a
training video; the video would have been provided by the entity defendant to
the deponent (thus a communication), and would have likely discussed this
impact.  Similarly, demand 35, which
seeks documents relating to precautions taken by the deponent to prevent
contamination on the property, would also likely encompass the training
video.  
 
The Court orders Defendant to
produce all responsive documents within ten days.  The parties must then meet and confer to
schedule any necessary second sessions of the deponents’ depositions within
twenty days thereafter.  
 
The Court is not inclined to impose
sanctions at this time.  The document
demands are sufficiently ambiguous to support Defendant’s interpretation.  Additionally, there were “order of
depositions” issues that caused the motions to be filed in the first
place.  The Court asks Counsel to
continue to work together to resolve remaining deposition issues without the
need for additional law and motion practice.
 
4.     Motion
for Protective Order
On 5/15/24, Plaintiffs filed two
motions to quash and/or for protective orders. 
As noted above, Plaintiffs set one motion for hearing on 9/10/24 and the
other for hearing on 10/08/24.  Each
motion is really nine total motions, as each motion relates to nine distinct
subpoenas.  Further compounding the
matter, the subpoenas are not all of the same ilk; some relate to medical
records, others to psychological records, some to taxes and financial records,
and still others to employment records.  
 
Defendant filed opposition to the
motion relating to Jones on 8/27/24. 
Defendant’s opposition spends a substantial amount of time discussing
discovery unrelated to the subject subpoenas. 
Defendant then contends Plaintiff’s claimed injuries are so broad that
all the propounded discovery is warranted.
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 9/03/24.  The Court has not
received timely reply papers.  Of note,
on 8/30/24, Defendant filed a motion to strike Plaintiff Debra Daniels’
reply/notice of non-opposition filed 8/30/24. 
The Court does not have a notice of non-opposition dated 8/30/24 in its
file.  To the extent Plaintiffs filed
one, it is stricken, as Daniels’ motion is not scheduled until October.  
 
The Court is continuing the hearing
on this motion from 9/10/24 to 10/08/24, to be heard with the other motion to
quash.  The Court asks Counsel to meet
and confer in good faith between now and 10/08/24 in an attempt to resolve
these issues without the need for a further hearing.  
 
By way of advice, the Court
recommends Plaintiffs, if they wish to pursue claims that their medical damages
include suppressed immune system, will need to produce a broad range of medical
records from five years prior to the onset of symptoms until the present;
attempting to determine which medical records are relevant to a category of
damages such as suppressed immune system would be very difficult.  
 
To the extent Plaintiffs wish to
pursue claims for lost income, specifically a lost job due to the ongoing
health issues, employment records will clearly be relevant and must be
produced; Defendant is entitled to learn of any other problems at the job that
could have led to the conclusion of the employment.  
 
Finally, the Court has reviewed Schnabel
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 721, on the issue of tax returns, and
asks the parties to review the case to aid in their meet and confer efforts in
this regard.  The parties must discuss
alternative sources of proof of lost income, such as bank statements, pay
stubs, etc., before the tax return privilege will be overcome.  
 
5.    
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motions to compel are
granted as detailed above.  No sanctions
are imposed.  The hearing on Jones’s
motion to quash/for a protective order is continued to 10/08/24.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer in
good faith to avoid the need for the 10/08/24 hearing.  If the parties are unable to do so, they must
each file a brief and declaration at least seven court days prior to the
continued hearing date detailing the attempts to meet and confer and what
issues remain outstanding.
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.