 Case Number:  23LBCV02201    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 a.     Moving Position
Plaintiffs filed this action against Defendants for medical
malpractice.  Lakewood Regional Medical
Center moves for summary judgment, contending it complied with the standard of
care at all times, and nothing it did caused or contributed to Decedent’s death.  Additionally, it contends it is not liable
for the doctor defendants’ negligence, as it did not employ the doctor
defendants and they were not its agents.
 
b.    
Law
Governing Standard of Care
The standard of care against which
the acts of health care providers are to be measured is a matter within the
knowledge of experts.  Elcome v. Chin
(2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 310, 317.  Unless
the conduct required by the particular circumstances is within the common
knowledge of the layman, the standard of care in a malpractice action can only
be proved by an expert’s testimony.  Id.  If the “common knowledge” exception does not
apply to a medical malpractice action, expert evidence is conclusive and cannot
be disregarded.  Id.  
 
A medical practitioner is not
necessarily negligent just because he chooses one medically acceptable method
of treatment or diagnosis and it turns out that another medically accepted
method would have been a better choice. 
CACI 506.  Likewise, a medical
practitioner is not necessarily negligent just because his efforts are
unsuccessful or he makes an error that was reasonable under the circumstances.  CACI 505.
 
Whether the standard of care in the
community has been breached presents the basic issue in a malpractice action
and can only be proved by opinion testimony unless the medical question is
within the common knowledge of laypersons. 
See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App4th 836, 844. “‘When a
defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.’“ (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-985.)
 
c.    
Law
Governing Causation
In order to establish that
defendant's negligence was a “substantial factor” in causing injury or death,
the plaintiff must prove the negligence was of itself sufficient to bring about
that harm.  “The law is well settled that
in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable
medical probability based upon competent expert testimony.  Mere possibility alone is insufficient to
establish a prima facie case. 
[Citations.]  That there is a
distinction between a reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical
'possibility' needs little discussion. 
There can be many possible ‘causes,’ indeed, an infinite number of
circumstances which can produce an injury or disease. A possible cause only
becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other reasonable causal
explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a result of
its action.  This is the outer limit of
inference upon which an issue may be submitted to the jury.” Bromme v. Pavitt
(1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1487, 1498; citing Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp.
(1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402 403.
 
d.    
Agency
Per Mejia v. Community Hospital of
San Bernardino (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1448, 1454, if a doctor is
acting as an independent contractor and is not the actual or ostensible agent
of the hospital, then the hospital is not liable for the care and treatment
rendered by the doctor.  
 
e.    
Moving
Burden
Defendant supports its motion with the expert declaration of William W.
Stringer, M.D.  Dr. Stringer sets forth
his expert credentials, states what records he reviewed, details Defendant’s
care and treatment of Decedent, and ultimately concludes that Defendant’s care
and treatment of Decedent complied with the standard of care and did not cause
or contribute to Decedent’s death.  
 
The Expert Declaration of Dr. Stringer
is sufficient to meet Defendant’s moving burden to establish it is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law because its care and treatment of Decedent was not
negligent and it did not cause or contribute to Decedent’s death.
 
Defendant also supports its motion
with the Declaration of Stephanie Sioson, who declares that the doctor
defendants were not Defendant’s agents or employees.
 
The burden therefore shifts to
Plaintiffs to raise a triable issue of material fact in this regard.  
f.     
Opposing
Burden
Plaintiffs filed a notice of
non-opposition to the motion on 8/05/24. 
Plaintiffs therefore necessarily failed to meet the shifted burden, and
the motion is granted.
 
g.    
Notice
Moving Defendant is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.