 Case Number:  23LBCV01728    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  S27 The Court was originally scheduled
to hear a motion to compel further responses to RPDs in this case on
3/26/24.  Prior to the hearing, the Court
issued a tentative ruling continuing the hearing to 5/09/24, which the Court
ultimately adopted as its final ruling. 
Prior to the 5/09/24 hearing, the Court issued a tentative ruling taking
the motion off calendar because no party had filed anything additional
concerning meet and confer efforts and/or status of discovery.  Defendant appeared at the hearing; Plaintiff
did not.  The Court adopted its tentative
ruling as its final ruling.
 
On 8/13/24, Plaintiff filed this
motion to compel further responses to RPDs. 
Notably, this motion concerns Set Two, which Plaintiff propounded on
4/01/24; the prior motion concerned Set One. 

 
The Court notes that Plaintiff has
a motion to compel deposition of PMK scheduled for 9/24/24.  This is a simple lemon law dispute and should
not warrant three contested discovery motions. 
The hearing on this motion is continued to 9/24/24, to be heard
concurrently with the hearing on the motion concerning the PMK.  The Court incorporates its 3/26/24 ruling
into this order by reference, and reminds Counsel that they must meet and
confer on all outstanding issues with this trial court’s prior orders (from other
cases) under consideration.  
 
If the parties are able to resolve
the remaining issues, they must take the motions off calendar.  If they are unable to do so, they must file a
joint statement of items in dispute at least seven court days prior to the
continued hearing date.  The joint
statement must list each discovery item in dispute, the most current response
to that item, and each party’s statement of why a further response should or
should not be ordered.  The joint
statement must make arguments relevant only to the item in dispute, not to the
other items, so the Court can easily and quickly rule on each item.  
 
If the parties are unable to
resolve all outstanding issues, the Court will consider appointment of a
discovery referee at the 9/24/24 hearing. 
The Court sets an OSC re: appointment of a discovery referee for 9/24/24
at 8:30 a.m. in Department S27.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.