

 
             This is an employment discrimination and
harassment case. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) Disability Discrimination; (2) Failure to Accommodate;
(3) Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process; (4) Disability
Harassment (Against Defendant Gomez and Hotel); (5) Age Discrimination; (6)
FEHA Retaliation (based on disability); and (7) Failure to Prevent
Discrimination or Harassment (based on disability and/or age). 
 
On May 31, 2024, Defendants Jozu
Hospitality, LLC (Jozu
Hospitality) and Eddy Gomez (Gomez) (jointly, Defendants) filed a
demurrer to the Complaint. Plaintiff Luz Pillado filed an opposition. 
 
            The demurrer
is overruled.  
 
            Defendants’
request for judicial notice of Exhibits A-C, E-F is granted as to existence
only and not as to the truth of matters contained therein. (Evid. Code § 452, subd.
(d), (h); (Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 525 [“trial
court properly took judicial notice of” documents from underlying arbitration
proceeding].) The request is denied as to Exhibits D and G.[1] 
 
Plaintiff’s unopposed request for
judicial notice of Exhibits H-J is granted. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (c), (d),
(h).)
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Discussion

 
            Defendants demur to the
entire Complaint on the grounds that all the claims are barred by res judicata.

 
            “Res judicata, or
claim preclusion, prevents relitigation of the same cause of action in a second
suit between the same parties or parties in privity with them.” (Mycogen
Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 896.) Claim preclusion applies
only if (1) the decision in the former proceeding is final and on the merits;
(2) the present proceeding is on the same cause of action as the former
proceeding; and (3) the parties in both the former and present proceedings are the
same. (Busick v. Workmen's Comp. Appeals Bd. (1972) 7 Cal.3d 967,
973-974.)
 
Res judicata
encompasses “ ‘matters which were raised or could have been raised, on matters
litigated or litigable’ ” in the prior action. (Busick v. Workmen's Comp.
Appeals Bd., supra, 7 Cal.3d at 975; Wassmann v. South Orange County
Community College District (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 825, 844.) “ ‘ “The
doctrine of res judicata rests upon the ground that the party to be affected,
or some other with whom he is in privity, has litigated, or had an opportunity
to litigate the same matter in a former action in a court of competent
jurisdiction, and should not be permitted to litigate it again to the
harassment and vexation of his opponent.” ’ ” (Villacres v. ABM Industries
Inc. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 562, 575.) “ ‘ “ ‘If the matter was within the
scope of the action, related to the subject-matter and relevant to the issues,
so that it could have been raised, the judgment is conclusive on it despite the
fact that it was not in fact expressly pleaded or otherwise urged.’ ” ’ ” (Id.
at p. 576.)[2]
 
            Relevant to this action, “[t]he
doctrine of res judicata applies not only to judicial proceedings but also to
arbitration proceedings.” (Thibodeau v. Crum (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 749,
755.) 


            On demurrer, Defendants contend that Plaintiff has
already sued and adjudicated her employment claims against Jozu Hospitality in
a prior arbitration, barring her from bringing her current Complaint.
Specifically, in May of 2021, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Jozu
Hospitality and Eddy Gomez, alleging (1) Sexual Harassment – Hostile Work
Environment; (2) Sexual Assault and/or Battery; (3) Retaliation for Complaints
about Sexual Harassment and Sexual Assault; (4) Gender Discrimination; (5)
Failure to Prevent Sexual Harassment, Discrimination, and/or Retaliation; (6)
Wrongful Termination; and (7) Conversion (2021 Complaint); Plaintiff later
voluntarily dismissed Eddy Gomez from the Arbitration proceeding and Erick
Merilos was added. (Def.’s RJN Ex. A [2021 Complaint], Ex. C [Statement of Claims].)
The 2021 Complaint was ordered to arbitration and, on May 13, 2024, a
three-member panel of arbitrators issued a Final Award in favor of Jozu
Hospitality, denying Plaintiff’s claims in their entirety (Arbitration Award).
(Def.’s RJN Ex. F.)
 
            Now, Plaintiff has filed another Complaint against Jozu
Hospitality and Eddy Gomez for (1) Disability Discrimination; (2) Failure to
Accommodate; (3) Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process; (4)
Disability Harassment (Against Defendant Gomez and Hotel); (5) Age
Discrimination; (6) FEHA Retaliation (based on disability); and (7) Failure to
Prevent Discrimination or Harassment (based on disability and/or age). 
 
In
arguing res judicata applies, Defendants first explain that the conduct in both
proceedings occurred over the same time period and involved the same employer.
Defendants further argue that the specific claims for harassment, discrimination, and retaliation claims in
the Arbitration Proceeding arise out of the same facts and circumstances
alleged in the present Complaint, which also contains claims for harassment,
discrimination, and retaliation. That is, the claims in
both proceedings arise from the same “nucleus of facts” and, therefore, are the
“same” causes of action under the primary rights theory. 
 
Defendants
also contend that there was a “final” Arbitration Award issued in the Arbitration
and that the two proceedings involve the same parties. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants argue the Complaint here is barred by res jurisdiction
because Plaintiff “could have” raised these specific claims in the Arbitration
Proceeding.
 
            Defendants’ analysis on each of these requirements is
largely undeveloped and conclusory. The Court addresses whether the two
proceedings involve the same causes of action. 
 
            In California, two proceedings involve the same cause
of action if they are based on the same “primary right.” (Boeken v. Philip
Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797–798.) The term “cause of
action” is often used loosely in California to refer to a count that states a
cause of action under a particular legal theory, but the term “cause of action”
has a precise definition in the context of primary rights: a primary right, a
corresponding duty, and a breach of that duty. (Boeken, supra, 48
Cal.4th at p. 798.) 
 
“ ‘As far as
its content is concerned, the primary right is simply the plaintiff's right to
be free from the particular injury suffered. [Citation.] It must therefore be
distinguished from the legal theory on which liability for that injury
is premised: “Even where there are multiple legal theories upon which recovery
might be predicated, one injury gives rise to only one claim for relief.”
[Citation.] The primary right must also be distinguished from the remedy
sought: “The violation of one primary right constitutes a single cause of
action, though it may entitle the injured party to many forms of relief, and
the relief is not to be confounded with the cause of action, one not being
determinative of the other.” [Citation.]’ ” (Mycogen, supra, 28 Cal.4th
at p. 904 [quoting Crowley v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.4th 666, 681–682].)
“Thus, under the primary rights theory, the determinative factor is the harm
suffered. When two actions involving the same parties seek compensation for the
same harm, they generally involve the same primary right.” (Boeken, supra,
48 Cal.4th at p. 798.)
 
“Under this
doctrine, all claims based on the same cause of action must be decided in a
single suit; if not brought initially, they may not be raised at a later date.
‘ “Res judicata precludes piecemeal litigation by splitting a single cause of
action or relitigation of the same cause of action on a different legal theory
or for different relief.” ’ [Citation.]” (Mycogen, supra, 28 Cal.4th at
p. 897.) “ ‘ “[W]hen a plaintiff attempts to divide a primary right and enforce
it in two suits,” ’ the primary right theory prevents this result in two ways:
‘ “(1) if the first suit is still pending when the second is filed, the
defendant in the second suit may plead that fact in abatement [citation]; [and]
(2) if the first suit has terminated in a judgment on the merits adverse to the
plaintiff, the defendant in the second suit may set up that judgment as a bar
under the principles of res judicata [citation].” ’ [Citation.]” (Boyd v.
Freeman (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 847, 858.)
 
Here, based
on the pleadings and judicially noticeable documents, the two proceedings
involve different causes of action. 
 
As framed by
Defendants, both actions involve Plaintiff’s right to be free of discrimination, harassment,
and retaliation in the workplace under the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(FEHA). (Reply, 2:19-20.) However, this characterization of the claims is too
broad. 
 
In contrast to the argument in the
demurrer, Plaintiff is not seeking to recover for the same injuries based on
the same acts. Rather, in Plaintiff’s Arbitration proceeding, she raised her
right to be free from sex discrimination and sexual harassment in the
workplace. Now, in this Complaint, she is raising her right to be free from
disability discrimination and right to accommodations in the workplace. The
conduct underlying each claim is separate and distinct conduct and injury that
flows from the conduct is also distinct.[3]

 
Further, the rights at issue here are
the rights to be free from discrimination based on different protected
characteristics. That is, there is a primary right flowing from each of these
protected characteristics identified. As explained in Skrbina v.
Fleming Companies (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353:
 
“[P]laintiff's first “cause of action”
under the FEHA actually, though inartfully, pleaded several causes of action:
one for violation of his right to be free of employment discrimination based on
national origin, another for violation of his right to be free of employment
discrimination based on age, and another for violation of his right to be free
of employment discrimination based on disability.” (Skrbina v. Fleming
Companies (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1364–1365.)[4]
 
            Thus, “[w]hether
captioned as one or more causes of action in a complaint, discrimination based
on each protected characteristic is a separate claim under FEHA.” (Soria v.
Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 585, fn. 4
[citing Mathieu v. Norrell Corp. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1174, 1187
[allegations of sexual harassment and retaliation actually alleged two separate
causes of action under FEHA even though pleaded in single count of complaint]
and Skrbina v. Fleming Companies (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353, 1364 [plaintiff
who alleges defendant’s single wrongful act invaded two different rights has
stated two causes of action even though pleaded in a single count of the
complaint].)
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants have failed to satisfy the first element of res judicata. The
demurrer fails for this reason. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer
to the Complaint is overruled.  Defendants’ Answer shall be served and filed
on or before July 29, 2024.


