 Case Number:  24STCV09832    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



DERSHAY
  WOODS-BOLER 
                           
         vs.
 
WEST
  GARDENA CARE CENTER LLC dba WEST GARDENA POST ACUTE, et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  24STCV09832 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  September 4, 2024



 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
            On
4/19/2024, Plaintiff Dershay Woods-Boler (Plaintiff) filed suit against West
Gardena Care Center, LLC dba West Gardena Post Actute, Kenneth Lehmann, Daniel
Rivera, and Maria Bernardo, alleging: (1) disability discrimination; (2)
failure to accommodate; (3) failure to engage in interactive process; (4)
retaliation; (5) violation of the California Family Rights Act (CFRA); (6)
retaliation in violation of CFRA; (7) failure to prevent; (8) violation of
Labor Code section 1102.5; (9) violation of Labor Code section 232.5; (10)
violation of Labor Code section 98.6; (11) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200; and (12) constructive wrongful termination. 
 
            Now,
Defendant West Gardena Care Center, LLC dba West Gardena Post Actute
(Defendant) moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate this action, and stay
proceedings.
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
                                        
Discussion 
 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
Here,
Defendant submitted evidence that in her application for her job at West
Gardena Care Center, Plaintiff agreed that if she was hired, “any and all
disputes regarding [her] employment with [West Gardena Care Center] including
any dispute relating to the termination of [her] employment, are subject to the
Alternative Dispute Resolution process, which includes final and binding
arbitration.” (Bravo Dec., Ex. B.)
 
Defendant
also submitted evidence that thereafter, in May 2021, Defendant presented
Plaintiff with a free-standing document entitled “Alternative Dispute
Resolution Policy and Agreement Acknowledgment” (the Arbitration Agreement).
(Bravo Dec. ¶ 9, and Dec., Exh. A.) Plaintiff reviewed and signed the
Arbitration Agreement. (Id.) It was then counter-signed on behalf of
West Gardena Care Center. (Id.)
 
      The Agreement applies any “employment
disputes” that might thereafter arise between her and West Gardena Care Center
or any of its “employees or officers.” (Bravo Dec., Exh. A at 4.) The Agreement
also covers (a) alleged violations of state, federal and/or local
constitutions, statutes, or regulations, including but not limited to those
related to discrimination or harassment based on disability; (c) claims based
on any purported breach of contractual obligations, and (d) claims based on any
purported breach of duty arising in tort, including violations of public
policy. (Id.)
 
Given that Defendant has established by a preponderance
of the evidence that an arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s
claims are covered by that agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to
establish that the arbitration clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
II.              
Plaintiff’s Burden  
 
The party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence any defense, such as
unconscionability or duress. (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 236.) 
 
Plaintiff filed a non-opposition to Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration.
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted.   
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 