 Case Number:  22STCV33027    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Consolidate Cases filed by Defendant
Pibe’s Auto LLC.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
 
These
cases arise out of a vehicle accident on May 16, 2022 on Interstate 210 in Sun
Valley, California. 
 
In
this matter (Case No. 22STCV33027, the “Ornelaz Action”), on October 7, 2022,
Plaintiffs Jean Ornelaz, individually and as successor-in-interest to decedent
Thomas Ornelaz; Alicia Ornelaz; Natalie Ornelaz; Rachel Ornelaz; and Robert
Ornelaz (collectively, the “Ornelaz Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint asserting
causes of action for negligence, negligence-common carrier, negligent
entrustment, negligent hiring, supervision, or retention, and loss of
consortium against Defendants Amadeus F. Segura, Isabel Segura, Luis Segura
Trucking, Inc., Segura Logistics Inc, Torlak Segura Transportation, Inc, and
Does 1 through 20. On October 26, 2022, the Ornelaz Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) adding Pibe’s Auto LLC (“Pibe’s”) and Hector Ruiz Roa
as defendants. 
 
Luis
Segura Trucking Inc. (erroneously sued as Torlak Segura Transportation Inc. and
Segura Logistics) and Amadeus F. Segura filed their answer in the Ornelaz
Action on November 28, 2022. 
 
Pibe’s
appeared in the Ornelaz Action on January 18, 2023, and filed a motion to
strike the punitive damages allegations against it in the FAC. That motion was
granted, with leave to amend, but the Ornelaz Plaintiffs did not amend. 
 
In
the related matter (Case No. 23BBCV00602, the “Talamantes Action”), on March
15, 2023, Plaintiffs Rosa Talamantes, individually and as successor-in-interest
to decedent Modesto Talamantes; and Jacob Talamantes (collectively, the
“Talamantes Plaintiffs”), filed the complaint asserting causes of action for
negligence, negligence-common carrier, negligent entrustment, negligent hiring,
supervision, or retention, and loss of consortium against Defendants Amadeus F.
Segura, Hector Ruiz Roa, Isabel Segura, Luis Segura Trucking, Inc., Pibe’s,
Segura Logistics Inc., Torlak Segura Transportation, Inc, and Does 1 through
20. On August 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint. 
 
Luis
Segura Trucking Inc. and Pibe’s each filed answers in the Talamantes Action in
September 2023. 
 
On
December 1, 2023, the Court determined that the two actions are related. Both
cases are now assigned to Department 29 in the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
On March 21, 2024, Pibe’s filed this motion to
consolidate the cases for all purposes. 
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
“When
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048 (a).)
 
The
trial court should not consolidate actions where prejudice would result any
party, e.g., when consolidation would cause a litigant to need to adopt adverse
litigations positions in a single trial. 
(See State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1956) 47 Cal.2d
428, 430.)
 
Per
Local Rule 3.3, subdivision (g), “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are
in the same department.  A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.”  (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule
3.3(g)(1).)  Once the Court relates the
cases, the Court may consolidate the actions and order a joint trial on matters
that “involv[e] a common question of law or fact.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §1048, subd. (a).) 
 
California
Rules of Court rule 3.350 states:
“(a)
Requirements of motion
(1)  A notice of
motion to consolidate must:
(A)  List all named
parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the names of
their respective attorneys of record;
(B)  Contain the
captions of all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered
case shown first; and
(C)  Be filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.
 
(2)  The motion to
consolidate:
(A)  Is deemed a
single motion for the purpose of determining the appropriate filing fee, but
memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be filed only in
the lowest numbered case; 
(B)  Must be served
on all attorneys of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases
sought to be consolidated; and
(C)  Must have a
proof of service filed as part of the motion.”
 
Discussion
 
Pibe’s requests
that the Ornelaz Action (Case No. 22STCV33027) and the Talamantes Action
(Case No. 23BBCV00602) be consolidated for all purposes.
 
Pibe’s has shown that
both actions arise out of a single motor vehicle accident in May 2022 in which
two individuals (Thomas Ornelaz and Modesto Talamantes)
died.  The plaintiffs in each of the two
actions assert legally and factually similar causes of action against an
overlapping group of defendants.
 
The Court
finds that all procedural and substantive requirements for the motion to
consolidate are satisfied.  Consolidation
for all purposes will promote efficiency and avoid unnecessary duplication of
effort by the Court and counsel.  No
party has opposed the motion, and so it appears that consolidation would not
cause any party to suffer any undue or unfair prejudice.
 
The
motion is granted.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to
consolidate the Ornelaz Action (Case
No. 22STCV33027) and the Talamantes Action (Case No. 23BBCV00602) for all
purposes.
 
The Ornelaz
Action is the lead case.  All future
filings must be made in the Ornelaz Action.
 
Moving Party to give notice.