 Case Number:  21STCV36635    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motions for
Leave to Conduct Medical Examination of Plaintiffs
Tentative
The motions are denied.
Background 
On October 5, 2021,
Valeria Guaman (a minor) and Norma Alicia Ruiz-Pelayo (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint in this action against The Los Angeles County
Sheriff’s Department and Spencer Thomas, asserting one cause of action under
Government Code section 815.2 arising out of an automobile accident that
occurred on September 20, 2020, on Santa Fe Avenue in Los Angeles.
On June 3, 2022, Defendant
County of Los Angeles, erroneously sued as The Los Angeles County
Sherif’s Department (“County”), filed its answer.
On February 15, 2024,
County filed these two motions for leave to obtain discovery by mental
examinations of each of the Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs filed their
oppositions on March 22, and County filed its replies on March 29.
The hearing was initially
scheduled for April 5 but was continued, on the Court’s own motion, to April
16.  On April 16, the court, at the
request of County, continued the hearing to April 24 and granted leave to County
to file a supplemental brief, not exceeding five pages, by April 19.
County did not comply with
the Court’s order.  On April 22, County filed
a supplemental brief after the deadline that is longer than five pages.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain
discovery . . . by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to
the action, (2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody
or under the legal control of a party, in any action in which the mental or
physical condition (including the blood group) of that party or other person is
in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury
action, the defendant may demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of
right, without advance leave of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.) 
If a defendant seeks a
further physical examination of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the
defendant must first file a motion and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., §
2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion must “specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The court may grant such a motion “only
for good cause shown.” (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good
cause generally requires “that the party produce specific facts justifying
discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action
or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson
v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 
“An order granting a
physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may
perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe in
detail who will conduct the examination, where and when it will be
conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed.  The way to describe these
‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully and in detail—is to list
them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
260.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
The moving party must
support the motion with a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.310, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration must state facts
“showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented by the motion.” (Id., § 2016.040.) 
The examination will be
limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action. (Id., §
2032.020, subd. (a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the
plaintiff alleges continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct. (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place
his mental state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional
distress, the opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing
solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may
surface.”  (Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d at 840.) By
alleging a causal link between the emotional distress and the defendant's
conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims it was not caused by a
preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative sources
for the distress.” (Ibid.) 
Preliminary Matters
County has satisfied the
meet and confer requirement of section 2032.310, subdivision (b).  (Ward
Decls., ¶¶ 5-6, 10-12, 19 & Exhs. 2, 4-5.) 
County did not comply with
the Court’s order regarding supplemental briefing.  Nonetheless, the Court will exercise its discretion
to consider County’s overly long and untimely supplemental brief.
County and its counsel are
admonished to comply with the Court’s orders.
Discussion
County contends, and
Plaintiffs concede, that there is good cause for an order for mental
examinations of both Plaintiffs.  (Opps. at p. 10:8-9.)
The Court has reviewed the
evidence and argument presented by both sides and it appears that through the
meet-and-confer process, the parties have resolved all of the issues relating
to the mental examinations except for two: (1) audio recording of the examinations;
and (2) providing the raw test data to Plaintiffs’ counsel.
Beginning with the first
issue, audio recording, Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530,
subdivision (a), requires that the examinee must “have the right to record a
mental examination by audio technology.”  County’s proposed examiner,
April Thames, Ph.D., states that she will not permit the testing portion of the
examination to be recorded.  (Thames Amended Decls., ¶¶ 11-13; Thames
Reply Decls., ¶ 16.)  The Court does not doubt that Dr. Thames raises
significant concerns, but these concerns regarding the Legislature’s policy
determinations must be addressed to the Legislature itself.  The
Legislature has spoken clearly and expressly on this issue, and the Court has
no power to disregard the clear command of the statute.
Dr. Thames states that she
will not perform the examination if audio recording of the entire examination
is required.  (Amended Thames Decls., ¶¶ 12-13; Thames Reply Decls.,
¶ 16.)   It is required.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.530, subd. (a).) 
County’s supplemental
briefing does not provide any basis for the Court to disregard the clear command
of the Legislature.
For this reason, County’s
motion is denied.
The Court need not reach,
and does not reach, the parties’ other dispute regarding whether raw testing
data must be shared with Plaintiff’s counsel.  (See Randy’s
Trucking v. Super. Ct. (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818.) 
Conclusion
The Court DENIES County’s
motions for leave to obtain discovery by mental examination of
Plaintiffs.  County has shown good cause for the examinations, but
County’s proposed examiner refuses to comply, or states that she is unable to
comply, with the statutory requirements for such examinations.
Moving Party is to give
notice.