  Case Number:  19STCV12357    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motion
for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 
Tentative
The motion is
denied.
Background
On April 10, 2019, Megan E. Magana (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Ashley Garcia (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 10, asserting
a cause of action for motor vehicle negligence arising out of an accident that
occurred on May 10, 2018, near the intersection of Hollenbeck Street and Walnut
Creek Parkway in West Covina. On June 3, 2019, Defendant filed an answer.
On March 21, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 3, and Defendant
filed a reply on April 17.
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints.  
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause
of action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  “Complaint” is defined to include a
cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint
or cross-complaint.”  (Id., subds.
(a) & (b).)  
Subject to the exceptions set forth by
statute, if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action against
the plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the complaint, “such
party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the
related cause of action not pleaded.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)
A permissive
cross-complaint, in contrast, is much broader. 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10, in a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated cause of action “against any of
the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd. (a).)  Alternatively, in a permissive
cross-complaint a party may assert a “cause
of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not
such a person is already party to the action, if the cause of action asserted
in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2)
asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the
subject of the cause brought against him.” (Id., subd. (b).)  Cross-complaints for contribution or
indemnity against new parties fall within the definition of a permissive
cross-complaint in section 428.10.
A party
must file a compulsory cross-complaint at the same time as (or before) the
answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  If a party
fails to do so, and then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the
court “after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may
be just to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the
cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the
cause acted in good faith.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)  The “good faith”
standard must “be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.”  (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive
cross-complaint before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of
action in the cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who
filed the complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the
party files the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subds. (a) &
(b).)  If a party fails to do so, and
then later on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant
leave “in the interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Cross-complaints against a person or
entity that is not already a party in the action are always permissive, rather
than compulsory. (Insurance Co. of North America v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. (1982)
128 Cal.App.3d 297, 303; 1 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group 2023], ¶ 6:524.) 
Discussion
The accident in this case occurred in May
2018.  (Complaint, at p. 4.)  In August 2023, Plaintiff disclosed in
discovery that she had been involved in a second accident in June 2023.  (Jedrzejek Decl., ¶ 3.)  Defendant contends that the injuries that
Plaintiff sustained in the two accidents are intertwined and that as a result
Defendant should now be given leave to file a cross-complaint against the
driver of the other vehicle in the 2023 accident (Imelda Bravo) and Roes 1
through 20.  (Id., Exh. 5.)
As a threshold matter, Defendant incorrectly cites
the “good faith” standard of Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50.  Defendant’s proposed cross-complaint is
permissive, not compulsory, and so the motion is governed by the “interests of
justice” standard of section 428.50. 
Denial of the motion for leave would not lead to a forfeiture of
whatever cause of action Defendant might have against Ms. Bravo or the proposed
Roe cross-defendants.
The Court has considered all of the evidence
and argument presented by both sides. 
The Court finds that it would not be in the interests of justice to
allow Defendant to file the proposed cross-complaint in this action at this
late date.  Trial is set to begin in
approximately two weeks, the case has been pending for five years, and trial
has been continued a number of times already. 
Granting the motion, and adding a new party, would certainly require an
additional continuance of trial.  Moreover,
Defendant waited more than eight months to seek leave to file this
cross-complaint and has not provided an adequate explanation for this long
delay.
Accordingly, the motion is denied.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for leave
to file a cross-complaint. 
Moving Party to give notice.