 Case Number:  23STCV02698    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One), Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One)
Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to Requests for
Production (Set One)  
Tentative
The motions are granted.
Background
On February 7, 2023, Plaintiff Diana Ofunwa (“Plaintiff”)
filed the complaint in this action against Nargis Dada, Iqbal Ahmed Dada
(collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 25, asserting causes of action
for general negligence and motor vehicle negligence arising out of an accident on
February 26, 2021, near the intersection of West 38th Street and South Grand
Avenue in Los Angeles.  Defendants filed
an answer on June 6, 2023.
On or about June 12, 2023, Defendants served Plaintiff with
discovery, including Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories
(Set One), and Requests for Production (Set One).  (Barresi Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs. A.)  After requesting and receiving five
extensions of time to respond to the discovery, Plaintiff served objection-only
responses on September 8, 2023.  (Id.,
¶¶ 3-8 & Exhs. G.)  Defendants followed
up with Plaintiff, but no further responses were provided.  (Id., ¶¶ 9-12.) 
On October 11, 2023, Defendants filed these three motions to
compel further responses.  The motions
were initially set for hearing on January 23 and 24, 2024.  Plaintiff filed oppositions on January 5,
2024.
On January 23 and 24, the hearings were continued to April 24
so that the parties could participate in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”).  An IDC was scheduled on March 8, 2024
(subsequently continued by the Court to March 18).
In the interim, on February 14, 2024, the Court granted the
motion of Plaintiff’s counsel to be relieved. 
Plaintiff is now representing herself in pro per.
Plaintiff did not appear at the IDC.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the
following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.  (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must set forth specific
facts showing good cause for the discovery and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1)-(3); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
Discussion
The Court has reviewed all of the evidence and argument
submitted in connection with this motion.
Plaintiff’s objections to each of the form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, and requests for admissions are OVERRULED.
Defendants have satisfied all procedural and substantive
requirements.  Defendants have shown good
cause for further responses to the requests for production.
Defendants’ motions to compel further responses are GRANTED.
Defendants do not request sanctions.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motions to compel further
responses.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve written, code-compliant,
verified responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set
One) within 21 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve written, code-compliant,
verified responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Special Interrogatories
(Set One) within 21 days of notice.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve written, code-compliant,
verified responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Requests for Production (Set
One) within 21 days of notice.
Moving party is ordered to give notice.
 