 Case Number:  23CHCV00418    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  F51 
SEPTEMBER 10,
2024
 

MOTION FOR LEAVE
TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV00418

 
Motion filed: 4/25/24                                                                                     Jury
Trial: 6/30/25
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Emmanuel Gutierrez-Munoz;
Kevin Zaguilan; and Reyna Espino (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
Ford Motor Company; and Knight Sunrise Hollywood LLC, a California limited
liability company dba Sunrise Ford of North Hollywood (collectively, “Defendants”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting Plaintiffs leave
to file a second amended complaint (“SAC”).
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is granted. Plaintiffs
to separately file their proposed second amended complaint within 10 days of
this hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On 4/25/24,
Plaintiffs filed the instant motion for leave to file a SAC. On 8/28/24,
Defendants filed their opposition. On 9/4/24, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiffs
seek leave to file a SAC to add a cause of action for fraudulent concealment,
and a prayer for punitive damages. (Pls.’ Mot. 5:19–23.) “The allegations
outline Ford’s pre-sale knowledge of the transmission defect, Ford’s failure to
disclose the defect, and Plaintiffs’ experience with the vehicle’s repair
history.” (Ibid.) Plaintiffs further contend that “it was Defendant’s
active concealment and numerous misrepresentations that kept Plaintiff from
discovering these claims sooner.” (Id. at 5:27–28.)
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs unreasonably delayed in seeking
leave to add their proposed cause of action, and that granting the instant
motion would cause prejudice to Defendants. Defendants assert that “Plaintiffs’
conclusory declaration fails to provide any facts giving rise to when the
amended allegations were discovered. Plaintiffs’ declaration merely states that
facts were discovered ‘during the course of litigation’ but fails to identify
what facts were discovered and when they were discovered.” (Defs.’ Opp. 5:5–8.)
Defendants further argue that they would be prejudiced should the Court grant
the instant motion because “Defendants would have to file new pleading
challenges and be forced to serve additional discovery regarding Plaintiffs
newly added cause of action for fraudulent concealment and will may need to
conduct and defend additional depositions. Moreover, Defendants have already
served a Code of Civ. Proc., § 998 offer based on the Complaint.” (Id. at
5:25–28.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue in reply that any purported delay in asserting the additional cause of
action has not prejudiced Defendants here, where trial does not begin for
another 10 months, and where discovery is ongoing, and Defendants have yet to
depose Plaintiffs or inspect the subject vehicle. (Pls.’ Reply, passim.)
Plaintiffs further argue that “Ford’s argument that it will suffer prejudice
because it previously served CCP section 998 offer makes little sense. …
nothing stops Ford from serving section 998 offers after the granting of
Plaintiff’s motion and before any additional litigation.” (Id. at
1:20–24.) The Court agrees, and finds that granting the instant motion presents
little risk of prejudicing Defendants, despite Defendants’ arguments that
Plaintiffs’ counsel filed has filed similar motions in other cases not before
this Court. Moreover, the Court finds that allowing Plaintiffs to add the
requested factual allegations would not “radically change” the causes of action
nor the issues involved therein.
 
Based on
the foregoing, and the court’s liberal policy on granting leave to amend, the
Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a second amended complaint
with the additional factual allegations and prayer for relief. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. Plaintiffs to separately file their proposed
second amended complaint within 10 days of this hearing.