 Case Number:  23CHCV00622    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court Case
# 23CHCV00622

 
Demurrer
and Motion to Strike Filed: 5/30/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency (“Moving Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Rosa Hernandez (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE:
OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Moving Defendant demurs against Plaintiff’s entire
first amended complaint (“FAC”). Moving Defendant also moves to strike the
entire FAC.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
demurrer is sustained, and the motion to strike is moot. Plaintiff is granted
20 days leave to amend the FAC to correct the location of the subject incident.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability action in which Plaintiff
alleges that on 9/2/22, “she tripped and fell on a Los Angeles Water and Power
cover that had shattered and collapsed in” while walking on a sidewalk located
“on Soledad Canyon Road in Santa Clarita, California 91355.” (FAC p. 4.)
 
On 3/3/23, Plaintiff filed her complaint against defendants Southern
California Edison, City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, City of Santa
Clarita, and Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, alleging a sole cause
of action for Premises Liability. On 3/29/23, Plaintiff dismissed County of Los
Angeles from the action. On 6/15/23, Plaintiff filed her FAC, removing County
of Los Angeles as a defendant.
 
On 7/18/23, defendant City of Santa Clarita filed its answer
and cross-complaint, alleging against Moving Defendant the following causes of
action: (1) Implied Equitable Indemnity; (2) Contribution/Apportionment; and
(3) Declaratory Relief.
On 8/2/23, Plaintiff dismissed Southern California Edison
from the action. On 8/8/23, Plaintiff dismissed Los Angeles Department of Water
and Power from the action. On 8/14/23, Plaintiff dismissed City of Los Angeles
from the action.
 
On 9/20/23, Moving Defendant filed its answer to City of
Santa Clarita’s cross-complaint. On 9/25/23, Moving Defendant filed its
cross-complaint against City of Santa Clarita, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) Implied Equitable Indemnity; (2) Contribution/Apportionment; and
(3) Declaratory Relief. On 9/27/23, Moving Defendant filed its first amended
cross-complaint, alleging the same causes of action.
 
On 9/28/23, Plaintiff filed an amendment to her complaint to
designate Moving Defendant as previously unnamed Doe defendant 1. On 5/30/24, Moving
Defendant filed the instant demurrer, motion to strike, and request for
judicial notice. On 8/9/24 and 8/22/24, Plaintiff filed her oppositions
thereto. On 8/28/23, Moving Defendant filed its replies.
 
DEMURRER
 
As a general matter,
a party may respond to a pleading against it by demurrer on the basis of any
single or combination of eight enumerated grounds, including that “the court
has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the
pleading” and “the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (a) and (e).) In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿
 
“A demurrer tests
the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc.
v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such,
the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied
factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with
is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
 
Here, Moving Defendant demurs to
Plaintiff’s entire FAC on the bases “that the court does not have jurisdiction
over the matter as Plaintiff did not file a compliant government claim that was
rejected, Plaintiff cannot allege facts sufficient to establish compliance with
Section 945.4.” (Dem. 2:28–3:2.)
 
A.   
Meet
and Confer
 
Before filing its
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The demurring
party must file and serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A)
The means by which the demurring party met and conferred with the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the
party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet
and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and
confer in good faith.” (Id. at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Moving Defendant’s
counsel declares that on 5/15/24, he sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a letter in an
attempt to resolve the issues raised in the instant demurrer and motion to
strike. (Decl. of Steven R. Jensen ¶ 2.) On 5/23/24, counsel for the parties
met and conferred telephonically, but were unable to come to a resolution. (Id.
at ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet
and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a).
 
B.    
Claims
Presentation
 
Actions brought against
government entities are subject to the Government Claims Act, which typically
requires written claims for damages against the public entity to be timely
presented to that entity for resolution prior to filing suit. (Gov. Code § 900
et seq.; Gov. Code § 911.2, subd. (a).) To satisfy the exhaustion of
administrative remedies requirement, “the exact issue raised in the lawsuit
must have been presented to the administrative agency so that it will have had
an opportunity to act and render the litigation unnecessary.” (Harrington v.
City of Davis (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 420, 441.)
 
Here, Moving Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has not satisfied the claims presentation requirement because “Plaintiff
failed to present a claim to SCVWA based on the date, location, and time of the
Plaintiffs incident alleged in the First Amended Complaint-therefore, no
investigation could be had and no rejection could be issued.” (Dem. 3:3–6.)
Moving Defendant does not dispute that Plaintiff timely presented a government
claim to Moving Defendant prior to the filing of the instant suit, which was
rejected, and instead points to a discrepancy between the locations of the
subject incident as stated in the claim and in the FAC.
 
In her FAC, Plaintiff alleges
that the subject “incident occurred on Soledad Canyon Road in Santa Clarita,
California 91355.” (Compl. p. 4.) In contrast, Plaintiff’s claim presented to
Moving Defendant states that the subject incident occurred “on the side walk in
front of property of 23242 Valencia Blvd., Santa Clarita, CA.” (Ex. A to Def.’s
RJN.) Moving Defendant argues that the demurrer should be sustained on this
basis alone. (Dem. 3:14.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that “due to mistake, inadvertence, and/or excusable neglect, the Complaint
incorrectly stated that the accident occurred on Soledad Canyon Road in Santa
Clarita, California 91355.” (Pl.’s Opp. 2:27–3:1.) Accordingly, Plaintiff seeks
leave to amend the FAC to this extent. (Id. at 5:9–14.) Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained, and the Court grants Plaintiff’s request
for leave to amend the FAC to state the corrected location of the subject
incident.
 
C.   
Improper
Doe Amendment
 
Moving Defendant further argues
that Plaintiff improperly amended her complaint to name Moving Defendant as Doe
defendant 1. “When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he
must state that fact in the complaint, or the affidavit if the action is
commenced by affidavit, and such defendant may be designated in any pleading or
proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or
proceeding must be amended accordingly.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 474.)
 
Moving Defendant argues that “use
of the fictitious name procedure embodied by Section 474 is only available when
the party is TRULY ignorant of the identity of the fictitiously-named party or
of the facts giving rise to the cause of action against the party.” (Dem. 3:24–26.)
Here, “the FAC did not include as a named Defendant, SCVWA, despite the fact
that Plaintiff was aware SCVWA was involved in some manner as she presented a
claim to SCVWA related to an injury that occurred on the same date as that
alleged in both the original and First Amended Complaints.” (Id. at 4:9–12.)
Moving Defendant further argues that “unreasonable delay in filing and
serving the DOE Amendment is fatal to Plaintiff’s attempt to name SCVWA through
a substitution of the fictitious name. Even if a party is truly ignorant of
names/facts, the party must act diligently to ascertain the necessary
information and cannot sit back and wait. (Id. at 5:8–12, citing A.N.
v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1065.)
 
In A.N.,
the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s grant of the defendants’ motion
to quash service, where the plaintiff unreasonably delayed in designating those
defendants by their true names, thereby causing those defendants prejudice. (171
Cal.App.4th at 1067–1070.) The A.N. court found such prejudice because
“the Doe Defendants were brought into the case less than one month before the
case was sent to begin trial, and it does not require speculation to recognize that
a party who is drawn into litigation on the eve of trial will face difficulties
in preparing a defense in such short order.” (Id. at 1068.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues in opposition that “Defendant SCVWA timely received the
government claim. Defendant SCVWA was also timely added to this lawsuit. If
PLAINTIFF made a procedural mistake in how Defendant SCVWA was added to this
lawsuit, the appropriate remedy would be to grant PLAINTIFF leave to file an
Amended Complaint.” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:5–8.) The Court agrees, and finds that here, Plaintiff
timely filed her government claim on 2/27/23, within six months of the subject
incident. (Ex. A to Def.s RJN; Gov. Code § 911.2.) On 3/28/23, Moving Defendant served its
notice of rejection of Plaintiff’s claim. (Ex. B to Def.’s RJN.) Six months
later, on 9/28/23, Plaintiff amended her FAC to name Moving Defendant as Doe
defendant 1. (Gov. Code §
945.6.) Accordingly, Plaintiff timely and properly named Moving Defendant in
the instant action. “Indeed, because presentation of a claim to a public entity
is a prerequisite to bringing suit against it … it appears that a plaintiff
could never effectively utilize a fictitiously named defendant to bring in a
public entity defendant. Either his action would be barred for failure to
present a claim, or he would know the identity of the entity to whom he had
presented the claim and thus not be ignorant of its name.” (Olden v.
Hatchell (1984) 154 Cal.App.3d 1032, 1036–1037.) “An amendment to a
complaint meeting the requirements of section 474 relates back to the date of
filing of the original complaint in an action against a public employee or
former public employee under the Tort Claims Act. There is no statutory
provision precluding application of section 474 to such an action. Had the
Legislature intended that the section not apply in such circumstances, it would
have said so. Absent such a provision, the fundamental philosophy that cases
should be decided on their merits … dictates application of section 474 here.”
(Id. at 1037 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Moreover,
unlike in A.N., the Court finds that here, Moving Defendant is not
unduly prejudiced by Plaintiff’s purported “delay” in naming it as a defendant
in the action. Here, unlike in A.N., Moving Defendant is not similarly
prejudiced, as no trial date has yet been set in this action. Accordingly, the
demurrer is overruled as to this issue.
 
MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
 
As Plaintiff observes, “Defendant
SCVWA’s Motion [to Strike] is identical to Defendant SCVWA’s Demurrer, filed
concurrently.” (MTS Opp. 2:16–17.)
Accordingly, based on the Court’s above analysis regarding Moving Defendant’s
demurrer, the Court finds that the motion to strike is moot.
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Plaintiff specifically seeks
leave to amend her FAC to correct the location of the subject incident. Therefore,
under the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, Plaintiff is
granted 20 days leave to amend the complaint to cure the defects set forth
above. Plaintiff is cautioned that “following an order sustaining a demurrer …
with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as
authorized by the court’s order. … The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to
add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do so, unless
the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting leave to
amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456.)
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
demurrer is sustained, and the motion to strike is moot. Plaintiff is granted
20 days leave to amend the FAC to correct the location of the subject incident.