 Case Number:  23CHCV01324    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV01324    Demurrer Filed: 7/3/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Tiniyan Odaibo (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant  Rosa Anguiano (“Defendant”) NOTICE: OK   RELIEF REQUESTED: Plaintiff  demurs against Defendant’s entire Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint.    TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled.   Plaintiff is reminded to review the 5/3/19 First Amended  General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil. When e-filing  documents, parties must comply with the “TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS” which are set  forth at page 4, line 4 through page 5, line 12 of the Court’s 5/3/19 First  Amended General Order Re Mandatory Electronic Filing for Civil (particularly  bookmarking declarations and exhibits). (CRC 3.1110(f)(4).) Failure to comply  with these requirements in the future may result in papers being rejected,  matters being placed off calendar, matters being continued so documents can be  resubmitted in compliance with these requirements, documents not being  considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.   BACKGROUND    This is a  personal injury action in which Plaintiff alleges that on 12/1/21, “defendants  and each of them so negligently owned, operated, entrusted and/or drove their  vehicle so as to cause injuries to plaintiff.” (Compl. p. 6.)[1] On  5/3/23, Plaintiff filed his complaint, alleging against Defendant the following  causes of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence. On  6/20/23, Defendant filed her answer.   On 7/3/23,  Plaintiff filed the instant demurrer to Defendant’s answer. On 8/29/23,  Defendant filed her opposition. No reply has been filed to date. ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party against whom an answer has  been filed may object to the answer by demurrer, based on any single or  combination the following grounds: “(a) The answer does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a defense; (b) The answer is uncertain. As used in  this subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible; (c) Where  the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the answer whether  the contract is written or oral.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.20.)   Demurrers against answers are uncommon, and the  determination of whether an answer states a defense is generally governed by  the same principles that apply in determining if a complaint states a cause of  action. (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1965) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The sufficiency of the answer requires an  examination of the complaint because the adequacy of the answer must be  determined in reference to the complaint it purports to answer. (Timberidge  Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 880.)   Here, Plaintiff  demurs to each of the three affirmative defenses set forth by Defendant in her  Answer, arguing that Defendant does not state facts sufficient to constitute  each defense.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that he emailed Defendant’s  counsel to request to meet telephonically to meet and confer regarding the  issues raised in the instant demurrer but received no response. (Decl. of Joshua  D. Allton ¶ 4–6.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied  the preliminary meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section  430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Comparative  Negligence; Apportionment; Failure to Mitigate Damages   Comparative  negligence and apportionment of fault reduces plaintiff's recovery in  proportion to plaintiff's share of fault. (6 Witkin, Summary of California Law,  Torts §§ 1484–1492, 1517–1536.) “In any action for personal injury, property  damage, or wrongful death, based upon principles of comparative fault, the  liability of each defendant for non-economic damages shall be several only and  shall not be joint. Each defendant shall be liable only for the amount of  non-economic damages allocated to that defendant in direct proportion to that  defendant's percentage of fault, and a separate judgment shall be rendered  against that defendant for that amount.” (Civ. Code § 1431.2, subd. (a).) The  issue of mitigation is one of fact, and “a plaintiff will not be compensated  for damages which he could have avoided by reasonable effort or expense.” (Jarchow  v. Transamerica Title Ins. Co. (1975) 48 Cal.App.3d 917, 949.)   Here,  Defendant asserts in her Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint:   “2.  If plaintiff suffered or sustained any loss, damage or injury as alleged in the  complaint, such loss, damage or injury was proximately caused and contributed  to by plaintiff failing to conduct herself in a manner expected of a reasonably  prudent person in the conduct of her affairs and person. Plaintiff's recovery  herein is barred, diminished or reduced to the extent that plaintiff's loss,  damage or injury is attributed to plaintiff's negligence. […]   3.  If plaintiff suffered or sustained any damages as alleged in the complaint,  those damages were proximately caused and contributed to by persons other than  this answering defendant, including but not limited to Doe defendants. The  liability of all defendants, named or unnamed, should be apportioned according  to their relative degrees of fault, and the liability, if any, of this  answering defendant should be reduced accordingly. […]   4.  Plaintiff's recovery is reduced or diminished by plaintiff's failure to  mitigate plaintiff's damages.” (Def.’s Answer ¶¶ 2–4.)   As  Defendant asserts, “Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that the negligent use of  motor vehicles caused an accident that resulted in her injuries. The answer,  continuing along that line, sufficiently alleges in the same general terms that  plaintiff and/or the doe defendants’ conduct related to those events  proximately caused the accident.” (Def.’s Opp. 5:3–6.). The Court agrees and finds  that Defendant’s affirmative defenses for Apportionment of fault and  Comparative Negligence are directly applicable to Plaintiff’s claims.   Plaintiff’s  argument that “affirmative defenses must be specifically plead to survive  demurrer” applies only to new matter constituting a special defense. (Dem.  5:24–25, citing Houk v. Williams Bros. (1943) 58 Cal.App.2d 573, 582.) Here,  the Court finds it satisfactory that Defendant has plead all three of her  affirmative defenses in accordance with the samples provided by the California  Affirmative Defenses Expert Series treatise. (3 Cal. Affirmative Def. §§ 36:8,  48:17 (2d ed.).)    As  Defendant observes, her Answer “adequately apprises plaintiff of the issues to  be met in discovery and at trial by adequately describing the nature of the  affirmative defenses.” (Def.’s Opp. 6:24–26.) Accordingly, the demurrer is  overruled. // // CONCLUSION    The demurrer is overruled.     