  Case Number:  23TRCV00354    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                  
   Wednesday,
September 18, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar
No. 11
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Maria Fernanda Bueno Roldan, et al. v.
Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV00354
1.      Swift
Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Independent Neurological
Examination
2.      Swift
Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc., et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
First Amended Complaint   
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Independent Neurological Examination is granted.
 
Swift Transportation Co. of Arizona, Inc., et al.’s
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint is denied. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on February 8, 2023 and
the First Amended Complaint on May 30, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following
facts. On January 11, 2023, Plaintiff Maria
Fernanda Bueno Roldan was working at Target in the loading area when defendant
Kevin Sullivan, acting in the course and scope of employment for Swift
Transportation, negligently caused a food pallet to fall onto Plaintiff.
Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Negligence; 2. Loss of
Consortium.
 
Motion to Compel Health Examination
 
Pursuant to CCP § 2032.220, a defendant, in a personal
injury action, may demand one physical examination of plaintiff. CCP §
2032.310(a) states: “If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical
examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with Section
2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.”
 
“A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. 
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.”  CCP § 2032.310(b).
Defendant submitted a meet and confer declaration. (Decl., Ashley Beagle).
 
CCP § 2032.320(a) states: “The court shall grant a
motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for
good cause shown.”  To establish good
cause the party requesting the discovery must “produce specific facts
justifying discovery and that the inquiry [must] be relevant to the subject
matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”  Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 840.   
 
Defendant moves for an order, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.310, to compel the neurological examination of
Plaintiff by Dr. David Alexander. The motion is made on the grounds that
Plaintiff has placed her neurological health in controversy. When a Plaintiff
places her mental condition in controversy, Defendant is permitted to conduct
discovery on that issue. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. v. Superior Court
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1391, 1394; Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 839. 
 
Here, by alleging damages related to ongoing
neurological conditions such as numbness, tingling and radiculopathy (damage to
nerve roots), Plaintiff has placed her neurological condition in controversy. Plaintiff
argues that Defendant has already submitted to one examination from Dr. Jeffrey
Wang who is certified in orthopedics and neurosurgery, and thus should not be
ordered to submit to another examination. Plaintiff also asserts that the
symptoms she is experiencing are a result of the aftermath of the cervical disc
fusion surgery.
 
Neurosurgery and neurology are distinct fields of
specialty. Neurosurgeons specialize in the surgical treatment of neurological
conditions. Neurologists, however, focus on treatments through non-surgical
means such as medication and other therapies. While some of the areas of
expertise, of course, will overlap, the fields are not duplicative. Defendant
should be provided an opportunity to conduct expert discovery with respect to
the cause of Plaintiff’s neurological symptoms rather than simply relying on Plaintiff’s
belief that it stems from the aftermath of the surgery. 
 
Plaintiff also asserts that she will not have a
neurologist testify at trial. The instant motion does not deal with who may or
may not be designated as experts, who may or may not testify at trial, and/or
the admissibility of evidence at trial. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that she should be entitled to
depose Dr. Alexander but provides no authority for the proposition that a
deposition is mandated in connection with a health examination. The case
authority cited in the opposition dealt with expert declarations in connection
with a motion for summary judgment.
 
Defendant’s Motion to Compel Neurological Examination
is granted. 
 
Defendant has established good cause to order an
independent neurological examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff is ordered to
appear for a neurological examination with Dr. David Alexander at a date, time,
and location to be mutually determined by the parties. 
 
 
 
Motion to
Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. 
CCP § 436(a).  The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  CCP § 436(b). 
The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant,
false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with
laws.  CCP § 436.  The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendant moves to strike the following allegations: 1:
Page 5, paragraph 15, line 14 – p. 6, line 10; 2: Page 6, paragraph 16, lines
11-20; 3: Page 6, paragraph 17, line 21 – page 7, line 2; 4: Page 7, Prayer for
Relief paragraph 6.
 
Defendant submitted a meet and confer declaration in
substantial compliance with CCP 435.5. (Decl., Cassandra D. Moser.)  However, the Court notes that within the
declaration declarant referred to extrinsic evidence and attempted to provide
foundation for numerous evidentiary exhibits. The Court disregarded all these
statements and documents as no extrinsic evidence is proper when reviewing a
motion to strike unless the matters are properly subject to judicial notice.
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for damages
pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer,
unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are
awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect
to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.”
 
The motion to strike is denied. “A tort having some of the characteristics of both
negligence and willfulness occurs when a person with no intent to cause harm intentionally
performs an act so unreasonable and dangerous that he knows, or should know, it
is highly probable that harm will result. [Citation.] Such a tort ... is most
accurately designated as wanton and reckless misconduct. It involves no
intention, as does willful misconduct, to do harm, and it differs from
negligence in that it does involve an intention to perform an act that the
actor knows, or should know, will very probably cause harm. [Citations.] Wanton
and reckless misconduct is more closely akin to willful misconduct than to
negligence, and it has most of the legal consequences of willful misconduct.
Thus, it justifies an award of punitive damages.” Nolin v. National
Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286 (internal citations
omitted; emphasis in original).
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged facts indicating that
Defendant’s agent intentionally performed an act knowing that it was dangerous
to do so and that Defendant’s officers, directors, and/or managing agents encouraged
such actions but did not properly train their employees to perform such
assistance. Defendant frames its actions as merely innocent and an attempt to
assist others in any matter that may be needed. At the pleading stage, the
Court cannot adjudicate such motives and results. Defendant also argues that
such actions cannot be considered “despicable” to allow for the imposition of
punitive damages. While certainly from the face of the allegations, it is
possible that a trier of fact may determine that punitive damages are not
appropriate, but the Court determines that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient
specific facts to withstand a motion to strike at the pleading stage.
 
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient specific facts that
Defendant acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally, and/or recklessly to
support Plaintiff’s allegations of punitive damages under these causes of
action. 
 
Therefore, the motion to strike is denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve an Answer
within ten days of this date.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 