  Case Number:  22LBCV00355    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Chelsey
Binz filed this action against Defendants, LBMMC, et al. for damages arising
out of complications that arose during her labor and delivery.  The complications ultimately caused damage to
her child, Indiana Rayne Van Den Oever.   
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint includes causes of action for medical negligence, corporate hospital
liability, concealment, and NIED.  The
first and fourth causes of action are pled against Defendant, Dr. Cardin.
 
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established”
because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable
issues of material fact.  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment must
show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be
established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of
action.  (Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant may discharge this burden by
furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required facts or (2)
discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to establish an
essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses the latter
option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that plaintiff
does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential
element of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid
discovery responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in
response to requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything
that supports an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank,
N.A., supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.) 
In other words, a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess
evidence to support an element of the cause of action by means of presenting
the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery responses from which an absence of
evidence may be reasonably inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co.
(1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64, 83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an
essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro
(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the
motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary judgment, the moving
party's supporting documents are strictly construed and those of his opponent
liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of summary judgment should
be resolved against granting the motion. 
(D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Evidentiary Objections

Plaintiff submitted objections with
the opposition papers.  The objections
are overruled.
 
Defendant objections to the
entirely of the Mandel Declaration on the ground that he failed to attach the
medical records upon which he based his opinion.  Defendant argues this is improper per Garibay
v. Hemmat (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 735.  Garibay held that experts must attach copies
of records upon which they rely in forming their expert opinions.  The Court has read and considered Shugart v.
Regents (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 499, 507, where the Court held:
Here, Dr. Ostergard's declaration
was submitted in support of plaintiffs' opposition to the motion for summary
judgment. Dr. Ostergard stated in his declaration that he “reviewed the medical
records, deposition transcript, and declarations of Christine Shugart.” He
explained his opinions in part by references to notations in the medical
records of Dr. Warren that were *506 before the court in support of the moving
papers. Dr. Warren's motion was supported by her declaration authenticating
copies of Christine's medical records from her office, as well as copies of
Christine's records from Mercy Southwest Hospital that were authenticated by
that facility's custodian of records. The court found in its order of May 14,
2010, that the medical records in support of Dr. Warren's motion were properly
authenticated. Accordingly, the foundational facts and medical records on which
Dr. Ostergard relied as stated in his declaration were before the court to
support his expert opinion. The Garibay case does not require a party opposing
summary judgment to file duplicate copies of the medical records on which the
opposing expert relied in forming a disputed expert opinion if they are already
before the court in support of the motion.
The objection on the ground that
the records are not authenticated is therefore overruled pursuant to Shugart.
 
Defendant also objects to the
entirety of the Mandel Declaration on the ground that Mandel failed to attach copies
of the deposition transcripts upon which he relied.  Defendant argues this is improper per Garibay
v. Hemmat (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 735.  Shugart went on to discuss the general rule
that all reasonable inferences from an opposing declaration must be indulged.  Under Shugart, at most, the Court would be inclined
to continue the hearing on the summary judgment motion to require Plaintiff to
attach copies of the discovery documents upon which she relies.  Because Defendant does not appear to substantively
contend the discovery documents do not say what Dr. Mandel opines they say, the
Court is not inclined to do so; the objection is overruled.  
 

Analysis

Defendant’s only argument in reply
to the opposition is that Plaintiff’s expert’s declaration is not
admissible.  Because the objections are
overruled, the motion for summary judgment is denied.  
 
Moving Defendant
is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   