  Case Number:  20STCV21370    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



CONSUMER ADVOCACY GROUP, INC., 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
PEGASUS TRUCKING, LLC DBA FALLAS DISCOUNT STORES, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV21370




Hearing Date:


February 13, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT
  ORLY SHOE CORP’S MOTION TO DISMISS THE CROSS-COMPLAINT OF PEGASUS TRUCKING,
  LLC




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background
Plaintiff Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc. filed this Proposition 65 action on June 5, 2020 against
Defendant Pegasus Trucking, LLC dba Fallas Discount Stores (“Pegasus”).  
On March 12, 2021,
Pegasus filed a Cross-Complaint in this action against a number of
Cross-Defendants, including Orly Shoe Corp. (“Orly”). On September 9, 2021,
Pegasus filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”), alleging
causes of action for (1) breach of express warranty, (2) breach of warranty of
merchantability, (3) breach of warranty of fitness for a particular purpose,
(4) breach of contract to indemnity, (5) implied contractual indemnity, 
(6) contribution, and (7) apportionment
of fault. 
Orly now moves to
dismiss Pegasus’s FACC, and/or to enter judgment in favor of Orly
regarding Pegasus’s FACC. The motion is unopposed. 
 
 
Discussion
As noted by Orly, on
April 25, 2023, the Court granted the motion of Michael B. Adreani and Burton
E. Falk of Roxborough, Pomerance, Nye & Adreani, LLP to be relieved as
counsel of record for Pegasus. The Court’s April 25, 2023 Order provides, inter
alia, that “Orly believes that if no new counsel appears on behalf
of Pegasus at the April 25, 2023 continued Case Management Conference…and
hearing on RPNA’s Motion to Withdraw, the Court can and should dismiss
Pegasus’s Cross-Complaint, and enter its default as to the Complaint of
Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. (‘CAG’) against Pegasus…’” (April 25, 2023 Order
at p. 2:4-8.) The Court’s April 25, 2023 Order further provides as follows: 
 
“The Court declines to dismiss Pegasus’s First Amended
Cross-Complaint or enter Pegasus’s default as to CAG’s Complaint. The Court must give Pegasus
a reasonable time to locate counsel. The Court finds that 30 days is a
reasonable period of time. If Pegasus does not obtain counsel within the next
30 days, Orly (and/or any other party in the action) may file a regularly
noticed motion directed to the issue of lack of representation.” (April 25,
2023 Order at p. 2:14-18.) 
On April 27, 2023,
Roxborough, Pomerance, Nye & Adreani, LLP filed a notice of ruling
indicating that on April 25, 2023, the motion to be relieved as counsel was
granted. The proof of service attached to the notice of ruling indicates that the
notice was served on, inter alia, Pegasus. 
In the instant motion,
Orly states that “[s]ince its prior counsel’s Motion to Withdraw as
Counsel was granted on April 25, 2023, Pegasus has failed to enter the
appearance of substitute counsel, and has failed to appear at no less than (4)
scheduled Case Management Conferences…over the last eight (8) months.” (Mot. at
p. 3:9-11.)[1] Orly
notes that “[a] corporation cannot
represent itself in court, either in propria persona or through an officer
or agent who is not an attorney.” ((Merco Constr. Engineers, Inc.
v. Municipal Court (1978)
21 Cal.3d 724, 729 [internal quotations omitted].) Orly asserts that accordingly, the
Court should dismiss Pegasus’s FACC “and/or…enter judgment in favor of
[Orly] regarding Pegasus’s [FACC].” (Notice of Motion at p. 2:4-7.) 
The Court notes that in CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th
1141, 1144, the Court of Appeal found that “[r]elying on long-standing authority holding that a
complaint filed by a corporate party in propria persona is void, or a nullity,
the trial court granted a motion to strike the complaint of CLD Construction, Inc…against the City of San Ramon…for breach
of contract without leave to amend. We conclude respondent City’s objection to the complaint filed by the
self-represented corporation raises a curable defect, and dismissal without
leave to amend is not mandated. Accordingly, we reverse the judgment of
dismissal.” The Court of Appeal in CLD
Construction Court noted that it is “appropriate
and just to treat a corporation’s failure to be represented by an attorney as a
defect that may be corrected, on such terms as are just in the sound discretion
of the court.” ((Id. at p. 1149.) The Court of Appeal also found
that “the flexible rule we articulate in no way impairs the court’s
ability to assure that trained legal professionals participate in the
presentation of the corporation’s case. The rule’s pragmatic purpose of
protecting against the distractions and potentially harmful results that can
arise from the unlicensed practice of law will still be served because the
court retains authority to dismiss an action if an unrepresented corporation
does not obtain counsel within reasonable time.” ((Id.
at p. 1150.) 
As set forth
above, the Court’s April 25, 2023 Order provides that “[t]he Court must give Pegasus a reasonable time to locate counsel. The Court finds that 30 days is a
reasonable period of time. If Pegasus does not obtain counsel within the next
30 days, Orly (and/or any other party in the action) may file a regularly
noticed motion directed to the issue of lack of representation.” (April 23,
2023 Order at p. 2:15-18.) As noted by Orly, it does not appear that Pegasus
has entered the appearance of substitute counsel. The Court thus does not find
that Pegasus has shown that it obtained counsel within a reasonable time. Moreover,
Pegasus does not oppose the instant motion to dismiss. As noted by Orly, California Rules of Court, rule 8.54, subdivision (c) provides that “[a] failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to
the granting of the motion.”
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Orly’s motion to dismiss. 
Conclusion
For the reasons set
forth above, the Court grants Orly’s motion to dismiss Pegasus’s FACC. The Court
orders Orly to file and serve a proposed judgment
of dismissal within 10 days of the date of this order.¿ 
The Court orders Orly to
give notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  February 13, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


