 Case Number:  21STCV44145    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 



JAMES MCLEARY, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SEA VIEW INN AT THE BEACH, 
 INCORPORATED, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV44145




Hearing Date:


February 13, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
On December 2, 2021, Plaintiff James McLeary (“McCleary”)
filed this action against Defendants Sea View Inn at the Beach, Incorporated,
Hal Keasler, Jim Murphy, Branden Alonzo, and Vuong Nguyen (collectively,
“Defendants”).
On March 10, 2022, Sea View Inn at the Beach, Incorporated,
Hal Keasler, and Jim Murphy filed a Cross-Complaint against McCleary,
alleging causes of action for (1) conversion, (2) conversion, (3) injury to
property, (4) breach of fiduciary duty, (5) intentional infliction of emotional
distress, (6) violation of Civil Code section 51.7, (7) violation of Government Code section 12940(j), and (8) violation of
Government Code section 12940(j).  
On May 1, 2023, the Court issued an Order in this action
providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court, having considered the Parties’
Stipulation and good cause appearing therefor, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED AS FOLLOWS:
1. Plaintiff James McCleary’s (‘Plaintiff’) Second Amended Complaint, attached
as Exhibit 4 to the Declaration of Susan Huerta in Support of Plaintiff’s [sic]
Leave to File And Amend Plaintiff James McCleary’s Second Amended Complaint for
Damages (the ‘SAC’) is deemed filed as of the date of this order….” 
McCleary’s Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleges causes of
action for (1) breach of oral contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) failure to pay wages, (4) failure to pay minimum
wages (5) failure to pay overtime compensation, (6) failure to provide meal and
rest periods, (7) failure to pay all accrued vacation time, (8) violation of Labor Code sections 201-203, (9) retaliation in
violation of Labor Code sections 98.6 and 1102.5, (10) unfair business
practices pursuant to Business and Professions Code
section 17200, 
(11)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy, (12) misclassification,
(13) failure to provide accurate itemized statements, (14) violation of Labor Code section 2699, et seq., and (15)
defamation per se. 
Defendants now move for an order granting summary adjudication against
McCleary as to (1) the third cause of action for failure to pay wages,
specifically, McCleary’s claim therein for alleged unpaid commissions, and (2)
the fourteenth cause of action for violation of the Private Attorneys General
Act. McCleary opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on Defendants’ evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection
No. 1: overruled
Objection
No. 2: overruled
Objection
No. 3: overruled
Objections
Nos. 4-9: overruled. The Court notes that Defendants’ Objections Nos. 4-9
object to McCleary’s Undisputed Material Facts Nos. 1-5 and 7. These objections do not
object to any specific evidence. Pursuant to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354, subdivision (b), “[a]ll written objections to evidence must be served and
filed separately from the other papers in support of or in opposition to the
motion. Objections to specific evidence must be referenced by the
objection number in the right column of a separate statement in opposition or
reply to a motion, but the objections must not be restated or reargued in the
separate statement.” (Emphasis added.) 
 
 
Legal
Standard
“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more
causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or
more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends
that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to
the cause of action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any
cause of action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in
Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A
motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes
of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue
of duty.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact. ((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. ((Ibid.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” ((Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
When a defendant
seeks summary judgment or summary adjudication, he/she must show either (1)
that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established; or (2)
that there is a complete defense to that cause of action. ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  
Discussion
A.    Third Cause of Action (Issue 1) 
In his third cause of action for failure to
pay wages, McCleary alleges, inter alia, that “Defendant failed to compensate Plaintiff all wages due
to him for work performed and services rendered, including commissions.” (TAC, ¶ 32.) 
Defendants assert that “summary adjudication
of the third cause of action for failure to pay wages is warranted with respect
to the alleged unpaid commissions.” (Mot. at p. 11:1-2.) As an initial matter,
on February 6, 2024, the parties submitted a “Stipulation and [Proposed] Order
to Dismiss with Prejudice the Claim for Alleged Unpaid Commissions.” The parties’
Stipulation provides, inter alia, that “Plaintiff will dismiss with prejudice his claim pursuant
to the Third Cause of Action for Failure to Pay Wages, specifically and only as
to the damages sought for the Alleged unpaid Commissions therein…Defendants
agree that, once the above-referenced dismissal is executed, Issue 1 of the
[Motion for Summary Adjudication] is moot and does not require further argument.
Contingent upon Plaintiff’s dismissal of the Third Cause Of Action,
specifically and only as to the damages sought for the alleged unpaid
commissions therein prior to the hearing on the [Motion for Summary
Adjudication], Defendants will withdraw the section of the [Motion for Summary
Adjudication] dealing with the Third Cause of Action for Failure to Pay Wages
by acknowledging to the Court that Plaintiff’s dismissal makes the issue moot,
removing the need for further argument.” 
On February 9, 2024, the Court issued a minute
order providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court, after reviewing the Stipulation and
(proposed) Order, makes the following ruling: The Stipulation is APPROVED and
the Order is signed and filed February 8, 2024 and incorporated herein by
reference. The Third Cause of Action for Failure to Pay Wages, specifically and
only as to the damages sought for alleged unpaid commissions therein, is
dismissed with prejudice.” 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for
summary adjudication of Issue 1 is denied as moot. 
B.    Fourteenth Cause of Action (Issue 2) 
In the SAC, McCleary alleges that he “worked
for Defendant (most recently as Defendant’s General Manager) for approximately
20 years—he started working on approximately June 28, 2001 until his wrongful
termination on or about December 3, 2020.” (SAC, ¶ 13.) 
In the fourteenth cause of action for violation of Labor Code section 2699, et seq., McCleary
alleges that “[a]s a result of the above described actions and conduct,
Defendants, and each of them, committed the following violations of the
California Labor Code against Plaintiff, including but not limited to §§ 201-204, 226, 2750.3, 98.6, 1102.5.” (SAC, ¶ 107.) McCleary
alleges that he “provided proper notice by certified mail to the Labor and
Workforce Development Agency (LWDA) and Defendants, in accordance with Labor Code § 2699.3, of Defendants’ violations of the
Labor Code against Plaintiff, including §§ 98.6 and
1102.5.” (TAC, ¶ 107.) 
In the instant motion, Defendants assert that summary adjudication on
McCleary’s fourteenth cause of action should be granted because McCleary failed
to exhaust his administrative remedies before filing suit. 
“The Legislature enacted [Lab. Code, § 2698 et seq.; the Labor Code Private
Attorneys General Act of 2004; hereafter PAGA] to remedy
systemic underenforcement of many worker protections.” ((Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 538, 545.) “As a
condition of suit, an aggrieved employee acting on behalf of the state and
other current or former employees must provide notice to the employer and the
responsible state agency of the specific provisions of [the Labor Code]
alleged to have been violated, including the facts and theories to support the
alleged violation. If the agency elects not to investigate, or investigates
without issuing a citation, the employee may then bring a PAGA action.” (Id. at p. 545 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) 
Specifically, pursuant to Labor Code section 2699.3, subdivision (a)(1)(A), cited by Defendants, “[a] civil action by an aggrieved employee pursuant to
subdivision (a) or (f) of Section 2699 alleging a
violation of any provision listed in Section 2699.5
shall commence only after the following requirements have been met: (1) (A) The aggrieved employee or representative shall give written notice
by online filing with the Labor and Workforce Development Agency and by
certified mail to the employer of the specific provisions of this code alleged
to have been violated, including the facts and theories to support the alleged
violation.”[1] Defendants assert
that here, “McCleary’s notice is insufficient as it contains no facts or
theories to support McCleary’s claims and, as a result, McCleary’s PAGA cause
of action necessarily fails.” (Mot. at p. 15:25-26.) 
In her supporting declaration, Defendants’ counsel states that
“[a]ttached to the concurrently filed Appendix of Evidence as Exhibit 9 is a
true and correct copy of an August 17, 2021 letter to the California Labor
& Workforce Development Agency, titled ‘Labor Code
Sec. 2699 Notice’, which was produced by McCleary to Defendants during the
course of discovery.” 
(Veeneman Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 9.) The subject August 17, 2021 notice
provides in pertinent part as follows: 
 
“Pursuant to Labor Code Sec. 2699.3(a)(l), James McCleary (‘Mr. McCleary’) hereby
gives written notice of his intent to file a Labor Code
Sec. 2699 claim against Sea View Inn, Hal Keasler and Jim Murphy Company
(‘the Company’). Mr. McCleary intends to bring this claim as a representative
action on behalf of himself and all similarly situated employees in the State
of California. This notice is being provided to the California Labor &
Workforce Development Agency via online submission and the Company via certified
mail.
 
Mr. McCleary worked for the Inn (most
recently as the Inn’s General Manager) for approximately 20 years-he started
working on approximately June 28, 2001 until his wrongful termination on or
about December 3, 2020. During his employment, the Company failed to reimburse
Mr. McCleary for all business expenditures and misclassified Mr. McCleary as
exempt even though he spent more than 50% of his time engaged in non-exempt
tasks. As a result of the misclassification, the Company failed to pay Mr.
McCleary overtime or provide him with meal and rest breaks. Mr. McCleary 
also performed work for Mr. Keasler’s other
vacation rental companies (including in Palm Springs and Manhattan Beach), and
the Company failed to pay him significant earned commission.
 
The Company fired Mr. McCleary for
pretextual reasons when Mr. McCleary protested the Inn’s illegal conduct of not
paying transient occupancy tax (‘TOT’). At the time of 
his termination, the Company failed to pay
Mr. McCleary all earned wages, including unused vacation (he was entitled to
two weeks of vacation pay a year) and earned commission.
 
As a result of the Company’s intentional and
unlawful actions, the Company violated various Labor Code sections, including
but not limited to Labor Code §§ 201, 202, 203, 204,
210, 221, 226, 226.7, 266.8, 2750.3, 510, 512, 98.6, 1102.5, 1174, 1174.5,
1194, 1197, 2699 et seq. 2802, et seq., Business and
Professional [sic] Code § 17200 et seq. 
and other California laws. and other
California laws. [sic] Mr. McCleary intends to pursue all applicable remedies
for these violations, including all applicable premiums 
and penalties, punitive damages, interest,
attorney’s fees and costs…” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 9.)

Defendants assert that “the notice just states the dates of McCleary’s
employment, and then conclusory allegations that he was wrongfully terminated,
that he was not reimbursed for business expenditures, and that he was
misclassified as an exempt employee because he spent more than 50% of his time
engaged in non-exempt tasks. Despite providing no facts or theories, he alleges
to have standing to bring a PAGA cause of action on behalf of aggrieved
employees concerning roughly 20 statutes.” (Mot. at p. 16:1-6.)
McCleary counters that he “did in fact include sufficient facts and
theories to support the alleged violations…” (Opp’n at p. 1:14.) McCleary cites
to Rojas-Cifuentes v. Superior Court (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th
1051, 1053-1054, where “Miguel
Angel Rojas-Cifuentes (Rojas) brought [a] representative
action against his former employer, American Modular Systems, Inc. (American
Modular or AMS), on behalf of himself, other former and current employees of
American Modular, and the State of California…relying on the Labor Code Private
Attorneys General Act of 2004 (PAGA; Lab. Code, § 2698
et seq.)…Rojas [sought] to recover civil penalties for labor violations
that American Modular allegedly committed against its nonexempt employees.”
The Court of Appeal in Rojas-Cifuentes
found that “[b]ecause, unlike the trial court, we find Rojas’s PAGA notice supplied
sufficient facts and theories to support at least some of his claims, we now
issue a writ of mandate directing the trial court to set aside its order granting American
Modular’s motion for summary adjudication.” (Id.
at p. 1054.) The Court of Appeal noted that “[f]ollowing
the Williams court’s admonition that the ‘facts and theories’
alleged in a PAGA notice need not ‘satisfy a particular threshold of
weightiness’…courts have
since found few ‘facts and theories’ are needed to satisfy PAGA’s notice
requirement.” (Id. at p. 1057.) 
Defendants more specifically assert that “[a]t no point does the
notice provide any basis for the wrongful termination claim, aside from
claiming McCleary was fired for protesting alleged illegal conduct. The notice
does not explain what that illegal conduct is or when McCleary allegedly
protested it.” (Mot. at p. 16:7-9.) But as discussed, the notice asserts, inter
alia, that “[t]he Company fired Mr. McCleary for pretextual reasons when
Mr. McCleary protested the Inn’s illegal conduct of not paying transient
occupancy tax (‘TOT’).” (Veeneman Decl., ¶
8, Ex. 9.) 
In addition, the Court notes that as to Defendants’ assertion that the
notice does not state when McCleary allegedly protested the asserted illegal
conduct, in Rojas-Cifuentes, the Court of Appeal noted inter alia, that “we find the alleged facts in
his notice sufficient. Considering the whole of Rojas’s allegations, it is at
least clear that Rojas asserted that American Modular is currently committing
the listed violations against its nonexempt employees. And although the state agency
reviewing this notice might be left to wonder when these violations began, that
is not reason enough to find the notice wholly inadequate. A complaint, as
an analogue, is generally not deficient merely because it fails to describe the
particular date when a defendant's misconduct began. And we
see nothing in section 2699.3 suggesting that
factual allegations in PAGA notices must exceed those normally found sufficient
in complaints.” (Rojas-Cifuentes v. Superior Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.5th (internal citation omitted), at 1060.) 
Defendants also assert that “the notice provides no basis for the
misclassification claim. It does not offer any facts regarding the non-exempt
tasks McCleary claims to have performed.” (Mot. at p. 16:11-12.) As set forth
above, the notice asserts that “During his employment, the Company failed to
reimburse Mr. McCleary for all business expenditures and misclassified Mr.
McCleary as exempt even though he spent more than 50% of his time engaged in
non-exempt tasks. As a result of the misclassification, the Company failed to
pay Mr. McCleary overtime or provide him with meal and rest breaks.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 9.) 
In the reply, Defendants also assert
that “Plaintiff’s PAGA notice is insufficient because it fails to
include facts detailing the basis of either the misclassification or the
retaliation claim.” (Reply at p. 6:15-16.) As set forth above, with respect to
the retaliation claim, the notice includes the facts that “[t]he Company fired
Mr. McCleary for pretextual reasons when Mr. McCleary protested the Inn’s
illegal conduct of not paying transient occupancy tax (‘TOT’).” (Veeneman Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 9.) In addition, to the extent Defendants argue
that McCleary’s notice lacks sufficient “facts and theories” only as to certain alleged
violations (i.e. the alleged misclassification), Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f) provides, as set forth
above, that “[a] motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” As set forth
above, the fourteenth cause of action of the SAC is not limited to alleged
misclassification violations. The SAC alleges, inter alia, that “[a]s
a result of the above described actions and conduct, Defendants, and each of
them, committed the following violations of the California Labor Code against
Plaintiff, including but not limited to §§ 201-204,
226, 2750.3, 98.6, 1102.5.” (SAC, ¶ 107.) The Rojas-Cifuentes Court found that “Rojas’s PAGA notice supplied sufficient ‘facts and
theories’ to support at least some of the violations he alleged. And because a
motion seeking summary adjudication of an entire cause of action may not be
granted unless ‘it completely disposes of [the] cause of action’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1)), we find that
reason enough to rule in Rojas’s favor.” (RId. at p. 1058.)

Defendants further assert that the notice does not “identify any other
potentially aggrieved employees.” (Mot. at p. 16:12-13.) But as noted by
McCleary, the notice states that “Mr. McCleary intends to bring this claim as a
representative action on behalf of himself and all similarly situated employees
in the State of California.” (Veeneman Decl., ¶
8, Ex. 9.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have
met their initial burden to show that McCleary’s fourteenth cause of action has no merit. 
            Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion for summary adjudication of Defendants’ Issue 1 is denied as moot.
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of Defendants’ Issue 2 is denied. 
McCleary is ordered to
give notice of this ruling.  
 
 
DATED:  February 13, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


