 Case Number:  22TRCV00563    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 July 12, 2024 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00563
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ocean Recovery, LLC
v. Sullivancutrismonroe, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants, Scottsdale Insurance Company
and Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company

¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Ocean Recovery, LLC (No Opposition) 
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Seal Exhibit A to
the MSJ papers   
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  GRANTED. The Court invites argument as to how to seal 3 sentences in the Memorandum
of Points and Authorities, i.e., by filing a redacted version of the same, or otherwise.  
 
 
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿  
 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff,
Ocean Recovery, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Sullivan Curtis
Monroe Insurance Services, LLC (“SCM”), and Scottsdale Indemnity Company
(collectively “Defendants”). On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amended
complaint. On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). On February
21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”). On April 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) alleging causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing; and (3) Professional Negligence. 
 
Defendants now move to seal
or redact portions of the Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative
Summary Adjudication and to seal Exhibit A in support thereof. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On June 13, 2024, Defendants,
Scottsdale Insurance Company (“Scottsdale”) and Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Company (“Nationwide”) filed this Motion to Seal and/or Redact Portions of
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication and to
Seal Exhibit A in support thereof. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
 
A.    Legal Standard  
 
A party that requests that a
record or portion of a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing it, which must be accompanied by a supporting
memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the
sealing. (Cal Rules of Ct 2.551(b)(1).) A copy of the motion or application to
seal must be served on all parties that have appeared in the case. (Cal Rules
of Ct 2.551(b)(2).) Unless the judge orders otherwise, any party that already
has access to the records to be placed under seal must be served with a
complete, unredacted copy of all papers as well as a redacted version. Other
parties must be served with only the public redacted version. When a party's
attorney, but not the party, has access to the record, only the party's
attorney may be served with the complete, unredacted version. (Cal Rules of Ct
2.551(b)(2).) 
A record
may be filed under seal only if the judge expressly finds facts that establish
all the following (1) an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of
public access to the record and supports sealing the record; 2) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; 3) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 4) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Cal Rules of
Ct 2.550(d); NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.App.4th 1178, 1217–1218; Saunders v Superior Court (2017) 12
Cal.App.5th Supp 1, 24, (right of access to judicial records is not absolute
and nondisclosure may be appropriate “for compelling countervailing reasons”
due to events that tend to undermine individual security, personal liberty, or
private property, or that injure the public or the public good)): 
Only the
specific words of documents that constitute the sensitive material should be
sealed; generally, it is not permissible to seal the entire document. Examples
of documents that may include information that may warrant sealing are: (a)
Documents containing trade secrets. (See In re Providian Credit Card Cases
(2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 292, 300 (dictum); McGuan v. Endovascular Tech., Inc.
(2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 974, 988—quality control records and complaint handling
procedures.); (b) Documents containing material protected by a privilege. (See
Huffy Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (Winterthur Swiss Ins. Co.), supra, 112 Cal.App.4th
at 108—attorney-client privilege (dictum)]; and (c) Confidential settlement
agreement. (See Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Unity
Pictures Corp.) (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283(dictum).) 
B.    Discussion 
 
Here, Moving Defendants, Scottsdale and Nationwide contend that
Exhibit A is Plaintiff’s insurance application which it submitted to Scottsdale
to obtain the insurance policy at issue in this coverage dispute. Scottsdale
and Nationwide assert that the application states, on the first page, that the
parties agree that the application will remain confidential. Moving Defendants
further state that the memorandum and statement in support of as reflected on
the first page of the application, Scottsdale agreed to maintain the
information provided in the application in confidence. 
 
Moving Defendants rely on California Rules of Court, Rule
2.550(c) provides that “unless confidentiality is required by law court records
are presumed to be open,” and thus, Plaintiff’s application (Exhibit A) is
required to be sealed, and that the information in the application referred to
in the memorandum and statement be redacted. Moving Defendants also contend
that the proposed sealing order is narrowly tailored and there are no less
restrictive means to protect the confidential materials. The Moving Defendants
argue that the proposed order only seeks to prevent public dissemination of the
insureds’ responses to questions in the Application. Moving Defendants contend
that the majority of the motion and supporting papers will be unredacted and
available in the public record. Moving Defendants also clarify that the only
responses to the questions in the applications would be redacted and the
application sealed. As such, Moving Defendants make this motion as the only way
to preserve the confidentiality of Plaintiff’s responses to questions in the
application and maintaining the secrecy of its sensitive, confidential
information. Thus, Moving Defendants seek an order from this Court sealing
Exhibit A as well as the three sentences referencing it in the memorandum and
statement. 
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d), this
Court finds that Moving Defendants have presented this Court with an overriding
interest of privacy with respect to Exhibit A, and references of such, that
there is a substantial probability that the overriding interest will be
prejudiced if the record was not sealed, that the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored, and that there are no less restrictive means. Further, the proof of
service attached to the Declaration of Valerie D. Rojas indicates that Moving
Defendants also complied with California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551(b)(2) has
been met in serving the parties that have appeared in the case. Thus, the Court
orders that Exhibit A, and reference thereto in the memorandum and separate
statements be sealed. 
 
The Court invites argument as to how to effect the sealing
of the 3 sentences in the Memorandum of Points and Authorities, i.e., by filing
a redacted version of the same that would not be sealed while the Court seals the
originally filed brief, or otherwise.  
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Moving
Defendants, Scottsdale and Nationwide’s Motion to Seal is GRANTED.  
 
Moving parties are ordered to
give notice.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
 
 
 