 Case Number:  22STCV14446    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




joaquin alejandro velazquez,
   f/k/a shawn swingler

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
nissan north america, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV14446




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   16, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and
  stay proceedings
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Nissan North
America, Inc. and Wish Automotive III, Inc., d/b/a Nissan of Alhambra
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Joaquin Alejandro Velazquez
f/k/a Shawn Swingler
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay
Proceedings
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants
Nissan North America, Inc. and Wish Automotive III, Inc., d/b/a Nissan of
Alhambra’s requests for judicial notice. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
The court grants plaintiff
Joaquin Alejandro Velazquez’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit A.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)  
The court denies plaintiff
Joaquin Alejandro Velazquez’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit B
because it is not relevant to a material issue presented by this motion.  (Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020)
58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant
to a material issue”].) 
DISCUSSION
Defendants Nissan North America, Inc. (“Nissan”) and Wish Automotive
III, Inc., d/b/a Nissan of Alhambra (“Wish”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move
the court for an order (1) compelling plaintiff Joaquin Alejandro Velazquez
(“Plaintiff”) to submit all of the claims alleged in their Complaint to binding
arbitration, and (2) staying this action pending completion of
arbitration.  
1.    
Existence of Written Agreement to
Arbitrate
A
written provision in any contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce
to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract
shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist
at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.[1]¿ (9 U.S.C. §
2.)¿ The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) requires courts to direct parties to
proceed to arbitration on issues covered by an arbitration agreement upon a
finding that the making of the arbitration agreement is not in issue.¿ (9
U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir. 2000) 207
F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s role under the [FAA] is therefore limited to
determining (1) whether a valid agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does,
(2) whether the agreement encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron Corp.,
supra, 207 F.3d at p. 1130.)¿ The FAA reflects “both a ‘liberal federal
policy favoring arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental principle that
arbitration is a matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T Mobility LLC
v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ The burden of
production as to this finding shifts in a three-step process.¿ (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165.)¿ First, the
moving party bears the burden of producing prima facie evidence of a written
agreement to arbitrate, which can be met by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purporting to bear the opponent’s signature.¿ (Ibid.)¿ If the
moving party meets this burden, the opposing party bears, in the second step,
the burden of producing evidence to challenge its authenticity.¿ (Ibid.)¿
If the opposing party produces evidence sufficient to meet this burden, the
third step requires the moving party to establish, with admissible evidence, a
valid arbitration agreement between the parties.¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
First, the
court finds that Defendants have met their burden of producing prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff, on the one
hand, and Nissan of Torrance, on the other hand.
Defendants have submitted the “Retail Installment Sale Contract –
Simple Finance Charge (With Arbitration Provision)” (the “RISC”), entered into by
and between Plaintiff, as the buyer, and Nissan of Torrance, as the
seller.  (Richardson Decl., Ex. 1, RISC,
p. 1.)  On the first page of the RISC, it
states that, by signing the field labeled “Agreement to Arbitrate,” the signee
agrees that, pursuant to the arbitration provision on the fifth page of the
contract, the signee or the seller may elect to resolve any dispute by binding,
neutral arbitration.[2]  (Ibid.)  This field purports to bear Plaintiff’s
signature.  (Ibid.) 
The Arbitration Provision on the fifth page of the RISC states, in
relevant part, that the parties agree to arbitrate “[a]ny claim or dispute,
whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation
and scope of this Arbitration Provision and the arbitrability of the claim or
dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns,
which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or
condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not
sign this contract) . . . .”  (Richardson
Decl., Ex. 1, RISC, p. 5, Arbitration Provision.) 
The court therefore finds that Defendants have produced evidence of a
written agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff and Nissan of Torrance. 
Second, the court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to
show that they may enforce the Arbitration Provision against Plaintiff pursuant
to the doctrine of equitable estoppel.
“‘Generally
speaking, one must be a party to an arbitration agreement to be bound by
it or invoke it.’¿ [Citations.]¿ ‘There are exceptions to the general rule that
a nonsignatory to an agreement cannot be compelled to arbitrate and cannot
invoke an agreement to arbitrate, without being a party to the arbitration
agreement.’”¿ (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th
1222, 1236-1237 [internal citations omitted].)¿ “One pertinent exception is
based on the doctrine of equitable estoppel.” 
(Id. at p. 1237.)  “Under the
doctrine of equitable estoppel, as applied in both federal and California
decisional authority, a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause
to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of
action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and intertwined with
the underlying contract obligations.”¿ (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495 (“Felisilda”) [internal quotations omitted].)¿
For the doctrine of equitable estoppel to apply, “‘the claims plaintiff asserts
against the nonsignatory must be dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably
intertwined with, the underlying contractual obligations of the agreement
containing the arbitration clause.’”¿ (JSM Tuscany, LLC, supra,
193 Cal.App.4th at p. 1238.)¿¿¿¿ 
The
application of this doctrine as to third party nonsignatories has been
addressed in several recent cases.  In Ford
Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1330, review granted July
19, 2023, S279969, the Court of Appeal evaluated an
arbitration provision that includes language substantially identical to the
language in the Arbitration Provision at issue here.¿ (Ford Motor Warranty
Cases, supra, 89 Cal.App.4th at p. 1330, rev. granted [quoting
arbitration provision requiring the arbitration of “‘[a]ny claim or
dispute . . . which arises out of or relates to . . . [the] purchase or
condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who did not
sign this contract)’”].)¿ In finding that the manufacturer-defendant could not
compel arbitration based on equitable estoppel, the Court of Appeal expressly
disagreed with and declined to follow Felisilda, which also addressed
language that is similar to the language in
this Arbitration Provision.¿ (Id. at p. 1334; Felisilda, supra,
53 Cal.App.5th at p. 490 [quoting provision requiring the arbitration of “[a]ny claim or
dispute . . . which arises out of or relates to . . . condition of this
vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including
any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)”]
[emphasis in original].)¿¿¿
Similarly,
in Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958, 961, review
granted September 20, 2023, S281237, the Court of Appeal expressly disagreed
with Felisilda and concluded that the manufacturer-defendant could not
enforce the arbitration provision in the subject sales contract since the
plaintiffs’ claims were “founded on [the manufacturer’s] express warranty for
the vehicle, not any obligation imposed on [the manufacturer] by the sales
contract,” such that the plaintiffs’ claims were “not inextricably intertwined
with any obligations under the sales contract.”¿ Further, in Kielar v.
Superior Court (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, 620-621, another court disagreed
with Felisilda’s conclusion that
the sales contract was the source of the warranties at the heart of that case
and held that equitable estoppel did not permit the manufacturer-defendant to
compel arbitration of the plaintiff’s claims for violations of the Song-Beverly
Act and fraudulent inducement.  In contrast, the Felisilda Court
concluded, based on substantially identical language, that, since the
plaintiffs “expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition
of the vehicle—even against third party nonsignatories to the sales
contract—they [were] estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against”
the manufacturer-defendant.¿ (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at
p. 497.)  
The court
finds that the reasoning set forth in Ford Motor Warranty Cases and Kielar
is persuasive and elects to follow the analysis set forth in those opinions
rather than Felisilda. 
As set
forth above, the Arbitration Provision at issue here provides for the
arbitration of any claim or dispute “between [Plaintiff] and [Nissan of
Torrance] or [Nissan of Torrance’s] employees, agents, successors or assigns,
which arises out of or relates to . . . [the] purchase or condition of this
vehicle . . . or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)” at Plaintiff or
Nissan of Torrance’s election. 
(Richardson Decl., Ex. 1, RISC, p. 5, Arbitration Provision.)  The court finds that this language shows that
Plaintiff and Nissan of Torrance agreed to arbitrate any claim or dispute
between themselves and Nissan of Torrance’s employees, agents, successors, or
assigns, relating to the purchase or condition of the subject vehicle or any
resulting transaction or relationship.  (Ibid.;
Kielar, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at p. 621 [the language in the
arbitration clause “referring to nonsignatory third parties was a “delineation
of the subject matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to
arbitrate” ’ and does not bind the purchaser ‘ “to arbitrate with the universe
of unnamed third parties” ’”].) 
Defendants have neither argued nor presented evidence showing that they
are the employees, agents, successors, or assigns of Nissan of Torrance. 
The court
further finds that Plaintiff’s claims are not “intimately founded in and
intertwined with” the underlying RISC obligations.  (Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th at p. 495 [internal quotations omitted].) 
The court
recognizes, as Defendants note, that Plaintiff requests “rescission of the
purchase contract” in their prayer. 
(Compl., p. 24, Prayer, ¶ 2.) 
However, none of Plaintiff’s five causes of action alleges a breach of
the RISC.  Instead, the Complaint alleges
that (1) Nissan was unable to conform the subject vehicle to its applicable
warranties and therefore breached its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act;
(2) the subject vehicle was accompanied by an implied warranty pursuant to
Civil Code section 1792, but it was not fit for its ordinary purpose; (3)
Nissan made false representations regarding the emergency braking system, or
concealed or failed to disclose facts relating to the emergency braking system,
in order to deceive Plaintiff or induce Plaintiff to rely on those
representations to their detriment; and (4) Wish breached its duty to Plaintiff
by failing to properly store and repair the subject vehicle in accordance with
industry standards.  (FAC ¶¶ 73, 75,
86, 88, 106-111, 117, 117-118, 123-124, 126-128, 135.)  
Thus, the
court finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants do not rely on the RISC
and instead (1) are founded on Nissan’s statutory obligations, and (2) are
founded on Wish’s duty to use ordinary care and skill in repairing the subject
vehicle.  (Kielar, supra,
94 Cal.App.5th at p. 621 [agreeing with Ford Motor Warranty Cases, rev.
granted, and Montemayor, rev. granted, that a manufacturer’s express or
implied warranties that accompany a vehicle at the time of sale do not
constitute obligations arising from the sale contract]; Ford Motor Warranty
Cases, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1335, rev. granted [“plaintiffs’
claims are based on [the manufacturer defendant’s] statutory obligations to
reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to repair in
accordance with its warranty”]; Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 8.1115, subd. (e)(1)
[“Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court’s opinion . . ., a published
opinion of a Court of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential
effect, and may be cited for potentially persuasive value only”].)  The court therefore finds that Plaintiff’s
claims are not “intimately founded and intertwined with” the obligations of the
RISC.  (Felisilda, supra,
53 Cal.App.5th at p. 495 [internal quotations omitted].) 
Third, the
court finds that Nissan has not met its burden to show that it may enforce the
Arbitration Provision as a third-party beneficiary.[3] 
“‘A
third party beneficiary may enforce a contract expressly made for his
benefit.’”¿ (Fuentes v. TMCSF, Inc. (2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 541, 551.)¿
“‘The third party need not be identified by name.¿ It is sufficient if the
[third party] claimant belongs to a class of persons for whose benefit it was
made.’”¿ (Otay Land Co., LLC v. U.E. Limited, L.P. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th
806, 855.)¿ Thus, “‘a third party beneficiary of an arbitration agreement
may enforce it.’”¿ (Fuentes, supra, 26 Cal.App.5th at p. 552.)¿
To determine whether a party is a third-party beneficiary of a contract, courts
“examine[] the express provisions of the contract at issue, as well as all of
the relevant circumstances under which the contract was agreed to, in order to
determine not only (1) whether the third party would in fact benefit from the
contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the contracting parties
was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3) whether permitting a third
party to bring its own breach of contract action against a contracting party is
consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations
of the contracting parties.”  (Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) 
Nissan
argues that the intent to benefit Nissan “is evident from the plain language of
the arbitration provision[,]” since it extends to resulting relationships “with
third parties who do not sign this contract[.]” 
(Mot., p. 12:18-21; Richardson Decl., Ex. 1, RISC, p. 5, Arbitration
Provision.)  The court disagrees.  As set forth above, this language delineates
the subject matter of the claims that purchasers and dealers (i.e., Plaintiff
and Nissan of Torrance) agreed to arbitrate and do not reflect any intent “to
arbitrate with the universe of unnamed third parties.”  (Kielar, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th
at p. 621 [internal quotations omitted]; Ford Motor Warranty Cases, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at p. 1334-1335, rev. granted.) 
Nissan has not presented any evidence or other argument establishing the
intent to provide a benefit to it. 
Thus,
the court finds that Nissan has not met its burden to show that (1) a
motivating purpose of the contracting parties (Plaintiff and Nissan of
Torrance), in entering into the RISC, was to provide a benefit to Nissan, and
(2) permitting Nissan to enforce the Arbitration Provision is consistent with
the objectives of the RISC and the reasonable expectations of Plaintiff and
Nissan of Torrance, as the contracting parties. 
(Goonewardene, supra, 6 Cal.5th at p. 830.)
2.    
Unconscionability
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Provision is
unconscionable.  In light of the court’s
conclusion that Defendants have not met their burden to show that they can
enforce the Arbitration Provision against Plaintiff, the court does not reach
the merits of this argument. 
3.    
Conclusion
The
court finds that (1) Defendants have not met their burden to show that they may
enforce the Arbitration Provision pursuant to the doctrine of equitable
estoppel, and (2) Nissan has not met its burden to show that it may enforce the
Arbitration Provision as a third-party beneficiary.  The court therefore denies Defendants’ motion
to compel arbitration and the request that the court stay this action. 
ORDER
The court denies defendants
Nissan North America, Inc., and Wish Automotive III, d/b/a Nissan of Alhambra’s
motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings. 
The court orders plaintiff Joaquin
Alejandro Velazquez to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  October 16, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


