 Case Number:  23STCV23202    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH
            Plaintiff
Alicia Miranda Bojorquz filed this action alleging she developed mesothelioma
as a result of exposure to asbestos in products from various defendants.  Defendant Port Jervis Laboratories, Inc.
filed a motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction arguing it does not
do business in California and Plaintiff’s claims do not arise out of or relate
to its contacts with California.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Saimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Plaintiff does not
dispute that there is no general jurisdiction over Defendant.
            Defendant
argues it has no office, employees, or property in California and does not design,
make or sell products in California. 
(Motion at p. 9.)  Plaintiff argues,
and submits evidence, that Defendant had facilities in California during the
time of exposure.  (See exhibits cited in
Opposition at p. 5.)  Plaintiff asks for
jurisdictional discovery.  Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s evidence is inadmissible.
But neither the complaint
nor Plaintiff’s opposition identifies the products Plaintiff used.  The complaint only refers to “asbestos and
products containing asbestos” and “asbestos contaminated talc.”  (See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 14, Ex. A.)  The opposition states she used “cosmetic talc
products designed by Defendant Jafra Cosmetics International, Inc.”  (Opposition at p. 2.)  That is too vague and covers different types
of products.  Without identifying the
products she used (which only Plaintiff knows), it is impossible to define the appropriate
scope of jurisdictional discovery.  First, Plaintiff needs to identify the particular
Jafra products she used and the time period she used them.
Once Plaintiff identifies
those products, Plaintiff may conduct jurisdictional discovery concerning
Defendant’s activities in and contacts with California in connection with its
manufacturing of those particular Jafra products during the time Plaintiff was
using those products.  
The motion is
CONTINUED to March 7, 2023 at 9 a.m.  The
parties may file supplemental opposition and reply briefs on regular notice.
            The
moving parties are to give notice.
 
 