  Case Number:  23STCV27031    Hearing Date:   September 16, 2024    Dept:  49 Rozalin Javaheri, et al. v. Hamid Shoohed, et al.DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant Hamid Shoohed; 333 Palm Development, LLC; Nic Real Estate Group, Inc.; and Palm Equity, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): NoneSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiffs Rozalin Javaheri and Rosa Torkian bring this action against the owners or managers of a rental property in Beverly Hills they resided at until August 23, 2023. Plaintiffs allege Defendants failed to remedy or repair numerous habitability defects at the property, including microbial growth and electrical issues. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants intimidated and harassed Plaintiffs when Plaintiffs complained of these defects. Plaintiffs assert causes of action for (1) breach of implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) negligence, (4) violation of California Civil Code section 1940.2, (5) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq., and (6) elder financial abuse.Defendants now demurrer to the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs did not file an opposition.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Demurrer to the First, Second, and Fourth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED, with 30 days leave to amend. Defendants’ Demurrer to the Third, Fifth, and Sixth Causes of Action is OVERRULED.Moving parties are ordered to give notice.DISCUSSION:Demurrer to ComplaintI. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendants’ request, the court takes judicial notice of exhibit A. II. Meet and Confer The Declaration of attorney Maurice Wainer states that counsel attempted to meet and confer by sending an email to Plaintiffs, but that Plaintiffs did not respond to the email. While this demonstrates the absence of any substantive meet and confer, the court exercises its discretion to consider the motion in that absence. The parties are ordered to comply with any meet and confer obligations going forward.III. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)IV. AnalysisDefendants demurrer to each cause of action in the First Amended Complaint. Each is addressed in turn.A. Demurrer Based on Statute of LimitationsDefendants argue the statute of limitations has run on the First, Second, and Third Causes of Action because Plaintiffs allege they were aware of the defects at the property as early as 2005.  The shortest of the statutes of limitations on these causes of action is two years. Plaintiffs Rozalin Javaheri and her mother, Rosa Torkian, resided at a rental property in Beverly Hills from November 1, 2005 through August 23, 2023. (FAC ¶¶ 1, 2.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants Hamid Shoohed, Robert Assil, Michael Mansour, 333 Palm Development, LLC, NIC Real Estate Group, Inc., and Palm Equity, LLC, own and/or manage the property. (Id. ¶¶ 3-8.) Plaintiffs allege “there were numerous and substantial habitability defects and dangerous conditions at the PREMISES that together and individually constituted violations of the LEASE, as well as violations of applicable housing and residential tenancy laws, including but not limited to numerous provisions of the Uniform Housing Code, California Civil Code, California Health and Safety Code, as well as other code violations.” (Id. ¶ 14.) These defects included, among other things, “ineffective waterproofing and weather protection of roof and exterior walls; plumbing and/or gas facilities not maintained in good working order; [and] heating facilities not maintained in good working order…” (Id.)Plaintiffs allege they “repeatedly notified” Defendants and/or their agents of the defective and dangerous conditions, but that Defendants “failed and refused to repair the conditions, and/or have done so in a negligent, unprofessional, and shoddy fashion.” (Id. ¶ 15.) For example, Plaintiff allege they reported microbial growth and excessive moisture to Defendants on February 1, 2007, and “sen[t] follow-up texts every other year.” (Id. ¶ 18.) However, “the issue remained unresolved due to lack of response from Defendants.” (Id.) Other issues, such as electrical wiring and lighting facilities, Plaintiffs reported on April 1, 2022. (Id. ¶ 20.) Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant 333 Palm Development acquired the premises in September 2021 and subsequently refused to accept rental payments from Plaintiffs. (Id. ¶ 24.) Defendants “explicitly instructed Plaintiffs to cease rent payments and urged them to vacate the premises.” (Id. ¶ 25.) Defendants allegedly “offered a sum of money to PLAINTIFFS to vacate the PREMISES, but it was insufficient for PLAINTIFFS to secure suitable accommodations.” (Id. ¶ 26.)  Ultimately, Plaintiffs “were unjustly compelled to leave the PREMISES under the pretext of non-payment of rent after DEFENDANTS refused to accept their payments. PLAINTIFFS were wrongfully evicted in August 2023. On the day of eviction, one of DEFENDANTS’ personnel pushed MS. TORKIAN through a door, resulting in her sustaining injuries that required hospitalization.” (Id. ¶ 27.)Plaintiffs allege the property was plagued with issues from the date they moved in. “A demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar ... to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the action may be barred. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Comm. for Green Foothills v. Santa Clara Cnty. Bd. of Supervisors (2010) 48 Cal. 4th 32, 42.) Here, some allegations in the FAC would appear to be clearly time-barred. Others, however, do not “clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint” as being time-barred. A “demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action.” (Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal. App. 4th 1028, 1047; Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2007) 148 Cal. App. 4th 97, 119 [“A demurrer must dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained”].) Because the causes of action are based on mixed time-barred and non-time-barred allegations, the demurrer based on the statute of limitations must be overruled. B. Demurer to First Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Warranty of HabitabilityDefendants next argue that Plaintiffs allegations are insufficient to support a breach of the implied warranty cause of action.  The elements of a cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability “are the existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises' habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages.” (Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks Prop. Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal. App. 5th 874, 891.)Again, Plaintiffs allege there existed “numerous and substantial habitability defects and dangerous conditions at the PREMISES,” that they “repeatedly notified” Defendants and/or their agents of the defective and dangerous conditions, and that Defendants “failed and refused to repair the conditions, and/or have done so in a negligent, unprofessional, and shoddy fashion.” (FAC ¶¶ 14, 15.) Plaintiffs have therefore alleged with sufficient facts that they provided Defendants’ with repeated notice of the defects infecting the property and that Defendants failed to remedy same.Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs failed to attach the lease contract to the FAC. The FAC states that the lease is attached to the FAC as Exhibit A. (Id. ¶ 11.) However, no Exhibit A is included. To state a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must allege “the existence of the contract.” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 93, 97–98.)  Like breach of contract, the implied covenant of the warranty of habitability requires the existence of a lease contract. (See Fairchild v. Park (2001) 90 Cal. App. 4th 919, 925.) The rule in California is that “[a] written contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.’ [Citation.]”  (Heritage Pac. Fin., LLC v. Monroy, (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th 972, 993.)Here, because the lease is not attached to the FAC, it is unclear which Defendants were parties to the lease.Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the First Cause of Action is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend. When amending, Plaintiffs must attach a copy of the lease to the amended complaint, or allege specific facts in the alternative.C. Demurrer to Second Cause of Action for Breach of Covenant of Quiet EnjoymentNext, Defendants argue that Plaintiff have not sufficiently alleged how Defendants acts interfered with their “quiet enjoyment” of the property. “In the absence of language to the contrary, every lease contains an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord impliedly covenants that the tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession of the premises. [Citations.] The covenant of quiet enjoyment ‘insulates the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the landlord, or anyone claiming under him, which interferes with a tenant's right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy. [Citations.]’ [Citation.]” (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588.) Breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment has “often been inextricably tied to breach of the covenant by eviction, which disturbs the tenant's right to undisturbed possession of the leased premises. If the landlord ousts the tenant, there is an actual eviction.” (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal. App. 4th 873, 897.)Here, Plaintiffs have alleged there existed numerous and substantial habitability defects and dangerous conditions at the premises. (FAC ¶ 14.) In addition, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants refused to accept rent payments and wrongfully evicted them in August 2023. (Id. ¶ 27.) These allegations are sufficient to allege interference with Plaintiffs’ right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy. Again, however, Plaintiffs have failed to provide a copy of the governing lease. Because the breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment is implied in the lease, it is necessary to know which Defendants were parties to it. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.D. Demurrer to Third Cause of Action for NegligenceDefendants next argue that the cause of action fails because the duty is premised on the existence of a landlord-tenant relationship. Defendants assert this relationship has not been adequately pled. However, Plaintiffs have alleged that each moving Defendant was an owner or manager of the property. Accepting this as true, they have alleged the existence of a duty owed by each Defendant. (See Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc., 185 Cal. App. 4th 1068, 1078 [ “A demurrer accepts as true all well pleaded facts” in the Complaint].)There is likewise no merit to Defendants’ arguments that the cause of action is duplicative of the contract claims. A plaintiff is free to plead alternative theories of recovery, even those that are inconsistent with each other. (Dubin v. Robert Newhall Chesebrough Trust (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 465, 476-477.)Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action is OVERRULED.E. Demurrer to Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of Civil Code Section 1940.2Next, Defendants contend that the cause of action fails for the same reasons the First and Second causes of action fail. Under Civil Code section 1940.2(a)(3), it is unlawful for a landlord to “[u]se, or threaten to use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of conduct that interferes with the tenant’s quiet enjoyment of the premises in violation of Section 1927 that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable person…”Again, because Plaintiffs have not attached a copy of the governing lease, it is unclear which of the Defendants are “landlords” liable under this section. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.F. Demurrer to Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of the UCLDefendants argue that Plaintiffs “have failed to make any such identification of any particular business practice that is inappropriate and or to explain how that relates to unfair competition.” (Dem. 23: 20-21.) Business and Professions Code section 17200 defines “unfair competition” to include “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice....” “The scope of section 17200 is broad, encompassing ‘anything that can properly be called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.’ ... It governs ‘anti-competitive business practices’ as well as injuries to consumers, and has as a major purpose ‘the preservation of fair business competition.’” [Citations.] (Linear Tech. Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc., (2007) 152 Cal. App. 4th 115, 133).  Whether a practice violates the section “is generally a question of fact which requires ‘consideration and weighing of evidence from both sides’ and which usually cannot be made on demurrer.” [Citation].  (Id.)Here, under the broad scope of the UCL, Plaintiffs have alleged business practices forbidden by law, whether it be the failure to maintain the premises in habitable condition or the the act of allegedly unlawfully evicting Plaintiffs from the premises.Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs lack standing to seek restitution or injunctive relief because they no longer possess the property. Despite its broad applicability, “[i]njunctive relief and restitution are the only remedies available under the UCL.”  (Esparza v. Safeway, Inc. (2019) 36 Cal. App. 5th 42, 53.)  Thus, “[a] UCL claim must be based on the existence of harm supporting injunctive relief or restitution.”  (Id.) While it is true that injunctive relief may no longer be available, the possibility of restitution remains. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants “have been unjustly enriched, and PLAINTIFFS are entitled to restitution, including all rent PLAINTIFFS paid directly to DEFENDANTS or their agents.” (FAC ¶ 57.) Finally, the cause of action is not time-barred under the four-year statute of limitations because at least some of the allegations giving rise to the claim fell within that period before the filing of the Complaint. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.G. Demurrer to Sixth Cause of Action for Elder Financial AbuseFinally, Defendants argue that the cause of action fails because Defendants have failed to allege either neglect or physical abuse. However, the cause of action is for elder financial abuse—not physical abuse or neglect. Elder financial abuse occurs when one “[t]akes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both,” or assists in doing the same.  (Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30). Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged elder financial abuse. Accordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action is OVERRULED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 16, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court