 Case Number:  21STCV02647    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Sanchez v. Mizban,
et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV02647
MOTION:                  Motion
for a Protective Order
HEARING DATE:   4/5/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A party may propound thirty-five specially prepared
interrogatories that are relevant to the subject matter of the pending
action. (CCP § 2030.030(a).) Subject to a motion for a protective
order, any party seeking to propound a greater number of specially prepared
interrogatories to another party must attach a supporting declaration stating
the greater number of interrogatories is warranted because of any of the
following: (1) the complexity or the quantity of the existing and potential
issues in the case; (2) the financial burden on a party entailed in conducting
the discovery by oral deposition; or (3) the expedience of using this method of
discovery to provide to the responding party the opportunity to conduct an
inquiry, investigation, or search of files or records to supply the information
sought. (CCP, §§ 2030.040(a)(1)-(a)(3), 2030.050.) Unless a
declaration has been made, the responding party need only respond to the first
35 special interrogatories if the responding party first makes an objection
that the limit has been exceeded. (CCP § 2030.030(c).) If the responding
party seeks a protective order on the ground that the number of specially
prepared interrogatories is unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the
burden of justifying the number of these interrogatories. (CCP §
2030.040(b).)  Additionally, when requests for
admission have been made, the responding party may promptly move for a
protective order. (CCP § 2033.080(c).) 
 
The court, for good cause shown, may make an order that
justice requires to protect a party from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
oppression, or undue burden and expense. A protective order may include, but is
not limited to, an order that: (1) the set of requests or particular requests
in the set need not be answered at all; (2) that the number of requests is
unwarranted; (3) that the time specified to respond to the requests be
extended; (4) that a trade secret or other confidential research not be admitted
or be admitted only in a certain way; or (5) that some or all of the answers to
requests be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court. (CCP §§
2030.090 (b), 2031.060(b), 2033.080(b).) 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Kasra Mizban moves for a protective order
regarding Plaintiff Gabriel Sanchez’s Special Interrogatories, Set Four, nos. 82-88,
and 93-95. Defendant asserts that these interrogatories are excessive,
duplicative, intended to annoy, intended to embarrass, intended to harass
and/or are overly burdensome. Kasra seeks sanctions of $2,160.00 against
Plaintiff and counsel of record, Peter Hakin and/or Downtown LA Law Group.
Plaintiff opposes the motion.
 
Defendant Nasser Mizban also moves for a protective order
regarding Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set Two. Defendant requests that
she not have to answer the RFAs at all on the grounds that the RFAs are unwarranted,
excessive, are duplicative, are intended to annoy, are intended to embarrass,
are intended to harass and/or are overly burdensome. Nasser seeks sanctions in
the amount of $2,790.00 against Plaintiff and counsel of record, Peter Hakin and/or
Downtown LA Law Group. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to this motion.
 
SROGs, Set
4
            
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff served Special
Interrogatories, Set Four, to Kasra. (Ex. G.) As the number of special interrogatories exceeds 35,
Plaintiff must show good cause for nos. 82-88 and 93-95. The interrogatories
relate to Kasra’s medical prescriptions and DUI. These interrogatories request:
 
83. Please state, with specificity, the medical
condition(s) that led YOUR medical
provider(s) to prescribe YOU Gabapentin.
84. Please state, with specificity, when you were first
prescribed Gabapentin.
85. Please state, with specificity, the medical
condition(s) that led YOUR medical
provider(s) to prescribe YOU Pristiq.
86. Please state, with specificity, when you were first
prescribed Pristiq.
87. Please state, with specificity, the medical
condition(s) that led YOUR medical
provider(s) to prescribe YOU Crestor.
88. Please state, with specificity, when you were first
prescribed Crestor.
93. Please state, with specificity, when YOU were
arrested for Driving Under the
Influence (DUI).
94. Describe YOUR Blood Alcohol Content (BAC) that led to
YOUR arrest for DUI.
95. IDENTIFY any and all family members with knowledge of
YOU being arrested for
DUI.
 
(Ex. G
[notably, this exhibit does not show SROG no. 82].) 
 
Plaintiff shows good cause for Kasra to answer the interrogatories.
On their face, the above nine interrogatories are not excessive or overly
burdensome to answer. Plaintiff explains that a central issue of this action is
whether Defendant’s operation of his vehicle at the time of the Subject
Incident caused or contributed to the traffic collision. The above SROGs seek
information related to Kasra’s intoxication at the time of the collision and
Kasra’s ability to perceive or remember the collision. Thus, the above SROGs
are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
Additionally, these SROGs logically stem from topics
Kasra testified about at his deposition. Notably, Kasra testified at deposition
that he took Gabapentin approximately 3 times a day around the time of the
incident and took other medications as well. Kasra also testified that he had a
DUI conviction in 2004. Plaintiff provides a transcript of the deposition, and
it does not appear that Kasra testified to any of the information sought by the
SROGs. Plaintiff may reasonably follow up with questions regarding those topics
at deposition, without going through the additional expense of a second
deposition. Moreover, these questions are not duplicative with any other
discovery, including the testimony at deposition or RFAs. Therefore, the Court
cannot conclude that these interrogatories were intended to annoy, embarrass or
harass. 
 
Accordingly, the motion for a protective order is DENIED
as to SROGs, set 4.
 
 
RFAs Set 2
 
Defendant Nasser argues that the RFAs are burdensome,
duplicative, and propounded for the purpose of harassment. The RFAs make the
following requests:
 
24. Admit that Defendant KASRA MIZBAN was the cause of
the INCIDENT which
is the
subject of this litigation.
25. Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, DEFENDANT
KASRA MIZBAN was
in violation
of Vehicle Code 22350.
26. Admit that at the time of the INCIDENT, DEFENDANT
KASRA MIZBAN was
inattentive.
27. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN did not slow down
as he
approached
this Propounding Party’s vehicle on the date of the INCIDENT.
28. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN was not paying
attention to vehicles
around him
prior to the impact involved in this INCIDENT.
29. Admit that Defendant KASRA MIZBAN was texting prior
to the impact involved
in this
INCIDENT.
30. Admit that Defendant KASRA MIZBAN was on his cellular
telephone prior to
the impact
involved in this INCIDENT.
31. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN consumed alcoholic
beverages
within two
hours or less, prior to the INCIDENT
32. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN consumed marijuana
on the date of
the INCIDENT
33. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN consumed marijuana
within two
hours or
less, prior to the INCIDENT.
34. Admit that YOU must not operate a motor vehicle,
while under the influence of
any alcoholic
beverage, marijuana, or other recreational drug.
35. Admit that YOU must not operate a motor vehicle,
while under the influence of
any
medications that may impair YOUR motor skills.
36. Admit that YOU Defendant KASRA MIZBAN is unemployed.
37. Admit that YOU support Defendant KASRA MIZBAN
financially.
38. Admit that YOU Defendant KASRA MIZBAN resides with
YOU.
39. Admit that YOU are a board eligible Medical
Doctor(M.D.).
40. Admit that at your deposition on April 29, 2022, you
testified that you were not aware of any medications that Defendant Kasra
Mizban was taking in October 2019.
41. Admit that Defendant KASRA MIZBAN has a prescription
to Gabapentin.
42. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN took Gabapentin on
the date of the
incident.
43. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN Gabapentin
prescription requires
him to take
Gabapentin on a daily basis.
44. Admit that some of the side effects of Gabapentin
include but are not limited to
loss of
memory.
45. Admit that some of the side effects of Gabapentin
include but are not limited to
blurred
vision.
46. Admit that some of the side effects of Gabapentin
include but are not limited to
sleepiness
and/or drowsiness.
47. Admit that some of the side effects of Gabapentin
include, but are not limited to
clumsiness,
and/or unsteadiness.
48. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN has a prescription
to Pristiq.
49. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN took Pristiq on the
date of the
incident.
50. Admit that some of the side effects of Pristiq
include but are not limited to
dizziness.
51. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN has a prescription
to Propranolol.
52. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN took Propranolol on
the date of the
incident.
53. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN has a prescription
to Crestor.
54. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN took Crestor on the
date of the
incident.
55. Admit that some of the side effects of Crestor
include but are not limited to
dizziness.
55. Admit that at your deposition on April 29, 2022, you
testified that you had no
knowledge of
Defendant KASRA MIZBAN’S Driving Under the Influence(DUI) conviction.
56. Admit that DEFENDANT KASRA MIZBAN has been convicted
of Driving
Under the
Influence(DUI).
57. Admit that Defendant KASRA MIZBAN was arrested for
Driving Under the
Influence (DUI).
58. Admit that YOU bailed out Defendant KASRA MIZBAN from
jail following his
arrest for
Driving Under the Influence(DUI).
59. Admit that at your deposition on April 29, 2022, you
testified that you took
Defendant
KASRA MIZBAN’S driving privileges after the subject INCIDENT.
 
Defendant does not show good cause for a protective order
because Defendant does not show that the RFAs are burdensome to answer,
duplicative of other discovery, or propounded for the purpose of harassment. Defendant
argues that these RFAs mirror the RFAs propounded on Defendant Kasra Mizban, to
which Kasra already responded. However, the RFAs would not be duplicative for
this reason, as Nasser admits that he has not answered these RFAs or substantially
identical questions during discovery. Moreover, given that Kasra has already
answered these questions without unreasonable expense or burden, then Nasser
may also reasonably answer the RFAs without unreasonable expense or burden.
 
The Court is not persuaded that the above RFAs are
designed solely to harass or are otherwise improper. The fact that the police
determined that Kasra was not intoxicated or on his cellphone at the time of
the collision is not case dispositive. The Court’s ruling at MSJ on Nasser’s independent
liability for negligent entrustment does not permit Nasser to ignore discovery
related to the other pending claims. Simply put, the pending claims are not
dependent on Kasra’s competence or fitness to drive, or Nasser’s awareness of
the same. Thus, the MSJ ruling would not limit the discovery sought here. 
 
Nasser also shows that a protective order permitting
Nasser not to answer these RFAs is moot. In the notice of non-opposition,
Nasser states that he served responses to all these RFAs on November 14,
2023, including substantive responses and objections. (Notice of non-Opposition,
Ex. A.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion for a protective order is DENIED
as to RFA set 2. 