  Case Number:  19SMCV01614    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Singer v. Related
Cal. Urban Housing, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV01614
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses to SDT served on Non-Party Deponent Related
Management Company, LP
HEARING DATE:   4/5/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            Personal service of a
deposition subpoena obligates the production of whatever documents or things
are specified in the subpoena and to appear in any proceedings to enforce
discovery. (CCP § 2020.220(c). If a nonparty disobeys a deposition subpoena,
the subpoenaing party may seek a court order pursuant to CCP section 1987.1
compelling the nonparty to comply with the subpoena within 60 days after
completion of the deposition record. (CCP § 2025.480(b); see also UnzippedApparel, LLC v. Bader
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.)
 
The motion must be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration. (CCP § 2025.480(b).) There is no “good cause”
requirement when seeking to compel documents from a nonparty. (CCP §
2020.410(c).)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff
Singer moves to compel a further response and production by nonparty deponent
Related Management Company, L.P. Specifically, Singer seeks responses to the
subpoena for business records served on November 17, 2023, which requested that
Related Management produce six categories of documents: 
1) a copy of
its limited partnership agreement; 
2) a copy of
its contract with The Waverly’s governing association; 
3) all documents
mentioning or related to the curtain wall and window systems at The Waverly; 
4) all documents
mentioning or related to problems with the curtain wall and window systems at
The Waverly; 
5) all
documents mentioning or related to water intrusion through and around the curtain
wall and window systems at The Waverly; and 
6) all
communications and electronic-mail sent or received by Related Management
concerning problems with and/or water intrusion through the curtain wall and
window systems at The Waverly. (Wolff Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) 
 
Plaintiff
contends that Related Management’s response and production was insufficient.
Related Management served an unverified response to the subpoena on January 5,
2024. Production consisted solely of: 1) its limited partnership agreement and management
contract with The Waverly Owners Association, in compliance with the first two categories
of subpoenaed documents, and 2) thirty one work orders dating from February
2017 through March 2023 in response to the third through
fifth categories. As to the sixth category of documents, Related Management’s
counsel represented that no such documents exist. (Id., ¶ 5, Ex. D.) 
 
Related Management’s response
is insufficient pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2020.430 and Evidence
Code sections 1560-1563. “[I]f a deposition subpoena commands only the
production of business records for copying, the custodian of the records or
other qualified person shall… deliver both of the following only to the
deposition officer specified in the subpoena: (1) A true, legible, and durable
copy of the records [; and] (2) An affidavit in compliance with Section 1561 of
the Evidence Code.” (CCP § 2020.430(a).) Evidence Code section 1561(a)-(b)
provides that the production of records “shall be accompanied by the
affidavit of the custodian or other qualified witness, stating in substance
each of the following: 
 
(1) The affiant is the duly
authorized custodian of the records or other qualified witness and has
authority to certify the records.
(2) The copy is a true copy
of all the records described in the subpoena duces tecum or search warrant, or
pursuant to subdivision (e) of Section 1560, the records were delivered to the
attorney, the attorney's representative, or deposition officer for copying at
the custodian's or witness' place of business, as the case may be.
(3) The records were prepared
by the personnel of the business in the ordinary course of business at or near
the time of the act, condition, or event.
(4) The identity of the
records.
(5) A description of the mode
of preparation of the records.
 
(b) If the business has none
of the records described, or only part thereof, the custodian or other
qualified witness shall so state in the affidavit, and deliver the affidavit
and those records that are available in one of the manners provided in Section
1560.”
 
As noted, Related’s custodian
of records did not provide the required affidavit as a part of their production
on January 5, 2024. (Wolff Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. D.) Thus, a further response is
required. Moreover, Plaintiff’s counsel notes that since 2014, Related
Management communicated extensively with homeowners, board members, developer/affiliate
representatives, and vendors about the water intrusion issues, and that
responsive documents must therefore exist. (Id., ¶ 6, Ex. A, at pp. 9-10.) Plaintiff
demonstrates that Singer herself has sent responsive emails to Related,
necessarily showing the document production was incomplete. During meet and
confer efforts, Related Management represented that they may have destroyed
responsive communications because of a “one year retention policy,” but there
is no evidentiary support for this position. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.

 
Further responses are ordered
within 10 days.