 Case Number:  22STCV19883    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants Aurora Charter
Oak – Los Angeles, LLC and Signature Healthcare Services, LLC’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Jacob
Rodriguez
Defendants Aurora Charter
Oak – Los Angeles, LLC and Signature Healthcare Services, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Jacob
Rodriguez
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Aurora Charter
Oak – Los Angeles, LLC and Signature Healthcare Services, LLC’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendants Aurora Charter
Oak – Los Angeles, LLC and Signature Healthcare Services, LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED IN PART without leave
to amend as to the punitive damages allegations and DENIED IN PART as to all
other grounds.
Defendants to answer Plaintiff’s
Complaint, with punitive damages stricken, within ten (10) days.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from an alleged attack that occurred in a psychiatric
hospital. In July 2019, Plaintiff Jacob Rodriguez was an in-patient at Aurora
Charter Oak Hospital which was under the control of Defendants Aurora Charter
Oak – Los Angeles, LLC (Aurora) and Signature Healthcare Services, LLC
(Signature). On July 25, Rodriguez was participating in a group counseling
session at Aurora Charter Oak Hospital when hospital staff asked Rodriguez to
leave after Rodriguez allegedly used offensive language. After Rodriguez left
the session, Rodriguez alleges three hospital staff members including
Defendants Jovan Thompson, Marc Torres, and Roberto Sotelo took Rodriguez back
to Rodriguez’s room where they attacked Rodriguez. When Rodriguez’s mother
learned of Rodriguez’s injuries, Rodriguez alleges hospital staff told
Rodriguez’s mother that the injuries were self-inflicted. Rodriguez’s mother
then got law enforcement involved which resulted in Thompson being charged with
child abuse and battery. In July 2021, Thompson pled guilty to the battery
charge.
On
June 17, 2022, Rodriguez, by and through guardian ad litem Sabrina Rodriguez,
filed a complaint against Aurora, Signature, Thompson, Torres, Sotelo, and Does
1-30, alleging the following causes of action: (1) assault and battery, (2) negligence,
(3) negligent hiring, training, supervision, and/or retention of unfit
employees, (4) negligence per se, (5) negligent infliction of emotional
distress (NIED), (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED), and
(7) false imprisonment.
On September
28, 2023, Aurora and Signature (collectively, Aurora Defendants) filed the
present demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to filing on September 27, the
Aurora Defendants’ counsel attempted to meet and confer with Rodriguez’s
counsel by calling counsel’s office and received no response. (Charles Decl., ¶
4.)
A hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike is set for November 8, 2023.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
The
Aurora Defendants demur to Rodriguez’s entire Complaint. For the following
reasons, the court OVERRULES the demurrer in its entirety.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Assault and Battery (First Cause of Action)
The
Aurora Defendants argue Rodriguez’s first cause of action for assault and
battery fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because (1) Rodriguez
failed to establish the Aurora Defendants are vicariously liable for the
actions of Thompson, Torres, and Sotelo, and (2) Rodriguez failed to establish
the Aurora Defendants ratified the alleged assault and battery. The court disagrees
with regards to the first issue.
Legal
Standard
Pursuant
to “the doctrine of respondeat superior, an employer is vicariously liable for
his employee’s torts committed within the scope of the employment.” (Perez
v. Van Groningen & Sons, Inc. (1986) 41 Cal.3d 962, 967 (Perez).)
Furthermore, “an employee’s willful, malicious and even criminal torts may fall
within the scope of his or her employment for purposes of respondeat superior,
even though the employer has not authorized the employee to commit crimes
or intentional torts.” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995)
12 Cal.4th 291, 296.) But such torts must “have a causal nexus to the employee’s
work” and must be foreseeable considering the tortfeasor’s duties. (Id.,
at p. 297, 299.) “Generally, the issue of scope of employment is a question of
fact. [Citation] However, the issue becomes a question of law when the facts
are undisputed and no conflicting inferences are possible.” (Perez, supra,
41 Cal.3d at p. 968.)
Discussion
In
this case, the Aurora Defendants argue Rodriguez failed to allege it was
predictable or foreseeable that their staff would assault Rodriguez. But while
Rodriguez did not specifically make that allegation, Rodriguez alleged sufficient
facts to establish the required causal nexus between the hospital staff’s
duties and the alleged assault. Rodriguez alleged Thompson, Torres, and Sotelo
committed the assault and battery as part of the business that they were
authorized to transact for the Aurora Defendants. (Complaint, ¶ 32.) Specifically,
Rodriguez alleged the incident occurred after another hospital staff member
told Thompson that Rodriguez “needed to be taught a lesson.” (Complaint, ¶ 13.)
Furthermore, Rodriguez alleged Rodriguez was under the exclusive control of all
defendants. (Complaint, ¶ 10.)
In Samantha
B. v. Aurora Vista Del Mar, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 85, the court held whether
a mental hospital’s staff member was acting within the scope of employment when
the staff member sexually abused a patient was a question for the jury. (Id.,
at p. 108.) And here, a jury could also find the battery and assault of
Rodriguez occurred with the scope of the Aurora Defendants’ hospital staff’s
duty to control and care for patients. To the extent Rodriguez failed to allege
the specific duties and responsibilities for these staff members, the court
finds such specificity is not required where “the allegations indicate that
‘the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts
of the controversy’” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 158, quoting Bradley v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973)
30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825) or if “the facts lie more in the knowledge of the
opposite party.” (Ibid, quoting Turner v. Milstein (1951) 103
Cal.App.2d 651, 658.)
Accordingly,
the court finds Rodriguez adequately alleged the Aurora Defendants are
vicariously liable for the alleged assault and battery committed by their staff.  Therefore, the Aurora Defendants’ demurrer to
this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Negligence (Second Cause of Action)
The
Aurora Defendants contend Rodriguez’s second cause of action for negligence
failed to plead sufficient facts to state a claim since it should be a cause of
action for professional negligence. The court finds Defendants’ assertion an
improper ground for a demurrer.
“Since
the standard of care remains constant in terms of ‘ordinary prudence,’ it is
clear that denominating a cause of action as one for ‘professional negligence’
does not transmute its underlying character. For substantive purposes, it
merely serves to establish the basis by which ‘ordinary prudence’ will be
calculated and the defendant’s conduct evaluated. Nor does it distinguish a
claim separate and independent from some other form of negligence. As to
any given defendant, only one standard of care obtains under a particular set
of facts, even if the plaintiff attempts to articulate multiple or alternate
theories of liability.” (Flowers v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical
Center (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992, 998 (Flowers).)
Instead,
the distinction between ordinary and professional negligence only becomes an
issue when dealing with the different statutes of limitations or the Medical
Injury Compensation Reform Act’s (MICRA) limitations on professional negligence
claims. (Id., at p. 998-999.) Here, the Aurora Defendants failed to
argue how Rodriguez’s negligence claim is barred by MICRA or the applicable
statute of limitations. Additionally, the Aurora Defendants failed to articulate
how this cause of action failed to state a claim for negligence.
In
fact, the court notes that none of the authorities cited by the Aurora
Defendants in their argument on this ground address demurrers. (See id.,
at p. 996 [summary judgment]; Canister v. Emergency Ambulance Service, Inc. (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 388, 393 [summary adjudication on applicability of MICRA]; Lathrop
v. HealthCare Partners Medical Group (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1417-1418
[ruling on applicability of MICRA after jury verdict]; Murillo v. Good
Samaritan Hospital (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 50, 52 [summary judgment on statute
of limitations grounds].) Thus, the court finds the Aurora Defendants ailed to
demonstrate how any distinction between professional and ordinary negligence is
material to Rodriguez’s ability to state a claim.
Accordingly,
the Aurora Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision, and Retention
(Third Cause of Action)
The
Aurora Defendants maintain Rodriguez’s third cause of action for negligent
hiring, training, supervision, and retention failed to plead sufficient facts
to state a claim because it is duplicative of Rodriguez’s second cause of
action. The court disagrees.
The
court acknowledges there is a split of authority on whether a demurrer can be
sustained on grounds that a cause of action is duplicative. In Blickman
Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858 (Blickman
Turkus), the Sixth District Court of Appeal held a demurrer could not be
sustained on grounds that it is duplicative pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10. (Id., at p. 890.) In Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268 (Palm Springs
Villas), the Fourth District Court of Appeal held the opposite, noting a
duplicative cause of action is grounds upon which a demurrer may be sustained
according to Rodrigues v. Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494,
501 (Rodrigues). (Palm Springs Villas, supra, 248
Cal.App.4th at p. 290.)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.10 authorizes a party to bring a demurrer on
eight different grounds, none of which explicitly include grounds that a cause
of action is duplicative or superfluous. In Rodrigues, the Fourth
District Court of Appeal noted the cause of action at issue merely combined all
the previous causes of action and did not add anything to the complaint by way
or fact or theory of recovery. (Rodrigues, supra, 87 Cal.App.3d
at p. 498, 501.) However, this court finds the reasoning of Blickman Turkus more
persuasive. Noting the jurisprudential maxim that “superfluity does not
vitiate” (Civ. Code, § 3537), the court held “[t]his is the sort of defect
that, if it justifies any judicial intervention at all, is ordinarily dealt
with most economically at trial, or on a dispositive motion such as summary
judgment.” (Blickman Turkus, supra, 162 Cal.App.4th at p. 890.)
Accordingly,
because a duplicative cause of action is not grounds for demurrer, the Aurora
Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Negligence Per Se (Fourth Cause of Action)
The
Aurora Defendants argue Rodriguez’s fourth cause of action for negligence per
se failed to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because it is duplicative.
But as the court noted previously, this is not proper grounds for a demurrer. (Ibid.)
Accordingly,
the Aurora Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
NIED (Fifth Cause of Action)
The
Aurora Defendants contend Rodriguez’s fifth cause of action for NIED failed to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim because it is duplicative. But as the
court noted previously, this is not proper grounds for a demurrer. (Ibid.)
Accordingly,
the Aurora Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
IIED (Sixth Cause of Action)
The
Aurora Defendants maintain Rodriguez’s sixth cause of action for IIED failed to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim because Rodriguez did not alleged
intentional conduct on the behalf of the Aurora Defendants.  The court disagrees.
As
noted above with regards to the first cause of action for assault and battery,
the court found the Complaint adequately alleged the Aurora Defendants vicarious
liability for Thompson, Torres, and Sotelo’s alleged assault and battery of
Rodriguez. For the same reasons, the court finds Complaint also adequately
alleged intentional conduct by Aurora Defendants when Thompson, Torres, and
Sotelo’s committed the alleged assault and battery as part of the business that
they were authorized to transact for the Aurora Defendants.
Accordingly,
the Aurora Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
False Imprisonment (Seventh Cause of Action)
Although
the Aurora Defendants’ demurrer stated it demurred to Rodriguez’s seventh cause
of action for false imprisonment, the demurrer only briefly mentioned the cause
of action in the introduction, failed to discuss it further, and failed to cite
any legal authority. The Aurora Defendants also briefly mentioned the cause of
action in their reply but again failed to include any legal authority to
support their argument.
Thus,
the court finds the Aurora Defendants failed to adequately develop their
argument on this issue and summarily OVERRULES the demurrer to this cause
of action.
Motion to Strike
The
Aurora Defendants move to strike punitive damages and all evidentiary,
conclusory, or irrelevant allegations from Rodriguez’s Complaint. For the
following reasons, the court GRANTS IN PART Defendants’ motion as to the punitive damages
without leave to amend, and DENIES the motion on all other grounds.
Legal Standard
Upon
a party’s motion or the court’s own motion, the court may strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
Punitive Damages
The
Aurora Defendants argue the striking of punitive damages is appropriate on the
grounds that Rodriguez failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section
425.13. The court agrees.
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13, subdivision (a): 
“In any action for damages arising out of the
professional negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive
damages shall be included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court
enters an order allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive
damages to be filed. The court may allow the filing of an amended pleading
claiming punitive damages on a motion by the party seeking the amended pleading
and on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented that
the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294 of the Civil Code.
The court shall not grant a motion allowing the filing of an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive damages if the motion for such an order is
not filed within two years after the complaint or initial pleading is filed or
not less than nine months before the date the matter is first set for trial,
whichever is earlier.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a)
In
this case, the Aurora Defendants argue Rodriguez’s action arises out of the
alleged professional negligence of a healthcare provider. In opposition,
Rodriguez argues the Complaint does not include any allegation involving
medical care. But Rodriguez misconstrues Rodriguez’s own Complaint which
specifically alleges the Aurora Defendants were negligent in addressing
Rodriguez’s behavior during the subject therapy session. (Complaint, ¶ 38.)
Rodriguez
also contends there are no allegations that Thompson, Torres, or Sotelo were
licensed medical professionals or were rendering care. But in Flores v.
Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital (2016) 63 Cal.4th 75 (Flores),
our supreme court already rejected such a narrow approach by noting “[a]
medical professional or other hospital staff member may commit a negligent act
in rendering medical care, thereby causing a patient’s injury, even where no
particular medical skills were required to complete the task at hand.” (Id.,
at p. 85.) Examples of such negligent acts that involve professional
services include failing to prevent a janitor from accidently disconnecting a
patient’s oxygen ventilator while cleaning the patient’s room, failing to
prevent a hospital employee from accidently giving the wrong type of food to a
patient with a special diet, and failing to properly secure a patient to a
hospital gurney. (Id., at p. 85-86.)
Ultimately,
by alleging the Aurora Defendants were negligent by improperly addressing
Rodriguez’s therapy session behavior and were negligent in failing to implement
policies for patient safety and security, the court finds Rodriguez’s action is
one arising out of the alleged professional negligence of a healthcare
provider.
Accordingly,
because the court finds Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13 is applicable to
Rodriguez’s Complaint, the court GRANTS the Aurora Defendants’ motion to strike punitive
damages allegations from the Complaint.
Irrelevant Allegations
The Aurora Defendants also argue
the court should strike all evidentiary, conclusory, inflammatory, and
irrelevant allegations from the Complaint. But while the Aurora Defendants list
the challenged paragraphs in their notice of motion, they failed to provide
specific argument and legal authority for why each paragraph should be
stricken. Thus, the court finds Defendants failed to adequately develop their
argument and summarily DENIES their motion to strike as to these
allegations.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
Aurora Defendants’ demurrer to Rodriguez’s Complaint is OVERRULED in its
entirety.
Furthermore, the Aurora Defendants’ motion to strike portions of Rodriguez’s Complaint is GRANTED IN PART without leave to amend as to the punitive damages allegations and DENIED IN PART on all other grounds.  Defendants to answer Plaintiff’s Complaint, with punitive damages stricken, within ten (10) days. 
