  Case Number:  21PSCV00901    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant B.R. Building Resources Company’s Application
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant B.R. Building Resources Company’s
Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising from a construction project. In May
2017, Plaintiff Brian Vosberg entered into a written agreement with Defendant
B.R. Building Resources Company (B.R.) in which B.R. agreed to provide
demolition, design, and construction services for a construction project that
involved a commercial building in Glendora. Vosberg alleges B.R.’s services
were inadequate and resulted in project delays that damaged Vosberg
financially.
On
November 4, 2021, Vosberg, in his capacity as a trustee of the Vosberg Family
Trust, filed a complaint against B.R. and Does 1-200, alleging the following
causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) negligence, (3) unfair business
practices, and (4) violation of contractors license laws.
On
September 18, 2023, B.R. filed a notice of settlement and the present motion. A
hearing on the motion is set for November 8.
ANALYSIS
B.R.
moves for a determination of good faith settlement with Vosberg. For the
following reasons, the court GRANTS the motion.
Legal Standard
In
a noticed motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision
(a)(1), “[a]ny party to an action in which it is alleged that two or more
parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be
entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors.” “A determination by the court that the settlement was made in
good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further
claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative
contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative
negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)
In Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt),
the supreme court identified factors courts consider when determining if a
settlement is in good faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. However,
when the good faith nature of a settlement is uncontested, the court need not
consider and weigh the Tech-Bilt factors. (City of Grand Terrace v.
Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261.) “[W]hen no one objects,
the barebones motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by
a declaration which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.” (Ibid.)
Discussion
In
this case, the court finds B.R.’s application adequately describes the
background of this case. The court also finds the motion provides sufficient
reasoning as to why the settlement was reached in good faith with B.R.’s motion
stating a settlement amount of $600,000 is not disproportionate to the potential
liability in this matter. B.R. also states there is no evidence of any collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed at injuring the interests of non-settling
parties.
Accordingly,
because the court is not in receipt of any timely opposition and the motion provides
sufficient grounds for a good faith determination, it is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS B.R.’s motion for a determination of good faith settlement.
