 Case Number:  23PSCV02792    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  G Defendants Arturo Salvador’s Motion to Quash Service
of Summons for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction
Respondent: Plaintiff Wilfredo
Machado Pacheco
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Arturo Salvador’s Motion to Quash Service
of Summons for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction is DENIED.
Defendant Salvador to file
a responsive pleading to Plaintiff’s Complaint in twenty (20) days.
BACKGROUND
This is an action for breach
of contract and fraud. In March 2021, Plaintiff Wilfredo Machado Pacheco
entered into an alleged agreement with Defendant Arturo Salvador in which
Machado Pacheco agreed to invest $300,000 in Salvador’s transportation business.
In exchange, Salvador allegedly promised to transfer the titles for twenty-one of
the business’s tractor-trailer vehicles to Machado Pacheco. After Machado
Pacheco transferred $307,200 to Salvador and Salvador’s business partners,
Salvador allegedly failed to transfer the titles or return the money.
On September 12, 2023,
Machado Pacheco filed a complaint against Salvador and Does 1-10, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) fraud, (2) breach of oral contract, (3) conversion,
and (4) common counts. On September 18, Machado Pacheco’s process server served
Salvador with substitute service in Brentwood, New York.
On October 12, 2023, Salvador
filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion is set for November 8 with a
case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service on
February 14, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Salvador
moves to quash Machado Pacheco’s service of summons on the grounds that the court
lacks personal jurisdiction over Salvador. For the following reasons, the court
DENIES
Salvador’s
motion.
Legal Standard
“A defendant,
on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further
time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of
motion . . . [t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)
“When
a nonresident defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the¿evidence that all
necessary jurisdictional criteria are met.” (Jewish Defense Organization,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 72 Cal. App. 4th 1045, 1054-1055, quoting Ziller
Electronics Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222,
1232-1233 (Ziller).) A plaintiff meets this burden by providing
“competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary evidence.” (Id.,
at p. 1055, quoting Ziller, supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at p.
1232-1233.)
“Personal
jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445 (Vons
Companies).) “A nonresident defendant may be subject to the¿general¿jurisdiction
of the forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are ‘substantial . .
.  continuous and systematic.’” (Ibid, quoting Perkins v.
Benguet Consol. Mining Co. (1952) 342 U.S. 437, 445-446.) “In that
situation, the cause of action need not be related to the defendant's
contacts.” (Thomson v. Anderson (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 258, 266.) “Such
a defendant's contacts with the forum are so wide-ranging that they take the
place of physical presence in the forum as a basis for jurisdiction.” (Vons
Companies, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 446.)
“Specific
jurisdiction results when the defendant’s contacts with the forum state, though
not enough to subject the defendant to the general jurisdiction of the forum,
are sufficient to subject the defendant to suit in the forum on a cause of
action related to or arising out of those contacts.” (Aquila, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 569-570, quoting Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 536 (Sonora
Diamond).) “Specific jurisdiction exists if: (1) the defendant has
purposefully availed itself of forum benefits with respect to the matter in
controversy; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out of the defendant’s
contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of jurisdiction would comport
with fair play and substantial justice.” (Id., at p. 570, quoting Sonora
Diamond, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at p. 536.) “[C]ourts must additionally evaluate
‘the burden on the defendant of appearing in the forum, the forum state’s
interest in adjudicating the claim, the plaintiff’s interest in convenient and
effective relief within the forum, judicial economy, and the shared interest of
the several states in furthering fundamental substantive social policies.’” (Id.,
quoting Vons Companies, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 447-448.)
Discussion
In
this case, Salvador argues personal jurisdiction is lacking because Salvador is
a resident of New York and has no contact with California. In response, Machado Pacheco argues the court has specific
jurisdiction over Salvador.
Purposeful Availment
Purposeful availment is
defined “as involving variously a nonresident who has ‘purposefully directed’
his or her activities at forum residents [Citation], or who has ‘purposefully
derived benefit’ from forum activities [Citation], or ‘purposefully
avail[ed himself or herself] of the privilege of conducting activities within
the forum State, thus invoking the benefits and protections of its laws.’
[Citation.]” (Vons Companies, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 446,
quoting Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 472, 473,
475 (Burger King).)
Here, Machado Pacheco argues
a contract with a California resident is sufficient to establish purposeful
availment and relies on McGee v. International Life Ins. Co. (1957) 355
U.S. 220 (McGee). There, the U.S. Supreme Court held due process did not
prevent an out-of-state insurer from being held liable in California where the
insured was a California resident, the insurance contract was sent to
California, and the insurance premiums were paid from California. (Id.,
at p. 223.) But the U.S. Supreme Court has also “emphasized the need for a ‘highly
realistic’ approach that recognizes that a ‘contract’ is ‘ordinarily but an
intermediate step serving to tie up prior business negotiations with future consequences
which themselves are the real object of the business transaction.’” (Burger
King, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 479, quoting Hoopeston Canning Co. v.
Cullen (1943) 318 U.S. 313, 316-317.) This approach requires a review of “prior
negotiations and contemplated future consequences, along with the terms of the
contract and the parties' actual course of dealing.” (Ibid.)
In this case, Machado Pacheco
alleges Salvador voluntarily contacted Machado Pacheco in California with an
offer to invest $300,000 in Salvador’s transportation business in exchange for
the titles of twenty-one tractor-trailers. (Complaint, ¶ 6; Machado Pacheco
Decl., ¶ 2.) Machado Pacheco claims the offer was accepted in California and
that from March 2021 to April 2022, Machado Pacheco tendered performance in
California by wiring $307,200 from Machado Pacheco’s California bank accounts
to out-of-state and foreign bank accounts. (Complaint, ¶ 7; Machado Pacheco
Decl., ¶ 4.) In response, Salvador argues this alleged contract was never
performed or required to be performed in California as the transportation
business operated in Central America and involved payments wired to financial
institutions outside of California. But Salvador’s argument ignores the fact
that those wire payments were made from California and induced by
communications from Salvador to Machado Pacheco in California.
Furthermore, at least part of
the performance was set to occur in California as Salvador had allegedly
promised to send the titles for the twenty-one tractor-trailers to Machado
Pacheco in California. (Complaint, ¶ 6.) Ultimately, when looking at the
totality of the circumstances, the court finds purposeful availment as Salvador
communicated an offer to a California resident, entered into an oral agreement
with a California resident, received funds from a California resident, and breached
the agreement by failing to send the vehicle titles or return the funds to the
California resident.
In addition, “numerous courts
have found the purposeful direction requirement met where the nonresident
defendant purposefully sent tortious communications into a forum and thereby
injured its residents.” (Casey v. Hill (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 937, 966
[collecting cases].) Here, Machado Pacheco alleges Salvador purposefully sent
communications to Machado Pacheco in California that constituted false
representations with the intent and result of defrauding Machado Pacheco. (Complaint,
¶ 10-12.)
Thus, the court finds Plaintiff
established the first element of purposeful availment.
Nexus of Controversy
and Contact
The second prong of specific
jurisdiction requires that “[t]he dispute must arise out of or have a
substantial connection to the defendant's contacts with the forum state.” (Bridgestone
Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 767, 777 (Bridgestone).)
“A claim need not arise directly from the defendant's forum contacts in order
to be sufficiently related to the contact to warrant the exercise of specific
jurisdiction. Rather, as long as the claim bears a substantial connection to
the nonresident's forum contacts, the exercise of specific jurisdiction is
appropriate.” (Vons Companies, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 452.)
In this case, the controversy
arises directly from Salvador’s contacts with California in the form of the
communications sent to Machado Pacheco. These communications both created the
promise to perform which Salvador allegedly breached and constituted false
representations that induced Machado Pacheco to invest in Salvador’s business. Thus,
the court finds Plaintiff established this required nexus.
Fair Play and
Substantial Justice
“[I]n evaluating the
reasonableness of personal jurisdiction, a court must consider (1) the burden
on the foreign defendant of defending an action in the forum state; (2) the
forum state’s interest in adjudicating the dispute; (3) the plaintiff's
interest in obtaining relief; (4) judicial economy; and (5) the states’ shared
interest ‘in furthering fundamental substantive social policies.’ [Citation.]
When minimum contacts are established, the interests of the plaintiff and forum
state often outweigh the serious burdens imposed on a foreign defendant.” (Bridgestone,
supra, 99 Cal.App.4th at p. 778, quoting Asahi Metal Industry Co.,
Ltd v. Superior Court (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)
In this case, it cannot be
denied that California “has a manifest interest in providing a local forum for
its residents to redress injuries inflicted by out-of-state defendants.” (Integral
Development Corp. v. Weissenbach (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 576, 591.) And by
targeting a California resident, Salvador “could fairly expect to have been
held ‘answerable on a claim related to those activities.’” (Dongxiao Yue v.
Wenbin Yang (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 539, 550, quoting Keeton v. Hustler
Magazine, Inc. (1984) 465 U.S. 770, 776.)
In opposition, Salvador claims
defending this action in California would impose “significant inconvenience,
burdens, and prejudice.” (Salvador Decl., ¶ 10.) But while Salvador claims potential
witnesses who can testify in support of Salvador’s defenses reside in El
Salvador, Salvador does not provide any further detail to clarify who these
witnesses are or what defenses they will support. (Salvador Decl., ¶ 10.) And
while the court has no doubt that defending an action in California will be
burdensome and inconvenient for a New York defendant, the court also notes Salvador
has operated a transportation business in Central America while living in New
York. Ultimately, as noted in Bridgestone, even a serious burden or
inconvenience for Salvador is outweighed by the interests of Machado Pacheco
and the state.
Accordingly,
the court DENIES Salvador’s motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Salvador’s
motion to quash the service of summons is DENIED.
Defendant Salvador to file a
responsive pleading to Plaintiff’s Complaint in twenty (20) days.