 Case Number:  23GDCV00574    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  6 Date: 5/24/2024 Case No:  23 GDCV00574 Trial Date: June 2, 2025 Case Name: Ordookhanian v. County of Los Angeles, et al.  MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSESTO INTERROGATORIES (2)Moving Party:  Plaintiff Ardrineh Ordookhanian  Responding Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles   RELIEF REQUESTED:Further Responses to Form Interrogatories  Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set OneMONETARY SANCTION  None sought CRC separate statement, etc.:   Yes DECLARATION SUPPORTING MOTION:Reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally:  Not since supplemental responses served FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiff Adrineh Ordookhanian alleges that she has been an employee of defendant County of Los Angeles (County) for over sixteen years, and in 2016 applied for a promotion within the County’s assessor’s office, for which she was fully qualified.  Plaintiff alleges that she scored 96% on the required test and received 100% positive ratings in her interviews, with the only remaining requirement being a background check, which the assessor’s office assigned to defendant Ivory Johnson. The complaint alleges that during this period, Johnson made overt sexual advances toward plaintiff, which plaintiff politely declined, and Johnson then became more aggressive and overt.  Johnson called plaintiff into a series of meetings to discuss her background check, demanding they meet in a remote hallway or in his office with the door closed, and during these closed-door meetings would take off his shoes and sit close to plaintiff, making her uncomfortable.  Johnson claimed there was a “problem” with the background check, and that he could “help” or “make the problem go away” if plaintiff would do something for him.  Plaintiff alleges that the clear and intended implication was that if plaintiff submitted to defendant’s sexual advances, he would approve her promotion.   Plaintiff alleges that when plaintiff declined, Johnson initiated a sham internal investigation of plaintiff, which resulted in her being denied the promotion and a 30-day suspension without pay.    Plaintiff alleges that time passed and in May of 2022, plaintiff again applied for a promotion.  She did so well in her first interview that the assessor’s office dispensed with the requirement for follow-up interviews and conditionally offered her the position.  The County then again assigned plaintiff’s background check to Johnson.  The complaint alleges that once again Johnson pretextually vetoed plaintiff’s promotion, rescinding it with the only stated reason being “Disqualification—due to the results of the background review or disclosure.”  Plaintiff alleges that, defying internal policy, Johnson provided no further explanation for the decision or any documentation reflecting the background check, and that the reasons for the rejection were obvious, as Johnson blocked the promotion based on plaintiff’s sex/gender and due to her refusal to submit to his sexual advances.    Plaintiff also alleges that plaintiff timely appealed the rescission of her job offer and reported ongoing discrimination, harassment and retaliation, but the County did nothing to investigate, but issued a series of administrative decisions, and in August of 2022, issued a decision, denying plaintiff’s appeal without giving her the opportunity to respond to Johnson’s allegations, and did nothing to investigate plaintiff’s complaint of harassment, discrimination and retaliation, effectively ratifying that conduct.  The complaint alleges that Johnson has engaged in similar conduct toward multiple female colleagues and subordinates, that this conduct is well known to the County, but that it has adopted an informal policy that it will not investigate the allegations or take action against Johnson to prevent the conduct from recurring, facilitating Johnson in continuing the conduct toward female employees. ANALYSIS:ProceduralMeet and Confer  The declaration submitted in support of the motion to compel further responses to special interrogatories shows that the parties met and conferred several times prior to the service of the supplemental responses on April 11, 2024.  [Robinson Decl., paras. 4-10, Exs. 3-10].  The declaration does not indicate that there was any further contact regarding the discovery dispute since the service of those responses, but that the motion was filed on April 19, 2024.  [Robinson Decl., para. 11].    The declaration submitted in support of the motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories attaches a copy of the supplemental responses to form interrogatories—Employment, indicates that, “The County did not supplement its responses to the Form Interrogatories—General at that time,” and states, “I have since written to the County’s counsel about the lack of responses but have not received a reply.”  [Robinson Decl., para. 11, Ex. 12].  Defendant in both oppositions indicates that counsel for plaintiff did not communicate further with counsel for defendant concerning the supplemental responses but filed the motions.   This statement is not confirmed in the declaration submitted with the opposition, however. The court is concerned that it does not appear that a good faith meet and confer occurred following the service of the supplemental responses, as the oppositions concede that several oversights or errors in the supplemental responses would have been voluntarily corrected had they been pointed out, and would not have required court intervention. Under CCP § 2030.300, a where a party brings a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories such a motion “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.Section 2016.040 requires:“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” The court will hear argument concerning whether an appropriate meet and confer occurred since the service of the supplemental responses, as it appears that without this meet and confer required under statute, many issues raised in the motion are a waste of this court’s time and resources.  The court in the future will expect that the parties fully comply with all meet and confer obligations in connection with this litigation.     SubstantiveUnder CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action...if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The section specifically provides that “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery may be obtained “of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”CCP § 2030.300(a) provides that if the party propounding interrogatories deems that an objection “is without merit or too general” or that “an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete…the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response...”If a timely motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully respond to discovery.  Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.  The granting or denial of a motion to compel is in the discretion of the trial court.  Coy, at 221-222.   A court should generally consider the following factors:The relationship of the information sought to the issues framed in the pleadings;The likelihood that disclosure will be of practical benefit to the party seeking discovery;The burden or expense likely to be encountered by the responding party in furnishing the information sought.Columbia Broadcast System, Inc. v. Superior Court (1968) 263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19.Form InterrogatoriesForm Interrogatories Nos. 12.1-12.3, 12.6 and 201.3 Defendant in the opposition indicates that defendant erroneously failed to provide supplemental responses to these form interrogatories, conceding that defendant had previously agreed to do so.  [Baker Decl., paras. 6-9, Ex. 5].  The motion accordingly is granted at the concession of defendant in the opposition, and further responses are ordered to be served.   The court is concerned that this motion appears to have been unnecessary as to the subject interrogatories had plaintiff simply pointed out the error to defendant’s counsel before preparing a motion.  The opposition seems to argue that the subject interrogatories call for the same information already provided in response to Employment Form Interrogatory No. 207.2.  The court does not find this argument to excuse providing full and complete Code compliant responses to each of the Judicial Council approved form interrogatories which are at issue here.  The opposition indicates that if the court determines that defendant should be put to the task of repeating the information in Employment Form Interrogatory No. 207.2 in response to the General Form Interrogatories, defendant will amend the responses.  The court has been presented with insufficient information to determine that there is any strict duplication in the inquiries involved here, and the court determines that defendant should fully comply with its discovery obligations, as well as the obligations it had undertaken in meet and confer efforts.   Further responses are ordered served which provide all information requested, and are full and complete and fully comply with the Discovery Act.Specifically, under CCP § 2030.210(a), a response to an interrogatory shall be separate as to each interrogatory and must contain the information sought to be discovered.Under CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”The court further observes that it is noted by the Second District in Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, “One glance at the form interrogatories approved by the Judicial Council, particularly the interrogatories in the 12.0 series, demonstrates how fundamentally routine the discovery of witness contact information is.”   Puerto, at 1250. Defendant in opposition to the motion has failed to justify any outstanding objections, and any further responses to these interrogatories are to be without objections.The court also notes that it does not find appropriate a response to an interrogatory which refers the propounding party to documents served in response to requests for production of documents.  See Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978, 2nd Dist..) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783-784 (“it is not proper to answer [an interrogatory] by stating ‘See my deposition,’ ‘See my pleading,’ or ‘See the financial statement.’”)Form Interrogatories No. 201.4 This interrogatory asks if the termination or adverse employment action referred to in previous form interrogatories was based in whole or in part on the employee’s job performance, and, if so, requests identification of the adverse employment action, the specific job performance that played a role in the action, any rules, guidelines, policies or procedures applied, any warnings given to the employee, and details concerning persons who had responsibility for evaluating job performance or knowledge of the specific job performance.  The response includes a series of objections, including objection to the definition of the term “adverse employment action” as overbroad, vague, and differing from the definition in the Labor Code, objections that the interrogatory invades the attorney client privilege or work product doctrine, and seeks information equally or more readily available to plaintiff.  The original response is then, without waiving objections:“Yes. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.210(a)(2), Defendant refers Plaintiff to the documents served concurrently herewith in response to the Request for Production of Documents.”The supplemental response is:“Defendant reiterates the foregoing objections. Without waiving, and subject to, the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: All non-privileged documents have previously been produced bearing Bates numbers: D00018 - D00036, D00200, D00224 - D00304, D00352 - D00455.” This supplemental response does not respond to each subpart of the interrogatory and is improper. As noted above, the Discovery Act provides for an objection to an interrogatory that information is “equally available” to the propounding party, but such an objection usually applies when a propounding party seeks to force another party to search public records equally available to both.   See Alpine Mutual Water Co. v. Superior Court (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 45, 53.  That situation is not the case here.  The information concerning the reason that defendant took an adverse employment action is clearly more available to defendant, which took the action, than it is to plaintiff, and plaintiff is entitled to this information.  Plaintiff argues that simply referring plaintiff to nearly 200 pages of documents is improper, and points out that the interrogatory does not fall under CCP section 2030.230. Defendant refers to CCP section 2030.210(a)(2), which provides that the party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing by “any of the following,” including (2) an exercise of the party’s option to produce writings.”  Such an option to produce is available under CCP § 2030.230, which provides: “If the answer to an interrogatory would necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary of or from the documents of the party to whom the interrogatory is directed, and if the burden or expense of preparing or making it would be substantially the same for the party propounding the interrogatory as for the responding party, it is a sufficient answer to that interrogatory to refer to this section and to specify the writings from which the answer may be derived or ascertained. This specification shall be in sufficient detail to permit the propounding party to locate and to identify, as readily as the responding party can, the documents from which the answer may be ascertained. The responding party shall then afford to the propounding party a reasonable opportunity to examine, audit, or inspect these documents and to make copies, compilations, abstracts, or summaries of them.” Defendant does not invoke this section and also does not qualify to use this procedure.  The interrogatory does not necessitate the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit, or summary, and it is not shown how any purported burden would be substantially the same for plaintiff.  This response is wholly improper. Defendant in opposition seems to argue that the interrogatory asks for every single detail regarding the adverse employment actions in this case, of which there are three, and then begins to provide a narrative which should have been provided in response to the interrogatory, under oath.  This response confirms that defendant is in possession of this information, can provide it, and that defendant cannot assert facts required to invoke the option to produce documents.   Plaintiff is entitled to full and complete Code compliant responses, which do not refer plaintiff to an assortment of documents and require plaintiff to derive the response from those materials.   The opposition also fails to refer to, or justify, any outstanding objections.     Defendant will be ordered to serve full and complete responses, which fully comply with the Code, and which respond to each subpart of the form interrogatory, without objections.  The further response should be a full and complete stand-alone response, without reference to any previous responses, which responses will be superseded by the further response.    Form Interrogatory No. 201.7This interrogatory requests:“If the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION involved the failure or refusal to select the EMPLOYEE (for example, for hire, promotion, transfer, or training), was any other PERSON selected instead? If so, for each ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION, state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON selected; the date the PERSON was selected; and the reason the PERSON was selected instead of the EMPLOYEE.” The original response states:“Defendant objects to this interrogatory on the grounds that it is overbroad and seeks information that is protected by third-party privacy responds that no one person was selected instead of Plaintiff. Rather, many people applied for the position and were selected based on their qualifications. The individuals selected were not disqualified for misconduct as was the Plaintiff. On September 12, 2016, Defendant hired 21 new Personal Property Appraiser Trainees. On September 11, 2017, the Assessor hired 10 new Personal Property Appraiser Trainees. On August 16, 2022, the Assessor hired 31 new Personal Property Appraiser Trainees.” The supplemental response states:“Defendant reiterates the foregoing objections. Without waiving, and subject to, the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: Defendant now supplements its responses to include supplemental documents bearing Bates numbers: D01810.” Plaintiff indicates that the document produced is a one-page list of names, with none of the details required by the interrogatory, including the details concerning why the employees were selected.  The fact that the individuals selected “were not disqualified for misconduct,” is insufficient.   Plaintiff argues that the interrogatory seeks routine employment discovery critical to this case in which plaintiff alleges she was improperly passed over for promotion in favor of less qualified applicants due to discrimination and harassment, so that the reasons defendant chose other employees is directly relevant.  Defendant in opposition argues that defendant responded to this interrogatory and agreed to provide the names of the persons selected for the positions, but not their contact information, and then provided a list of the people selected for the appraiser trainee position.  Defendant argues that that the interrogatory improperly seeks to have defendant determine which managers to choose from the thirty people on the list, and then interview those managers to determine why each person was selected.  Defendant argues that the interrogatory asks the reasons the person was selected instead of plaintiff, but that plaintiff was never on the list of potential candidates due to a prior suspension based on dishonesty, so no one was chosen instead of her as she was not among the choices given to managers.  This argument does not make sense in the context of the allegations, which are clearly that plaintiff applied for positions, and was even told she would be given a position on one occasion, and other people were in fact eventually selected for those positions. Defendant argues that the interrogatory is overbroad and would require a great deal of research and compilation of interviews regarding the qualifications of the candidates the managers considered important.  This is a Judicial Council approved form interrogatory for employment cases such as this one.  However, defendant has not submitted any evidence showing there are unusual circumstances which justify this overbreadth objection. Defendant appears to rely on CCP § 2030.090(b), under which, “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense.”   In West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417-418, the California Supreme Court reversed the trial court’s sustaining of an objection on the grounds of burden and oppression, where the special interrogatory had requested the names, addresses and duties performed of all employees involved in the transactions in the subject litigation.  The Court first addressed the claim that the request was burdensome, noting that the declaration in support of this objection was incomplete:“The last objection of Pacific to interrogatory Number 4 is that it is burdensome and oppressive. In support of that objection Pacific filed, in the trial court, the declaration of the manager of its commercial operations and administration department, alleging that the information requested could only be obtained by a search of the records of 78 of its branch offices. Other specific requirements were also set forth, but no estimate was made of the total man hours required to accomplish the task. Certainly, that declaration indicated some burden would be imposed on Pacific to answer the interrogatory, but the extent thereof was not specifically set forth.”West Pico, at 417 The Court in West Pico was interpreting a previous version of the Discovery Act, which did not mention burden, while the statute has since been amended to permit a court to protect a party from “undue burden,” as set forth above.   The amendment appears to be in effect a recognition of the holding of West Pico, in which the Court noted:“Each of the sections grants the power to make such orders as justice requires, but none of them so much as refers to "burden." This indicates a legislative acknowledgment that some burden is inherent in all demands for discovery.  The objection of burden is valid only when that burden is demonstrated to result in injustice. Hence, the trial court is not empowered to sustain an objection in toto, when the same is predicated upon burden, unless such is the only method of rendering substantial justice.”Id. Today, the statute would still require a showing of the extent of the burden, and that it is “undue” burden, evidence of which is not even offered here.  There is no indication that the records comparable to 78 branch offices would be involved, or any estimate of the time required to accomplish responding to this interrogatory. The Court in West Pico then considered the objection based on oppression, and also found the offered showing insufficient: “Oppression must not be equated with burden. The objection based upon burden must be sustained by evidence showing the quantum of work required, while to support an objection of oppression there must be some showing either of an intent to create an unreasonable burden or that the ultimate effect of the burden is incommensurate with the result sought.” Id.  As noted above, in West Pico the Court reversed the sustaining of these objections in toto, suggesting that on remand the trial court consider if some not unduly burdensome portion of the discovery could be provided.  Here, any burden and oppression asserted are not supported.  Also, there is no reasonable ground on which to require a limitation on the extent to which this rather straightforward discovery in response to an approved form interrogatory need be provided. The objection is overruled, and a further complete response is ordered to be provided. To the extent the opposition briefly argues that the interrogatory implicates third party privacy, as pointed out by plaintiff, the initial burden is on the party claiming the privilege to establish the basis for it, which has not been done here.  See Williams v. Superior Court (July 13, 2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 556-557 (“The party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious…. Courts must instead place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion…”).Here, defendant does not acknowledge this burden, and defendant does not directly attempt to establish an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, or a threatened intrusion that is serious. However, even assuming the showing had been made, plaintiff has shown how the requests serve an important countervailing interest in obtaining critical evidence in this case, and offered to enter into a protective order to address any concerns of defendant.   In weighing these considerations, the court finds that the need for information which could support plaintiff’s claim that she was passed over for less qualified candidates outweighs the privacy interests asserted, as reasonably limited by the facts of this case, so long as a protective order is in place.  The parties are ordered to meet and confer with respect to entering such an order, and to use the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form provided by the Los Angeles Superior Court as a model.  The parties are ordered to provide to the Court within five days a redlined or compare copy of the proposed order as compared to the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form, as required by the model, and the order will be entered by the Court as appropriate. Plaintiff also argues that no contact information is provided concerning the persons named on the list. The form interrogatory clearly requires this information. CCP section 2017.010, in defining the scope of discovery, specifically states, “Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter...”  As set forth above, the provision of contact information is routinely ordered under various form interrogatories.  There are no unusual circumstances set forth here.  A complete response to this interrogatory which provides all information called for will be ordered to be served, without objections.   To the extent defendant relies on a separate list of employees in a separate document, plaintiff is entitled to have that list set forth in the response to the interrogatory itself, with all required details, under oath.   Form Interrogatory No. 211.1 The interrogatory requests:“Identify each type of BENEFIT to which the EMPLOYEE would have been entitled, from the date of the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION to the present, if the ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION had not happened and the EMPLOYEE had remained in the same job position. For each type of benefit, state the amount the EMPLOYEE had remained in the same job position. For each type of benefit, state the amount the EMPLOYER would have paid to provide the benefit for the EMPLOYEE during this time period and the value of the BENEFIT to the EMPLOYEE.” The original response is:“Defendant objects to this interrogatory on the grounds that it is vague and ambiguous as to the meaning of "ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION." Defendant further objects to this Interrogatory on the grounds that it is overbroad and unduly burdensome and oppressive. Defendant objects to this interrogatory on the grounds that it is premature, in that the "instructions to Asking Party" instruct Plaintiff that "[t]he interrogatories in section 211, Loss of Income Interrogatories to Employer, should not be used until the employer has had a reasonable opportunity to conduct an investigation or discovery of employee's injuries or damages." Subject to and without waiving its objections, and to the extent it understands this interrogatory, Defendant responds: Benefits available to eligible employees are posted on Defendant's website. https://employee.hr.lacounty.gov/benefits-2/” The supplemental response is:“Defendant reiterates the foregoing objections and response and will not supplement its response at this time.” Plaintiff argues the defendant agreed to supplement its response to this interrogatory.  Hence, the defendant must provide a substantive answer, as the interrogatory goes directly to plaintiff’s damages in this matter.  Defendant argues that defendant identified previously produced responsive documents, but that does not appear in the response, and as discussed above, is not appropriate.  The identification of a current benefits website is not sufficient to set forth defendant’s position concerning the benefits which would have been available to plaintiff at that time had she not been subject to the adverse employment actions.   Defendant concedes in the opposition that it did agree to supplement the response to this interrogatory earlier in the meet and confer process, but since it was never mentioned again, defendant mistakenly indicated it would not supplement the response.  A further response must accordingly be served.  To the extent plaintiff proposes to print out pages for two benefit plans, this is not an appropriate response to this interrogatory.  The interrogatory does not call for information requiring a summary, but rather calls or defendant’s position on this very important aspect of damages.  The court also rejects the argument that the interrogatory is dependent on which benefit plan plaintiff chooses and requires her to input personal information into a benefits website.  This argument is nonsense. This interrogatory is an approved form interrogatory.  Hence, defendant should know generally what benefits the persons who were assigned to the position for which they were eligible.  It is clear that defendant can make a reasonable response, including estimates, if necessary.Defendant in the opposition does not justify any of the objections.  Hence, the further response must be without objections. Form Interrogatory No. 216.1 This interrogatory seeks:“Identify each denial of a material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your PLEADINGS and for each: (a) state all facts upon which you base the denial or special or affirmative defense; (b) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; and (c) identify all DOCUMENTS and all other tangible things, that support your denial or special or affirmative defense, and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.” The response is a series of boilerplate objections, followed by a response which addresses only defendant’s position that it “denies it engaged in the actions alleged against it in the complaint.”  No affirmative defenses are addressed.  The response includes a narrative concerning the circumstances of plaintiff’s conditional offer of promotion, referring to “correspondence sent to counsel on May 25, 2023, outlining the true facts of this case,” and also referring to the documents served concurrently with the response to request for production of documents.  The witnesses identified do not have contact information.  The documents identified are those produced in response to plaintiff’s request for documents.   As plaintiff argues, this is a standard contention interrogatory routinely used in civil cases, and that determining the factual basis for an opposing party’s contentions is a primary function of discovery.CCP § 2030 .010(a) specifically permits the propounding of contention interrogatories:“An interrogatory may relate to whether another party is making a certain contention, or to the facts, witnesses, and writings on which a contention is based.   An interrogatory is not objectionable because an answer to it involves an opinion or a contention that relates to fact or the application of law to facts or would be based on information obtained or legal theories developed in anticipation of litigation.” This interrogatory is a Judicial Council approved interrogatory.  It seeks discoverable information.  Hence, defendant accordingly has the burden to justify any objections or failure to completely respond.  Defendant first argues that plaintiff did not meet and confer on this response in the initial meet and confer but did so sixty-two days after the responses were served, so has waived her right to compel a further response to the interrogatory.  The parties had clearly agreed to extend the time to move to compel, and defendant cites no legal authority in support of this argument. Hence, this argument is rejected.  Defendant argues that the response is detailed, that plaintiff has all the documents supporting defendant’s defenses, which identify witnesses, and the details derived from those documents are included in the response to Employment Form Interrogatory No. 207.2.   Again, as discussed repeatedly above, it is an improper response to an interrogatory to refer to other discovery responses, or to documents produced in response to other discovery.  Defendant has failed to justify objections, and the response is clearly incomplete.  A further full, complete, Code compliant response addressed to not only defendant’s general denial, but each affirmative defense asserted, is ordered to be served, without objections. Special InterrogatoriesSpecial Interrogatory No. 2 Defendant concedes in the opposition that defendant erroneously failed to provide a supplemental response to this interrogatory. At the concession in the opposition, the motion is granted.  A further full and complete Code compliant response is be ordered to be served, without objections. Special Interrogatory No. 4 The interrogatory seeks:“Identify each complaint, report administrative complaint or charge, arbitration, lawsuit, or legal proceeding in the past ten (10) years that alleged harassment, discrimination, or retaliation within the Office of the Assessor.” The original response states a series of objections, including overbroad as to time and subject matter, undue burden and oppression, relevance, disclosure of third-party information protected by right of privacy, and information equally available to plaintiff.   The supplemental response states that defendant reiterates the foregoing objections and “Defendant now supplements its responses to include documents bearing Bates numbers: D01810.” Again, this is an improper response, relying on documents instead of providing the information directly. Defendant indicates in the opposition that it responded to this interrogatory according to the meet and confer agreement, which was to limit the interrogatory to the Assessor’s Office from 2015 -2018 and 2021-2023, but mistakenly cited to the incorrect Bates numbers on the documents produced with the supplemental production of documents.   Defendant indicates that the correct numbers are D01648 and D01649 and argues that had plaintiff’s counsel reviewed the production of documents, he would have found the list of lawsuits that defendant compiled.  Defendant also argues that if plaintiff’s counsel had contacted defendant’s counsel and pointed out that the response cited to an inapplicable document, the matter would have been resolved without court intervention. [Baker Decl., ¶ 7.] It is not clear why, if defendant actually compiled a list of lawsuit and responsive information, it was not included directly in the response to the interrogatory, and verified.  A further verified response, which includes the information in the purported documents identified, and fully responds to the interrogatory as limited in time is ordered to be served.  Defendant has failed to justify objections, including any equally available objection, and any privacy rights of third parties can be addressed by a protective order, as discussed above.  The further response must be without objections. Special Interrogatory No. 5 The interrogatory asks:“Describe in detail every investigation of Ivory Johnson in the past ten (10) years involving his behavior towards coworkers or subordinates and the result of such investigations, including, but not limited to, (i) the date of the investigation, (ii) the material allegations; (iii) who conducted the investigation; (iv) any determination or findings as a result of the investigation; and (v) any formal or informal actions taken as a result.” The original response states:“Defendant objects to this interrogatory on the grounds that it seeks information that: may invade the attorney-client privilege; is protected by the right to privacy of third parties; and is not relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Without waiving, and subject to the foregoing objection, Defendant responds: Not applicable.”The supplemental response states:“Defendant reiterates the foregoing objections. Without waiving, and subject to, the foregoing objections, Defendant responds as follows: After a diligent search, no responsive documents were identified.” Plaintiff argues that the interrogatory seeks relevant information concerning similar complaints against Johnson, as well as information relevant to plaintiff’s claim that defendant has failed to take appropriate action to prevent harassment.  Plaintiff argues that the objections are untenable, as the interrogatory does not seek privileged information, but seeks a factual description of the investigations, and that any privacy rights are outweighed by plaintiff’s need for the evidence, and disclosure can be made subject to a protective order.  The court agrees that defendant has not met its initial burden to establish the privacy right and that the need for the evidence outweighs any potential privacy concerns, particularly once a protective order is entered. Plaintiff argues that the “not applicable” response is vague, and the later response that “no responsive documents were identified” is nonsensical because the interrogatory did not request the production of documents. Defendant in the opposition does not justify any of the objections but seems to be taking the position that the response is appropriate because there have been no investigations of Johnson.  This assertion is not what the response says, referring only to documents.  If this is the case, defendant must plainly state as much, under oath.  A further complete response, without objections, is ordered to be served. RULING:Plaintiff Adrineh Ordookhanian’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories:The Court will hear argument concerning whether an appropriate meet and confer occurred since the service of the supplemental responses, as it appears that without this meet and confer required under statute, many issues raised in the motion are a waste of this court’s time and resources.  The Court in the future will expect that the parties fully comply with all meet and confer obligations in connection with this litigation, and may refuse to consider a motion if an appropriate meet and confer has not occurred.   The parties are ordered to meet and confer with respect to entering a protective order, and to use the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form provided by the Los Angeles Superior Court as a model.  The parties are ordered to provide to the Court within five calendar days a redlined or compare copy of the proposed order as compared to the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form, as required by the model, and the Court will review the order, considering the form the Court’s default, and a protective order will be entered by the Court as appropriate. Motion is GRANTED. Defendant County of Los Angeles is ordered to serve further verified responses to Form Interrogatories—General, Set No. One, Interrogatories Nos.12.1, 12.2, 12.3, and 12.6, and Form Interrogatories—Employment, Interrogatories Nos. 201.3, 201.4, 201.7, 211.1, and 216.1, without objections. The further responses must provide all information requested and respond to all subparts.  All further responses are to fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be discovered.”  The responding party must also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”The Court does not find acceptable a response to discovery which refers to other discovery responses or information or documents previously provided informally or formally. Plaintiff is entitled to a full and complete response to each interrogatory and its subparts. The Court also does not find that the response that information is equally available to the propounding party appropriate in the circumstances, and defendant has failed to establish statutory entitlement to exercise any option to produce writings.  Further responses are to be without objection, as defendant has failed to justify objections, and the Court has reviewed the objections and find they are without merit.   Objections are accordingly OVERRULED.   All further responses should be a full and complete stand-alone response, without reference to or incorporation of any previous responses, which previous responses will be superseded by the further response.   Further responses are to be served ten days after the Court signs a protective order in this matter.  Plaintiff Adrineh Ordookhanian’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatories:The Court will hear argument concerning whether an appropriate meet and confer occurred since the service of the supplemental responses, as it appears that without this meet and confer required under statute, many issues raised in the motion are a waste of this court’s time and resources.  The Court in the future will expect that the parties fully comply with all meet and confer obligations in connection with this litigation, and may refuse to consider a motion if an appropriate meet and confer has not occurred.   The parties are ordered to meet and confer with respect to entering a protective order, and to use the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form provided by the Los Angeles Superior Court as a model.  The parties are ordered to provide to the Court within five calendar days a redlined or compare copy of the proposed order as compared to the Stipulated Confidentiality Order Form, as required by the model, and the Court will review the order, considering the form the Court’s default, and a protective order will be entered by the Court as appropriate. Motion is GRANTED. Defendant County of Los Angeles is ordered to serve further verified responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One to Defendant County of Los Angeles, Interrogatories Nos. 2, 4 and 5, without objections. Special Interrogatory No. 4 is modified to seek information only in connection with the Assessor’s Office from 2015 -2018 and 2021-2023.  The further responses must provide all information requested, and fully comply with the requirements under the Discovery Act, including, under CCP § 2030.210 (a)(1) answers “containing the information sought to be discovered.”  The responding party must also comply fully with CCP § 2030.220:“(a) Each answer in a response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responding party permits.(b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.(c) If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.”The Court does not find acceptable a response to discovery which refers to other discovery responses or documents. Plaintiff is entitled to a full and complete response in narrative form to each interrogatory.  The Court also does not find that the response that information is equally available to the propounding party appropriate in the circumstances, and defendant has failed to establish statutory entitlement to exercise any option to produce writings.  Further responses are to be without objection, as defendant has failed to justify objections, and the Court has reviewed the objections and found they are without merit.   Objections are accordingly OVERRULED. All further responses should be a full and complete stand-alone response, without reference to or incorporation of any previous responses, which previous responses will be superseded by the further response.   Further responses are to be served ten days after the Court signs a protective order in this matter.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 