  Case Number:  23GDCV00345    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:  5 Date: 5/24/2024 Case No:  23 GDCV00345 Trial Date: March 24, 2025 Case Name: Soto v. Kia America, Inc. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITIONMoving Party:  Defendant Kia America, Inc.     Responding Party: Plaintiff Eddie Soto      RELIEF REQUESTED:Order compelling plaintiff to attend and testify at a deposition and produce documents.MONETARY SANCTION:None sought DECLARATION SUPPORTING MOTION:Reasonable and good faith attempt to resolve informally:  Yes, Exs. C, D FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Eddie Soto alleges that in December of 2020, plaintiff leased a 2021 Kia Sorento for which a written warranty was issued by defendant Kia America Inc., pursuant to which Kia America, Inc. agreed to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or performance. Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle was delivered to plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty, including the vehicle’s transmission and electrical system defects.     Plaintiff alleges that the defects and nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the express warranty period, and substantially impaired the use, value, or safety of the vehicle.  Plaintiff delivered the vehicle to manufacturer’s authorized repair facility for repair of the nonconformities, and defendant has been unable to conform plaintiff’s vehicle to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of repair attempts.  The complaint alleges that notwithstanding plaintiff’s entitlement, defendant has failed to either promptly replace the new motor vehicle or to promptly make restitution in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act.  The complaint alleges three causes of action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for Breach of Express Warranty, Breach of Implied Warranty, and Beverly Act section 1793.2. ANALYSIS:Defendant Kia Motors America, Inc. seeks by this motion to compel plaintiff to attend and testify at deposition and produce documents.   Plaintiff in opposition argues that the motion is moot, as the parties have agreed that plaintiff’s deposition will occur on June 20, 2024.  [Cox Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8, Exs. 3, 4].   It appears that plaintiff served timely objections to the notice of taking deposition, including an objection that the deposition had been unilaterally set on a date and time when plaintiff or plaintiff’s counsel were unavailable.  [Cox Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 2].   Since the filing of this motion, the parties have agreed to the June 20, 2023 date, and defendant has served a Notice of Taking Continued Deposition of Plaintiff on the agreed upon date.  [Cox Decl. ¶¶ 7, 8, Exs. 3, 4].  Presumably, since plaintiff is arguing the motion is moot, plaintiff will not be objecting to this Notice and intends to appear and testify on June 20, 2024.  It is not clear why the motion has remained on calendar, but evidently defendant’s counsel has not responded to a request that it be taken off calendar, and may be reasonably concerned that it has been difficult to obtain a deposition date from plaintiff and that a court order will increase the likelihood that plaintiff will appear as agreed and noticed if there is also a court order in place.  The motion accordingly appears to be moot in principle, although since the deposition has not yet been conducted, in an abundance of caution, the court will order the deposition to go forward as agreed and noticed, on June 20, 2024.  The court also notes that this matter remains subject to the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) (Order) applicable to Song-Beverly Litigation, now posted and available on the Los Angeles Superior Court website in connection with this Department, Glendale Courthouse, Department D.   The parties are reminded that the Order expressly provides with respect to Depositions:“Deposition:  Within the time limits allowed by law, Defendant may depose plaintiff….”[Order, section 4]. To the extent the Deposition Notice requests that documents be brought to the deposition, with respect to Production of Documents, the Order provides:“Production of Documents:  Within 60 days of service of this Order both plaintiff and defendant shall provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side(s):a. Purchase or lease contracts concerning the subject vehicle, including any associated documents reflecting OEM or aftermarket equipment installed at the dealership, ELWs or service contracts, and any other writings signed by the plaintiff at the point of sale.b. Work orders, repair orders, and invoices (including accounting and warranty versions) for any maintenance, service and repair activity concerning the subject vehicles.c. Rental car or loaner agreements regarding alternative transportation provided during service or repair visits concerning the subject vehicle.d. Records of communications with dealer personnel, and/or factory representatives and defendant’s call center or customer assistance personnel concerning the subject vehicle.e. Warrant claims submitted to and/or approved by defendant concerning the subject vehicle.f. Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual or similar policies or claim-handling procedures published by Defendant from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.g. Defendant’s written statements of policy and/or procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase or replacement pursuant to “Lemon Law” claims, including ones brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date the subject vehicle was purchased or leased to the date the lawsuit was filed.h. A list of or compilation of customer complaints in defendant’s electronically stored information database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  A substantially similar customer complaint would be the same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator light, or other manifestation of a repair problem as the description listed in any work order or repair order for the subject vehicle, other than routine or scheduled maintenance items.  The list provided by defendant may be in the chart or spreadsheet format, and shall include the VIN, date of repair visit, dealership or other reporting location, and text of the other customers’ reported complaint, but shall not include the other customers’ names, addresses, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, or other personal identifying information.i. Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices for vehicle purchased or leased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.j. Copies of any repair instruction, bulletin, or other diagnostic/repair procedure identified in any of the repair order/invoice records for the subject vehicle.k. Receipts or other written evidence supporting any incidental or consequential damages claimed by plaintiff….The information may be provided to the opposing party in electronic form as a PDF at the option of the producing party….Any additional requests for documents may only be propounded by stipulation and/or court order (via motion upon showing of good cause).[Order section (2)(a)-(k)].The parties are also directed to the Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law Cases for Department D, entitled Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly Litigation) (Notice).  That Notice provides:“When the court is faced with a discovery dispute in a Song-Beverly case, the court will usually order that the plaintiff and defendant provide copies of the following documents, which are in their respective possession, custody and/or control, to the opposing side: 1. Defendant shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of [date of purchase] to present. 2. Defendant shall produce any internal analysis or investigation regarding defects alleged in plaintiff's complaint in vehicles for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. This includes Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins. Defendant is not required to do a search of emails. 3. Defendant shall produce any customer complaints relating to defects alleged in plaintiff’s complaint in vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle. 4. Defendant shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period of [date of purchase] to present. 5. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.6. Communications with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle.7. Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject vehicle. 8. Purchase and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle. 9. Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle. 10. Any documents supporting plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential damages.” The parties are ordered to conduct the deposition as scheduled, and in full compliance with the Discovery Act and the applicable provisions of the Order and Notice.  If any further dispute arises once the deposition is conducted, the parties must first meet and confer, and, if necessary, file a motion accompanied by an appropriate statutory showing as well as a separate statement which sets forth in connection with each document request at issue any applicable provision of the Order and Notice, and which fully complies with the Code, the Order and Notice, as well as with this minute order. RULING:Motion to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff is GRANTED, at the concession of plaintiff in the opposition. Plaintiff Eddie Soto is ordered to appear for deposition and give testimony in this matter on June 20, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. remotely by videoconference, in accordance with the Notice of Taking Continued Deposition of Plaintiff and Request for Production of Documents at the Time of Deposition.  Plaintiff is also ordered to bring to the deposition and produce documents in accordance with the Addendum to Case Management Conference Order (Song-Beverly Litigation) and Notice to All Counsel Re: Lemon Law Cases for Department D, Customary Rulings Re Document Requests (Song Beverly Litigation). DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 