 Case Number:  24TRCV01685    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                 Tuesday,
January 21, 2025
Department M                                                                                                              Calendar No. 9
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Mouj Al Shoubaki v. Children of Our
Savior Preschool, et al.
            24TRCV01685
1.      Guideone
Mutual Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to Intervene 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Guideone Mutual Insurance Company’s
(“Guideon”) Motion for Leave to Intervene is granted.  
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on May 17, 2024. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff was
discriminated against, retaliated against, defamed, and wrongfully terminated
due to her religion. 
 
Motion for Leave to File Complaint in Intervention
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 387(b) states: “An intervention
takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action
or proceeding between other persons by doing any of the following: (1) Joining
a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint. (2) Uniting with a
defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff. (3) Demanding anything
adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 387(d)(1) states: “The court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.  (B) The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.”
 
Code of Civ. Proc., 387(d)(2) states: “The court may,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”
 
“When leave [to intervene] is granted, the intervenor
becomes a party with the same rights and remedies of the original
parties.”  4 Witkin, Cal. Proc., Sec. 226
(5th Ed. 2012) (citing People v. Perris
Irr. Dist. (1901) 132 Cal. 289, 290). 
“A party seeking intervention must ordinarily show an interest under the
existing pleadings and issues, and will not be allowed to come in on a claim
that enlarges the issues and changes the nature of the main proceedings.”  4 Witkin, Cal. Proc., Sec. 227 (5th
Ed. 2012) (citing Muller v. Robinson
(1959) 174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515.)
 
Guideone moves for an order permitting it to file an
Answer in Intervention pursuant to CCP § 387 as the insurer of Defendant Our
Savior Lutheran Church (erroneously sued as Children of Our Savior Preschool).
Defendant is now a suspended corporation. 
 
Guideone has established that the motion is timely. The
motion was filed slightly more than five months after Plaintiff filed the
Complaint and approximately four months after Defendant was served. There is no
trial date yet and the case is not at issue. The motion is considered timely if
brought within a reasonable time. See,
Sanders v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1975) 53 Cal. App.3d 661,
668-69.  Here, no party has challenged
the motion based on untimeliness. 
 
Guideone has established that it has an interest in
this litigation that warrants intervention in this proceeding. Guideone is the
insurer of Defendant and Defendant is now a suspended corporation and no longer
able to appear in its own capacity. In addition, there is no showing that
granting leave to intervene will enlarge the issues or change the nature of the
proceedings. 
 
Thus, Guideone’s Motion for Leave to Intervene is
granted.
 
Guideone is ordered to file and serve the proposed Answer
in Intervention within five days of this date.
 
Guideone is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 