  Case Number:  23TRCV01489    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Tuesday, January 21, 2025 
Department M          Calendar No. 10  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Maliyah
Crowe v. City of El Segundo, et al.    
23TRCV01489

1.     
City of El
Segundo’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

City of El Segundo’s Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and without leave to amend,
in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on May 11, 2023. Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint was filed on September 18, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the
following facts. Plaintiff was a pedestrian who was struck by a hit and run
driver. When Plaintiff’s father reported the incident to the El Segundo police,
it failed to conduct an investigation. Plaintiff’s father felt that that this
failure was because the Plaintiff is a black female and the perpetrator was a
white female. (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleged the following causes of
action: 1. Failure to Conduct a (sic) Investigation
Because of the Race and Color of the Plaintiff; 2. Negligent Investigation on
the Basis of Race and Color; 3. Negligent Hiring; 4. Violation of California Constitutional
Rights; 5. Violation of 42
U.S.C. § 1983; 6. Intentional and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.

 
Plaintiff’s FAC alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Failure to Investigate (Negligence Per Se); 2. Violation of Civil
Rights – Civ. Code 51 – Unruh Civil Rights Act; 3. Negligent Hiring,
Supervision, and Retention; 4. IIED; 5. NIED; 6. Violation of Cal. Civil Code
52.1 (Bane Act).
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendant set forth a meet and
confer declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41.  (Decl., Andrew Lutfala.)  
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency
of a complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are
the essential facts of the case "with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature,
source, and extent of his cause of action.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a
demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is “uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a complaint’s factual
allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently apprise a defendant of
the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
 
Defendant demurs to
the First Amended Complaint and each cause for failure to state sufficient
facts and uncertainty. The Court notes that Defendant refers to the operative
pleading as the Second Amended Complaint. However, it appears that the
operative pleading is the First Amended Complaint.
 
At the outset the
Court recognizes the following authority applicable to alleging statutory
liability against a public entity. “[U]nder the Tort Claims Act all
governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general rule that
statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is applicable.
Thus, to state a cause of action against a public entity, every fact material
to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.” Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985) 40
Cal.3d 780, 795 (internal quotation omitted).
 
First Cause of
Action for Failure to Investigate (Negligence Per Se)
Third Cause of
Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
Fourth Cause of
Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Fifth Cause of
Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to the first, third, and fourth causes of action is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend. Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend. Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action.
 
As noted above, all
public entity tort liability must be based on a statute. Here, Plaintiff fails
to set forth a statute which mandates a duty to investigate a report made to
the police department. A reference to Vehicle Code § 20008 is referenced in the
first cause of action and these factual allegations were incorporated into the
other causes of action.
 
Veh. Code, § 20008
states:
“(a) The driver of a
vehicle, other than a common carrier vehicle, involved in any accident
resulting in injuries to or death of any person shall within 24 hours after the
accident make or cause to be made a written report of the accident to the
Department of the California Highway Patrol or, if the accident occurred within
a city, to either the Department of the California Highway Patrol or the police
department of the city in which the accident occurred. If the agency which
receives the report is not responsible for investigating the accident, it shall
immediately forward the report to the law enforcement agency which is
responsible for investigating the accident.
On or before the
fifth day of each month, every police department which received a report during
the previous calendar month of an accident which it is responsible for
investigating shall forward the report or a copy thereof to the main office of
the Department of the California Highway Patrol at Sacramento.
(b) The owner or
driver of a common carrier vehicle involved in any such accident shall make a
like report to the Department of California Highway Patrol on or before the
10th day of the month following the accident.”
 
As evident from the plain
language of the statute, there is no mandatory duty placed upon Defendant to
investigate this accident. Thus, Plaintiff identifies no statutory duty to
support her causes of action. Instead, Plaintiff presents a series of
conclusions without any actual statute to support these conclusions. (FAC, ¶¶ 13-15.)  
 
In addition, several
immunities are implicated by the direct allegations of the FAC, including Government
Code § 820.2 which immunizes public employees for acts or omissions occurring
in the exercise of their discretion, and Government Code §§ 818.2 and 821 which
immunize public entities and employees for failing to enforce an enactment or
law arising out of the exercise of discretion. 
 
As to the cause of
action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention, “a direct claim
against a governmental entity asserting negligent hiring and supervision, when
not grounded in the breach of a statutorily imposed duty owed by the entity to
the injured party, may not be maintained.” de Villers v. County of San Diego
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 238, 255–256.
 
As to the cause of
action for IIED, no facts of any intentional or reckless conduct is alleged.
 
Finally, as to NIED, NIED
is not an independent cause of action but simply a claim for Negligence. Emotional
distress is a component of damages that can be recovered in a negligence cause
of action. See Burgess v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.
Plaintiff has set forth separate causes of action for Negligence in the first
and third causes of action. The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of
Action for Violation of Civil Rights – Cal. Civ. Code § 51 – Unruh Civil Rights
Act
Sixth Cause of
Action for Violation of Civil Rights – Cal. Civ. Code § 52.1 – Bane Act
 
The demurrer to the second
and sixth causes of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiff
fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action.
 
The Unruh Civil
Rights Act protects free and equal accommodation in business establishments for
persons falling within protected classes including disability. Civ. Code
Section 51(b) states: “All persons within the jurisdiction of this state are
free and equal, and no matter what their sex, race, color, religion, ancestry,
national origin, disability, medical condition, genetic information, marital
status, sexual orientation, citizenship, primary language, or immigration
status are entitled to the full and equal accommodations, advantages,
facilities, privileges, or services in all business establishments of every
kind whatsoever.” 
 
            To
state a cause of action, Plaintiff must allege: (1) Defendant denied full and
equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services to
Plaintiff; (2) That a substantial motivating factor for Defendant’s conduct was
its perception of Plaintiff’s [race]; (3) That Plaintiff was harmed; and (4)
That Defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm. CACI 3060. 
 
            Apparently,
Plaintiff’s theory as to the second cause of action is that she was denied full
and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services based
on her race when Defendant failed to investigate the accident. However, as
noted above, Plaintiff has not identified any duty mandating investigation of
the accident. “[I]n American jurisprudence at
least, a private citizen lacks a judicially cognizable interest in the
prosecution or nonprosecution of another.” Linda R.S. v. Richard D.
(1973) 410 U.S. 614, 619.
 
“The elements of a
cause of action under Civil Code section 52.1 are stated in CACI No. 3025: [¶]
“1. That [the defendant] interfered with [or attempted to interfere with] [the
plaintiff's] [constitutional or statutory right] by threatening or committing
violent acts; [¶] 2. [That [the plaintiff] reasonably believed that if [he/she]
exercised [his/her] [constitutional] right [the defendant] would commit
violence against [him/her] or [his/her] property;] [¶] [That [the defendant]
injured [the plaintiff] or [his/her] property to prevent [him/her] from
exercising [his/her] [constitutional] right or retaliate against [the
plaintiff] for having exercised [his/her] [constitutional] right;] [¶] 3. That
[the plaintiff] was harmed; and [¶] 4. That [the defendant's] conduct was a
substantial factor in causing [the plaintiff's] harm.”” Austin B. v.
Escondido Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 882.
 
Plaintiff has failed
to allege specific facts to demonstrate that Defendant interfered or attempted
to interfere with Plaintiff’s constitutional or statutory rights. Nor has
Plaintiff alleged any facts of threats, intimidation, or coercion. Plaintiff
has set forth no facts to support her or her father’s belief that Defendants
acted in a manner to interfere with Plaintiff’s constitutional rights.
Plaintiff simply set forth conclusions. 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the second and sixth causes of action is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.