  Case Number:  22SMCV00487    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 13, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV00487




MOTION


Motion to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTIES


Adam D.H. Grant and Olga Viner 




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Adam D.H. Grant and Olga Viner of Grant
| Shenon, APLC, counsel for Defendant Delores Crawford (“Counsel”) move to be
relieved as counsel pursuant to Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(5),
(6).  No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)       
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053 with proofs of service. 
The attorney declaration (MC-052) indicates that the motion was filed instead
of filing a consent because “Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.16(b)(5),
(6) and Client has not voluntarily consented to our request to withdraw from
representation.”  
 
Rule 1.16(b)(6) provides “the client knowingly and freely assents to
termination of the representation[.]” 
Therefore, Counsels’ citation to Rule 1.16(b)(6) is inconsistent with
the statement, “Client has not voluntarily consented to our request to withdraw
from representation.”    
 
However, Rule 1.16(b)(5) provides, “the client breaches a material
term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the lawyer relating to the
representation, and the lawyer has given the client a reasonable warning after
the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the client fulfills the
agreement or performs the obligation[.]” 
This forms a valid basis to withdraw as counsel.
 
The proofs of service indicate that all parties and the client were
served both by overnight delivery and electronically, in compliance with
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d) [“The notice may be by personal
service, electronic service, or mail.”] 
Paragraph 3(b) of the attorney declaration (MC-052) confirms that the client
was served electronically and the client currently resides at the last known
mailing address, in conformance with California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d)(1)(A).  Therefore, the motion
is procedurally proper.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court grants the
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
Counsel must serve the signed order (form MC-053), which shall include
information about all future hearings and proceedings noticed by any party, or
ordered by the Court, on Defendant Delores Crawford and all other parties who
have appeared in the action, within 10 days of the date of this Order, and file
a proof of service of such.  Counsel will
remain the attorney of record for Defendant Delores Crawford until Counsel
files the requisite proof of service. 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)  
            
 
 
DATED:  October 13, 2023                            ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court
 