 Case Number:  23SMCV04229    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October
  13, 2013




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04229




MOTIONS


Applications
  for Writ of Attachment




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Aren Roui Israel




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants
  Joshua Bordin-Wosk and B | B Law Group, LLP



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from an attorney fee split dispute.  Plaintiff Aren Roui Israel (“Plaintiff”) has
filed a complaint for money damages, asserting causes of action for (1) breach
of written contract; (2) breach of covenant of good faith; (3) fraud and
deceit; (4) conversion; (5) demand for accounting; and (6) declaratory relief.  The complaint is brought against Defendants
Joshua Bordin-Wosk (“Bordin-Wosk”); B | B Law Group LLP (“BBLG”); Bordin |
Semmer LLP (“BSLG”) and Rick Forry (“Forry”). 

 
Plaintiff now seeks writs of attachment against Bordin-Wosk and BBLG
(collectively, “Defendants”). 
Bordin-Wosk and BBLG have opposed the application.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Bordin-Wosk and BBLG object to
various portions of the Israel Declaration filed in support of the Applications
for Writ of Attachment.  The Court rules
as follows with respect to the evidentiary objections:
 
1.      Overruled
2.      Overruled
3.      Overruled
4.      Overruled
5.      Overruled
6.      Overruled
7.      Overruled
8.      Overruled
9.      Overruled
10.  Overruled
11.  Overruled
12.  Overruled
13.  Overruled
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Attachment is a prejudgment remedy that allows a creditor to have a
lien on the debtor's assets until final adjudication of the claim sued
upon[.]”  (Weil & Brown, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 9:853 et seq.,
p.  9(II)-117 et seq.)  “The creditor must follow statutory
guidelines in applying for the attachment and establish a prima facie claim;
and the court is required to make a preliminary determination of the merits of
the dispute.”  (Ibid.)
 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, an attachment may be issued
only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
The requirements for obtaining a writ of attachment are: (1) the claim
upon which the attachment is based must be one upon which an attachment may
issue; (2) plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon
which the attachment is based; (3) the attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; and (4)
the amount to be secured by attachment is greater than zero.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (a).)  
 
            “The application shall be supported
by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be
entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.)  The facts stated in any such affidavit or
verified complaint must be stated with particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 482.040.) 
 
            “A claim has ‘probable validity’
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on that claim.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 481.190.) 
 
ANALYSIS

 
Plaintiff seeks writs of attachment as to the breach of contract
claim, arising from Defendants’ alleged breach of the referral fee agreement.  (Memorandum in Support of Application for Writ
of Attachment (hereinafter “Memo”) at pp. 10:1-13:12.)  
 
Plaintiff has included a declaration, indicating: 
 
1.      Plaintiff
referred Lea Tayahua (“Tayahua”) to Bordin-Wosk and BBLG regarding a personal
injury matter (Israel Decl. ¶ 4); 
 
2.      Bordin-Wosk
offered Plaintiff a referral fee constituting 15% of his attorney fee award on
Tayahua’s case (Israel Decl. ¶ 6); 
 
3.      Tayahua’s
case settled (Israel Decl. ¶¶ 12-15 and Exs. E & L thereto); 
 
4.      BBLG
originally sent Plaintiff a $135,000 check for “Leah Tayahua Referral Fee” (Israel
Decl. ¶ 16, and Ex. H); 
 
5.      After
Plaintiff deposited the check, BBLG issued a stop payment on the check, causing
Plaintiff’s bank account to overdraft (Israel Decl. ¶¶ 18-20 and Ex. I);
 
6.      BBLG
subsequently issued Plaintiff a replacement check in the amount of $35,000
(Israel Decl. ¶ 23 and Ex. K).
 
Plaintiff also attached to the declaration a “Client Acknowledgment of
Attorney Referral Fee Split Agreement and Client Consent” form that is only
signed by Plaintiff, and not Bordin-Wosk or client Tayahua.  (Ex. C to Israel Decl.)
 
Plaintiff argues she has a “probable validity” of prevailing on her
claim, because Tayahua informed Plaintiff that Bordin-Wosk and BBLG’s attorney
fee for the case was 45%, the settlement agreement indicates that the parties
settled for the insurance policy limits; and the originally $135,000 check BBLG
sent Plaintiff would represent a $2,000,000 total award.  (Memo at pp. 13:13-14:3.)
 
Plaintiff further argues that the claim is proper and legitimate to enforce
her claim to the additional $100,000 she believes she is entitled to under the
contract, which is an amount greater than zero. 
(Memo at p. 14:4-13.)
 
Bordin-Wosk and BBLG argue in opposition that Plaintiff has not
established a “probable validity” of prevailing on her claim because Plaintiff
has not produced evidence establishing a written agreement, as is required for
attorney fee splitting arrangements, pursuant to the California Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.5.1.
 
Rule 1.5.1(a) does not permit lawyers who are not of the same law firm
to divide fees for legal services unless (1) the lawyers enter into a written
agreement to divide the fee; (2) the client consented to the fee split
arrangement in writing after being informed in writing of the fact that the
fees will be divided, the identity of the lawyer parties to the division, and
the terms of the division; and (3) the total fee charged will not increase by
reason of the fee division.
 
Plaintiff has provided evidence that Tayahua was informed in writing
(via a text message conversation) that Plaintiff and Bordin-Wosk were to divide
fees, Plaintiff was to receive 15% of Bordin-Wosk’s fees and it would not
increase the total amount of attorneys’ fees Tayahua was being charged.  (Ex. D to Israel Decl.)  
 
However, Plaintiff has not provided evidence that (1) Plaintiff and
Bordin-Wosk entered into a written agreement to divide the fee; or (2) the
client consented in writing to the fee split.  Although the text message thread between
Plaintiff and Tayahua creates an inference that Tayahua was amenable to the fee
split, that text message conversation contemplated that Tayahua would
ultimately sign the agreement to evidence her consent.  The relevant agreement Plaintiff has provided
is only signed by Plaintiff, and not by Bordin-Wosk or Tayahua.  
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not established that it is more likely than
not that she will prevail on her breach of written contract claim.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Because
Plaintiff failed to establish a probable validity she will prevail on her
breach of contract claim, the Court denies Plaintiff’s applications for writs
of attachment against Bordin-Wosk and BBLG.
 
            Plaintiff
shall give notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service of such.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:
October 13, 2023                                                     ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 