 Case Number:  23STCV05308    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiffs
Josefina Cabrera and Manuel Cabrera Carranza’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production from Defendant General Motors, LLC is
GRANTED.
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 
I.               
MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER – PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS
 
“A party may demand
that any other party produce . . . a document that is in the possession,
custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.010(b).) The demanding party may move for an order compelling further
response to the demand if the demanding party deems that (1) a statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete, (2) a representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or (3) an objection in the
response is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) “The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand,” and “[t]he motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(b).) 
 
A motion to compel
a further response to an inspection demand must set forth specific facts
showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland
v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless there is a
legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product, that burden is
met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th
443, 444.) Once the moving party demonstrates good cause for the discovery, the
burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully
respond to the inspection demand.  (Coy v Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d
210, 220.) 
 
Plaintiff Josefina
Cabrera (Plaintiff) moves for an order compelling further responses to Requests
for Production No. 16–21 from Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant). These
documents seek all documents relating to internal analysis of a defined
transmission defect, and communications, notices, recalls,  regarding same. (Separate Statement.)
Defendant responded only with objections to Requests No. 16, 17, and 19–21, and
responded with a statement of partial compliance to Request No. 18, which
sought technical service bulletins and recalls, by stating that it would
produce a “reasonable number” of documents selected by Plaintiff from a list to
be promulgated by Defendant. (Separate Statement at pp. 20–21.) The crux of
this motion thus concerns Plaintiff’s ability to seek information concerning
other vehicles of the same year, make, and model, for the prosecution of this
lemon law action.
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has failed to meet and confer prior to filing this motion.
(Opposition at p. 3.) The evidence belies this argument. The parties
corresponded in detail concerning the requests at issue and Defendant’s
objections thereto, and Plaintiff offered to narrow the categories of
production and execute a protective order. (Motion Exhs. 7–11.) 
 
Defendant’s
objection based on overbreadth are unpersuasive, as Plaintiffs may use evidence
of other vehicles to pursue their Song Beverly claims. To succeed on a claim
brought under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, the plaintiff bears the
burden of proving several elements, including nonconformity of a vehicle that
substantially impaired its use, value, or safety, presentation of a vehicle to
a manufacturer or authorized representative for repair, and failure to repair
the defect after a reasonable number of attempts. (Oregel v. Am. Isuzu Motors, Inc. (“Oregel”) (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.) 
 
A buyer may be entitled to a civil penalty of up to two
times the actual damages upon a showing that the manufacturer willfully failed
to abide by any of its obligations under the Act. (Civ. Code § 1794, subd.
(c).) Evidence that a defendant “adopted internal policies that erected hidden
obstacles to the ability of an unwary consumer to obtain redress under the
Act,” is relevant to a determination of “willfulness” in relation to prayers
for the civil penalty. (Oregel, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at p. 1105.)
 
There is case authority for this proposition. The court in Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 993–994, held that Bentley’s failure to turn over customer
complaints regarding defects on other Bentleys to support the plaintiff’s claim
under the Song-Beverly Act was an abuse of discovery so flagrant that the trial
court abused its discretion by not
imposing terminating sanctions. Other cases have embraced an evidentiary rule
similar to that only implicit in Doppes.
In Donlen v. Ford Motor Company
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, the trial court allowed an expert to testify that a
particular transmission was defective 
because he had heard from “others” that the same transmission in “other
vehicle[s]” was “problematic.” The Court of Appeal held that the “other
vehicle” testimony was properly “limited to the transmission model Ford
installed in plaintiff’s truck and other vehicles.”  (Id.
at p. 154.)  The court held that “[s]uch
evidence certainly was probative and not unduly prejudicial.”  (Ibid.)
And in another case, Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
334, 347, the court held that a manufacturer’s internal emails concerning a
mechanical defect in a lemon law case were relevant to show that the
manufacturer “intentionally chose not to honor the express warranty,” and thus
merited civil penalties. Thus Plaintiff is not limited to requests concerning
the particular vehicle at issue. 
 
Defendant next argues that the requests seek confidential
trade secret information. (Opposition at pp. 6–7.) Defendant argues that
disclosing documents related to internal analysis of the vehicular issues
concerned in this case risks exposing sensitive information related to its
vehicles’ engineering, manufacturing, and root cause analysis, which would
cause competitive disadvantage to Defendant if such information was released to
the public. (Opposition at pp. 9–10.) But Plaintiff has already offered to
stipulate to a protective order in Defendant’s favor, and Defendant does not
explain why the execution of such an order, as opposed to total nondisclosure,
is insufficient to protect its interests. (Motion Exh. 11.)
 
The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 