..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23SMCV00429
Plaintiff's Name: Arsham Tabibian, Mohammed Ali
Defendant's Name: The Bungalow Santa Monica, Ocean Avenue LLC
People-Names: Arsham Tabibian, Mohammed Ali
Company-Names: The Bungalow Santa Monica, Ocean Avenue LLC, ATF Private Security
Places: Santa Monica
Dates: February 20, 2024
Events: Assault by security guard, motion for leave to file cross-complaint
Money: None mentioned
Intention: Grant leave to file cross-complaint
Facts: Plaintiffs allege assault by security guard employed by defendants; defendants move for leave to file cross-complaint against third-party entity
Disputes: Permission to file cross-complaint against third-party entity
Acts: Filing of motion, allegation of assault
Agreements: Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. ยง428.50(b) and (c)
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure
Case Citations: Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. ยง428.50(b) and (c)
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure ยง428.50
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: "Leave of the court is not required to file the proposed cross-complaint"; "even if leave were required, it would be readily granted since doing so would serve the interest of justice"
```

And here is the English text summary:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling granting defendant Ocean Avenue LLC's motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against ATF Private Security, an entity allegedly employed the security guard who assaulted plaintiffs Arsham Tabibian and Mohammed Ali. The cross-complaint seeks indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief. The judge finds that since trial has not been set and the cross-complaint is not compulsory, leave of the court is not required. Even if required, the judge would grant the motion as it would serve the interest of justice, and there is no opposition from the parties. The motion is therefore granted.
