 Case Number:  23STCV27285    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
David Raff,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV27285




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Arthur Diller,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 2, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Arthur Diller
Responding Party: Plaintiff David Raff
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER
TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff David
Raff filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendant Arthur
Diller, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of the implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment; (2) harassment; (3) nuisance; (4) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; (5) violation of Unruh Act; (6) discrimination in violation
of FEHA; (7) tortious breach of the warranty of habitability; (8) negligent
violation of statutory duty to maintain habitable conditions; and (9) breach of
contract.
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendant maintained
Plaintiff’s unit in uninhabitable condition, threatened him with violence, and
wrongfully evicted him for his disability. 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth of the
matters asserted in them. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Collateral
Estoppel/Issue Preclusion
 
“Issue
preclusion prohibits the relitigation of issues argued and decided in a
previous case, even if the second suit raises different causes of action.”  (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber (2015) 61
Cal.4th 813, 824.) “Under issue preclusion, the prior judgment conclusively
resolves an issue actually litigated and determined in the first action.” (Id.)
“[I]ssue preclusion applies: (1) after final adjudication (2) of an identical
issue (3) actually litigated and necessarily decided in the first suit and (4)
asserted against one who was a party in the first suit or one in privity with
that party.” (Id. at 825.)
Defendant
demurs to the fifth cause of action for Unruh violations and the sixth cause of
action for disability discrimination on the ground that they are barred by
collateral estoppel/issue preclusion. The parties previously were involved in
an unlawful detainer action that settled via stipulated judgment on January 31,
2024. (RJN, Exh. 9.) The judgment awarded possession of the premises to
Defendant (the Plaintiff in the unlawful detainer action). The judgment also
states that Plaintiff’s (the Defendant in the unlawful detainer action) “rights
under lease or rental agreement are forfeited.”
Defendant
asserts that this judgment bars any of Plaintiff’s claims relating to the right
of possession and Defendant’s purported reasons for Plaintiff’s eviction
because they could have been litigated, and were raised as affirmative defenses
in Plaintiff's answer in the unlawful detainer action. Defendant also argues
that the claims are barred by the forfeiture of rights under the lease in the
judgment. 
The Court is
unpersuaded that the claims are barred by collateral estoppel. At the pleading
stage the Court must consider the allegations in the complaint as true, and may
consider only limited extrinsic evidence. There is a stipulated judgment for
possession, but this judgment does not show that the same issues as those in
the fifth and sixth causes of action were actually litigated and decided. And
it is not clear that the “forfeiture” of rights under the lease is a release of
previous claims rather than a mere forfeiture of possession. There are no
explicit releases in the judgment. 
The demurrer to
the fifth and sixth causes of action is OVERRULED.
B. Second Cause
of Action for Harassment
Civil Code § 1940.2 states that it is unlawful
for a landlord to influence a tenant to vacate a dwelling through certain
enumerated conduct, including, use of or threat to use force, willful threats,
or menacing conduct.
Defendant asserts Plaintiff has failed to allege
facts showing harassment. Plaintiff alleges that “a man named Arnold showed up
on the property and threatened Plaintiff over the phone that he would remove
all of Plaintiff’s possessions due to nonpayment of rent from the months of
October and November 2021, although Plaintiff was protected by relevant
Covid-19 protection laws during those months. After this incident, given the
inflicted stress and emotional distress, Plaintiff suffered a major heart
attack and was rushed to the hospital during his vacation in Mexico. Plaintiff
underwent major heart surgery which left him permanently disabled with
congestive heart failure.” This is sufficient to allege harassment.
The demurrer to the second cause of action is
OVERRULED.
C. Fourth Cause
of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).) 
 
Defendant demurs to the fourth cause of
action on the ground that Plaintiff has not alleged extreme and outrageous
conduct. As stated, Plaintiff alleges Defendant threatened him. Plaintiff also
alleges that Defendant kept the property in uninhabitable condition which
included pest infestations and unworking A/C and heat. And Plaintiff alleges
Defendant evicted him for his disability. A jury could find that this conduct is
extreme and outrageous.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action is OVERRULED.
 
D. Ninth Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract
 
“The standard elements of a claim for
breach of contract are: ‘(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff
therefrom.’” (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff cannot
maintain a cause of action for breach of the lease for requiring Plaintiff to
pay for trash pickup because the lease states, “The Tenant
shall pay for all … telephone service, and other services supplied to the
Premises, except as herein provided. Landlord shall supply water service within
reason.” This does not explicitly state that Plaintiff was required to pay for
trash. 
 
The demurrer to the ninth cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
E. Remaining Causes of Action
 
Defendant
demurs to the remaining causes of action on the ground that they are
duplicative of the claim for breach of the warranty of habitability. The Court
will not sustain the demurrer on these grounds. Plaintiff may allege
alternative theories of liability based on the same facts.
The demurrer to
the remaining causes of action is OVERRULED.
R. Motion to
Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v.
Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendant moves to strike the prayers
for punitive damages. As stated, Plaintiff alleges Defendant threatened him,
maintained the premises in uninhabitable condition, and evicted him based on
his disability. This is sufficient to allege entitlement to punitive damages.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 