  Case Number:  21STCV01296    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff L.R.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in
the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues
Respondent: Defendants Walnut
Valley Unified School District and Susan Arozla
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff L.R.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in
the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues is GRANTED IN PART as to the
issue of duty and DENIED IN PART as to the issue of breach and causation.
BACKGROUND
This
action arises from the alleged sexual assault of a middle school student.
Plaintiff L.R. is a minor diagnosed with autism and ADHD. From August 2019 to
March 2020, L.R. attended South Pointe Middle School (South Pointe) in the Walnut
Valley Unified School District (WVUSD) as a sixth grader. During this time,
another sixth-grade special needs student named Student X sexually assaulted L.R.
in restrooms at South Pointe during the school day on multiple occasions. Student
X also exchanged sexually explicit messages, photographs, and videos with L.R. After
L.R.’s mother learned of these messages and sexual assaults from L.R., L.R.’s
mother reported Student X to the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and
Susan Arzola, South Pointe’s principal.
On
January 12, 2021, L.R., through guardian ad litem Jennifer Butler, filed a
complaint against WVUSD, Arzola, and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes
of action: (1) negligence; (2) negligent hiring, retaining, supervision, and
training; (3) negligent failure to supervise and careless failure to guard,
maintain, inspect, and manage the school premises; and (4) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.
On
May 17, 2021, L.R. filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
defendants, omitting the fourth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress.
On
September 27, 2022, WVUSD and Arzola filed a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication. On April 13, 2023, the court denies their motion.
On
August 2, 2023, L.R. filed the present motion. A hearing on L.R.’s motion and a
case management conference are set for January 30, 2024.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
WVUSD
and Arzola’s request for judicial notice of this court’s prior ruling on their
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
L.R.
moves for summary judgment or adjudication on the grounds that (1) WVUSD and
Arzola owed L.R. a mandatory duty to protect L.R. from sexual assault by a
fellow student in school bathrooms during school hours, (2) WVUSD and Arzola
breached their mandatory duty, and (3) WVUSD and Arzola’s breach of duty
resulted in L.R. being sexually assaulted on multiple occasions by Student X.
For the following reasons, the court GRANTS L.R.’s motion as to the
issue of duty but DENIES it as to the issue of breach and causation.
Legal Standard
A
motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) It must be granted “if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare
Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (c).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the opposing party must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.)
A
plaintiff moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing
that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each
element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of
action. Once the plaintiff . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p).) The plaintiff is not required to disprove defenses asserted
by the defendant. (WRI Opportunity Loans II, LLC v. Cooper (2007) 154
Cal.App.4th 525, 531-532.) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted
only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a
claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
The
basic elements of a negligence claim are (1) duty, (2) breach, (3) causation,
and (4) damages. (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 472, 480 (Leslie G.).) Foreseeability of harm is not an
element of negligence, but it is a factor for establishing the elements of duty,
breach, and causation. (See Laabs v. Southern California Edison Co. (2009)
175 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1272-1273 (Laabs).)
Duty
L.R.
argues WVUSD and Arzola had a mandatory duty of care for L.R. that arose from
their special relationship with L.R. The court agrees.
Legal Standard
The
law imposes a general duty to exercise reasonable care for the safety of others
in one’s activities. (Cabral v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2011) 51 Cal.4th
764, 768, citing Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) To determine if public policy
requires an additional duty of care, courts consider the following factors: “the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant’s conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Id., at p. 771,
quoting Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 113.) The existence
of duty is a question of law “particularly amenable to resolution by summary
judgment.” (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 465.)
An
entity or person does not generally owe a duty to protect an individual from third
party harm but such a duty may arise if the entity or person is in a special
relationship with the victim or dangerous third party. (Brown v. USA
Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 215.) This special relationship “is one
that ‘gives the victim a right to expect’ protection from the defendant, while
a special relationship between the defendant and the dangerous third party is
one that ‘entails an ability to control [the third party’s] conduct.’” (Id.,
at p. 216, quoting Regents of University of California v. Superior Court (2018)
4 Cal.5th 607, 619.) The relationship between students and their school is one
such relationship, given “the mandatory character of school attendance and the
comprehensive control over students exercised by school personnel.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869.)
“The
existence of a duty of care of a school district toward a student depends, in
part, on whether the particular harm to the student is reasonably foreseeable.”
(M.W. v. Panama Buena Vista Union School Dist. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th
508, 518 (M.W.).) “Foreseeability is determined in light of all the
circumstances and does not require prior identical events or injuries.” (Id.,
at p. 519.) Foreseeability “is established if a reasonable prudent person would
foresee that injuries of the same general type would be likely to happen in the
absence of such safeguards.” (Taylor v. Oakland Scavenger Co. (1941) 17
Cal.2d 594, 600.)
The
foreseeability of sexual assault in the school setting in not a novel question
of law. “Where school officials allow a hidden area to be maintained on campus,
it is foreseeable that other students may use the hiding place to take
advantage of a ‘special needs’ student.” (Jennifer C. v. Los Angeles Unified
School Dist. (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1320, 1328 (Jennifer C.).) The
vulnerability of special needs students to bullying by their peers “gives rise
to the duty to adequately supervise and to eliminate hidden areas where
victimization can occur.” (Ibid; see also M.W., supra, 110
Cal.App.4th at p. 521 [“Given the foreseeability of harm to special education
students, . . . the District owed the minor a duty of care to protect him from
an assault [in school restrooms] on campus.”].)
Discussion
In
this case, L.R. argues WVUSD and Arzola owed a duty to prevent L.R. from being
sexually assaulted on school grounds due to L.R.’s position as a vulnerable
student. It is undisputed that L.R. was a special needs student with special
education status. (DRPSSUMF[1],
¶ 1.) It is also undisputed that some of the alleged sexual assaults occurred
while L.R. was lone with Student X in school restrooms. (DRPSSUMF, ¶ 2, 4, 7.)
Based on these undisputed facts, the court finds it is reasonably foreseeable
as a matter of law that L.R.’s vulnerable status could have led to L.R. being
victimized while alone in school restrooms. Thus, L.R. established WVUSD and
Arzola owed L.R. a duty to protect L.R. from sexual assaults in school
restrooms during school hours as a matter of law.
Accordingly,
L.R.’s motion for summary adjudication on the issue of duty is GRANTED.
Breach and Causation
Next,
L.R. contends WVUSD and Arzola breached their duty of care to L.R. by (1)
failing to supervise and monitor bathrooms during lunchtime, (2) failing to designate
special bathrooms or times for special needs students to use the bathroom, (3)
failing to sufficiently monitor students during the lunch period, (4) failing
to chaperone or escort students with special needs to the bathrooms, and (5)
failing to lock one of the bathrooms where L.R. was allegedly assaulted. L.R.
also contends these breaches resulted in L.R.’s sexual assault by Student X.
But
a court can only grant a motion for summary adjudication “only if it completely
disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for [punitive]
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1); see
DeCastro West Chodorow & Burns, Inc. v. Superior Court (1996) 47
Cal.App.4th 410, 421.) While L.R.’s notice of motion seeks summary adjudication
of the issues of breach and causation, it fails to seek summary adjudication of
the issue of damages which is one of the elements of L.R.’s negligence claims.
Thus, the court lacks the authority to grant L.R.’s motion as to these issues.
(Cf. McCaskey v. California State Automobile Assn. (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 947, 975 [“[T]here can be no summary adjudication of less than an
entire cause of action. . . . If a cause of action is not shown to be barred in
its entirety, no order for summary judgment—or adjudication—can be entered.”].)
Accordingly,
L.R.’s motion for summary adjudication of these grounds is DENIED.  Additionally, the court determines that the
adequacy of the level of supervision is a question of fact for the jury to
decide.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS L.R.’s motion for summary adjudication on the issue of the
duty and DENIES L.R.’s motion for summary judgment/adjudication on
breach and causation grounds.


