 Case Number:  22PSCV01894    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Rebecca
Castillo’s Application for Default Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Rebecca
Castillo’s Application for Default Judgment is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a disability rights action. Plaintiff Rebecca Castillo is a visually
impaired and legally blind individual. Defendant Bay Poke Franchise, Inc. (Bay
Poke) is a California corporation that operates a commercial website available
to the public.
As
early as August 2022, Castillo visited Bay Poke’s website multiple times and
alleges the following barriers to access existed: (1) graphics, links, and
buttons on the website were mislabeled or lacked alternative text (alt-text)
for screen-reading software to read out; (2) multiple pages contained insufficient
navigational headings; (3) menu links and descriptions were inaccessible to
screen reading technology, and (4) the checkout system was inaccessible.
On
November 18, 2022, Castillo filed a complaint for damages and injunctive relief
against Bay Poke and Does 1-10, alleging violations of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act (UCRA). On December 15, Castillo’s process server personally served Bay
Poke’s agent for the service of process in Buena Park.
On January 23, 2023, default was entered against
Bay Poke. On June 23, Castillo submitted an application for default judgment. On
June 29, the court denied Castillo’s application.
On August 4, 2023, Castillo filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On August 9, Castillo’s process served Bay Poke with substitute service in
Buena Park.
On October
30, 2023, default was entered against Bay Poke. On January 26, 2024, Castillo
submitted the present application for default judgment.
An
OSC Re: Default Judgment is set for January 30, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
Castillo
seeks default judgment against Bay Poke in the total amount of $9,074,
including $8,000 in damages, $570 in attorney fees, and $504 in costs. Because
the court finds Castillo has submitted sufficient evidence, the court GRANTS
Castillo’s application for default judgment but in the reduced amount of $6,074.00.  The court exercises its discretion based on
Plaintiff’s declaration to award deterrence damages of $1,000, instead of the $4,000.00
requested.
The
court also notes that Plaintiff’s previous default judgment application was
denied on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to adequately allege how the
website barriers deterred or affected Castillo’s full and equal access to Bay
Poke’s physical store. The court finds that Plaintiff’s FAC included additional
allegations stating the website barriers prevented Plaintiff from learning
information about Defendant’s menu and products online before visiting their
physical store and thus affected Plaintiff’s full and equal access. (FAC, ¶
39.) These barriers also apparently deterred Castillo from visiting a second
time on July 19, 2023. (FAC, ¶ 40-42.) 
The court finds these additional allegations sufficient to support
Plaintiff’s claims. 
CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Castillo’s application for
default judgment is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $6,074.00.  Plaintiff to submit a judgment consistent
with this ruling.