 Case Number:  24NNCV03293    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  A DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV03293

 



MP:  


Los Angeles Unified School District
  (Defendant)




RP:  


Terri Milner (Plaintiff) [No
  Response]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Terri Milner
(Plaintiff, in pro per) brings this action on behalf of her minor child
Taya Lynn Jones (Taya) as against Los Angeles Unified School District
(Defendant). It appears that Plaintiff alleges an employee of LAUSD followed
Taya into the parking lot of Walter Reed Middle School, which Plaintiff alleges
has racial connotations and is a form of harassment. Plaintiff states causes of
action for (1) General Negligence and (2) Intentional Tort. 
 
LAUSD now
demurs to the entire Complaint on grounds of C.C.P. § 430.10(b), that Plaintiff
lacks standing. LAUSD argues that Plaintiff may not proceed in pro per
in her representation of her minor child. LAUSD also demurs on grounds
Plaintiff’s claim is barred for failure to submit a Government Claim pursuant
to Gov. Code § 911.2(a). LAUSD further demurs
on grounds that the factual
allegations of the Complaint are insufficient to support each cause of action. Lastly,
LAUSD demurs on grounds that the entire Complaint is uncertain. 
 
Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition to this demurrer. A plaintiff’s failure to oppose the demurrer can
be treated as an implied abandonment of the challenged claims. (Herzberg v.
County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20.) 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §430.10(b) a defendant may
bring a demurrer if the plaintiff does not have capacity to sue.  In addition, pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) &
(f), the party against whom a Complaint has been filed may demur to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous
and/or unintelligible.
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the Complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the Complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the Complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet
and confer requirements were met here. (Shaheen Decl. Exh. B.)
 
General Discussion
 
The Court
begins its analysis by addressing LAUSD’s argument that the party with standing
to sue in this action is Taya, rather than Plaintiff. LAUSD attaches other three
purportedly identical suits filed by Plaintiff in Glendale, Alhambra, Pasadena
as Exhibit D to its demurrer. LAUSD argues that the allegations in these suits
make clear that the claims in this action are properly asserted by Taya rather
than Plaintiff. Relying on these other pleadings, LAUSD asserts (1) that Taya
has no standing to sue without the appointment of a guardian ad litem and (2)
that Plaintiff’s in pro per representation of Taya constitutes the
unauthorized practice of law. 
 
While the
arguments of LAUSD may be meritorious, determining such would require the Court
to rely on extrinsic evidence not properly considered on a demurrer. In
reviewing a demurrer, the Court may only consider matters which appear on the
face of the pleading and those matters which have been judicially noticed. The
Complaints in the three other suits have not been judicially noticed and are
thus not properly considered here. As such, the Court finds the demurrer may
not be sustained on grounds that Plaintiff lacks capacity to sue or is
impermissibly representing Taya without legal accreditation. The Complaint
lacks the necessary information for the Court to make such determinations.
Accordingly, the Court addresses the remaining grounds for demurrer below. 
 
Special
Demurrer for Uncertainty 
 
A
demurrer for uncertainty is a special demurrer that is disfavored and strictly
construed because "ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern
rules of discovery." (Lickiss v. Fin. Indus. Regulatory Auth.
(2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th 1125, 1135.) Moreover, special demurrers will be
overruled where "the facts alleged in the Complaint are presumptively
within the knowledge of the demurring party or ascertainable by invoking
discovery procedures…" (Khoury v. Maly's of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) To sustain a demurrer for uncertainty, the Complaint
must be so vague or ambiguous that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Id.
at 614.)
 
As
previously noted, the Complaint alleges its events occurred at Walter Reed
Middle School. Terri Milner is listed as the Plaintiff in the Complaint and
none of the substantive allegations explicitly identify the Plaintiff as anyone
else. Further, the allegations in the Complaint are all stated in the first
person. For example, “Principal Robyn Friedman directed Ms. Langham to follow
and watch me as I walked through the school to the parking lot.” (Compl. p. 4.)

 
Taken
together, the above allegations indicate that the person who brought this Complaint
is (1) employed by or visiting the middle school, (2) in middle school and
lacks legal capacity to sue, or (3) is representing a minor without first
obtaining leave to do so as guardian ad litem pursuant to C.C.P. § 372(a)(1),
for which counsel may still be required. 
 
In the
Court’s view, none of the above possibilities result in the critical
uncertainty of the allegations leveled at LAUSD. Plaintiff’s identity and
capacity to sue are matters which could be properly clarified in discovery.
Such clarifications may well result in future motions for lack of
standing.  Regardless, the Court finds
sustaining the demurrer for uncertainty would be improper given its review of
the Complaint. 
 
Government
Claim 
 
The
Tort Claims Act, codified in Gov. Code §§ 900 et seq., establishes
certain conditions precedent to filing a lawsuit against a public entity. (State
of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1237.) In order to
maintain a cause of action against a public entity, a plaintiff must file a
claim with the public entity for money or damages pursuant to Gov. Code §
911.2. (Id.; see Gov. Code § 911.2(a) [“[a] claim relating to a cause of
action for death or for injury to person or to personal property... shall be
presented as provided in” Government Code section 915 et seq. “not later
than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.”].)
 
A
plaintiff must allege facts sufficient to demonstrate compliance or excuse from
compliance of the Tort Claims Act. (State of California v. Superior Court,
supra, 32 Cal.4th at 1243, quoting Burgdorf v. Funder (1966) 246
Cal.App.2d 443, 447) [“...the language of the amended claim presentation
statutes ‘make[s] it clear that ... a plaintiff must still allege in his
complaint that he has complied with the claim statute in order to state a cause
of action against a public employee.’”].)
 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff has used a Form Complaint, of which Section 9
specifically prompts the filing party to list whether they are (1) required to
comply with a claims statute and (2) whether they did so. Section 9 of
Plaintiff’s Complaint indicates that she was required to comply with a claims
statutes and did in fact do so. (Compl. p. 2.)  
 
LAUSD
appears to argue that Plaintiff’s claims in this claim derive from three
separate incidents, occurring in March 2023, June 2023, and January 2024. (Dem.
p. 8.) LAUSD argues that Plaintiff never submitted a Government Claim pursuant
to Gov. Code § 911.2(a) for the 2023
incidents. While LAUSD concedes that Plaintiff did submit a Government Claim
for the January 2024 incident, they argue that Plaintiff did not bring this
action within the time frame required after that claim was rejected. 
 
The Court
finds a determination as to either of the above arguments would be
inappropriate at this time. The Complaint alleges that each precipitating
incident occurred on June 7, 2023. The Complaint also alleges that Plaintiff
complied with the Tort Claims Act prior to bringing this claim. Nothing on the
face of the pleadings or in a judicially noticed document indicates the
opposite. Even if the declaration of LAUSD’s counsel could be properly
considered in this regard, the declaration is silent as to Plaintiff’s failure
to file a claim for the June 2023 accident. It may well be that Plaintiff’s
claims are barred for failure to adhere to various requirements of the Tort
Claims Act, but that cannot be determined on the face of the pleading or
judicially noticed facts. 
 
First
Cause of Action – General Negligence – Sustained with 20 Days’ Leave to Amend 
 
LAUSD
argues that the Complaint contains insufficient facts to state a cause of
action sounding in negligence against a public entity. The Court finds this
argument persuasive for reasons described below. 
 
Government
Code § 815 provides that “[a] public entity is not liable for an injury,
whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a
public employee or any other person” except as provided by statute. (Gov. Code
§ 815(a); see Hoff v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th
925, 932.) “[D]irect tort liability of public entities must be based on a
specific statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating some
specific duty of care, and not on the general tort provisions of Civil Code
section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of immunity for public entities would
be largely eroded by the routine application of general tort principles.” (Eastburn
v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.) To
state a claim against a public entity, “every fact essential to the existence
of statutory liability must be pleaded with particularity, including the
existence of a statutory duty.” (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist. (1986)
177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.)
 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s cause of action for General Negligence pleads insufficient
facts as to LAUSD’s liability. Plaintiff’s allegations are as follows: 
 
Principal Robyn Friedman directed Ms. Langham to
follow and watch me as I walked through the school to the parking lot. Ms.
Friedman is aware the act of following has racial connotations and is a form of
harassment. (Compl. p. 4.) 
 
As
stated, these facts are insufficient to plead a cause of action sounding in
negligence against a public entity. Although Plaintiff has alleged compliance
with the Government Claim requirements, her negligence cause of action contains
no facts speaking to LAUSD’s liability under statute. In the absence of these
allegations, Plaintiff’s claims of negligence rely on common law principles
which do not apply to government entities. Accordingly, the demurrer to the
first cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Second
Cause of Action – Intentional Tort – Sustained with 20 Days’ Leave to Amend 
 
As
previously stated, Gov. Code § 815 requires that a tort action against a public
entity be based on statutory liability. As with Plaintiff’s first cause of
action, her cause of action for Intentional Tort contains no facts speaking to
statutory liability. Given Plaintiff’s claims are clearly based on the
intentional acts of two alleged LAUSD employees, she must allege facts
establishing LAUSD’s liability for those actions under statute. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Los Angeles Unified
School District’s Demurrer came on regularly for
hearing on December 27, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FAILURE TO ALLEGE SUFFICIENT FACTS IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR FAILURE TO ALLEGE SUFFICIENT FACTS
IS SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DEFENDANT
LAUSD TO PROVIDE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 27, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 