 Case Number:  22BBCV00512    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  A APPLICATION
FOR APPOINTMENT OF A RECEIVER

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00512

 



MP:  


GKGF, LLC A California Limited
  Liability Company (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Jojos California Family Restaurants,
  LLC [No Response Rendered]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This matter was continued from November
1, 2024 to December 27, 2024 at the request of the parties.
 
On July
13, 2022 GKGF, LLC A California Limited
Liability Company (Plaintiff) filed an action against Jojos California Family
Restaurants, LLC (Jojos) and Coco’s Restaurants, LLC (Cocos) (collectively
Defendants) for non-payment of commercial rent. The Complaint stated causes of
action against each Jojos and Cocos for (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Account Stated.

 
On September 18,
2023, judgment was entered against Defendants in the amount of $269,592.73. On
December 8, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees.
Attorney’s fees were awarded in the amount of $57,269.42. (See December 8, 2023
Minute Order). 
 
Before the Court is an
Application for the Appointment of a Receiver made by Plaintiff. Plaintiff
requests the Court appoint a Receiver so that Defendants’ trademarks and liquor
licenses may be sold in satisfaction of the judgment. Defendants have not
opposed this application. The Court notes that, pursuant
to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to
its being granted.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
"The
court may appoint a receiver to enforce the judgment where the judgment
creditor shows that, considering the interests of both the judgment creditor
and the judgment debtor, the appointment of a receiver is a reasonable method
to obtain the fair and orderly satisfaction of the judgment." (C.C.P. §
708.620.) "In this state a receiver may be appointed only as
permitted by [C.C.P. §] 564." (Barclays Bank of Cal. v. Sup. Ct. (1977)
69 Cal.App.3d 593, 597 [emphasis added].) C.C.P. § 564 provides twelve instances
in which a court may appoint a receiver. (C.C.P. § 564(b).) Here, Plaintiff
moves pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 564(b)(3), and (b)(4).
 
As
relevant to this motion, C.C.P. § 564 provides that the Court may appoint a
receiver "(3) [a]fter judgment, to carry the judgment into effect";
"(4) [a]fter judgment, to dispose of the property according to the
judgment, or to preserve it during the pendency of an appeal, or pursuant to
the Enforcement of Judgments Law … as directed by the court or otherwise
provided by law"; or "(9) [i]n all other cases where necessary to
preserve the property or rights of any party." (C.C.P. §§ 564(b)(3), (4), &
(9).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The
appointment of a receiver is a drastic remedy to be employed only in
exceptional circumstances after a showing of compelling need. (Hoover v.
Galbraith (1972) 7 Cal.3d 519, 528; IFS Indus., Inc. v. Stephens
(1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 740, 756 [the "provisional remedy of receivership is
utilized sparingly and only upon a compelling showing of need" for the
receiver].) Because a receiver can represent an extravagant cost to a losing
party, a court should carefully weigh whether appointing a receiver will yield
a reasonably certain benefit to the requesting party. (City & County of
San Francisco v. Daley (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744.)
 
Given
the drastic nature of this remedy, courts are loathe to appoint a receiver
where other feasible collection efforts exist. "In light of the sheer
number of enforcement mechanisms for collecting money judgments under the
Enforcement of Judgments Law (which range from levies to liens to wage
garnishment …), appointment of a receiver is rarely a 'necessity' and, as a
consequence, 'may not ordinarily be used for the enforcement of a simple money
judgment.'" (Medipro Med. Staffing LLC v. Certified Nursing Registry,
Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 622, 628 [internal quotations omitted].)
"Instead, the appointment of a receiver to enforce a money judgment is
reserved for 'exceptional' circumstances where the judgment creditor's conduct
makes a receiver necessary-and hence 'proper.' [Citations.] This occurs when
the judgment debtor has frustrated the judgment creditor's collection efforts
through obfuscation or through otherwise contumacious conduct that has rendered
feckless the panoply of less intrusive mechanisms for enforcing a money
judgment." (Id. at 628-29.)
 
Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has not demonstrated that the appointment of a
receiver is necessary to the collection of the judgment they have obtained.
Plaintiff’s argument that a receiver is necessary to allow Plaintiff to sell
the intellectual property of Defendants is unpersuasive. Plaintiff argues that
a receivership is necessary because C.C.P. § 699.040, the code section
outlining property subject to a turnover order, does not apply to intangible
property such as trademarks and liquor licenses. (See Palacio Del Mar
Homeowners Ass’n, Inc. v. McMahon (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1386, 1391.) While
it is true that those a receiver is required to initiate the sale of
non-tangible property in satisfaction of judgment, this argument places the
cart before the horse. Plaintiff’s argument presumes that the appointment of a
receiver in general has already been found to be a reasonable remedy. 
 
As
explained in Medipro above, for the appointment of a receiver to be
proper Plaintiff must first demonstrate that Defendants have frustrated
collection efforts in a way that the normal collection efforts have been
entirely frustrated. For example, Plaintiff could demonstrate that Defendants
were entirely insolvent and the only assets they maintained were the trademarks
and liquor licenses. In that instance the appointment of a receiver would
likely be necessary to allow Plaintiff to collect on the judgment as they would
be unable to proceed by writ of execution or otherwise.
 
Further
discussed in Medipro, the Second District Court of Appeal opined that a trial
court abuses its discretion in appointing a receiver to enforce a money
judgment when there was no evidence—let alone the substantial evidence
necessary to sustain a proper exercise of discretion (citing Shoen v.
Zacarias (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 1112, 1118)—that the judgment debtor engaged
in obfuscation or other obstreperous conduct to the degree that the other
collection mechanisms available under the Enforcement of Judgments Law were
ineffective. (Medipro Medical Staffing LLC v. Certified Nursing Registry,
Inc., supra, 60 Cal.App.5th at 629.) 
Here, Plaintiff’s declarations in support of this motion provide no
insight into why sale of Defendants’ intellectual property is required to
satisfy the judgment. The declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Michael
Muse-Fischer, merely states the amount of the judgment and attaches the various
trademarks/liquor licenses as exhibits. Muse-Fischer’s declaration presents no
facts as to whether Defendants have other assets or whether Plaintiff’s
collection efforts have been frustrated thus far. This may well be the case,
but Plaintiff must affirmatively demonstrate as much. The same can be said of
the declaration of the proposed receiver, Ryan Baker. Baker’s declaration is
silent as to the necessity of his appointment. 
 
Additionally,
the Court notes that Plaintiff has filed this motion concurrently with four
writs of execution. If Plaintiff is of the belief that they have no means of
collecting other than the sale of Defendants’ intellectual property, it stands
to reasons that these writs are without purpose. Plaintiff does not detail the
collection efforts in connection with any of these writs or that they were
unsuccessful. Further, Plaintiff attaches evidence suggesting that Defendants
currently operate ten restaurants in the State of California. Muse-Fischer
Decl. Exh. 6.) Presumably each of these locations contains a number of assets
which facilitate the operation of the restaurant which could be subject to
ordinary collection efforts. This presumption has not been rebutted by
Plaintiff. 
 
In
short, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not sufficiently demonstrated the
necessity of appointing a receiver. Plaintiff has provided no explanation as to
why the sale of Defendants’ intellectual property is necessary to the satisfaction
of this judgment. As presented, the circumstances of this case simply do not
warrant the Court’s approval of such a drastic remedy. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s application is DENIED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
GKGF, LLC A
California Limited Liability Company’s Application for Appointment of Receiver came on regularly for hearing on December 27, 2024, with appearances/submissions
as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully
advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
PLAINTIFF’S APPLICATION IS DENIED. 
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 27, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 