 Case Number:  23BBCV01564    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01564

 



MP:  


Margarita Arzoumanian (Defendant)




RP:  


Khachatur Tigran Tonoyan &
  Andranik Sargsyan (Plaintiffs) [No Response]



NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Khachatur Tigran Tonoyan & Andranik
Sargsyan (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Margarita Arzoumanian
(Defendant) in connection with an October 2, 2022 motor vehicle incident.
Plaintiffs allege Defendant’s negligent operation of a motor vehicle
precipitated a collision which caused Plaintiffs significant injury.
 
Before the Court is Defendant’s motion
to compel Plaintiffs’ attendance at deposition. Plaintiffs have failed to
oppose to this motion which, pursuant
to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), may be deemed consent to the motion being granted.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
I.                   
MERITS 
 
On March 28, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff’s counsel
with a Notice of Deposition for Plaintiffs to occur on April 24, 2024. (Carlos
Decl. Exh. A.) These depositions were taken off calendar as Plaintiffs and
their counsel were unavailable. (Mot. p. 3.) On April 23, 2024, Defendant
served a second Notice of Deposition, this time to be held May 23, 2024.
(Carlos Decl. Exh. B.) This date was also taken off the calendar as a result of
Plaintiffs’ unavailability. (Mot. p. 3.) On May 23, 2024, Defendant’s counsel
conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel and confirmed the date of July 11, 2024 for
the depositions to proceed. (Carlos Decl. Exh. D.) Defendant thereafter issued
her third Notice of Deposition. (Carlos Decl. Exh. E.) On July 10, 2024,
Plaintiffs’ counsel stated they would not be able to attend the deposition due
to a scheduling error by their office. (Carlos Decl. Exh. F.) 
 
On July 10, 2024, Defendant issued her fourth Notice of
Deposition to occur August 20, 2024. (Carlos Decl. Exh. F.) Defendant’s counsel
confirmed these dates were available with Plaintiffs’ counsel prior to issuing
the Notice. (Id.) On August 19, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel informed that
they were unavailable to move forward with the depositions the following day.
(Carlos Decl. Exh. H.) 
 
Defendant went forward with the August 20, 2024 depositions
and took the non-appearance of Plaintiffs. (Carlos Decl. Exh. I.)  On November 4, 2024, Defendants’ counsel
reached out to Plaintiffs’ counsel with respect to securing dates for the
depositions to move forward. (Exh. J.) Defendants’ counsel informed that if
they received no response they would move forward with the instant motion. (Id.)

 
Given the foregoing, the Court finds Defendant
has demonstrated that Plaintiffs failed to proceed with the duly noticed
deposition despite multiple attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’
counsel regarding the nonappearance. (C.C.P. § 2024.450(a), (b)(2).).  Furthermore, Plaintiffs have failed to oppose
to this motion which, pursuant
to C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), may be deemed consent to the motion being granted.
 
It is the expectation of
this Court that Plaintiffs who initiate a lawsuit timely make themselves
available for deposition.  When
depositions are scheduled but cancelled, subsequent dates should be a priority
of counsel to be honored.  It has been
over a year since the answer was filed in this case, and over eight months
since the initial deposition was noticed but the Plaintiffs have not made
themselves available.  Trial is scheduled
for June of 2025, and the Court expects that subsequent motion practice for
discovery compliance should be unnecessary with Plaintiff timely complying with
Defendant’s discovery requests as set forth in the Code of Civil Procedure.
 
Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel
the deposition of Plaintiffs is GRANTED. The depositions shall take place
within the next 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
Defendant’s counsel estimates their
office spent two hours in appearing at the August 19 deposition and taking
nonappearance of Plaintiffs, as well as two hours in bringing this motion.
(Carlos Decl. ¶ 7.) Defendant’s counsel further states that they incurred
a $60 filing fee for this motion. (Id.) As such, the Court awards
sanctions in the amount of $760 as against Plaintiffs and their counsel,
jointly and severally. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following
form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered
into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Margarita
Arzoumanian’s Motion to Compel the Depositions of Khachatur Tigran Tonoyan & Andranik Sargsyan came on regularly for hearing on December 27,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
DEFENDANT’S UNOPPOSED
MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFFS IS GRANTED.
 
THE
DEPOSITIONS SHALL OCCUR WITHIN THE NEXT 30 DAYS. 
 
THE COURT AWARDS
SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $760 AS AGAINST PLAINTIFFS AND THEIR COUNSEL,
JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY. SANCTIONS
SHALL BE PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
OSC RE:
COMPLETION OF PLAINTIFFS’ DEPOSITION AND PAYMENT OF DISCOVERY MONETARY
SANCTIONS IS SET FOR JANUARY 31, 2025 AT 10:00 AM.  DEFENDANT TO TAKE MATTER OFF CALENDAR IF
COMPLIANCE.
 
DEFENDANT
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 27, 2024                           _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 