 Case Number:  23BBCV01105    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO
COMPEL RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01105

 



MP:  


LKQ Pick Your Part (Defendant) 




RP:  


Patris Sobouti (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Patris Sobouti
(Plaintiff) brings this action against LKQ Pick Your Part (Defendant), Plaintiff
is one of two plaintiffs in this action; the other not being part of this
motion. Plaintiff alleges that a vehicle owned by Defendant, and negligently operated
by one of its employees, collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle and caused serious
injury. 
 
Before
the Court is Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to their Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the Production of
Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff has not opposed this motion. The Court notes that, pursuant to
C.R.C. Rule 8.54(c), a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed consent to its
being granted.  
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On July
12, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff’s counsel with its Special Interrogatories
and RFPD. (Karami Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) On August 30, 2024, Defendant served
Plaintiff’s counsel with its Form Interrogatories. (Karami Decl. ¶ 3, Exh.
B.) Plaintiff’s counsel thereafter requested several extensions to respond,
which Defendant’s counsel granted. (Karami Decl. ¶ 6.) After these
extensions had elapsed, Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defendant’s counsel that
they could no longer get in touch with Plaintiff and thus could not produce any
responses. (Karami Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
On
November 1, 2024, Plaintiff served unverified responses to each discovery
demands. (Karami Decl. ¶ 7.) These responses did not consist solely of
objections and as such were required to be verified. (See C.C.P. § 2030.250(a)
[“The party to whom the interrogatories are directed shall sign the response
under oath unless the response contains only objections.”].) Defendant thus
argues, and the Court agrees, that Plaintiff has yet to provide valid responses
to the initial discovery demands. (See Appleton v. Superior
Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636 [“Unverified responses
are tantamount to no responses at all.”].) 
 
Based on
the foregoing, Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel Plaintiff’s initial
response to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD is
GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The Court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. (C.C.P. § 2023.030(a).) Further,
it is customary to grant sanctions where a party has filed a motion to compel,
and the other party fails to file an opposition. (C.R.C. Rule 3.1348(a).)  
 
Here,
Defendant has drafted and filed this motion while Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition. As such, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $750 as
against Plaintiff. This amount reflects two hours of attorney work at the
stated rate of $345 per hour, plus the $60 filing fee. (Karami Decl. ¶ 9.)
In the Court’s view, this amount is reasonable to compensate Defendant in
having to bring a motion with this degree of complexity. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
LKQ Pick Your Part’s
Motions to Compel Responses came on regularly for
hearing on December 27, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
DEFENDANT’S
UNOPPOSED MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S INITIAL RESPONSE TO THEIR FORM
INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND RFPD IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
RESPONSES ARE TO BE MADE WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE GRANTED AS AGAINST PLAINTIFF IN THE AMOUNT OF $750. SANCTIONS ARE TO BE
PAID WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 