  Case Number:  21BBCV00321    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  A MOTION TO  ENTER JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court  Case # 21BBCV00321       MP:     Yvette Peña (Defendant)      RP:     Commodity Trucking Acquisition,    LLC (“Plaintiff”)      NOTICE:    The Court is not  requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by  California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear  is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,  no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other  parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the  party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become  the ruling of the court if no argument is received.      Notice may be given  either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.   ALLEGATIONS:    Commodity  Trucking Acquisition, LLC (Plaintiff) filed suit against Peña Construction  Services, Inc. (Defendant) alleging that Peña entered into an agreement on  August 5, 2020 to perform construction work at 777 N. Front Street, Burbank,  California 91502. Plaintiff alleged that Peña then entered into an agreement  with Plaintiff for Plaintiff to provide trucking, transportation, and leasing  services for the Project. Plaintiff alleges that it performed such work but  remained uncompensated by Defendant.   On November  11, 2024, jury trial in this matter was concluded and a jury verdict was  rendered. The jury found in favor of Plaintiff and that their damages were  $1,750,000.    Plaintiff  now moves for the following:    ·          An award  of prejudgment interest under section 3287 of the California Civil Code,    ·          An award  of prompt payment Peñalties fixed in amount by the Court under Section 7108.6  of the California Business & Professions Code, and    ·          Judgment  on the reserved issue of Commodity Trucking’s cause of action on the Mechanics  Lien Release Bond under and pursuant to sections 8400-8424 of the California  Civil Code and/or California’s Bond and Undertaking law codified at section  996.440, et seq. of the Code of Civil Procedure.   Defendant  opposes the motion and Plaintiff replies.    ANALYSIS:    Prejudgment Interest    Prejudgment is generally awarded on one of three bases.  First, prejudgment interest is available on liquated claims, that is, on those  claims in which damages are certain or capable of being made certain by  calculation. (Civ. Code § 3287(a).) The court must award prejudgment interest  upon request from the first day there exists both a breach and a liquidated  claim. (North Oakland Medical Clinic v. Rogers (1998) 65  Cal.App.4th 824, 828; Howard v. American Nat’l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187  Cal.App.4th 498, 535.) Second, prejudgment interest is available on  unliquidated contract claims, that is, on claims in which damages based on a  contract claim are not certain. (Civ. Code § 3287(b).) The court has discretion  to decide whether interest should be awarded on an unliquidated claim arising  from contract and to decide the date from which such interest should be awarded  (but no earlier than the filing of the action). (Civ. Code § 3287(b); North  Oakland, supra, 65 Cal.App.4th at 829.) Lastly, prejudgment interest is  available on unliquidated tort claims “in the discretion of the jury” or by the  court in nonjury trials. (Civ. Code § 3288; Bullis v. Security Pacific Nat’l  Bank (1978) 21 Cal.3d 801, 814.)   Here, Plaintiff does not specify whether it seeks mandatory  interest under Civ. Code § 3287(a) or discretionary under Civ Code § 3287(b),  though it appears though their argument that they contend they are entitled to  mandatory interest. As such the Court must address each basis for relief in  turn.    Mandatory Interest    Whether a defendant is liable for prejudgment interest  under Civil Code § 3287(a) depends on whether “defendant actually know[s] the  amount owed or from reasonably available information could the defendant have  computed that amount.” (Duale v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 718, 729.) “The statute . . . does not authorize prejudgment  interest where the amount of damage, as opposed to the determination of  liability, depends upon a judicial determination based upon conflicting  evidence, and it is not ascertainable from truthful data supplied by the  claimant to his debtor. Thus, where the amount of damages cannot be resolved  except by verdict or judgment, prejudgment interest is not appropriate.” (Id.  [citations, quotations, and emphasis omitted].)   The test for determining certainty under Civil Code § 3287(a)  is whether the defendant knew the amount of damages owed to the claimant or  could have computed that amount from reasonably available information. (Id.)  Uncertainty as to liability is irrelevant and a dispute concerning liability  does not preclude prejudgment interest in a civil action. (Id.) The  certainty required by Civil Code § 3287(a) is not lost when the existence of  liability turns on disputed facts but only when the amount of damages turns on  disputed facts. (Id.)    Damages will be deemed “capable of being made certain by  calculation” if the amount due can be determined by reference to a fixed  standard, e.g., a payment schedule, a readily ascertainable market value, or  data supplied by plaintiff to defendant. (Marine Terminals Corp. v. Paceco  (1983) 145 Cal. App. 3d 991, 996.) In Marine Terminals, the Court found  that when the plaintiff submitted invoices to the defendant, the plaintiff made  its damages known to defendant and rendered them “certain” for the purposes of  section 3287. (Id.)   Plaintiff argues that damages in this case are all  liquidated in that, “Peña Construction knew the amount owed or easily could  have computed that amount based on its simple review of the number of loads or  the tonnage of material hauled multiplied by the applicable rate for Commodity’s  services.” (Mot. p. 5.).  The initial  issue for trial was whether the loads transported by Plaintiff were contaminate  soil or uncontaminated soil.  The  information relied upon by Plaintiff was information that was in the possession  of Defendant Peña Construction.  In fact,  it was generated as part of Peña Construction’s overall contact with the  project’s owner and applicable laws.   These were not documents that were generated by Plaintiff shortly before  or subsequent to litigation.  In  addition, the soil status for loads hauled by others for which the jury  concluded that Plaintiff was entitled to of hauled and earned a profit were not  in dispute.   The Court believes that the gravamen of the issue was one  of liability under the contract.   If the  soil was not contaminated then Plaintiff would have been in breach and Peña  Construction would not have been liable; however, if the soil was contaminated  then Peña Construction was in breach, as the jury ultimately found that Peña  Construction was in breach.  The amount  of damages was known or reasonably able to have been calculated using basic  arithmetic.     Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED as to mandatory  prejudgment interest pursuant to Civ. Code §3287(a) in the amount of  $536,431.95, as set forth in Plaintiff’s Exhibit 2.    Discretionary Interest    Despite finding interest appropriate under Civil Code  §3287(a) in the event that the Court’s application of that subdivision was  misplaced the Court would award discretionary interest damages pursuant to  Civil Code §3287(b).     “A plaintiff that is entitled to recover damages on a  contract claim that was unliquidated until the judgment was rendered may  recover prejudgment interest on these damages at the judge’s discretion. (Civ.  Code § 3287(b).) Because the intent of Civ. Code § 3287(b) is to enable judges  to award prejudgment interest despite the uncertain amount owed on a contract  claim for unliquidated damages, it is contrary to the statutory scheme for a  judge to refuse prejudgment interest for the sole reason that the amount of  damages is highly uncertain. (Hewlitt-Packard Co v. Oracle Corp. (2021)  65 CA 5th 506, 575-581.)   Balancing the equities, to the extent that Plaintiff would  not be entitled to pre-judgment interest under Civil Code §3287(a), this court  finds that Plaintiff would be entitled to prejudgment interest pursuant to  Civil Code §3287(b) at the statutory rate from the date the action was filed.  The Court believes that the amount of damages  were instantly calculable from the filing of the Complaint as the documents necessary  for the determination were in the custody or control of the Pina  Construction.  (Carmel Development  Co., Inc. v. Anderson (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 492 (when damages are not  instantly discoverable upon filing the complaint trial court may delay  imposition of pre-judgment interest.)    Accordingly, in the event that pre-judgment interest under  Civil Code §3287(a) is misplaced, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED as to discretionary  prejudgment interest pursuant to Civ. Code § 3287(b).   However, this is not in addition to any  pre-judgment interest under Civ. Code §3287(a), but only if such an award is erroneous.   Prompt Payment    Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 7108.6 provides in relevant  part:    A licensed contractor  is required to pay all transportation charges submitted by a duly authorized  motor carrier of property in dump truck equipment by the 20th day following the  last day of the calendar month in which the transportation was performed, if  the charges, including all necessary documentation, are submitted by the fifth  day following the last day of the calendar month in which the transportation  was performed. The payment shall be made unless otherwise agreed to in writing  by the contractor and by the duly authorized motor carrier of property in dump  truck equipment. In the event that there is a good faith dispute over a portion  of the charges claimed, the contractor may withhold payment of up to 150  percent of the disputed amount or an amount otherwise agreed to by the parties.  A violation of this section constitutes a cause for disciplinary action under  Section 7120 and shall also subject the contractor licensee to a Peñalty,  payable to the carrier, of 2 percent of the amount due per month for every  month that payment is outstanding. In an action for the collection of moneys  not paid in accordance with this section, the prevailing party shall be  entitled to his or her attorney’s fees and costs.   Here, Plaintiff’s claims under B&P Code § 7108.6 were  explicitly placed before the jury and decided. The jury verdict reflects that  (1) Plaintiff submitted all necessary documents by the fifth day of the  calendar month in which the transportation was performed, (2) Defendant failed  to make payment by the 25th day of the last calendar month in which the  transportation was performed, and (3) Defendant did not prove a good faith  dispute as a reason for withholding payment. In other words, the jury found all  the statutory elements required to support an award B&P Code § 7108.6 were  present.    Defendant’s arguments in opposing this motion are that (1) Plaintiff’s  evidence did not establish they timely sent the necessary documents and (2)  Defendant’s evidence proved a good faith dispute. Both arguments essentially  ask the Court to completely circumvent the factual findings of the jury and the  Court declines to do so. Defendant has not provided the Court any compelling  reason to disturb the finding of the jury, nor have they pursued any of their  statutory grounds for doing so (i.e. judgment notwithstanding the  verdict, motion for new trial.)    Cumulative Recovery under B&P §7108.6 and Civil Code  §3287   The Court initially had concern that collection under both  B&P §7108.6 and Civil Code §3287 may result in a windfall for Plaintiff;  however, the Court of Appeal does not share that conclusion.     In Morton Engineering & Construction, Inc. v.  Patscheck the Court of Appeal concluded that allowing recovery of  prejudgment interest (Civ. Code, § 3287) and the 2 percent Peñalty does not result  in a double recovery for the subcontractor. The Morton Engineering Court  viewed the distinct purposes of the two items of recovery. Prejudgment interest  is intended to compensate the subcontractor for loss of use of the funds. (Wisper  Corp. v. California Commerce Bank (1996) 49 Cal. App. 4th 948, 960) while the  2 percent Peñalty is intended to Peñalize the contractor for failing to comply  with statutory requirements. The Appellate Court went on to opine that “to  preclude recovery of both the 2 percent Peñalty and prejudgment interest would  defeat the purpose of the statute and reduce the impact of the 2 percent Peñalty.  If the Legislature had intended this result, it would have so stated. (See,  e.g., Pub. Contract Code, § 7107.)”  (Morton  Engineering & Construction, Inc. v. Patscheck (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th  712, 717-718.)   Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is GRANTED as to the award  of prompt payment Peñalties pursuant to B&P Code § 7108.6 in the amount of  2% per month for the invoices issued September 12, 2020 and October 5, 2020.  (See Mot. Exh. 3.)    Mechanics Lien    Lastly, Plaintiff moves for “Judgment on the reserved issue  of Commodity Trucking’s cause of action on the Mechanics Lien Release Bond  under and pursuant to sections 8400-8424 of the California Civil Code and/or  California’s Bond and Undertaking law codified at section 996.440, et seq.  of the Code of Civil Procedure.”    While the issue of the mechanics lien was reserved from  trial, the Court disagrees that its adjudication is proper within the context  of this motion. Plaintiff essentially seeks a judgment on its second cause of  action without adhering to the requirement for such a motion. The result is  that the Court is essentially without guidance as to the discreet legal issues  to be adjudged and the evidence speaking to each of those issues.   For example, Civil Code §§ 8410 and 8200(a) require that a  lienholder must give notice to (1) the owner, (2) the direct contractor, and  (3) the construction lender before it records and forecloses its lien. Here,  the Court has been presented with no evidence or sworn testimony as to any  notice prior to recordation.    As another example, a mechanic’s lien claimant has the  burden of establishing the validity of the lien, including that the labor,  services and/or materials were actually used, the reasonable value of the work  and/or materials, and the date of completion or cessation of work. (Basic  Modular Facilities, Inc. v. Ehsanipour (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1480, 1485.)  Here, most of the information required to make the above determination was  presented to the Court during the jury trial, but not all.  For example, the notices as discussed above  have not been.   This can be presented during a subsequent  Court trial on that issue or by written declaration upon stipulation.   Lastly, Plaintiff’s evidentiary submissions in reply are  improper. New evidence is not generally permitted with reply papers. (Jay v.  Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538.) A court may exercise its  discretion to accept new evidence in reply papers as long as the opposing party  is given the opportunity to respond. (Alliant Ins. Services, Inc. v. Gaddy  (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1292, 1307-1308.) While Exhibits B & C attached to  the supplemental briefing appear to address the reasonable value of Plaintiff’s  services, they remain improperly submitted as Defendant has functionally had no  opportunity to respond. Further, even in Exhibits B & C were properly  presented, the Court remains with any evidence of notice for the lien and other  statutory elements required in bringing a foreclosure action.    Given the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to enter judgment  on the second cause of action is DENIED without prejudice. If Plaintiff wishes  to enter judgment on this cause of action, they are free to do so by proceeding  pursuant to C.C.P. 996.440, et seq.   ---    RULING:   In the  event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed  order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the  following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and  entered into the court’s records.    ORDER    Commodity  Trucking Acquisition, LLC’s motion for  Judgment came on regularly for hearing on December 27,  2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said  hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there  rule as follows:    PLAINTIFF’S MOTION IS AS TO MANDATORY  PREJUDGMENT INTEREST PURSUANT TO CIV. CODE §3287(A) IN THE AMOUNT OF  $583,677.73 IS GRANTED.   IN THE ALTERNATIVE, PLAINTIFF’S MOTION AS TO DISCRETIONARY  PREJUDGMENT INTEREST PURSUANT TO CIV. CODE § 3287(B) IS MOOT GIVEN THE GRANTING  UNDER CIV. CODE §3287(A).  HOWEVER, IF  THE AWARD UNDER CIVIL CODE §3287(A) IS SET ASIDE, THE COURT WOULD GRANT  INTEREST PURSUANT TO CIV. CODE §3287(B).   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION AS TO THE AWARD OF PROMPT PAYMENT PENALTIES  PURSUANT TO CAL. BUS. & PROF. CODE § 7108.6 IN THE AMOUNT OF $102,791.69 IS  GRANTED.    PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO ENTER JUDGMENT ON THE  SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.   PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE.    IT IS SO  ORDERED.   