 Case Number:  24NNCV04583    Hearing Date:   December 27, 2024    Dept:  A APPLICATION
FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV04583

 



MP:  


Financial Services Vehicle Trust (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Sevak Bidzyan (Defendant) [No Response]
  



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is required and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Financial
Services Vehicle Trust, by and through its, BMW Financial Services NA, LLC (Plaintiff)
brings
this action against Sevak Bidzyan (Defendant) in connection with a motor vehicle
Lease Agreement for a 2023 BMW 760XI (the Subject Vehicle). Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant agreed to lease the Subject Vehicle yet subsequently defaulted
on payments. 
 
On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Complaint stating four
causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Common Count, (3) Claim
and Delivery, and (4) Conversion. 
 
Before the Court is an application
made by Plaintiff for a Writ of Possession. Plaintiff seeks to recover the Subject
Vehicle so that it may recoup funds toward the defaulted agreement. Defendant
has filed no response. 
 
A failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a
consent to the granting of the motion. 
Failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties'
acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c).
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. § 512.030 requires
personal service of an application for writ of possession in instances where
the defendant has not appeared in the action. Defendant has not appeared in
this matter and thus Plaintiff must personally serve this application or
demonstrate that the circumstances are such that substitute service is proper.
(See C.C.P. § 415.20(b).) The Court finds Plaintiff has done neither. 
 
Plaintiff’s proof of
service of this Application reflects substitute service on “Narine K.” at 10207
Fernglen Ave Apt. 2 Tujunga, CA 91042-2200. (See November 14, 2024 Proof of
Service.) Plaintiff’s declarations contain no statements as to why substitute
service was proper here. Although the Fernglen address is listed as Defendant’s
address on the lease agreement, Plaintiff’s application does not detail any
efforts to determine whether Defendant still lives there. It appears from the
Proof of Service that Narine K. did not know Defendant and neither did a next
door neighbor. (Id.) 
 
The Court further notes
that even if Plaintiff had properly served Defendant, the application fails to
put forth a statement as to the location of the property as required by C.C.P.
§ 512.2010(4). The only declaration in support of the Subject Vehicles current
location is that of Plaintiff’s Replevin Analyst Kulwant Johnson (Johnson).
Johnson does not state where the Subject Vehicle is located according to the “best
knowledge, information and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property.” Johnson merely states based on his review of Plaintiff’s records,
the Fernglen address was the address Defendant lived at when he entered into
the lease. This is not a sufficient statement as to the location of the Subject
Vehicle. 
 
In short, the Court finds
Plaintiff did not personally serve this application nor demonstrate why
substitute service was proper. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s application is DENIED
without prejudice. 
---
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the Court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Financial
Services Vehicle Trust’s Applications for
Writ of Possession came on regularly for hearing on December
27, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE
APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
PLAINTIFF
TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
December 27, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 