  Case Number:  24STCV04096    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Hearing on Special Motion to Strike under CCP
Section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP motion)
 
Plaintiff Truconnect Communications, Inc. (“TCI” or “Plaintiff”))
bring this case against Defendants The Sanford Firm (“Sanford”); Regie Salgado
(“Salgado”); Melinda Zambrano (“Zambrano”) (Sanford, Salgado, and Zambrano
collectively referred to herein as “Defendants”), alleging that Salgado and
Zambrano brought legally baseless claims against TCI in a federal court case
(the “Prior Action”) with the intent to inflict economic and reputational
damage. Sanford represented Salgado and Zambrano in the Prior Action. The Prior
Action asserted claims for violations of the federal and California false
claims statutes, retaliation under federal and state law, and wrongful
termination under California law. The federal court dismissed the false claims
causes of action and then granted summary judgment in favor of TCI on the retaliation
and wrongful termination causes of action. TCI contends in this lawsuit that Salgado
and Zambrano, with significant assistance from Sanford, maliciously continued
to prosecute the Prior Action even after its lack of merit became clear. 
The causes of action are (1) Malicious Prosecution;
and (2) Civil Conspiracy.
 
Defendants now move to strike TCI’s entire Complaint
pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. Section 426.16, which extends protections to strategic
lawsuits against public participation (“SLAPP” actions). TCI opposes the
motion.  
 
            Factual
Background
TCI, a cellphone network
operator participating in the Lifeline Program, hired Zambrano as a Vice
President of Products in March 2015 and Salgado as Director of Inventory
Operations in April 2015. (Sanford Decl. ¶ 4; see also 47 U.S.C. § 254(b)(1),
(b)(3); 47 C.F.R. § 54.401(a).) In June 2015, Salgado discovered suspicious
activity suggesting that TCI might be overcharging the government, including
billing for “active” phones in TCI’s possession rather than with subscribers
and excessive one-second calls to justify billing. (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 1;
Salgado Decl., ¶ 1.) After reporting these concerns to upper management,
Zambrano and Salgado confronted Rick Burgar, TCI’s Vice President of Revenue
Assurance, who dismissed their concerns and instructed Zambrano to mind her own
business. (Zambrano Decl., ¶ 2; Salgado Decl., ¶ 2.) Two days later, both were
terminated. Subsequently, Zambrano and Salgado filed the qui tam Prior Action
under seal in federal court, alleging fraud against the government. Although
the United States and California declined to intervene, the case proceeded. The
federal court ultimately dismissed the qui tam claims while allowing limited
discovery on the retaliation and wrongful termination claims. (Sanford Decl.,
¶¶ 7-11.) TCI’s motion for summary judgment on the retaliation and wrongful
termination claims was granted, with the court finding insufficient evidence
that the decision-makers were aware of the fraud concerns. (Sanford Decl., ¶¶
8-11, 14.) The Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal and denied TCI’s request
for attorneys’ fees.  (Sanford Decl., ¶
18; Exhibit H, p. 6.) A dissenting opinion argued that the false claims causes
of action should not have been dismissed at the pleading stage and that genuine
issues of material fact existed regarding the whistleblower retaliation claims.
Legal Standard
“If a defendant
brings a special motion under the anti-SLAPP statute [CCP § 425.16] to strike a
cause of action, the trial court evaluates that motion using a two-step
process: The first examines the nature of the conduct that underlies the
plaintiff's allegations to determine whether the conduct is protected by
section 425.16; the second assesses the merits of the plaintiff’s claim.
[Citation]” (Laker v. Board of Trustees
of California State University (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745, 759.)
 
“The defendant’s
first-step burden is to identify the activity each challenged claim rests on
and demonstrate that that activity is protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. A
‘claim may be struck only if the speech or petitioning activity itself is
the wrong complained of, and not just evidence of liability or a step leading
to some different act for which liability is asserted.’ [Citation.]  To determine whether a claim arises from
protected activity, courts must ‘consider the elements of the challenged claim and
what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form the
basis for liability.’ [Citation.]  Courts
then must evaluate whether the defendant has shown any of these actions fall
within one or more of the four categories of ‘act[s]’ protected by the
anti-SLAPP statute. [Citations.]”  (Wilson
v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 884 [italics in
original].)
 
“In the first step of
the analysis, the trial court determines whether the cause of action ‘arises
from’ an ‘‘‘act in furtherance of a person's right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue.’’’ [Citation] The first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis ‘turns on two
subsidiary questions: (1) What conduct does the challenged cause of action
‘arise[] from’; and (2) is that conduct ‘protected activity’ under the
anti-SLAPP statute?’ [Citation]” (Laker,
supra, 32 Cal.App.5th. at p.760.)

 
“The Supreme Court
has clarified that ‘arising from’ means ‘based on.’ [Citation] This element of
the first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis is sometimes referred to as the
‘nexus’ requirement. [Citation] Conduct constitutes ‘protected activity,’ if it
falls within one of the categories set out in section 425.16, subdivision (e).
Section 425.16, subdivision (e), in turn, applies to (1) ‘any written or oral
statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law’; (2) ‘in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law’; (3) ‘in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with
an issue of public interest’; or (4) ‘any other conduct in furtherance of the
exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of
free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.’
[Citation] The defendant bringing the anti-SLAPP motion to strike must make a
prima facie showing that the allegations that form the basis of the plaintiff's
claims arise from conduct that falls under one of these  categories. [Citation]” (Ibid.)
 
“If the defendant
prevails in this step of the analysis, the trial court must then assess the
merits of the plaintiff's claim. The Supreme Court has described this second
step of the SLAPP analysis as a ‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ [Citation.]  The plaintiff carries the burden of
demonstrating that its claim has ‘at least ‘minimal merit.’’ [Citation.] If the
plaintiff is unable to demonstrate that his or her claim has at least minimal
merit, then the trial court should deem the cause of action a SLAPP and should
strike it. [Citation.]” (Ibid.)  
 
            At
this “second stage of an anti-SLAPP hearing, the court may consider affidavits,
declarations, and their equivalents if it is reasonably possible the proffered
evidence set out in those statements will be admissible at trial. Conversely,
if the evidence relied upon cannot be admitted at trial, because it is
categorically barred or undisputed factual circumstances show inadmissibility,
the court may not consider it in the face of an objection. If an evidentiary
objection is made, the plaintiff may attempt to cure the asserted defect or
demonstrate the defect is curable.” (Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 949.)
 
            The
trial court properly considers the evidentiary submissions of both the
plaintiff and the defendant, but it may not weigh the credibility or
comparative strength of the evidence and must instead simply determine whether
the plaintiff’s evidence would, if believed by the trier of fact, be sufficient
to result in a judgment for plaintiff. (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 97, 108-09.) The court “accept[s] as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff [citation] and evaluate[s] the defendant’s evidence
only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a
matter of law.’ [Citations.]” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299,
326.) Further, whether or not the evidence is in conflict, in the context of a
motion to strike under the anti-SLAPP statute, if the plaintiff has presented a
sufficient pleading and has presented evidence showing that a prima facie case
will be established at trial, the plaintiff is entitled to proceed. (Moore
v. Shaw (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 182, 193.) Only a minimal showing of merit
is required. (Robinzine v. Vicory (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1421.)
Analysis
Request for Judicial Notice
            The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ request for judicial notice in full.
            The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice in full.
Evidentiary Objections
            Plaintiff’s
objections to Declaration of Brian Sanford:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
1-23
            Plaintiff’s
objections to Declaration of Melinda Zambrano:
                        SUSTAINED:
27
                        OVERRULED:
24-26
            Plaintiff’s
objections to RJN Exhibits A-F, H:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
28
Defendants’ objections to
Declaration of Nathan Johnson:
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
1-3
            Plaintiff’s
objection and request to strike all the reply evidence is OVERRULED. 
            Plaintiff’s
objections to Supplemental Declaration of Brian Sanford: 
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
30-36
            Plaintiff’s
objections to Supplemental Declaration of Regie Salgado 
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
37
            Plaintiff’s
objections to Supplemental Declaration of Nicholas Woodfield 
                        SUSTAINED:
None
                        OVERRULED:
39-40
 
Prong 1: Protected Activity
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(e)
protects “(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a … judicial
proceeding, … [and] (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a … judicial body”.
(CCP § 425.16(e)(1)-(2).)  Filing
documents in a court proceeding is unquestionably petitioning activity under
these clauses.  (Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 19, [“The constitutional right to petition
... includes the basic act of filing litigation or otherwise seeking
administrative action.”].)  “[P]lainly
read, section 425.16 encompasses any cause of action against a person
arising from any statement or writing made in, or in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by, an official proceeding or body.”  (Briggs v. Eden
Council for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106,
1113.)  “[T]hese clauses safeguard free
speech and petition conduct aimed at advancing self government, as well as
conduct aimed at more mundane pursuits. Under the plain terms of the statute it
is the context or setting itself that makes the issue a public issue: all that
matters is that the First Amendment activity take place in an official
proceeding or be made in connection with an issue being reviewed by an official
proceeding.”  (Id. at p.1116.)  Thus, protected conduct includes such actions
as “the filing, funding, and prosecution of a civil action.”  (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37
Cal.4th 1048, 1056.)  
 
Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s complaint for malicious prosecution and civil conspiracy is subject
to California’s anti-SLAPP statute under subdivisions (e)(1) and (e)(2) of
section 425.16 because the claims for malicious prosecution and civil
conspiracy are based on Defendants’ actions in filing and maintaining the prior
action.
 
Plaintiff provides no
arguments in opposition.
 
The Court finds that
the claims in this action fall within the protections of the anti-SLAPP statute,
as they arise from Defendants’ petitioning activities, specifically the filing
and maintenance of the prior action. As stated in Jarrow Formulas, Inc. v.
LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 741, the Anti-SLAPP statute “potentially
may apply to every malicious prosecution action, because every such action
arises from an underlying lawsuit, or petition to the judicial branch. By
definition, a malicious prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a
tort by filing a lawsuit. [Citation.]” (See also Briggs v. Eden Council for
Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1113 [“plainly read,
[Anti-SLAPP]¿encompasses any cause of action against a person arising from any
statement or writing made in, or in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by, an official proceeding or body”].) Thus, prong 1 is
satisfied.
 
Prong 2: Probability of Prevailing
Because
this malicious prosecution action arises from protected activity, the burden
shifts to Plaintiff to show that it has a reasonable probability of prevailing
on its claim against Defendants. (Dalany
v. American Pacific Holding Corporation (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 822, 827.)
“A
plaintiff must plead and prove three elements to establish the tort of
malicious prosecution: a lawsuit ‘(1) was commenced by or at the direction of
the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination favorable to the
plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was initiated with
malice.’ [Citation.]” (Nunez v. Pennisi (2015)
241 Cal.App.4th 861, 872-873.) The issue, then, is whether Plaintiffs have
submitted enough evidence on this motion to show that there is a probability
that they will be able to show each of these elements. Defendants do not
dispute that Plaintiffs can show the first element.


Brought
      without probable cause


Plaintiff argues that
there was no probable cause to bring the lawsuit, asserting that Defendants
knew or should have known that the claims in the Prior Action were baseless.
Specifically, Plaintiff contends that Zambrano and Salgado wrongfully claimed
to be employed by TCI and brought employment law claims under California law,
despite actually being employed by Texas-based Sage Telecom with no connection
to California. This discrepancy, according to Plaintiff, undermines the validity
of the employment-related claims in the Prior Action. 
Plaintiff also points to
the extensive government investigations triggered by Defendants’ allegations,
which ultimately resulted in no findings of wrongdoing. Plaintiff contends that
the continued prosecution of the claims in the Prior Action, despite the
absence of any evidence uncovered by these investigations, constitutes a clear
indication of a lack of probable cause for the case. Additionally, Plaintiff
argues that Defendants failed to identify specific laws or regulations that
were violated by TCI, even after multiple opportunities to amend their claims,
further demonstrating that there was no reasonable legal basis to pursue the
lawsuit. 
On the other hand, Defendants
argue that they had probable cause to file and maintain the Prior Action
against TCI. They assert that probable cause is a legal question, and litigants
are protected from being penalized for pursuing claims that are merely
unsuccessful. Zambrano and Salgado claim that they relied in good faith on the
advice of their counsel, who, after full disclosure of the facts, advised them
that their claims had merit. This reliance on legal counsel, they argue,
customarily establishes probable cause as a matter of law. Moreover, Defendants
point to the Ninth Circuit’s majority opinion, which denied TCI’s request for
attorneys’ fees, stating that Defendants’ claims were not frivolous and that
there was no evidence of improper motive. (Mot, Exhib. H.) Defendants also
highlight that a dissenting opinion in the Ninth Circuit case supported the
view that there was a genuine dispute of material fact regarding their
whistleblower retaliation claims, further indicating that probable cause
existed. (Id.) 
Plaintiff argues that
Defendants cannot rely on the Ninth Circuit case as a basis for establishing
probable cause because the issues in the present malicious prosecution case are
not identical to those decided by the Ninth Circuit. Plaintiff contends that
the Ninth Circuit’s ruling focused on whether Defendants’ claims were frivolous
under the standards of the False Claims Act (FCA), which differs from the
standard for determining probable cause under California law for purposes of evaluating
a malicious prosecution claim. Even if the Ninth Circuit ruling in the Prior
Action is not binding on this Court in considering the merits of the malicious prosecution
claim, the Court can and does consider the ruling for persuasive value in determining
whether Plaintiff has presented evidence that the Prior Action was brought and
maintained with no probable cause.
Plaintiff also argues that Defendants have failed to establish the affirmative
defense of good faith reliance on counsel’s advice after full and fair
disclosure of the facts. Plaintiff contends that Defendants did not
meet their burden of proof to show that Zambrano and Salgado fully informed
their counsel of all relevant facts before filing the prior action. Without
clear evidence of full disclosure, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants cannot
claim they acted in good faith based on their attorney’s advice. Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that much of Defendants’ evidence supporting this defense is
inadmissible, further weakening their case. Even if the evidence were
admissible, Plaintiff contends that Defendants have not addressed the continued
prosecution of the Prior Action. Plaintiff also claims that the lack of
probable cause for the initial and continued prosecution of the Prior Action is
evident given that the Defendants knew or should have known that they were not
employed by TCI and that their employment had no connection to California,
undermining the basis for their claims. Moreover, Plaintiff points out that the
government’s decision not to intervene in the case after years of investigation
further indicates a lack of probable cause. Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
attempts to explain the government’s decision as due to negligence or
incompetence are implausible, given the extensive nature of the investigations.

Defendants assert that
they fully disclosed all relevant facts to their attorneys, both The Employment
Law Group (TELG) and Sanford, who advised them that their claims against TCI
had merit. Defendants contend that there are no genuine factual disputes
regarding this reliance on counsel, and they have provided supplemental
declarations to clarify that they made full disclosure of the facts, including
those related to their employment status. Although Defendants did not initially
disclose information about their connection to Sage Telecom, they argue that
this omission was not intentional and that it did not affect the legal advice
they received. Additionally, they maintain that TCI itself considered Salgado
and Zambrano to be its employees, further supporting their claims. Defendants
emphasize that even after disclosing their employment with Sage, Sanford
continued advising them that their claims had merit, which justifies their
decision to continue prosecuting the case.
Notwithstanding, Defendants
argue that they had probable cause to file and maintain the Prior Action because
Salgado and Zambrano had a reasonable basis to believe they were employed by
both TCI and Sage, given that joint employment is a recognized legal concept
under U.S. law. Joint employment has long been recognized under U.S. law,
particularly when separate business entities exert significant control over the
same employees and share or co-determine essential terms and conditions of
employment. (Hersch, Joint Employment in the United States (2020) 13 It. L. L.
e-J.55, 60-62). Under the National Labor Relations Act, this shared control can
establish a joint employer relationship. (N.L.R.B. v. Browning-Ferris Indus.
of Pennsylvania, Inc. (3d Cir. 1982) 691 F.2d 1117, 1124). In the context
of the False Claims Act, an employee only needs to have an “employment-like
relationship” with the defendant to be protected from retaliation. (Ickes v.
Nexcare Health Sys., L.L.C. (E.D. Mich. 2016) 178 F.Supp.3d 578, 591).
Courts have held that an employee can claim retaliation against a parent
company that exercises a high level of control over their employment
conditions, thereby establishing a joint employer relationship. (United
States ex rel. Rubar v. HaynerHoyt Corp. (N.D.N.Y. 2018) 306 F.Supp.3d 478,
484.) Federal courts have developed an economic control or reality standard to
assess such relationships. (Moreau v. Air France (9th Cir. 2004) 356
F.3d 942, 947.) Salgado and Zambrano were presented with offer letters on TCI
letterhead, given TCI business cards, used TCI email addresses, and were led to
believe their payment was from TCI. They were not informed by TCI that they
were employed by Sage, and their supervisors were TCI employees. The Johnson
brothers, who controlled both TCI and Sage, had the power to hire and fire
employees, supervise work schedules, determine payment methods, and maintain
employment records, reinforcing the perception that Salgado and Zambrano were
TCI employees. Defendants argue that TCI’s own actions and initial pleadings,
which acknowledged Salgado and Zambrano as TCI employees, provide further
probable cause for their claims in the Prior Action.
The Court finds that
Plaintiff has not met its burden of demonstrating a
probability of success in proving that Defendants brought and maintained the Prior
Action without probable cause. The Court determines that Defendants had a
reasonable basis for their belief in their employment status, supported by the
presentation of offer letters on TCI letterhead, the use of TCI business cards
and email addresses, and their understanding that they were working under TCI’s
supervision. (Zambrano Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 2-6; Salgado Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.)
Additionally, Defendants sufficiently demonstrated that they reasonably
believed they were employed by both TCI and Sage. (Sanford Supp. Decl., ¶ 2 and
Exs. A-B.) 
Because the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not met
its burden, it need not decide if Defendants made a full and fair disclosure of
the facts to their attorney, when they did not initially disclose their
employment by Sage.  


Initiated
      with malice


Plaintiff argues that
there is a genuine issue of fact as to whether Defendants acted with malice
when they initiated the Prior Action. Plaintiff contends that malice can be
inferred from intentional misrepresentations by Zambrano and Salgado regarding
their employment status, where they falsely claimed to be employed and
terminated by TCI, despite documentary evidence and their own admissions
showing that they were employed by Sage. (TCI RJN Ex. 1.a, pp.5-6, 41-45;
Johnson Decl., Ex. 4.) This discrepancy, according to Plaintiff, indicates that
Defendants knowingly made false allegations with the intent to harm TCI.
Additionally, Plaintiff highlights deposition testimony in which Zambrano and
Salgado disparaged government officials as “sloppy and lazy” and criticized a
federal prosecutor, suggesting that these statements reflect Defendants’ indifference
to the truth and further demonstrate malice. (Johnson Decl., Ex. 5 (Zambrano
Depo.) at 140:3-4, 140:8-11.) Plaintiff asserts that the combination of these
factors—intentional misrepresentations, lack of probable cause, and derogatory
comments about the investigation—creates a sufficient basis to question
Defendants' motives and to infer malice.
On the other hand, Defendants
argue that they did not act with malice in initiating the Prior Action.
Defendants argue that lack of malice cannot be inferred from a lack of probable
cause alone and cannot be based on speculation. Defendants assert that they
initiated the Prior Action in good faith, believing in the validity of their
claims and without any hostility or ill will towards TCI. They further argue
that the Ninth Circuit’s majority opinion in the Prior Action, which denied
TCI’s request for attorneys’ fees on the grounds that the claims were not
frivolous and lacked evidence of improper motive, conclusively establishes that
they did not act with malice. Additionally, Zambrano and Salgado emphasize that
they relied in good faith on the advice of counsel, including Sanford, which
had expertise in qui tam cases and believed in the merits of the claims to the
extent that it provided representation on a contingency basis.
Plaintiff fails to show
that Defendants acted with malice when they initiated the Prior Action. As
discussed above, Defendants believed in good faith that TCI was the employer of
Zambrano and Salgado, and any misunderstanding about their employment status
was not due to ill will or an improper motive. (Zambrano Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 2-6;
Salgado Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.) The Court also notes that the Ninth Circuit's
denial of TCI’s request for attorneys’ fees further supports the conclusion
that Defendants did not act with an improper motive, as the Ninth Circuit found
“no evidence" of such a motive in its review of the case. (Mot, 16:18-26,
quoting DRJN, Ex. H, p. 6.) Additionally, the Court finds that Defendants’
actions were not “clearly unreasonable” considering Zambrano’s and Salgado’s
reliance on legal counsel and their honest belief in the validity of their
claims. (Grindle v. Lorbeer (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1461, 1466.)
Therefore, the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not met its burden of proving
that Defendants acted with malice in bringing the prior action.
Conclusion
Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ special motion to
strike. Defendants request fees in their motion, which they are entitled to
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 426.16, subd. (c)(1).  Defendants can file a separate motion for such
fees if needed.