  Case Number:  19STCV27545    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 25, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿
CASE NUMBER:                  19STCV27545
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Mihwa Kim, et al v. Prime
PAC-Pacific Co, et al. 
 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,
Prime Pan-Pacific Co. 
¿¿
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
Mihwa Kim, Kwangwoo Kim, Kwang Hee Kim 
¿¿ 
JUDGMENT DATE:              August 16, 2023
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict 
                                                (2)
Motion for New Trial
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED
                                                (2)
DENIED. 
 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
August 6, 2019, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint. Plaintiffs’ operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed on January 5, 2021. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. Plaintiffs’ decedent was a pedestrian operating a wheelchair.
On December 13, 2017, Plaintiffs’ decedent was killed when a semi-trailer truck
ran him over in the street. Defendant, Prime Pan-Pacific Company illegally
blocked the sidewalk with a customer’s vehicle, which forced Plaintiffs’
decedent onto the downward slope of the driveway apron where he lost control
and ended up in the street. The original Complaint alleged two causes of action
for General Negligence and Motor Vehicle Negligence. In the FAC, Plaintiffs
alleges the following causes of action: (1) Negligence; (2) Premises Liability;
(3) Wrongful Death; and (4) Discrimination in Violation of Civil Code § 52. 
 
On
August 16, 2023, this Court entered judgment. Defendant, Prime Pan-Pacific Co
on the jury’s verdict. Prime has now filed a Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict and a Motion for New Trial. 
 
B.    
Procedural 
 
On September 11, 2023, Prime
filed a Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict. On
September 21, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On September 26, 023, Prime
filed a reply brief. 
 
On
September 11, 2023, Prime also filed a Motion for New Trial. On September 21,
2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On September 26, 023, Prime filed a reply
brief.
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict
 
Legal Standard 
 
            The party against whom a verdict has been
rendered may move the court for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, and the
court shall grant the motion “whenever a motion for directed verdict for the
aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion been
made.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 629, subd. (a).)  The purpose of such a
motion is to challenge whether the opposing party’s evidence was sufficient to
prove the claims or defenses asserted and now embodied by the jury’s
verdict.  (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d 104, 110.) 
In ruling on a motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict, the court does not weigh the evidence or determine the credibility of
witnesses.  (Hauter, supra, 14 Cal.3d at p. 110.)  The
party in whose favor the verdict was rendered is “entitled to the benefit of
every favorable inference which may reasonably be drawn from the evidence and
to have all conflicts in the evidence resolved in his favor.”  (Castro
v. State of California (1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 503, 507 (Castro).) 
“A motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict may be granted only if it
appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the party
securing the verdict, that there is no substantial evidence in support.” (Sweatman
v. Dept. of Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68 (Sweatman).) 
The focus in determining whether substantial evidence supports the verdict “is
on the quality, rather than the quantity, of the evidence.  ‘Very little
solid evidence may be “substantial,” while a lot of extremely weak evidence
might be “insubstantial.” ’  [Citation.]  Inferences may constitute
substantial evidence, but they must be the product of logic and reason. 
Speculation or conjecture alone is not substantial evidence.”  (Roddenberry
v. Roddenberry (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 634, 651.) 
Discussion 
 
            Here, as a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that Prime’s Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict fails to attach any exhibits or declarations as
evidence to any of its moving papers. On reply, Prime argues that this does not
diminish the evidentiary strength of its challenge, but underscores the
simplicity of the available and undisputed evidence to contest the jury’s
decision. The Court disagrees but will consider the declaration and exhibits
Prime attached to its concurrently filed motion for new trial as also bearing
on the JNOV motion. 
 
Whether Prime Owed Any Duty to Plaintiff 
 
            Prime
argues that it did not owe a duty of care as a matter of law to Decedent as the
parked car was not the direct cause of the collision, and the unforeseeable
nature of the subsequent events. Prime relies on Rucker v. WINCAL, LLC (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 883. In Rucker, the plaintiff was training for a
half-marathon and was jogging through the defendant owner’s property when she
encountered a homeless encampment that blocked her path.  (74 Cal.App.5th
at 885.)  To avoid the encampment, the plaintiff ran onto the street’s
bicycle path where she was struck and injured by a car.  (Id.) 
The plaintiff alleged that the owner knew its premises was in a dangerous and
unsafe condition but failed to take measures necessary to cure them or warn the
plaintiff about them.  (Id. at 886.)  The undisputed evidence
showed that the plaintiff entered the owner’s property for a
recreational purpose- jogging- so the owner met its burden of showing that it
owed the plaintiff no duty of care pursuant to Civil Code §
846.   
 
            Unlike in Rucker, here
Decedent was operating his wheelchair on a public sidewalk. Further, Defendant
created a dangerous situation when they parked a vehicle in the public sidewalk
which forced Decedent to move around the vehicle as it was in his path. Prime
argues that there was still plenty of room to move around the parked vehicle,
however, it was in a driveway, the slope of which may have been difficult for
Decedent to maneuver his wheelchair back up after being forced to proceed
around a barrier created by Defendant. This is not akin to Rucker as the
jogger there was jogging through the property owner’s property when she
encountered a homeless encampment – a barrier not created by the property owner
there.  
 
            Prime also argues it owed no duty to
warn Decedent or to remedy the condition of the open and obvious White Chevy
Impala. Prime argues it cannot be held liable for an “open and obvious”
condition linked to the white Chevy Impala because the dangerous condition was
sufficiently discernable, and Prime’s responsibility to provide further
warnings or remedies was superseded by the self-evident nature of the risk
involved. 
 
            Here,
Prime contends that Plaintiffs’ causes of action for Negligence, Premises
Liability, and by Extension, Wrongful Death, are barred as against Prime
because the purported “Dangerous Condition” on the property allegedly owned by
Prime was “open and obvious.” Prime argues whether it owed a duty to plaintiff
is a question of law for the Court. The Court understands that generally, if a
danger is so open and obvious that an individual can reasonably be expected to
see it, the condition itself serves as a warning, and the landowner is under no
further duty to remedy or warn of the condition. (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker
Residential Brokerage Co. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 446-47.) First, the
Court does not agree that the vehicle sticking out into the public sidewalk,
forcing a wheelchaired individual to go around it, and subsequently getting hit
by another vehicle, is so open and obvious a danger. The Court in Rucker
noted in footnote 5 that because summary judgment was appropriate based on
California Civil Code § 846, they need not decide whether the homeless
encampment was open and obvious. As such, this analogy fails, and Prime fails
to provide a case showing more analogous facts to the case at bar. Next, what
Prime’s argument fails to address is the exception to this rule where “it is
foreseeable that the danger may cause injury despite the fact that it is
obvious when necessity requires persons to encounter it.” (Id. at 447.)
For example, in Martinez v. Chippewa Enterprises, Inc. (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 1179, 1185, the Court determined there was a practical necessity
for the plaintiff to walk across wet pavement because the pavement was the
‘principal if not sole access way from the street to defendant’s building,
which housed a government office serving the public.  
 
            As such,
even if this Court were to find that the dangerousness of the circumstances
leading to Decedent’s death were so open and obvious (which it does not), the
Court would nonetheless find a duty to warn of the potential dangers, if not a
duty to refrain from blocking the public sidewalk.  Plaintiff provided proof of a local ordinance
which created a duty for a business to refrain from blocking a public sidewalk
or allowing the parking of cars for its business on the sidewalk.  Accordingly, the City of Gardena determined
that a business owed a duty to the general public to prevent or refrain from permitting
the parking of cars or customer vehicles in such a manner as to block the
sidewalk.  Further, under general
principles of comparative fault, the jury was instructed on the Decedent’s duty
of care, and by virtue of its assignment of a significant percentage of fault
to the Decedent, the jury considered the open and obvious nature of the sidewalk
obstruction in rendering its verdict.
 
Based on the above, Prime’s Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict is DENIED. 
 
B.    
Motion for New
Trial 
¿ 
Legal Standard 
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure section 657 provides the following grounds for granting a new trial
motion, among others: (1) irregularity in the proceedings; (2) misconduct of
the jury; (3) excessive or inadequate damages; (4) insufficiency of the
evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other
decision is against law; and (5) error in law, occurring at the trial and
excepted to by the party making the application.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 657,
subds. (1), (2), (5), (6), (7).)   
In ruling on a new trial motion, the
court sits as an independent trier of fact, and has the power to disbelieve
witnesses, reweigh the evidence, and draw reasonable inferences therefrom
contrary to those of the trier of fact, in an effort to determine whether the
jury clearly should have reached a different conclusion.  (Lane v.
Hughes Aircraft Co. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 405, 412; Barrese v. Murray
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 494, 503).  “Unless such a moving party can show
that by a retrial of the action, and supporting facts therefor are contained in
the affidavit, he could establish an entirely different case favorable to
himself in the event that a new trial be granted, it is a thoroughly settled
rule that a motion for a new trial will not be granted.”  (Moore v.
Franchetti (1937) 22 Cal.App.2d 75, 79 (Moore).)   
Discussion 
 
As
a preliminary matter, the Motion for New Trial suffers a multitude of
procedural flaws. First, Prime has failed to include transcript references in
the moving papers, which are customarily provided to facilitate the Court’s ability
to verify where in the trial transcript various assertions of testimony, argument,
objections, and rulings may have occurred. 
The absence of those references hindered the Court’s ability to locate specific
testimony or specific rulings the Court may have made.  Second, Prime has not attached the entire
transcript, or even a certified transcript, as the exhibit attached to the moving
papers is specifically labeled a “rough” version. Key portions of the trial are
not included in the defense transcript exhibit, even if it were a final
certified copy.   While the Court kept careful notes of the testimony
and proceedings at trial, and the Court paid close attention to the proceedings
during the trial, for certain points raised by the MNT the Court cannot make reference
to specific arguments of counsel or inquiries and ruling by the Court.  Nonetheless the Court will endeavor to make
reference below to proceedings and rulings that the moving papers failed to
provide.  
 
Opposing
Counsel’s Requested Damages Amount
 
            First, Prime argues that during Plaintiffs’
opening statement, Plaintiffs’ counsel requested a specific amount of damages
in excess of $12 million, a figure which Prime argues fatally compromised the
jury’s evaluation of the case. Here, the Court notes that Prime’s counsel
objected to this statement, and the Court sustained the objection. (Transcript
for Friday, August 4, 2023, p. 34, digital page 34 in the MNT papers.) Juries
are deemed capable, if so instructed, of ignoring improper argument. (Sabella
v. Southern Pac. Co. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 311, 317.)   The Court reiterated that statements of
counsel are not evidence during its preliminary instructions as well as
in the jury orientation, neither of which are contained in the limited uncertified
rough transcripts provided as evidence in support of the motion.  Here, the Court sustained Prime’s counsel’s
objection, and thus, the jury is presumed to have followed the Court’s
directive and disregarding the objected-to matter. Further, Prime’s counsel did
not object to the mention of a dollar amount in opening until the third time
Mr. Koppel argued a dollar figure in opening statement, i.e., after he stated
Plaintiffs will be asking for $5 Million for lead plaintiff Mihwa Kim, $5
Millon for Kwang Woo Kim, and then $2.5 Million for Kwang Hee Kim.  Mr. Park on defendants’ opening statement reiterated
the millions of dollars figure, a point raised by the Court in a sidebar after
the jury had been excused post-openings when the Court explained the reason for
its sustaining of the objection.  (See Transcript
for Friday, August 4, 2023 at p. 46, digital page 58 in the MNT papers.)   
 
The
Court finds Prime’s attempted analogy to Mudrick v. Market Street Ry. Co.
(1938) 11 Cal.2d 724 to be ineffectual. In Mudrick, the California Supreme
Court found that the trial court did not make a prejudicial error when it
instructed the jury that there was no evidence to support Plaintiff’s counsel’s
opening statement after he included statements of which he did not attempt to
prove and knew could not be proven. Here, the statement made by Plaintiffs’
counsel was not one of fact or evidence, and instead was an argued dollar
amount, as to which the Court sustained an objection because there would be no evidence
as to any specific dollar figure that an opening statement could forecast the evidence
would show.  Plaintiffs’ opposition asserts
that it was permissible to argue a dollar amount in opening, but it is not
clear to the Court whether the Rutter Group section cited is referring to non-economic
damages.  
 
            The Court thus finds no fatal irregularity
in the proceedings or error in law arising from the objected-to mention of
dollar figures in opening statements as to which the Court promptly sustained
an objection.  
 
Exclusion
of Glenn Cummins’ Testimony 
 
            Next, Prime argues that the Court’s
exclusion of Glenn Cummins’ testimony significantly impeded the case. Prime
maintains that Cummins’ expertise and insights were crucial for a comprehensive
understanding of the matters in this case. Prime contends that Cummins’
potential testimony held substantial value, as it could have contradicted Mihwa
Kim’s claim of frequent visits to her father’s residence. But Prime’s position
as to the relative lack of importance of Mr. Cummings during the trial are not consistent
with Prime’s arguments in the MNT.  
 
            The Court turns Prime’s attention to
the Transcripts at digital page 604, page 89 of the uncertified rough
transcript for Thursday, August 10, 2023. 
During that discussion out of the jury’s presence, counsel for Prime informed
the Court that “we decided not to call or heavily leaning towards not calling
Glenn Cummings.”  Although there is no
transcript provided for proceedings on Friday, August 11, 2023, the Court’s
recollection is that at the end of the trial day Prime’s counsel indicated he
had only 15 minutes or so remaining for his second expert’s testimony,
reiterating the representation the day earlier (which is in the uncertified
transcript) that the defense would call no additional witnesses after the
experts had testified.  To the Court’s
recollection, again without the benefit of a full transcript of each trial day,
Prime’s counsel did not mention a change of mind as to calling Mr. Cummings
until after the completion of defense expert’s Solomon’s re-direct examination either
just before or just after the lunch recess on Monday, August 14, 2023.  The Court expressed its concern to both sides
towards the end of the trial week on August 10 and/or 11 that the time-qualified
jury had been told they would get the case for deliberations no later than
Monday, August 14 so counsel needed to manage their presentation of evidence
accordingly.  It thus appeared to the Court
that only Mr. Solomon would be testifying on Monday August 14, enabling the Court
to instruct the jury in the late morning and allowing for all closing arguments
in the afternoon session.  These were
among the factors bearing on the Court’s exercise of its discretion to deny the
defense the time on Monday afternoon to call Mr. Cummings as a witness.  
 
Instead,
the Court pre-instructed the jury and enabled a complete set of closing arguments
on the afternoon of Monday August 14, 2023 with Plaintiffs’ rebuttal argument being
completed at approximately 4:45 p.m. on that afternoon.  Mr. Solomon’s testimony on direct and cross
took 90 minutes of time on Monday morning, consuming more than 15 minutes on the
completion of his direct as he presented four additional exhibits (Exh. 107-31,
107-003, 107-039, and 107-040), and offered additional opinion testimony that morning.  On redirect exam, Mr. Solomon offered three
more exhibits, 10-37, 10-13, and 10-7.  Accordingly,
Prime made a choice to devote considerably more time than 15 minutes to
presenting its second expert on the last morning of testimony, rather than reserving
any time for Mr. Cummings to testify before lunch.  The Court does not recall Mr. Cummings’ name
being mentioned at all on the morning of August 14 (until after Solomon had
completed his testimony) or the afternoon of August 11 when the Court discussed
scheduling of witnesses and proceedings to enable the jury to receive the case
before the close of business that Monday.
 
Further,
the Court notes that Prime’s counsel failed to identify Cummins as a witness on
the joint witness list. The Los Angeles Superior Court has in place Local Rule
3.25(f)(1) which requires that at least five (5) days prior to the final status
conference, counsel must serve and file trial witness lists. Under this Local
Rule, a party’s failure to exchange and file these items may result in the party
not being able to call un-listed witnesses. As such, the Court was not required
to allow Prime’s counsel to call Cummins as the defense did not comply with
Local Rule 3.25(f)(1) not only as to Cummings, but also as to the two defense
experts.   A party acts at its own peril
when it elects to “hide the ball” as to its expected trial witnesses, risking
the possibility that the Court will refuse to allow an unlisted witness to
testify.  Here, the Court permitted the defense
to call two unlisted witnesses, both experts, but in the exercise of the Court’s
discretion it limited the scope of the experts’ testimony to the “rebuttal”
scope that Prime’s counsel represented to the Court as a basis for declining to
identify them on the joint witness list or amended joint witness list.  Although the transcript for pre-trial
proceedings was not provided by either side on this motion, the Court recalls admonishing
Prime’s counsel before the jury had been sworn in of the difficulties in using
a placeholder name such as “Liability Expert 1” rather than a witness’ actual
name.  
 
Finally,
Prime’s brief alludes to the Court not issuing a bench warrant to have Cummins
brought into Court. This was not requested by counsel for Prime, nor was it
required as Cummins apparently came into the courthouse per Plaintiffs’
opposition papers. 
 
            The Court finds that no error of law
or irregularity in proceedings occurred with respect to the Court’s denial of
the eleventh-hour request to add Mr. Cummings’ testimony to the already delayed
trial proceedings.  The Court exercised
its discretion in the management of the trial, the limited jury time, and
allowed the defense expanded time on last morning of testimony to use as the
defense chose, i.e., to consume all of the time with the second defense expert
Mr. Solomon of to divide time between Solomon and Cummings.  
 
Exclusion
of Experts’ Accident Reconstruction 
 
            Third, Prime contends that the
Court’s ruling that excluded the defendants’ experts’ accident reconstruction
evidence compounds the issue of having a fair trial.  However, the Court notes that it was defense
counsel who stated he was only going to call a rebuttal expert – one who also
was absent from the witness list – to respond to the opinions of Plaintiffs’
expert. As such, this Court exercised its discretion in excluding testimony
beyond the scope of what this Court considered to be rebuttal. However, the
Court notes that neither of the defense rebuttal experts were named on the joint
trial witness list nor amended joint trial witness list.  Accordingly,  pursuant to Local Rule 3.25(f), this Court
could have excluded defense experts Chao and Solomon entirely since their names
were not provided until late in the trial. Instead, this Court in the exercise
of its discretion allowed Prime’s counsel to call the experts, for rebuttal
purposes only, despite Prime violating Local Rule 3.25(f).
 
            Among the factors the Court weighed
in deciding on the scope of the defense experts’ testimony was the potential
for unfair prejudice to Plaintiffs, prejudice that underpins Local Rule 3.25(f).
  Plaintiffs had requested various
matters in discovery such as all videos of the circumstances surrounding the
day of the fatal accident outside the Prime repair shop.  When it became revealed during argument over
the scope of the experts’ testimony that the defense experts were able to extract
additional periods of video that had not been produced in discovery, the Court found
it would have been unfairly prejudicial for the defense experts to present or
discuss those additional minutes of video from the storefront security
cameras.  Further, the Court permitted a reasonable
degree of reconstruction testimony and evidence from defense witnesses,
including videos of the safe passage of one of Prime’s more senior owners who
sat himself in an exemplar wheelchair and in the presence of one of Prime’s
managers safely navigated passage across the driveway apron with a car positioned
in the same place as the white Impala in the accident video footage.  The Court permitted defense expert Chao to
testify to his opinion that Decedent should have been able to safely travel
around the front end of a car that blocked the sidewalk, and the Court
permitted him to rely on and display to the jury videos taken of accident reconstruction
tests run by Prime employees or owners Kennth Yun and Mr. Mawema operating an exemplar
wheelchair across the apron.  Because those
witnesses were in the courtroom and able to testify as to those tests, and
because the jury had already heard from Mr. Mawema regarding those tests in an
exemplar wheelchair, the Court permitted that accident reconstruction evidence
and opinion testimony regarding those employee tests.
 
            Missing from the transcripts provided
in support of the motion for new trial are the proceedings on Friday, August
11, 2023.  On the morning of August 11, the
Court conducted arguments over the scope of the experts’ testimony, including
whether an additional accident reconstruction conducted by the un-listed
defense expert witnesses would be permitted. 
As the Court recalls, and without the benefit of that transcript, there
was considerable argument over claimed “gamesmanship” by Prime, the disclosure
that Prime’s experts or counsel had recovered the actual accident wheelchair in
which Decedent had been riding and struck, and the locating of a replica of the
exact model of the wheelchair that was brought to Prime’s facility during the
trial for expert testing and measurement. 
Defense expert Chao testified later on the morning of August 11 and well
into the afternoon as to his reverse engineering of accidents, including forensic
investigations and reconstruction of accidents in which serious injury or death
had occurred.  The Court recalls that it weighed
the claims by Plaintiffs of prejudice, the absence of any mention by Prime of
the actual wheelchair model being located and used for testing after the trial
had begun, the lack of any video of the experts’ reconstruction tests on the trial
exhibit list, the previous testimony of Mr. Mawema as to employee testing of the
driveway apron with an exemplar wheelchair, Plaintiffs’ opening statement which
indicated the actual wheelchair could not be found or recovered, as well as the
lack of identification of Mr. Chao on the witness list.  Pursuant to Evidence Code section 352, the
Court determined to permit Mr. Chao to testify, allowed him to give opinion testimony
on reverse engineering and reconstruction of the accident with employees of
Prime running tests across the driveway apron, and related rebuttal
opinions.  However, the Court exercised
its discretion in determining that Mr. Chao could only reference the employee
wheelchair reconstruction tests, not the experts’ separate testing with the actual
Decedent’s wheelchair model. The Court also limited Mr. Chao from making reference
to security camera video that was never produced to Plaintiffs despite
discovery requests seeking the same.  
 
As
the Court recalls, the Court admonished Plaintiffs’ counsel not to interrogate Mr.
Chao or argue that the employee wheelchair reconstruction tests were not done
with the exact model wheelchair or the same specifications that Decedent had
used, and if Plaintiffs opened the door the Court would permit Mr. Chao to
testify to the exact model wheelchair used in the experts’ reconstruction
wheelchair tests.  Plaintiffs did not
open the door in their cross of Mr. Chao. This restriction of Plaintiffs’ cross
of Dr. Chao minimized the impact of the Court’s determination to exclude his
testimony about or display of the experts’ wheelchair testing.  
 
            On balance, the Court does not find any
error of law or irregularity in the proceeding as to the excluded expert accident
reconstruction in the exact model wheelchair as the Decedent used, which would have
been in addition to the permitted employee exemplar reconstruction, that would warrant
a new trial after considering the totality of the circumstances.  
 
Jury Award 
 
Lastly, Prime argues that the jury’s award was not
supported by the weight of the evidence and is excessive. Prime bases this
argument on the belief that the jury initially selected purportedly random
amounts to represent the total damages, and then seemingly applied an argued arbitrary
split of 59% to future damages and 41% to past damages. Prime maintains that
there is an improbability that the aggregate damages for Plaintiffs Mihwa Kim
and Kwangwoo Kim would precisely total to $500,000 and $300,000, respectively,
necessitates scrutiny, especially if the jury had genuinely and independently
evaluated both past and future damages as distinct and autonomous categories.
Prime argues that exact percentage for both Plaintiffs raises questions about
the jury’s methodology. The Court disagrees. Code of Civil Procedure § 657
permits the Court to grant a Motion for New Trial for excessive or inadequate
damages, however, although Prime includes headings entitled “excessive damages”
and includes case law referencing such, it does not even appear to the Court
that Prime includes an argument as to why or how the damages here are
excessive. Instead, Prime’s focus is the methodology used and the percentages
the jury relied on. A judge “is not permitted to substitute his judgment for
that of the jury on the question of damages unless it appears from the record
[that] the jury verdict was improper.” (Bigboy v. County of San Diego
(1984) 154 Cal.Ap.3d 397, 406.) Here, the Court does not believe, after
weighing the entirety of the evidence, that the amount awarded by the jury is
excessive for the loss of a father. The jury deliberated for more than a full
day, appeared quite attentive to the evidence, submitted written question during
the evidence presentation to indicate their engagement, and to the Court did
not appear to be driven by passion or prejudice to an outrageous amount.  The fact that the Court might have awarded a
different or lower number had it been the trier of fact is not the standard on
a motion for new trial.  
 
            As such,
the Court DENIES Prime’s motion on this issue as well. 
 
III. CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, and whether taken individually
or collectively, the points raised by Defendant
Prime’s MNBT are DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice. ¿¿ 
¿ 
 
 
 