 Case Number:  20STCV09554    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 25, 2023¿ 
CASE
NUMBER:                  20STCV09554
CASE NAME:                        Maria Lopez; Martin Gonzalez
v. Matrix Service, Inc., et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Matrix Service, Inc.  
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, Torrance Refining Company LLC (“TORC”)
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        May
6, 2024
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint
   
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED, but the Court will
take oral argument as to two issues: (A) the potential impact on this belated
cross-complaint on the pending dispositive motion now set for a continued hearing
on November 1, 2023, and (B) why Matrix waited until October of 2023 to seek leave
to cross-complaint against TORC when its ex parte application filed in March of
2023 sought a continuance of TORC’s then-pending dispositive motion bearing on
the same potential theories of liability raised in the Cross-Complaint
                                                
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
 
A.    Factual¿ 
 
On
March 6, 2020, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint against Defendants, Matrix Service,
Inc, Brandon K. Austin, PBF Energy limited, Christian Martin Gonzalez, a
nominal defendant and a minor, through Sonia Jasmin Soto, his guardian.
Defendant, Torrance Refining Company, LLC was also added to the FAC. On May 8,
2020, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff’s FAC states causes
of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Strict Products Liability; and
(3)Professional Negligence. Plaintiffs allege the following facts: This action
arises from an incident that occurred on July 11, 2019 at an oil refinery
facility in Torrance, California. Plaintiffs’ son, decedent Gamaliel Gonzalez,
was a part of an oil-tank repair crew performing welding activities and repairs
to an oil tank. Decedent’s employer hired several outside companies to design,
manufacture, produce, and deliver a large, heavy duty jack stand that was to be
used by decedent and his crew. The jack stand malfunctioned and exploded and
decedent was killed. 
 
Now,
Defendant Matrix seeks to file a Cross-Complaint against Defendant TORC. 
 
B. Procedural 
 
On October 3, 2023, Defendant
Matrix filed a Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint (“CC”). On October 12,
2023, Defendant TORC filed an opposition. On October 18, 2023, Defendant Matrix
filed a reply brief.  Further, TORC and
Matrix both briefed issues bearing on the Privette Doctrine and have
been intimately involved in discovery and investigation of TORC’s potential
liability for the Decedent’s death, documented among other places in the
Court’s August 31, 2023 tentative ruling on TORC’s and Hagen’s pending
dispositive motions.  
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
            With
its moving papers, Defendant Matrix requested this Court to take judicial
notice of the following documents: 
 
1.      1.
Plaintiffs MARIA LOPEZ and MARTIN GONZALEZ’s First Amended Complaint in this
matter, filed on or about May 8, 2020. A true and correct copy is attached
hereto as Exhibit “A”. 
2.      Defendant,
TORRANCE REFINING COMPANY LLC’s (“TORC”) Answer to Plaintiffs MARIA LOPEZ and
MARTIN GONZALEZ’s First Amended Complaint, filed on or about June 25, 2020. A
true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “B”. 
3.      Plaintiffs
SONIA SOTO (Individually and as Successor-In-Interest to THE ESTATE of GAMALIEL
GONZALEZ), as well as JAYDEN SALAS, GIANCARLO SALAS, and CHRISTIAN GONZALEZ
(all by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, SONIA SOTO)’s Complaint in this
matter, filed on or about September 17, 2020. A true and correct copy is
attached hereto as Exhibit “C”.
4.      TORC’s
Answer to Plaintiffs SONIA SOTO (Individually and as Successor-In-Interest to
THE ESTATE of GAMALIEL GONZALEZ), as well as JAYDEN SALAS, GIANCARLO SALAS, and
CHRISTIAN GONZALEZ (all by and through their Guardian Ad Litem, SONIA SOTO)’s
Complaint, filed on or about December 18, 2020. A true and correct copy is
attached hereto as Exhibit “D”.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant
Matrix’s request and takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
III. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Leave to amend is liberally permitted under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The policy
favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong
that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . ..”
“Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting
amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and
including trial [citations], this policy should be applied only ‘where no
prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . .. [citation].  A different
result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996)
48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations
that would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Matrix
asserts that it seeks to file a cross-complaint alleging causes of action for
Equitable Indemnity, Contribution, Apportionment of Fault, and Declaratory
Relief against TORC. Matrix argues that these causes are well-founded upon
existing law and were not apparent at the time that Matrix answered Plaintiffs’
Complaints in this matter. First, Matrix contends that the proposed
Cross-Complaint arises out of the same occurrence at issue in Plaintiffs’
complaints. Matrix argues that the evidence leads it to argue that TORC
negligently hired J.T. Thorpe to perform the subject maintenance work, despite
the fact that J.T. Thorpe had no prior experience lifting an internal floating
roof to replace striker plates and had never used a jack stand in conjunction
with an airbag to perform that work. In addition, Matrix asserts that TORC was
involved in and approved J.T. Thorpe’s use of the jack stand in conjunction
with an air bag to lift the floating roof. Lastly, Matrix argues that TORC
failed to provide a safe working environment for J.T. Thorpe to conduct its
work by having anti-lateral and anti-rotation devices installed in the Subject
Tank that were not appropriate for maintenance work that involved lifting the
floating roof because the anti-lateral and anti-rotational devices used would
work against the intended lifting process. The Court does agree that based on
the allegations made in the proposed Cross-Complaint, the matters arise out of
the same facts. 
 
Next,
Matrix further asserts that it is in the interest of justice to allow it to
file a Cross-Complaint against TORC. Matrix assures the Court that any delay in
filing the Cross-Complaint was due to a lack of information regarding the
precise nature of TORC’s claimed negligence and the dangerous condition of the
Subject Tank at the time of the Subject Incident. Matrix makes clear that the
true extent of TORC’s negligence only recently became apparent to it through
depositions taken in July and August of 2023. Moreover, Matrix notes it
recently became apparent that Plaintiffs were also intending “to allow TORC out
of this case,” by not opposing TORC’s Motion for Summary Judgment, despite what
it asserts as TORC’s clear liability. Based on this Matrix argues it did not
act in bad faith when failed to file the cross-complaint prior to the filing of
this current motion. The Court will appreciate oral argument as to why Matrix
did not bring a cross-complaint months earlier, given Matrix’ active role in
filing opposition to TORC’s motion for summary judgment that has been the
subject of several ex parte applications, briefs, and an oral argument on
August 31, 2023.  
 
In
opposition, TORC contends that Matrix fails to set forth a legally supportable
basis to bring a cross-complaint against it. First, TORC argues that it did not
approve J.T. Thorpe’s use of the Jackstand; Second, TORC argues that Matrix has
failed to provide any evidence that a condition on the property caused or
contributed to the incident; and Third, TORC contends that its decision to hire
J.T. Thorpe is not a basis to seek liability against TORC. 
 
Here,
the Court understands that TORC’s main argument is that the allegations in in
the proposed Cross-Complaint are without merit. Indeed, TORC has a pending
motion for summary judgment set for hearing now continued to November 1, 2023, and
which has already been the subject of a tentative ruling by the Court on August
31, 2023, bearing on these very issues.  However,
what TORC’s opposition fails to do is show why it will suffer from prejudice.
Although it argues that allowing this amendment will be prejudicial, it does
not explain why. It appears to the Court that expert and percipient depositions
have been conducted bearing on the grounds for Matrix’ assertions of TORC’s
potential responsibility and bearing on possible exceptions to the Privette
doctrine, so with the trial date still over six months away the Court is not aware
of any specific prejudice to TORC. 
Further, if the Court were to grant TORC’s pending MSJ, notwithstanding
Matrix’ opposition to that motion would not such a ruling eviscerate the basis
for Matrix’ cross-complaint?  
 
Attacking
the allegations of a proposed Cross-Complaint can take form in a demurrer or
answer, and disputing the viability of a proposed Cross-Complaint’ causes of
action can come in the form of a Motion for Summary Judgment. Both of these
analyses are not at issue in this motion. The basis of a potentially viable
opposition to a Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is prejudice. Here,
TORC has failed to show how allowing Matrix to file a Cross-Complaint will be
unduly prejudicial. As such, the Court GRANTS Matrix’s motion. 