 Case Number:  24STCP01215    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  82 Michael D. Marcus                                                   Case No. 24STCP01215
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 2, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
California
Department of                                        Department:
82                                     
Motor Vehicles                                                     Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
[Tentative] Order Granting in Part and Denying
in Part 
Motion to Augment the Administrative
Record
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Motion to Compel
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
             Michael Marcus (“Petitioner”) filed this
petition for writ of mandate challenging the suspension of his driver’s license
by the Department of Motor Vehicles (“Respondent” or the “DMV”).   The suspension was based on a finding that
Petitioner’s “medical information was not favorable” and was imposed after a driver
safety investigation, pursuant to Vehicle Code section 13953, determined that
Petitioner is unable to operate a motor vehicle safely because of a medical
condition, viz., mild cognitive impairment and dementia.  (See Petition for Writ of Mandate
(“Pet.”) pp. 54, 105-107 of 114.)  Now,
Petitioner seeks to augment the record and to compel the production of certain
records in discovery.  Respondent’s
counsel claims that medical records on which the hearing officer relied, as
well as a letter from Petitioner, are included in the administrative record,
but neither party lodged a copy, and Respondent’s counsel has not included a
declaration from the custodian of records. 
Therefore, the motion to augment is granted only in this respect.  The motion to augment is otherwise denied.  To the extent Petitioner seeks to introduce additional
medical records, he had an opportunity to introduce his own evidence at the DMV
hearing.  The motion to compel discovery
is also denied because Petitioner does not satisfy the standard.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“As
a general rule, a hearing on a writ of administrative mandamus is conducted
solely on the record of the proceeding before the administrative agency.”  (Richardson v. City and County of San
Francisco (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 671, 702.)  That is because a petition for writ of
administrative mandate is akin to an appellate proceeding.  However, “[w]here the court finds that there
is relevant evidence that, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, could not
have been produced or that was improperly excluded at the hearing before
respondent, it may enter judgment as provided in subdivision (f) remanding the
case to be reconsidered in the light of that evidence; or, in cases in which
the court is authorized by law to exercise its independent judgment on the evidence,
the court may admit the evidence at the hearing on the writ without remanding
the case.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
1094.5(e).)
 
Discovery is limited in such
proceedings.  In order to obtain
discovery, the moving party must:
 
[I]dentify what evidence is sought to be discovered for purposes of adding it to the record; to establish the
relevancy of the evidence; and to show that either (a) any such relevant,
additional evidence was improperly excluded at the administrative hearing, or
(b) it could not have been produced at the hearing with the exercise of
reasonable diligence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5, subd. (e).)  If the moving party
fails to make the required showing, it is an abuse of the court’s discretion to
allow posthearing discovery. 
 
(Pomona
Valley Hospital Medical Center v. Superior Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 93,
102.)  These same rules apply to a motion
to augment the administrative record.  (See
ibid.)  
 
The petitioner also may object that the record prepared by the agency
omits documents that are part of the record. 
(Mejia v. City of Los Angeles (2005)
130 Cal.App.4th 322, 336, fn. 5.)  The
administrative record generally consists of:
 
[T]he transcript of the
proceedings, all pleadings, all notices and orders, any proposed decision by a
hearing officer, the final decision, all admitted exhibits, all rejected
exhibits in the possession of the local agency or its commission, board,
officer, or agent, all written evidence, and any other papers in the case.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.6(c); accord Gov. Code § 11523 and Local Rule
3.231(g).)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Motion to Augment the
Administrative Record 
 
1.         Medical Records that Dr. Koretz Provided
to the DMV 
 
Petitioner moves to augment the administrative record to include his “privileged
medical records, which Dr. Koretz gave the DMV.”  (Motion to Augment (“MTA”) 5.)[1]  Petitioner represents that he has these
records, indicating that he will “provide Dr. Koretz’s medical records if the
DMV does not produce them.”  (Ibid.)
 
                        a.         Records on which the hearing officer
relied – GRANTED 
 
Neither party lodged a copy of the certified administrative record, so
the court cannot determine whether all of the records on which the hearing
officer relied have been included. 
Respondent’s counsel represents that “the medical records provided by
both medical professionals, Dr. Koretz and Dr. Grossman, that the determination
is based upon is [sic] a part of the certified administrative record.”  (Oppo. 2:14-16.)  But there is no declaration from a custodian
of records supporting that representation. 
Therefore, the motion is granted in that the court orders all medical records
on which the hearing officer’s decision is based shall be included in the
administrative record.
 
                        b.         Additional medical records – DENIED 
 
It appears that Petitioner is seeking to include additional medical
records in the administrative record that the hearing officer did not consider
in rendering his decision.  Petitioner
does not satisfy the standard to augment the record because he does not
identify any of Dr. Koretz’s medical records that were “improperly excluded at
the administrative hearing” or that “could not have been produced at the
hearing with the exercise of reasonable diligence.”  To the contrary, Petitioner clearly had (or
could have had) access to his own medical records, evident by the fact that he
has possession of them.  The hearing
officer afforded Petitioner an opportunity to present his own evidence at the
hearing:
 
[Petitioner]
declined the opportunity to have another Doctor evaluate and assess his overall
cognitive impairment or to present new medical information.  [Petitioner] presented information from
another Doctor that conflicted with Doctor Grossman’s assessment but also
declined the opportunity to have the other Doctor fill and submit another
Driver Medical Evaluation.
 
(Pet.
60.)  If there were favorable medical
records, Petitioner does not explain why he did not introduce them at the
hearing.  Accordingly, there is no basis
to include these records at this stage.   
 
                        2.          Petitioner’s
December 16, 2023, Letter to DMV – GRANTED 

 
Respondent acknowledges that Petitioner’s two-page letter dated December
16, 2023, which is addressed to the DMV’s Legal Affairs Division, and marked as
Exhibit A, is part of the administrative record.  (Oppo. to MTA 2:11-12, 4:6-7.)[2]  Again, Respondent has not lodged a certified
copy of the administrative record or provided a declaration from a custodian of
records confirming this document’s inclusion in the administrative record.  Therefore, the motion is granted.
 
            3.         Unspecified DMV Writings, Documents,
and Policies – DENIED 
 
Petitioner moves to augment the administrative record to include the
following three categories of documents:
 
·       “[A]ll DMV writings or documents specifically discussing the conflict
issue raised by Marcus as to the December 2023 and January 2024 suspension
hearings;”
 
·       “[A]ll DMV policies that discuss the procedures and actions that shall
be taken and/or apply when a person or party to a DMV administrative hearing or
legal proceeding objects to the involvement of any DMV person, other than as a
witness, in that hearing or proceeding because of a conflict of interest;” and
 
·      
“[A]ll writings and documents that reference
[Driver Safety Officer] Trinidad’s use of the term ‘interview,’ rather than ‘hearing,’
during the January 22, 2024 proceeding.” 
 
(MTA 5 and 8-9.)  As noted, to augment the administrative record pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1094.5(e), the moving party must: (1) “identify what
evidence is sought to be discovered for purposes of adding it to the
record”; (2) “establish the relevancy of the evidence”; and (3) “show that
either (a) any such relevant, additional evidence was improperly excluded at
the administrative hearing, or (b) it could not have been produced at the
hearing with the exercise of reasonable diligence.”  (Pomona
Valley, supra, 55 Cal.App.4th at 102.)  
 
Petitioner does not satisfy the standard.  While Petitioner identifies three general
categories of records, he does not establish that Respondent has possession of
any specific documents responsive to those categories.  Nor does Petitioner show that the unspecified
documents at issue were admitted into evidence, were ruled inadmissible by a
hearing officer and excluded, or were otherwise considered by or presented to Respondent’s
decisionmakers during the administrative process.  Thus, Petitioner does not show that the
unspecified documents should be part of the administrative record.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.6(c); Gov.
Code § 11523; Local
Rule 3.231(g).)
 
Finally, and perhaps most important, Petitioner does not establish the
relevancy of the evidence.  Petitioner
seeks to add the unspecified documents to the record to support claims that he
was a denied fair hearing or that other procedural errors occurred.  (See MTA 5-8.)  “A challenge to the procedural fairness of
the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on appeal because the ultimate
determination of procedural fairness amounts to a question of law.”  (Nasha
L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470, 482.)  Thus, the court will adjudicate the fairness
of the administrative process and Petitioner’s procedural claims based on the
certified administrative record.  Petitioner
does not show that the unspecified documents that he seeks to add to the record
have any relevance to the procedural claims raised in his petition.   
 
B.        Motion to Compel
Respondent to Produce Discovery – DENIED  
 
Petitioner moves for an order compelling Respondent to produce five
different categories of documents or information.  Petitioner does not submit any evidence that
he served requests for production of documents, special interrogatories, or
other civil discovery on Respondent seeking the documents/information
referenced in the motion.  (See e.g. Code
Civ. Pro. §§ 2031.010, et seq. and 1985 [statutes authorizing demands
for production of documents in a civil action]; CCP § 2030.10, et seq.
[interrogatories].)  Petitioner has not
cited any statutory authority under which a California court could compel an
adverse party, in a civil action, to respond to discovery that was not served
pursuant to the procedures set forth in the Civil Discovery Act and the Code of
Civil Procedure.
 
Petitioner argues that he may conduct discovery
pursuant to Government Code section 11507.6 and that he did, in fact, serve
discovery pursuant to that statute in the administrative proceedings.  (MTC 4-6.) 
Petitioner contends that Respondent “ignored all discovery requests
until late January 2024 when it sent Petitioner incomplete and non-responsive
documents.”  (MTC 5.)  Section 11507.6 governs discovery before
certain administrative agencies.  (See
Gov. Code § 11501(b).)  If the agency
does not comply with a request for discovery under section 11507.6, there is a
statutory procedure for a “motion to compel discovery” before the agency.  (Gov. Code § 11507.7.)  These statutes do not govern civil discovery
before a court of law.  Accordingly,
Petitioner’s reliance on section 11507.6 to compel Respondent to produce
discovery in this civil action is misplaced. 

 
Because Petitioner has not served discovery on Respondent pursuant to
the Civil Discovery Act, the court construes the motion to seek leave to
conduct discovery pursuant to CCP section 1094.5(e).  The motion is, therefore, subject to the
requirements to augment the administrative record.  (See Pomona
Valley, supra, 55 Cal.App.4th at 102.)   Applying that standard, the court finds that Petitioner
has not shown grounds to conduct discovery. 
The court considers each of the five categories, in turn.  
            
                        1.         “All copies or writings of all proof or
evidence that the Department of Motor Vehicles relied upon in making the
finding or decision that Michael D. Marcus’s driving privileges in California
are or shall be suspended” – DENIED
 
This first category is essentially a demand for Respondent to produce
the administrative record.  Petitioner
does not need discovery to compel Respondent to produce the administrative
record.  (See Code Civ. Proc. §
1094.6(c) and Gov. Code § 11523 [specifying deadlines for the respondent to
produce the administrative record].) 
Accordingly, the motion to compel discovery for this category is denied.
 
2.         “The names of all Department of Motor
Vehicles persons who were involved or participated in making the decision that
Michael D. Marcus’s driving privileges in California shall be or are suspended”
– DENIED 
 
The administrative record should include the names of all DMV employees who
served as hearing officers and witnesses, if any, in Petitioner’s appeal of the
decision to suspend his driving privileges. 
The court has no reason to believe that it does not.  Furthermore, this second category appears
barred by the mental process principle because Petitioner effectively seeks to
inquire into the
mental processes and reasoning by which Respondent made its decision to suspend
Petitioner’s license.  (See Labor & Workforce Development Agency v. Sup.Ct. (2018) 19
Cal.App.5th 12, 30-31 [disclosure of identities of third-parties involved in
confidential, predecisional communications with agency was functional
equivalent of revealing substance or director of agency’s judgment and mental
processes].)  Accordingly, the motion to compel discovery for this category is denied.
 


 
3.         “All authority, including statutes
(federal and state), administrative provisions, regulations and Department
internal rules and provisions which provided or gave the California Department
of Motor Vehicles the authority to suspend Michael D. Marcus's driving
privileges in November 2023” – DENIED 
 
This category seeks to discover Respondent’s contentions regarding pure
questions of law, i.e. the statute, regulation, or other authority that
supports its decision to suspend Petitioner’s license.  “In suits seeking review of administrative
action, discovery is not available regarding pure issues of law.”  (Contractors’
State License Bd. v. Sup.Ct. (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 125, 134; accord
Transcentury Properties, Inc. v. State of California (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d
835, 842.)  Furthermore, this category seeks to discover the mental processes of the DMV
decisionmakers who determined that Petitioner’s driver’s license should be
suspended.  Discovery for that purpose is
strictly prohibited.  Under the mental
processes principle, “a party is not entitled to be privy to the mental
processes or reasoning by which administrative officials arrive at their
decision.”  (Guilbert v. Regents of University of California (1979) 93
Cal.App.3d 233, 242; accord U.S.
v. Morgan (1974) 313 U.S. 409, 422 [“Just as a judge cannot be subjected to
such a scrutiny, ... so the integrity of the administrative process must be
equally respected.”] and State of
California v. Sup. Ct. (Veta Company) (1974) 12
Cal.3d 237, 258 [same].)  Accordingly,
the motion to compel discovery for this category is denied.
 
 
4.         “All writings regarding the decisions to
assign Department of Motor Vehicles’ employees C. Rubio and Jose Trinidad as
Hearing Officers in Petitioner’s respective December 19, 2023 and January 22,
2024 hearings” – DENIED
 
This fourth category is also barred by the mental process principle
because Petitioner effectively seeks to inquire into the mental
processes and reasoning by which Respondent made its decision to suspend
Petitioner’s license.  Further, to the
extent the unspecified writings exist and are not already included in the
administrative record, they are irrelevant. 
Accordingly, the motion to compel discovery for
this category is denied.
 
5.         “All
authority, including statutes (federal and state), administrative provisions,
regulations and Department internal rules and provisions upon which the DMV
relied and or applied regarding the admissibility of evidence in the December
19, 2023 DMV hearing involving Petitioner”  – DENIED
 
In this category, Petitioner seeks to conduct discovery regarding a
purely legal question, which is not permissible in an administrative writ
proceeding.  This category is also barred
by the mental process principle because Petitioner effectively seeks to inquire
into the
mental processes and reasoning by which Respondent made its decision to suspend
Petitioner’s license.  Finally, to the
extent the unspecified writings exist and are not already included in the
administrative record, they are irrelevant. 
Accordingly, the motion to compel discovery for
this category is denied.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Petitioner’s motion to augment the
administrative record is granted in part and denied in part.  Respondent shall include all medical records
on which the hearing officer relied in rendering his decision, as well as
Petitioner’s letter of December 16, 2023, in the administrative record.  The motion is otherwise denied.
 
            2.         Petitioner’s motion to compel discovery
is denied.
 
            3.         The court sets trial for February 5,
2025, at 9:30 a.m.
 
            4.         The opening brief shall be filed and
served electronically 75 days in advance of trial; the opposition brief shall
be filed and served electronically 30 days in advance of trial; and the reply
brief shall be filed and served electronically 15 days in advance of
trial.  Petitioner shall lodge the
administrative record on a thumb drive at least 15 days in advance of trial.
 
            5.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: October 2,
2024                                              ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


