 Case Number:  24STCP00615    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  82 Gabriela Barrios,                                                      Case No. 24STCP00615
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 2, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                    
         County of Los Angeles                                            Judge: Stephen I.
Goorvitch
                                    
                                    
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for Writ
of Mandate
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
             Gabriela Barrios (“Petitioner”) was
arrested and detained by deputies of the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department (the “LASD”) for driving a vehicle purportedly stolen from a car
dealership in the Antelope Valley. 
Petitioner filed a federal civil rights action against the County of Los
Angeles (“Respondent” or the “County”).  Although
Petitioner pursued discovery in the federal action, she filed this petition for
writ of mandate seeking the records under the California Public Records Act
(the “CPRA”).  The County refused to
produce the requested records under the CPRA because they relate to an
investigation by a law enforcement agency and therefore are exempt from
disclosure.  Instead, the County produced
the records—arrest videos, body worn camera
footage, interview videos, radio dispatch audio, arrest reports, booking
records, photographs, a probable cause declaration, among other records—in the
federal action and certified that there are no additional records that are
responsive to Petitioner’s CPRA request. 
Nevertheless, Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate directing the County to produce all non-exempt records, as well as a
judicial declaration that Respondent violated the CPRA by withholding
non-exempt, responsive records (so Petitioner can seek attorneys’ fees and
costs in connection with this petition). 
The court finds that the petition is not moot, but denies the petition.  Petitioner does not satisfy her burden of
establishing that the County failed to
disclose any non-exempt, responsive public records or information.  Based upon the nature of the request, it is
clear that the requested records relate to an investigation by a law
enforcement agency and therefore are exempt from disclosure under the CPRA.
 
BACKGROUND 
 
On or about November 3, 2022, Petitioner was arrested and
detained by the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (the “LASD”) for
driving a vehicle that had been reported stolen by Antelope Valley Chevrolet, a
car dealership.  (Opening Brief (“OB”) 4:11-5:6;
Opposition (“Oppo.”) 2:5-12.)  In the verified
petition, Petitioner alleges that she was “detained for more than 7 hours, including
the time she was pulled over, arrested, handcuffed, fingerprinted,
interrogated, and jailed (for more than 5 hours).”  (Petion
for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶ 13.)  Petitioner
further alleges that “the
police took away her special lactation bra, even after Barrios explained the
necessity for the bra” and she “leaked through her shirt.”  (Pet.
¶ 14.)[1]  
On September 29, 2023, Petitioner filed a civil rights
lawsuit against the LASD in state court asserting various claims arising out of
her November 3, 2022, arrest.  (See
Gabriela Stephanie Barrios v. Antelope Chevrolet, Inc. et al., L.A.S.C.
Case No. 23STCV23668.)  The lawsuit was
removed to federal court and is now pending in the United States District Court
– Central District, Case No. 2:23-cv-10476-AB (JCx) (hereafter, the “federal action”)
(Gupta Decl. 
¶ 1.)
 
            On or about
December 11, 2023, while her civil lawsuit was pending, Petitioner submitted a
CPRA request to the LASD seeking “all pertinent documents and records related
to the call for service, report of any crimes, the investigation, the
detention, the [November 3, 2022] arrest, the release, and any reports
concerning Gabriella Stephanie Barrios.” 
(Petition for Writ of Mandate (“Pet.”) ¶ 17; Aguirre Decl. ¶ 3.)  Specifically, Petitioner requested the
following 10 categories of records: 
 
1.    
Complete
Arrest Records: Including time of arrest, officers
involved, and detailed charges. Specifically, we are seeking every document
that describes what information was provided to the agency to determine there
was probable cause to arrest, any information obtained through a police
investigation, interviews conducted by the department, or otherwise.
2.    
Police
Report: The full police report pertaining
to Ms. Barrios’s arrest.
3.    
Body-Worn
Camera Footage: From all officers involved in the
arrest, including any footage capturing the arrest process, interactions with
Ms. Barrios, and subsequent procedures.
4.    
Jail
Records: Including booking information, any
incident reports during her incarceration, and records relating to her release.
5.    
Surveillance
Footage: From all officers involved in the
arrest and any surveillance video from the jail during her custody.
6.    
Witness
Statements and Interviews:
Related to the arrest and any interactions at the jail.
7.    
Evidence
Collection and Logs: Detailed
logs of evidence collected during the arrest and subsequent processing.
8.    
Internal
Communications: Emails, memos, or other
communications within the department regarding Ms. Barrios’s arrest and time in
custody.
9.    
Property
and Personal Effects Records:
Detailing items seized at the time of arrest, including their condition and
current location.
10. 
Service
calls: Detailing the information provided
to the department that would have initiated the investigation.
 
(Aguirre Decl. ¶ 3; Pet ¶ 17, emphasis in original.)  Notably, the CPRA Request included the
descriptions of the requested records that are italicized and included after
each of the then categories of records.  
 
On or about December 14, 2023, the LASD’s Public Records Act
Unit acknowledged receipt of the CPRA Request and advised Petitioner that the
LASD was currently “receiving an exceptionally large volume of PRA requests”
and was therefore “experiencing an extended delay in processing them.”  (Aguirre Decl. ¶ 4.)  The Public Records Act Unit further notified Petitioner
that upon completion of its review, it would advise her “as to the availability
of the responsive records,” if any.  (Ibid.)
 On or about January 11, 2024, the Public
Records Act Unit sent Petitioner’s counsel a letter stating that the records
sought were “exempt from disclosure under Government Code [§] 7923.600-7923.625
except to victims or their representatives” and that Petitioner did “not meet
this specific legal criteria, therefore, records cannot be released to her or
her representative.” (Id. ¶ 5.)  Accordingly,
the LASD’s Public Records Act Unit did not produce any records to Petitioner.  (Ibid.)  
 
In April 2024, in response to civil discovery in the federal
action, the LASD produced records relating to Petitioner’s arrest, including
the arrest videos, body worn camera footage, interview videos, radio dispatch
audio, arrest reports, booking records, photographs, a probable cause
declaration, among other records.  (Gupta
Decl. ¶ 7.)  These records were produced
pursuant to a protective order entered by federal court.  (Ibid.)  In the federal action, pursuant to an order
of the district court and a stipulation with Petitioner, the LASD is in the
process of reviewing the items designated as “confidential” pursuant to the
protective order, determining which items may be produced without such
designation, and “de-designating” the appropriate items.  (Id. ¶ 7.)  
 
In opposition to the writ petition, Respondent submits a
declaration of Lieutenant Jose N. Aguirre, Jr., the Unit Commander of LASD’s
Discovery and Public Records Act Units. 
(Aguirre Decl. ¶ 2.)  In his
current position, Aguirre is a custodian of records for the LASD.  (Ibid.)  Aguirre declares that he is “generally
familiar with the types of records that exist that are associated with arrests
made by the LASD” and that he is “not aware of any other records that relate to
Ms. Barrios’ CPRA request that were not already produced in the Federal Action.”  
(Id. ¶ 7.)  
 
SUMMARY OF THE CPRA
 
Pursuant to the CPRA, Government Code section 7921.000 et seq., individual
citizens have a right to access government records.[2]  In enacting the CPRA, the California
Legislature declared that “access to information concerning the conduct of the
people's business is a fundamental and necessary right of every person in this
state.”  (Gov. Code, § 7921.000; see also
County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 57, 63.) 
 
Article 1, Section
3(b) of the Constitution affirms that “[t]he people have the right of access to
information concerning the conduct of the people’s business.” The Constitution
mandates that the CPRA be “broadly construed,” while any statute “that limits
the right of access” must be “narrowly construed.”  (See National Lawyers Guild v. City of
Hayward (2020) 9 Cal.5th 488, 507.)  The CPRA “does not allow limitations on access to a public record based
upon the purpose for which the record is being requested, if the record is
otherwise subject to disclosure.” (Gov. Code § 7921.300.)  “Any reasonably segregable portion of a
record shall be available for inspection by any person requesting the record
after deletion of the portions that are exempted by law.”  (Gov. Code § 7922.525(b).)
 
To establish an agency has a duty to disclose under the CPRA, the
petitioner must show that: (1) the record qualifies as a “public record;” and
(2) The record is “in the possession of the agency.”  (Anderson-Barker v Superior Court (2019)
31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538, citation omitted.) 
Once that initial burden is met, the agency has the burden to prove “that
a particular record is exempt from disclosure.” 
(Sacramento County Employees’
Retirement System v. Superior Court (2013) 195 Cal.App.4th 440, 453.)  
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES 
 
            Petitioner’s request for judicial notice, filed September
17, 2024, of Exhibits A and B is granted. 
Petitioner’s evidentiary objections are overruled.  The settlement communications are not offered
by Respondent to prove Petitioner’s “liability for the loss or damage or any
part of it.” (Evid. Code § 1152(a).)  Regardless,
the court’s decision would be the same, even if the court did not consider the parties’
efforts to resolve this issue.  There is
no dispute that the County produced records responsive to the CPRA request in
the federal action.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Respondent Does Not Establish
that the Petition is Moot  
 
At the trial setting conference (“TSC”) on June 7, 2024, the
parties advised the court that some of the documents at issue in this CPRA
action may be produced in civil discovery in the federal action.  Accordingly, the court ordered Petitioner’s
counsel “to make clear in the opening brief which documents still are at issue
in this CPRA action.”  (Court’s Order
dated June 7, 2024.)  
 
In her opening brief, Petitioner states that the LASD has
not produced any documents in response to the CPRA Request and that “all topics
remain at issue.”  (OB 7:4-9.)  In opposition, Respondent contends that it
produced all the records requested by Petitioner under the CPRA in the federal action;
that Petitioner failed to identify which records were still at issue; and that
the petition should be denied as moot. 
(Oppo. 7-9.)   “California courts will decide only justiciable controversies.”  (Wilson
& Wilson v. City Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559,
1573.)  “The pivotal question in
determining if a case is moot is therefore whether the court can grant the
plaintiff any effectual relief.”  (Id.
at 1574.)
 
Petitioner has stated her position that all records are
still “at issue.”  (OB 7:4-9.)  However, Petitioner has not made “clear” what
public records must still be produced by Respondent in light of the production of
the records in the federal action.  In
that respect, Petitioner did not comply with this court’s TSC order.  Petitioner does not cite any authority
suggesting that a court in equity must issue a writ of mandate directing a
public agency to produce the exact same public records that were just recently
produced to the requestor in a civil lawsuit, especially where the records have
been “de-designated” as confidential and are no longer subject to a protective
order.  “[T]he writ is
an equitable remedy, and will not always issue as a matter of right….
The decision whether to grant or deny the writ lies within the sound
discretion of the court, and one of the chief considerations in the exercise of
that discretion is the effect of the court's order in promoting the ends of
justice.”  (McDaniel v. City and
County of San Francisco (1968) 259 Cal.App.2d 356, 360-361.)
 
In the opening brief, Petitioner seems to argue that the
CPRA action is not moot because the records were produced in the federal action
pursuant to a protective order and were designated as “confidential.”  (OB 7:27-8:5.)  If a CPRA court were to rule that a public
agency must produce the requested records pursuant to the CPRA, the records
would be deemed “public” and may not be subject to any restriction on public
disclosure, regardless of any confidentiality designation asserted in the civil
litigation.   (See County of Los
Angeles v. Sup. Ct. (Axelrad) (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 819, 926 [under the
CPRA, there are no
“limitations on access to a public record based upon the purpose for which the
record is being requested, if the record is otherwise subject to disclosure”].) In the opposition brief, Respondent submits evidence that a
process for “de-designation” in the federal action is ongoing.  (See Gupta ¶¶ 7-8.)  However, in reply, Petitioner represents that
as a result of a stipulation “nothing related to this matter is now designated”
as confidential in the civil litigation. 
(Reply 8-9; RJN Exh. B; Reply Verdun Decl. ¶ 8.)  Accordingly, Petitioner does not articulate a
valid reason to issue a writ in this case simply because the records were
originally produced pursuant to a protective order.
 
Nevertheless, Respondent, which has the burden on the
affirmative defense, does not prove that this CPRA action is entirely moot.  Petitioner suggests that the CPRA Request may
encompass certain records not produced in the federal action.  (OB 8-9.) 
While Respondent disputes that assertion (Oppo. 7-8), there is a
justiciable controversy as to whether Respondent has produced all responsive
records sought by Petitioner under the CPRA. 
Moreover, Respondent’s compliance with the CPRA remains at issue for
purposes of Petitioner’s claims for declaratory relief and attorney’s
fees.  As phrased by the District Court
of Appeal under similar circumstances, Respondent’s production of records “does not render the matter moot, however, because the
question of petitioner’s entitlement to the documents in the first place
remains to be determined in light of the opinions expressed here.”  (Fairley v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 1414, 1419.)  Because a ruling on the merits of the petition could result
in “effectual relief” for Petitioner, this action is not moot.  (See Wilson & Wilson, supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at 1573.)  
 
            B.        The Respondent Properly Withheld the
Records as Moot
 
            On January 11, 2024, less than one month after the CPRA
Request was made, Respondent provided a response to the request.  Respondent determined that the requested
records are “exempt from disclosure under Government Code [§] 7923.600-7923.625
except to victims or their representatives” and that Petitioner did “not meet
this specific legal criteria, therefore, records cannot be released to her or
her representative.” (Aguirre Decl. ¶ 5.) 

 
Government Code
section 7923.600 generally exempts the following documents from disclosure
under the CPRA:
 
[R]ecords of complaints to, or investigations
conducted by, or records of intelligence information or security procedures of,
the office of the Attorney General and the Department of Justice, the Office of
Emergency Services and any state or local police agency, or any investigatory
or security files compiled by any other state or local police agency, or any
investigatory or security files compiled by any other state or local agency for
correctional, law enforcement, or licensing purposes.
 
(Gov. Code § 7923.600(a).)  “The animating concern behind the records of
investigations exemption appears to be that a record of investigation reveals
(and, thus, might deter) certain choices that should be kept confidential—an
informant's choice to come forward, an investigator’s choice to focus on
particular individuals, the choice of certain investigatory methods.”  (American Civil Liberty Union v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1032, 1041.)  The
records of investigation “exemption extends indefinitely, even after an
investigation is closed.”  (Rivero v.
Superior Court (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1048, 1052.)  Unlike “investigatory files,” “records of
investigation” do not require a “concrete and definite” prospect of enforcement
for the exemption to apply.  (Haynie v. Superior Court (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1061, 1068-69.)  Further, the
exemption applies to records of investigation from “routine” police investigations,
such as traffic stops.  (Id. at
1070-71.)  
 
Haynie is instructive. 
The
petitioner, who was driving a van with three teenage passengers, was stopped by
police in response to a citizen’s complaint of a possible crime.  The petitioner submitted a CPRA request for
“any crime reports, arrest reports, evidence reports, use-of-force reports,
canine reports, officer-involved-shooting reports, follow-up reports,
handwritten notes, supervisors' reports, notes or reports of interviews of
witnesses, and tape recordings (including recordings of radio calls leading up
to the incident, recordings containing any information forming the basis for
Haynie's detention, and recordings of any communications between the deputies
and Haynie or anyone else present at the time of the incident).”  (Id. at 1065.)  The trial court denied a writ seeking
disclosure, but the District Court of Appeal reversed and ordered disclosure of
a radio broadcast, tape recording, and witness statements related to the
traffic stop.  On review, the California Supreme
Court reversed the District Court of Appeal and held that “the investigation
that included the decision to stop Haynie and the stop itself was for the
purpose of discovering whether a violation of law had occurred and, if so, the
circumstances of its commission. Records relating to that investigation are
exempt from disclosure by section 6254(f).”  (Id. at 1071.)  
 
            Here, similar
to the request in Haynie, Petitioner sought records related to Petitioner’s
arrest by the LASD, including the arrest report, body-worn camera footage, jail
records, surveillance footage, witness statements and interviews, among
others.  (Pet. ¶ 17.)  Petitioner expressly seeks disclosure of investigatory
records, stating: “We are seeking every document that describes what
information was provided to the agency to determine there was probable cause to
arrest, any information obtained through a police investigation, interviews
conducted by the department, or otherwise.” 
(Ibid.)  Similarly,
Petitioner seeks body-worn camera footage “capturing the arrest process [and]
interactions with Ms. Barrios;” “detailed logs of evidence collected during the
arrest;” and “the information provided to the department that would have
initiated the investigation.”  (Ibid.)  Such records are exempt from disclosure under
section 7923.600.
 
            Petitioner contends that “[t]he LASD
provided no specific explanation as to why Ms. Barrios does not meet the
criteria to be considered a victim or representative, especially given that she
was the subject of the arrest and detention.” 
(OB 12:11-13.)  Pursuant to
section 7923.605, a state or local law enforcement agency “shall” disclose
certain information from the records of investigation “to the victims of an
incident,” unless disclosure would endanger “[t]he safety of a witness or other person involved in the
investigation” or “[t]he successful completion of the investigation.”  Petitioner has not filed a declaration
describing the incidents that led to the arrest.  However, in her opening brief, Petitioner states that
she was arrested and detained by the LASD for driving a vehicle that had been
reported stolen by Antelope Valley Chevrolet, a car dealer.  (OB 4:11-5:6; Oppo. 2:5-12.)  Based on the record, the court concludes that
Petitioner was the suspect of the reported crime and the subject of LASD’s
investigation, not a victim of the incident under investigation within the
meaning of section 7923.605.  
 
            Petitioner
next contends that “even if some records were exempt, the LASD had an
obligation to produce non-exempt portions of records and to assist Ms. Barrios
in identifying records that could be disclosed.”  (OB 12:16-18.)  Petitioner correctly summarizes the law.  (See Gov. Code §§ 7922.525(b) &
7922.600(a).)[3]  However, Petitioner has not supported her
claim with sufficient evidence.  Respondent
withheld all responsive records based on the records of investigation exemption
in section 7923.600.  (Aguirre Decl. ¶
5.)  Respondent did not state in its
response that the request was too broad. 
Thus, Petitioner does not show that there was any need for assistance “to
make a focused and effective request that reasonably describes an identifiable
record or records.”  (Gov. Code §
7922.600(a).)  Further, any “records of
investigation” that are responsive to the request are wholly exempt from
disclosure, except for information for which the Legislature has created a
statutory duty of disclosure.  (See
Haynie, supra, 26 Cal.4th at 1072 [by enacting section 7923.610 (formerly
section 6254(f)(2)), the Legislature “required the disclosure of information
derived from the records while, in most cases, preserving the
exemption for the records themselves.”].) 
Based upon the nature of the request, it is clear that any of the
requested documents would be exempt for the reasons discussed.  
 
Under the circumstances of this case, Petitioner has not satisfied
her initial burden of establishing that the requested records are “public
records” subject to disclosure or that there are additional responsive
documents in the possession of the County. 
To the contrary, the County has demonstrated that the records at issue
are exempt from disclosure.  In April
2024, the County produced records in the federal action relating to
Petitioner’s arrest, including the arrest videos, body worn camera footage,
interview videos, radio dispatch audio, arrest reports, booking records,
photographs, a probable cause declaration, among other records.  (Gupta Decl. ¶ 7.)  These are essentially the same categories of
records that Petitioner sought under the CPRA. 
Indeed, the County’s attorney in the federal action declares that the
documents produced in the federal action “fall into” the categories of records
sought in the CPRA request.  (Id. ¶
8.)  Similarly, Lieutenant Aguirre, the
Unit Commander of LASD’s Discovery and Public Records Act Units, declares that
he is “generally familiar with the types of records that exist that are
associated with arrests made by the LASD” and that he is “not aware of any
other records that relate to Ms. Barrios’ CPRA request that were not already
produced in the Federal Action.”  (Aguirre
Decl. ¶ 7.)  Petitioner submits no
evidence to the contrary.  
 
Petitioner has had possession of these records since April
2024.  At the TSC in June 2024, the court
ordered Petitioner “to make clear in the opening brief which documents still
are at issue in this CPRA action.” 
(Court’s Order dated June 7, 2024.) 
In her opening brief, Petitioner does not advance any argument that
Respondent has possession of specific categories of public records that are
responsive to the CPRA request and that have not been produced to
Petitioner.  Petitioner also has not
developed an argument that Respondent improperly withheld any specific public records
or information based on a claim of exemption.  “When an appellant fails to raise a point, or
asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned argument and citations to
authority, we treat the point as waived.” 
(Nelson v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863.)  While
Petitioner argues that she “does not know the exact identity of all the
documents that exists” and “whether a thorough search for these records has
been conducted” (OB 8:18-19 and 10:23-25), it is Petitioner’s burden to make
the initial showing that there are “public records” that are “in the possession
of the agency.”  (Anderson-Barker, 31 Cal.App.5th at  538, citation omitted.)  In
this case in particular, Petitioner could have conducted discovery related to
the issue of possession or the adequacy of Respondent’s search.  (See City
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (Anderson-Barker) (2017) 9
Cal.App.5th 272, 284-290.)  Petitioner also
could have also made arguments,
based on the records from the federal action, if she believed that the County’s
production was deficient.  Petitioner
failed to do so.  
 
Petitioner asserts that section 7923.600 is “limited in
scope” and “does not apply to records of factual information provided to the
district attorney, recordings related to the incident, or the identities of
officers involved in the incident.”  (OB
12:19-23, citing § 7923.605(b).)  Petitioner’s
reference to section 7923.605(b) is inapplicable, as that section excludes
from disclosure that portion of investigative files “that reflects the analysis
or conclusions of the investigating officer.” 
To the extent Petitioner argues that certain information from the arrest
records should have been disclosed under section 7923.610, Petitioner does not
show that Respondent had a legal duty to produce such information in response
to the CPRA request.[4]  Even if so, Petitioner does not show any
practical reason for disclosure of the information stated in section 7923.610
given LASD’s production of the arrest records in the federal action.  
 
The court has considered Petitioner’s arguments in reply.  Respondent was not required to provide a
“document-by-document justification for withholding records,” especially when it
is clear that the records fall within the scope of the exemption.  (See Reply 6:27-28 and Haynie, supra, 26 Cal.4th at
1075.)  Because investigatory records are
exempt under section 7923.600, a balancing of public interests in disclosure and
non-disclosure does not apply.  (Reply
6-7; see Gov. Code § 7922.000 [catchall
exemption].)  Petitioner’s argument that
the “criminal
proceedings have concluded” is not relevant to this petition.  (Reply 7:5-6.)  The records
of investigation “exemption extends indefinitely.”  (Rivero, supra, 54 Cal.App.4th at 1052.)[5]

 
Based on the foregoing, the petition for writ of mandate is denied.
 
C.        There is no basis for an
in Camera Review  
 
Neither party has argued, or shown, that in camera review is
necessary for the court to decide the petition. 
(See e.g. Gov. Code § 7923.105(a); see American Civil Liberties Union of Northern
Cal. V. Sup. Ct. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 74.)  Therefore, there is no basis for the court to
conduct an in camera review.   
 
D.        Petitioner’s Request for a
Declaratory Judgment is Denied  
 
            The second cause of
action for declaratory relief is derivative of the writ cause of action.  (See Pet. ¶¶ 79-81 and Prayer ¶
i.)  The court declines to issue
declaratory relief because Petitioner has an adequate remedy in the writ cause
of action.  (See General of America
Ins. Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470-471; Hood v. Superior
Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.) 
Alternatively, the court finds that Respondent complied with the CPRA
and denies declaratory relief on that basis.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         The court declines to issue a declaratory
judgment.  In the alternative, there
quest is denied on the merits.  
 
            3.         Petitioner’s request for attorneys’
fees and costs is denied because she did not prevail in this action.  (See Gov.
Code § 7923.115(a); Fontana Police
Dept. v. Villegas-Banuelos (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1249, 1252.)  
 
///
///
            


 
4.         Respondent’s
counsel shall lodge a proposed judgment.
 
            5.         The court’s clerk shall provide notice.  
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED
 
 
Dated: October 2,
2024                                              ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


