 Case Number:  24STCP00726    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  82 Michael Coggi                                                           Case No. 24STCP00726
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
October 2, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
California
Commission on                                       Department:
82                                     
Teacher Credentialing                                        Judge:
Stephen I. Goorvitch
 
 
 
NOTICE:  The court posts this tentative order on Monday,
September 30, 2024, in advance of the hearing on Wednesday, October 2, 2024, at
9:30 a.m.  The court provides notice: If
Petitioner does not appear, either remotely or in-person, absent good cause, Petitioner
shall waive the right to be heard; the hearing will be taken off-calendar; and the
court will adopt this order as the final order denying his petition for writ of
mandate.  
 
 
[Tentative] Order Denying Petition for
Writ of Mandate
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
            Petitioner Michael Coggi (“Petitioner”), self-represented
litigant, challenges the decision of the California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing (“Respondent” or “the Commission”) to revoke his teaching
credentials.  In May 2022, the Executive
Director of the Commission filed an accusation against Petitioner for multiple
counts of misconduct (the “accusation”). 
(Ibid.)  After an
administrative hearing in June and July 2023, an administrative law judge
(“ALJ”) issued a proposed decision to revoke Petitioner’s credentials.  (AR 183; see also AR 7-56 [proposed
decision].)  At its August 2023 meeting,
the Commission rejected the proposed decision and elected to decide the case
based on the administrative record pursuant to Government Code section
11517(c)(2)(E).  (AR 57, 183.)  At its December 2023 meeting, the Commission
reviewed the record and the parties’ legal briefing.  (AR 183.) 

 
In February 2024, the Commission
issued an 83-page final decision revoking Petitioner’s credentials.  (AR 183-265.) 
The revocation of Petitioner’s credentials was based on misconduct that
occurred while Petitioner was a teacher at Garey High School from 2016 to
2020.  (See AR 185-245 [factual
findings]; AR 246-265 [legal conclusions].) 
The Commission found that Petitioner “made sexual jokes about students
and staff,” “made racial jokes about students,” and “asked inappropriate
questions to his students,” e.g., “sexual questions.”  The Commission found that Petitioner
“arbitrarily graded his students and inflated the grades of students who
cleaned his classroom” and “lowered the grades of a student as punishment for
not cleaning the mess of other students.” 
Petitioner allowed sexual imagery to be displayed in the courtroom and
made a sexual gesture, notwithstanding a prior disciplinary warning in 2010 placing
him “on notice that sexual imagery was inappropriate and unacceptable.”  Based upon these and other findings of fact,
the Commission concluded that Petitioner “engaged in unprofessional conduct and
immoral conduct, demonstrated temperamental defects or inadequacies indicating
evident unfitness to teach, and committed acts of moral turpitude.”  (AR 264.) 

 
In his briefing before this court,
Petitioner challenges virtually none of the Commission’s factual findings and
legal conclusions.  Petitioner concedes that
he “acted unprofessionally during the 2019-2020 school year” and that “some
kind of adverse action is clearly warranted,” but not revocation of his
credentials.  (Opening Brief
(“OB”) at 6:3, 14:26.)  The court finds
that the Commission’s factual findings (which Petitioner does not challenge)
are supported by the evidence.  The court
finds that the Commission’s decision to revoke Petitioner’s teaching
credentials is supported by factual findings. 
Therefore, the court denies the petition for writ of mandate.    
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1094.5(b), the pertinent issues are whether the
respondent has proceeded without jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial,
and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the
evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)
 
The court
exercises its independent judgment on the record, including with respect to
findings of fact made by the Commission. 
(Pittsburg Unified School Dist. v.
Commission on Professional Competence (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 964, 976.)  Under the independent judgment test, “the
trial court not only examines the administrative record for errors of law, but
also exercises its independent judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a
limited trial de novo.”  (Bixby
v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal. 3d 130, 143.) 
The court may draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and
make its determinations as to the credibility of witnesses.  (Morrison
v. Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners
(2003) 107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817.)
 
At the agency
level, “the standard of proof to revoke a professional license is
clear and convincing evidence....”  (Lone Star Sec. & Video, Inc. v. Bureau
of Sec. and Investigative Services (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 445, 454.)  Because Petitioner’s teaching credentials are
considered professional licenses, Respondent determined that the accusation
against Petitioner needed to be proven by clear and convincing evidence.  (AR 247.)  “Clear and convincing evidence” reflects “a
high probability of the truth of the facts” asserted.  (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young &
Co. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 820, 847–848.) 
The
Court of Appeal has held that “ a trial court reviewing an
administrative agency’s findings under the independent judgment standard of
review in section 1094.5 must …
account for the standard of proof required and applied in the underlying
proceeding.”  (Li v. Superior Court (2021)
69 Cal.App.5th 836, 844.)  Accordingly, in
this ruling, the court uses the phrase “weight of the evidence” to refer to
sufficient evidence to support a finding taking into account the clear and
convincing evidence standard of proof applicable at the agency level.
 
The court
exercises independent judgment on questions of law arising in mandate
proceedings.  (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.)  “A challenge
to the procedural fairness of the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on
appeal because the ultimate determination of procedural fairness amounts to a
question of law.”  (Nasha L.L.C. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470,
482.)  
 


 
DISCUSSION 
 
            A.        Petitioner Challenges Virtually None of
the Commission’s Findings of Fact 
 
In this
administrative writ proceeding, Petitioner bears the burden of proof to
demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record, that the weight of the
evidence does not support the administrative findings.  (Strumsky
v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal.
App. 2d 129, 137.)  Significantly, Petitioner “must identify (with
citations to the record) the factual findings made by the board that he or she
is challenging and demonstrate (with citations to the record) why those factual
findings were against the weight of the evidence.”  (Shenouda
v. Veterinary Medical Bd. (2018)
27 Cal.App.5th 500, 513.)  A
reviewing court “will not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will
not assume the task of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for
any purpose of discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
740, 742.)  “When an appellant fails to
raise a point, or asserts it but fails to support it with reasoned argument and
citations to authority, we treat the point as waived.”  (Nelson v. Avondale HOA (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-863.)
 
Here, in his writ
briefing, Petitioner has not challenged any of the detailed factual findings
and the legal conclusions in the Commission’s decision.  (See
AR 185-245 [factual findings]; AR
246-265 [legal conclusions].)  Accordingly,
Petitioner has not shown a prejudicial abuse of discretion in the findings and
legal conclusions that he has not challenged. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(b).)  
 
Nor could Petitioner successfully do so.  To illustrate, a brief sampling from the
record and decision shows that: 
 
·       “[S]tudents reported consistently that there was little instruction
taking place. There was very little classroom management taking place.  They reported a room that was chaotic where
there was not much learning taking place. Students described inappropriate
behavior by fellow students not addressed by the teacher. Inappropriate
behavior by the teacher questioning or having conversations that were
inappropriate with students. It was consistent with what the students were
reporting from different grade levels.”  (AR
1900-01 [testimony of former Principal Sabestian Black].)  
 
·       “As established by
the testimony of students LMM, YE, JV, JG, OG—all minors at the time of
[Petitioner’s] conduct—and Dr. Sanchez and Mr. Black, [Petitioner] routinely
made inappropriate comments, sexual comments, used sexual innuendo, told sexual
jokes, and made sexual comments about staff and other students, and insulted
his own girlfriend in front of his students. (Factual Findings 14-17, 26, 35,
41, 47, 52, 98, 117, 126.) Indeed, he admitted that he would famously joke,
‘I’m not gay, but my boyfriend is.’ (Factual Finding 52.) He also acknowledged
that he talked badly about his girlfriend in front of his class because he was
‘heartbroken about what happened’ because, before she gained weight as a result
of her medications, she ‘used to be a hottie, and now, you know.’ (Factual
Finding 143.) [Petitioner] also admitted that he shared with his students the
sexuality of another teacher who was gay ‘because it was just kind of fun.’
(Factual Finding 139.) OG and JV also testified that they saw [Petitioner] stroking
the overhead projector like a penis. (Factual Findings 33, 48.) Furthermore,
[Petitioner] asked minor student GFR about the nude photos of another teacher,
and asked a minor female student LMM about how girls have sex. (Factual
Findings 8, 13.)”  (AR 250; see e.g. AR
1905, 2259-60, 2421, 2304, 1941-42.)  
 
·       “[Petitioner] also
admitted that prior to the backpack incident of February 19, 2020, he had
previously caught student M taking a candy bar; he prevented the theft by
grabbing the student’s wrist, causing him to release respondent’s candy.
(Factual Findings 131- 132.) He also admitted to trying to grab M’s backpack
after he became suspicious that M had taken his candy bars. (Factual Finding
132.) Student GFR’s testimony establishes how [Petitioner] took matters into
his own hands when he suspected the theft of candy bars from his classroom, and
how [Petitioner’s] actions created a situation that was very chaotic. (Factual
Finding 6.) YE similarly testified that [Petitioner] did not have control of
the situation because he was friendly with everyone, and everyone thought it
was a joke. After M was taken away, [Petitioner] told the class that M was a
dumbass. (Factual Finding 40.)”  (AR 251;
see e.g. AR 1840-41, 2305, 1956-61.)
 
·       “[Petitioner] also
was an arbitrary grader, gave extra credit to students who cleaned his
classroom, and lowered the grade of student JV for refusing to clean up a mess
made by other students. (Factual Findings 10, 25, 34, 49-50, 61, 105-106.)”  (AR 253.)
 
·       “Student JG
testified, and [Petitioner] admitted, that respondent embarrassed JG when he
shared with the rest of the class JG’s grades from not only his class, but
other classes as well.”  (AR 253.)
 
·       Student OG
testified that Petitioner “made a joke about an African American student’s
race, and offended that student.”  This
testimony was “bolstered by evidence of [Petitioner’s] admission that he
‘maybe’ joked about telling a student to ‘go ask the Asian kid over there.  They’re good at math.’”  (AR 253.) 

 
These findings, among numerous others, are not discussed or
challenged by Petitioner in his opening brief. 
In reply, Petitioner briefly discusses findings related to students J.G.
and M.C.  (Reply 7-9.)  However, Petitioner’s record citations do not
undermine the Commission’s findings.  (See
e.g. Reply 7:28, citing AR 191 and 9:1-7, citing AR 1700, 1650-53.)  Consistent with the decision, Petitioner also
admits that he “used
public shaming to get Student J.G. to own up and improve her grades in all of
her classes” and “in retrospect, violating her privacy in front of her
classmates was probably not professional nor courteous.”  (Reply 7:25-27.)  The Commission’s findings related to the
“backpack incident” and student M were based on Petitioner’s own admissions,
which Petitioner does not explain or address in his writ briefing.  (AR 251.)
 
Having exercised its independent judgment on the record, the
court concludes that the weight of the evidence supports the Commission’s
findings of fact.  To the extent
Petitioner argues that any findings are not supported by the evidence, his
arguments are not persuasive.  
 
B.        Findings of the ALJ that
Were Not Adopted by the Commission Are Irrelevant 
 
In his briefs, Petitioner
repeatedly cites a finding of the ALJ that “it was not established that [Petitioner]
has a fixed character trait that is not remediable.”  (See OB 5, citing AR 54.)  Petitioner argues that “[s]ince the
administrative law judge did not establish whether I have a fixed character
trait that is not remediable and that is necessary to revoke my teaching
credentials, for the Respondent to revoke my credentials and thus my livelihood
is senseless, unjust, and unfair.”  (OB
7:1-3.)  However, after reviewing the
record itself, the Commission did not adopt the finding of the ALJ quoted by
Petitioner.  Accordingly, that finding of
the ALJ is irrelevant.  
 
Instead, the
Commission found:
 
38. Complainant has shown by clear and convincing
evidence that [Petitioner] has demonstrated temperamental defects or
inadequacies indicating evident unfitness to teach. 
 
39. As illustrated in Legal Conclusions 15-25, [Petitioner]
has a fixed character trait whereby he refuses to follow the directives of
superiors, and refuses to change his behavior even when he is told that he
needs to. Despite a 2010 directive to immediately remove sexual images if he
observes them, and despite Ms. Ceja’s coaching and later direction as a
principal to erase penis drawings from his whiteboard, credible testimony from
student GFR establishes that in 2020 [Petitioner] laughed at penis drawings on
his whiteboard and allowed those drawings to remain for at least five minutes
until his students—not [Petitioner] —erased them. [Petitioner] was on notice
that sexual imagery was inappropriate and unacceptable, yet ten years after his
2010 directive and while in front of his class of 9th graders, he stroked his
overhead projector as if it were a penis. 
 
40. [Petitioner] also fails to understand what is and
is not appropriate to discuss with the schoolchildren under his care. A logical
inference from his 2010 directive is that, like sexual imagery, sexual
discussion is similarly inappropriate, and yet, the record is filled with
instances where, in 2020, [Petitioner] asked sexual questions, made sexual
comments, and told sexual jokes in front of his 9th grade students. 
 
41. Similarly, evidence shows that Dr. Sanchez
attempted multiple times to correct [Petitioner’s] use of inappropriate
language with students, but [Petitioner] continued. In the same vein, Dr. Black
and Ms. Montgomery-Roa both urged [Petitioner] to correct his students’ use of
inappropriate language, but [Petitioner] refused. It is clear that, despite
notice from several administrators that his conduct is unacceptable, he has
refused to remediate his temperamental defect.
 
(AR 256-257.)
 
Petitioner has not
seriously challenged these administrative findings.  Petitioner cites his Exhibits A-G from the
administrative record, which include letters of reference, a performance
review, student testing data, emails from students, parents, and coworkers, and
some assignments he created during his work experiences starting in 2021, after
his teaching assignment at Garey High
School that formed the basis for the Accusation.  (AR 87-177.) 
This evidence is not responsive to the findings, quoted above.  Petitioner has not disputed that, during the
period 2016 to 2020 at Garey High School, he engaged in the misconduct found by
the Commission or that such misconduct reflects an evident unfitness to
teach.  
 
Petitioner argues that “the administrative law judge spent
40 hours observing me during the administrative hearing and therefore would be
a much better judge (pun intended) of my fitness than the Commission on Teacher
Credentialing, who has never even seen me.” 
(OB 7.)  Again, Petitioner makes
his arguments without any discussion of the underlying administrative findings
and the evidence upon which they are based. 
The Commission elected to review the administrative record itself and,
after doing so, found clear and convincing evidence of unfitness to teach.  Based on the record, the Commission did not
need to observe Petitioner’s testimony in person to decide the case.  Further, as the Commission noted, “the ALJ
described the observed demeanor, manner, and attitude of [Petitioner]
throughout the proceeding, noting that [Petitioner] repeatedly interrupted
witnesses and interjected with testimony, became visibly upset and yelled at
complainant’s counsel, asked inappropriate questions and made inappropriate
comments to witnesses, and ‘refused to take steps to rectify his behavior or
control his emotional outbursts, and he did not attempt to control his conduct
until the final day of the [four]-day hearing.’” (AR 249.)  Thus, the ALJ’s observations of Petitioner at
the hearing were not favorable to Petitioner and support the Commission’s
findings that Petitioner’s credibility was “significantly diminished.”  (Ibid.)  
 
C.        Petitioner’s References
to Extra-Record Evidence Are Improper 
 
Throughout his briefs, Petitioner cites to statistics,
articles, and other evidence purportedly found on various webpages.  Petitioner does not show, with record
citation, that the cited evidence is part of the administrative record.  (See OB 8:3-10 and 12:1-13:28; and
Reply 2, 4, 5.)  Petitioner also recounts
alleged statements of attorneys that he considered hiring to file this writ
petition, which statements also are not part of the administrative record.  (OB 14.) 
“As
a general rule, a hearing on a writ of administrative mandamus is conducted
solely on the record of the proceeding before the administrative agency.”  (Richardson v. City and County of San
Francisco (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 671, 702.)  Although the trial court may admit “relevant
evidence that, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, could not have been
produced or that was improperly excluded at the hearing,” Petitioner has not
moved to augment the record or shown that the requirements to do so are met.  (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(e); Pomona Valley Hospital
Medical Center v. Superior Court (1997) 55
Cal.App.4th 93, 102.)  Accordingly, the
court disregards Petitioner’s citations to webpages and other evidence not
found in the administrative record.
 
 
Further, even if Petitioner’s cited evidence were part of the record, it
would not support Petitioner’s position. 
After citing statistics of the number of teachers who had their
credentials revoked in 2017-2018, Petitioner argues that “[i]t would not be
rationale to rank someone with my qualifications, experience, and academic
achievement in the bottom 14% of the bottom one percent of teachers in
California, especially in light of the significant and substantial mountain of
praise I have received post-Pomona Unified.” 
(OB 8:14-17.)  Later, Petitioner
argues, with citations to various news articles, that all other teachers from
Pomona Unified whose credentials were revoked committed sex crimes or tried to
seduce their students.  (OB 12-13.)  However, as discussed, Petitioner does not
provide any analysis of the evidence and acts of misconduct upon which the
discipline against him was based. 
Without such analysis, a comparison to the disciplinary cases that
Petitioner cites is meaningless.  Further,
the discipline imposed on Petitioner must be assessed based on the specific
evidence against Petitioner.   
 
            D.        The Decision Is Supported by the
Findings of Fact 
 
            Petitioner challenges
the Commission’s decision to revoke his teaching credentials for unfitness, essentially
arguing that the findings of fact do not support this decision.  Education Code section 44932(a)(6) provides
that a permanent public school district employee may be terminated for evident
unfitness to teach.  When determining
whether a permanent employee may be terminated for such conduct, school
districts and reviewing courts are to apply the analysis outlined in Morrison v. State Board of Education
(1969) 1 Cal.3d 214, 222.  In Morrison, the California Supreme Court
established a seven-factor “nexus” test to determine when a permanent employee
is unfit to teach such that his or her dismissal or suspension is
appropriate.  The Supreme Court articulated
the test as follows:
 
In determining whether the teacher’s conduct …
indicates unfitness to teach the board may consider such matters as the
likelihood that the conduct may have adversely affected students or fellow
teachers, the degree of such adversity anticipated, the proximity or remoteness
in time of the conduct, the type of teaching certificate held by the party
involved, the extenuating or aggravating circumstances, if any, surrounding the
conduct, the praiseworthiness or blameworthiness of the motives
resulting in the conduct, the likelihood of the recurrence of the questioned
conduct, and the extent to which disciplinary action may inflict an adverse
impact or chilling effect upon the constitutional rights of the teacher
involved or other teachers.  (Id. at 229-230.)
 
“The Commission
has broad discretion in determining what constitutes unfitness to teach and
immoral conduct, and whether dismissal or suspension is the appropriate
sanction.”  (California Teachers Ass'n v. State of California (1999) 20 Cal.4th
327, 343.)  
 
1.         Likelihood that Petitioner’s Conduct
Adversely Affected Others
 
With respect to the first Morrison factor, the
Commission found: 
 
The likelihood of adverse effect was directly
realized, as [Petitioner’s] misconduct directly and significantly harmed
student JG—who he shamed in front of her classmates by sharing her grades—as
well as students GFR, OG, YE, and JV, who all testified that their academic
performance suffered as a result of his failure to provide classroom
instruction to the point that he had ensured students were prepared to look
busy in case administrators came into the classroom. [Petitioner’s] behavior
had a direct impact on Ms. Montgomery-Roa such that she had considered
switching jobs as a result. Furthermore, [Petitioner] refused to engage parents
even when required. The educational community was significantly harmed in that [Petitioner’s]
refusal to follow directives evidenced insubordination, and hindered
administrators’ ability to ensure their students were taught with
professionalism and in a manner that met their needs. This factor weighs
significantly against [Petitioner].  
 
(AR 260.)  Having exercised its independent judgment on
the record, the court concludes that these findings are supported by the weight
of the evidence.  Petitioner has not
advanced a persuasive argument to the contrary. 

 
2.         Extenuating or Aggravating
Circumstances 
 
The Commission made findings regarding “factors in
aggravation [that] demonstrate that a greater degree of adverse action for
[Petitioner’s] misconduct is warranted to adequately protect the public,
schoolchildren, or the profession.”  (AR
261-262.)  Petitioner does not discuss
those findings or seriously challenge them. 
Instead, Petitioner argues that the Commission did not sufficiently
consider his extenuating circumstances.  (See OB 9-11.) 
In relevant part, the Commission found: 
 
[Petitioner] referenced his tinnitus injury and argued
that this is a factor in mitigation, as it had put a lot of stress on him at
the time. While the circumstances surrounding his tinnitus may have caused him
stress, the record does not establish how tinnitus or its resulting stress was
a factor in [Petitioner’s] misconduct, which included stroking a projector like
a penis, asking a 9th grade student how women had sex, dropping a 9th grade
student’s grade because she refused to clean up a mess she did not create, making
racial jokes about students, or any of the other multiple, proven acts of
misconduct considered in this proceeding. [Petitioner’s] tinnitus injury, while
unfortunate, does not mitigate his proven misconduct.
 
(AR 260-261.)  Having considered Petitioner’s record
citations and arguments, the court concludes that these findings are supported
by the weight of the evidence. 
Petitioner has not shown, with evidence, that his tinnitus injury or
related stress or depression were factors in his misconduct or that such extenuating
circumstances outweigh the other reasons for revocation of his credentials.  (See OB 9-11; see e.g. AR
1800-1816.)
 
Petitioner also
does not show that any perceived slights by other teachers or school
administrators were extenuating circumstances. 
(OB 8-9.)  Notably, Petitioner
also misrepresents the record.  Contrary
to Petitioner’s assertion, Dr. Sanchez denied calling Petitioner “diabetic,
obese, and prematurely balding.”  (OB
9:6-12; see AR 2148-50.)  Dr.
Sanchez also denied stating that it was “apparent” that Petitioner “liked
food.”  (AR 2159-60.)  
 
3.         The Remaining Morrison Factors 
 
The Commission found that the remaining Morrison factors weigh
for dismissal.  (AR 260, 263-264.)  Petitioner does not discuss those findings or
show they constitute a prejudicial abuse of discretion.  The court concludes that such findings are
supported by the weight of the evidence.
 
E.         The Penalty Does Not
Reflect an Abuse of Discretion  
 
“The
propriety of a penalty imposed by an administrative agency is a matter vested
in the discretion of the agency, and its decision may not be disturbed unless
there has been a manifest abuse of discretion.” 
(Williamson v. Board of Medical
Quality Assurance (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1343, 1347.)  Petitioner cites his Exhibits A-G from the
administrative record, which include letters of reference, a performance
review, student testing data, emails from students, parents, and coworkers, and
some assignments he created during his work experiences starting in 2021, after
his teaching assignment at Garey High
School that formed the basis for the Accusation.  (AR 87-177.) 
He argues that such
evidence shows “rehabilitation and remediation” and that he has “accepted
responsibility for how [he] acted at Garey High School.”  (OB 7.) 
Petitioner also argues, more generally, that the Commission had
discretion to impose a lesser penalty.  (See
OB 11-12 and Reply 2-3.)  Petitioner
argues, for the first time in reply, that certain mitigating factors, such as
his 22 years of service as a public school teacher, weigh for a lesser
penalty.  (Reply 10-11.)
 
In making these
arguments, Petitioner undermines his own position.  As an example, Petitioner states that “it has
been established that I can teach when I choose to and the ‘necessity of doing
so’ comes from my desire to not become homeless and living on the street or
living on my mom’s couch.”  (OB
11:17-19.)  Later, Petitioner states: “I
have made a conscious effort to get my act together, for I realize that I only
need to work for five more years and then I can collect my teachers’ pension at
age 55…. I have shown that I can be rehabilitated by the very necessity of
having to do so…”  (OB 14-15.)  While these specific statements are not part
of the administrative record before the Commission, they are similar to other
statements made by Petitioner that were considered by the Commission.  (See e.g. AR 263, ¶ 59 [Petitioner “argued
that this conduct will not recur because: he doesn’t want to be homeless and
live underneath the 22 freeway, he wants to buy a supercharged Corvette, and he
likes launching his rockets and does not think he could do that from the 22
freeway.”]) Such statements are not consistent with Petitioner’s assertion that
he has rehabilitated or accepted full responsibility for his misconduct.  
 
Regardless, all of
the Commission’s factual findings and legal conclusions are supported by the
weight of the evidence in the administrative record.  The Commission considered Petitioner’s
evidence of rehabilitation and mitigation, and it concluded that revocation of
Petitioner’s credentials was the appropriate penalty.  Based on the record, the court concludes that
the Commission’s penalty decision was reasonable and does not reflect a
manifest abuse of discretion.  
 


 
F.         Petitioner’s Remaining
Contentions  
 
For the first time
in reply, Petitioner argues that he was deprived a fair trial because he was
not permitted to call all “any” of the students and staff members that were on
his witness list.  (Reply 4.)  “The
salutary rule is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will
not be considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them
before.”  (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.)  Petitioner
does not show good cause to raise this argument for the first time in
reply.  The court rejects the argument on
that basis.
 
In the alternative, Petitioner’s new fair trial arguments are not persuasive.
 Petitioner does not cite to the record
when he claims that he was not permitted to call his own witnesses, so it is
unclear whether and how he was precluded from doing so.  The Commission noted that Petitioner “did not
call any witnesses.”  (AR 244.)  In the “Exhibit/Witness List,” only
Petitioner is listed as a defense witness, and the remaining spaces state
“n/a.”  (See AR 286.)  This record suggests that Petitioner elected
not to call any witnesses.  Regardless,
Petitioner identifies nothing in the administrative record where he attempted
to call witnesses and the Commission refused to allow him to do so.    
 
Nor is there any other basis to find that Petitioner did not receive a
fair process.  “Generally, a fair procedure requires ‘notice reasonably calculated to
apprise interested parties of the pendency of the action ... and an opportunity
to present their objections.’”  (Doe v. University of Southern California
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 221, 240.)  Procedural errors,
“even if proved, are subject to a harmless error analysis.”  (Hinrichs
v. County of Orange (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 921, 928.)  Petitioner does not explain how the alleged procedural error caused him
prejudice.  For those reasons alone, his fairness
arguments are not supported.  Further, Petitioner
received a lengthy administrative hearing at which he presented evidence and
cross-examined the complainant’s witnesses. 
Petitioner has not shown, by citation to the record, that he was
deprived a reasonable opportunity to respond to the charges against him.  
 
All of Petitioner’s remaining arguments, including those not expressly
discussed in this ruling, have been considered. 
None shows a prejudicial abuse of discretion in the Commission’s
decision.  
 
///
///

CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The petition for writ of mandate is
denied.
 
            2.         Respondent shall lodge a proposed
judgment.
 
            3.         The court’s clerk shall provide
notice.           
 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED 
 
 
Dated: October 2,
2024                                              ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    