 Case Number:  23BBCV01345    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
khachik Grigorian,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
bank of america, n.a., et al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV01345
 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order
  RE: 
motion to compel
  further responses  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Khachik Grigorian (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on July 12, 2021, he was inside Defendant Bank of America N.A. (“BOFA
NA”) located at 6600 Laurel Canyon Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 91606.  He alleges that after being asked to wait, he stood
by the front door until it was his turn to be helped by Defendants BOFA NA and
Bank of America Corporation’s (“BOFA Corp.”) employee.  Plaintiff alleges that while he waited for
his turn, an unidentified female and male walked into the bank and had an
altercation with a bystander because he was standing by the door and allegedly
blocking their path of travel.  Plaintiff
alleges that during the altercation, the female began cursing and yelling at
Plaintiff, while waiving an unknown object in her hands.  Plaintiff alleges after the two individuals
completed their transaction with the bank teller, the female ran back into the
bank and pepper-sprayed Plaintiff in the face and body.  He alleges that while he was trying to defend
himself, the male punched Plaintiff so that he was repeatedly punched and kicked.  
The complaint, filed June 15, 2023, alleges causes
of action for: (1) premises liability; and (2) negligence and negligent hiring,
training, supervision, and/or retention. 

On August 24, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed without
prejudice the complaint as to Defendant Bank of America Corporation only.  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant Bank
of America N.A.’s (hereinafter, “Defendant”) further responses to requests for
production of documents, set one (“RPD”). 

On January 22, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief.  
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to RPD Nos.
1-54.  Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the
amount of $4,835.  
            In opposition, Defendant argues that
the motion is substantively moot because Plaintiff failed to adequately meet
and confer, and Defendant provided verified further responses to the RPD.  Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions and seeks sanctions for filing the opposition in the amount of
$2,362.50.  
            A copy of Defendant’s further
responses is attached as Exhibit F to the opposition papers.  In light of the further responses that were
served, the Court will deny the motion to compel further responses as
moot.  
            Thus, the only remaining issue is
sanctions.  
            With respect to the meet and confer
efforts, based on the timeline of events, it appears that Plaintiff’s counsel
contacted defense counsel on numerous occasions to obtain responses to the
discovery and that Plaintiff had provided extensions to Defendant from the time
of propounding the discovery requests on October 17, 2023 to December 22, 2023.  On December 26, 2023, Defendant served
objections to the discovery requests and Plaintiff requested further responses.  Thereafter, Plaintiff filed this motion on
January 8, 2024.  (Mot. at pp.6-9.) 
Motions to compel further responses to production or inspection demands
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration per Code of Civil
Procedure section 2016.040, setting forth facts evincing a “reasonable and good
faith attempt an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”  (CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).)  Following Defendant’s initial discovery responses/objections
to the RPDs, Plaintiff filed the motion without meeting and conferring on each
of the issues presented in the RPD responses.  While Plaintiff cooperated with Defendant by
providing extensions and following up on responses, Plaintiff and his counsel
did not meet and confer about Defendant’s responses once objections were
served.  At most, Plaintiff argues that
after Defendant served objection-only responses to the RPD at issue, Plaintiff
served Defendant with Plaintiff’s further responses to discovery and signed
verifications on December 27 and 28, 2023 in hopes that this would encourage
Defendant to provide substantive discovery responses.  (Reply at p.5.)[1]  However, Plaintiff did not meet and confer
about Defendant’s objections to the RPD. 
As the meet and confer efforts were inadequate, the Court declines to
award sanctions to Plaintiff.
Next, Defendant requests sanctions against Plaintiff for having to bring
this motion and for failure of Plaintiff to adequately meet and confer.  The Court declines to award sanctions to
Defendant as well.  Defendant failed to
provide responses to Plaintiff’s RPD requests until after this motion was filed
on January 8, 2024.  Defendant served
further responses on January 22, 2024, the same day that it filed the
opposition brief.  Thus, it appears that Plaintiff’s
motion prompted Defendant to respond to the discovery.  As such, the Court declines to award
sanctions to Defendant. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Plaintiff Khachik Grigorian’s motion to compel Defendant Bank of
America N.A.’s further responses to RPD Nos. 1-54 is denied as moot in light of
Defendant’s further responses.  
            No sanctions will be
awarded.  
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of this order.

            Note: The Court will be
handling hearings remotely on February 2, 2024. If you wish to be heard in
person, please inform the clerk and your matter will be continued to allow you
to appear personally. 
 
 
DATED: 
February 2, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court


