 Case Number:  23BBCV02111    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
philippe emile van doorne,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
triumph motorcycles (America)
  ltd, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02111
 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order
  RE: 
motion for
  protective order 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Philippe Emile Van Doorne (“Plaintiff)
alleges that on July 8, 2023, he acquired a Triumph Trident 660 vehicle.  Plaintiff alleges that he was a buyer and
that Defendant Triumph Motorcycles (America) LTD (“TMA”) was a warrantor and
Defendant BMW Motorcycles of Burbank (“BMW MB”) was a
manufacturer/distributor.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants violated the Song Beverly Act by failing to conform the
vehicle to the express warranties within a reasonable number of repair attempts
or within the warranty periods, and by failing to promptly replace the vehicle
or make restitution to Plaintiff.  He alleges
that they breached the implied warranty of merchantability because the vehicle
had malfunctions and nonconformities.  
The complaint, filed September 14, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Act – breach of
express warranty; (2) violation of the Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied
warranty; (3) violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200; and (4)
negligent repair.  
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On December 5, 2023, Defendants TMA and BMWMB filed a motion for a
protective order.
The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants move for a protective order to protect them from having to
respond to written discovery or, alternatively, for an order limiting the amount
and scope of Plaintiff’s SROGs, set one, RFA, set one, FROG, set one, and RPD,
set one.  Defendants argue that the only
conceivable reason for Plaintiff to propound this discovery is to justify a disproportionately
high claim of attorney’s fees (despite Defendants’ attempt to settle the case
within 10 days of being served with the complaint).  They also argue that the discovery requests
seek irrelevant subject matter.  
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
served FROGs on both Defendants, 62 RFAs on TMA, 121 SROGs on TMA, 84 RPDs on
TMA, 30 RFAs to BMWMB, 32 SROGs on BMWMB, and 35 RPDs on BMWMB.  
            Here, the Court declines to grant
the motion outright so that Defendants can avoid responding to all written discovery.  However, the Court will grant Defendants’ alternative
request to limit the amount of discovery propounded on them.  
With respect to the RFA, SROG, and RPDs propounded on BMWMB, 30 RFAs,
32, SROGs, and 35 RPDs is reasonable in number. 
Pursuant to CCP §§ 2030.030 and 2033.030, a party may propound up to 35
SROGs and RFAs.  (In contrast, there is
no code limitation for the number of RPDs propounded.)  As the number of written discovery propounded
on BMWMB is within the appropriate range, the Court will allow these written
discovery requests to go forward.  If
BMWMB objects to the content of the discovery, it may respond/object appropriately
to the requests.  
With respect to the written discovery propounded on TMA, 62 RFAs, 121
SROGs, and 84 RPDs is unreasonable in amount and the Court will limit the
number of discovery requests propounded by Plaintiff on TMA to 35 RFAs, 35 SROGs,
and 35 RPDs.  Plaintiff should pick the
requests that it deems relevant and sufficiently tailored to this action and re-propound
them on TMA, or re-draft the written discovery (within the number limitation). 
The parties should make efforts to meet and confer about the relevant
discovery at issue.  Defendants’ motion
provides a summary of Defendants’ arguments regarding what discovery requests
are duplicative and could be consolidated and what it believes are beyond the
scope and not relevant to this action.  
            No sanctions were requested.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendants Triumph Motorcycles (America) LTD and BMW Motorcycles of Burbank’s
motion for protective order is granted in part and denied in part.  The motion is granted such that the Court will
issue a limited protective order such that the written discovery propounded on Triumph
Motorcycles (America) LTD shall be limited to 35 RFAs, 35 SROGs, and 35 RPDs.  If Plaintiff is in need of more discovery, Plaintiff
may request with the Court and provide a showing for additional discovery.  Defendant BMW Motorcycles of Burbank is
ordered to respond to the 30 RFAs, 32, SROGs, and 35 RPDs propounded by
Plaintiff.  The remainder of the motion is
denied. 
            Defendants
shall provide notice of this order.                 
 
 
DATED: 
February 2, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court