 Case Number:  23BBCV01744    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
edgar blanco,   
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
knight sunrise
  hollywood, llc, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 23BBCV01744
 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to Compel arbitration and stay or dismiss judicial
  proceedings



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Edgar
Blanco (“Plaintiff”) alleges that he purchased a 2019 Ford Mustang from
dealer/Defendant Knight Sunrise Hollywood, LLC (“Knight”) on February 28,
2023.  He alleges that holder/Defendant
JP Morgan Chase Bank, National Association (“Chase”) accepted assignment of
Plaintiff’s contract from Knight.  Plaintiff
alleges that at the time of purchase, the vehicle had 24,445 miles on the
odometer, he had been assured that the vehicle had not been involved in any
prior collisions, and Knight reassured him that the vehicle was in good
condition.  Plaintiff alleges that at the
time of sale, the vehicle was covered under Ford Motor Company’s powertrain
warranty.  Plaintiff alleges he signed
the contract and purchased the vehicle. 
He alleges that on March 2, 2023, the Check Engine Light came on, he
brought the vehicle in on March 3, 2023, and the vehicle was returned to him on
March 14, 2023.  Plaintiff then took the
vehicle to Caliber Collision in Santa Monica for an inspection and was informed
that there had been prior impacts to multiple panels and that the vehicle had multiple
mechanical issues.  Plaintiff alleges he
would not have purchased the vehicle had he been told about the mechanical
issues and prior accident damage.  
            The complaint,
filed July 31, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) violation of the
Consumers Legal Remedies Act; (2) intentional misrepresentation; (3)
concealment; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5) breach of the implied
warranty of merchantability; (6) violation of the Unfair Competition Law; and
(7) violation of Vehicle Code, § 11711.   
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On October 10,
2023, Knight filed a motion to compel arbitration. 
On January 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief.
On January 26,
2024, Knight filed a reply brief.  
DISCUSSION 
            Knight
moves to compel Plaintiff
to arbitrate his claims and for a stay of the action.  
            Knight
relies on the written Retail Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”), which includes
a boxed section entitled, “ARBITRATION PROVISION.”  (Mot., Ex. A [RISC].)  The Arbitration Provision states in relevant
part:
1. Either you or we may choose to have any dispute
between you and us decided by arbitration and not in court or by jury trial.
…
3. Discovery and rights to appeal in arbitration are
generally more limited than in a lawsuit….
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort,
statute or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope of this
Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of rights under this
Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you
and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or
relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this Vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your
or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.  If federal law provides that a
claim or dispute is not subject to binding arbitration, the Arbitration
Provision shall not apply to such claim or dispute.  …
(RISC
at Arbitration Provision.)  The
Arbitration Provision states that arbitration shall be conducted by a single
arbitrator, shall be conducted by the American Arbitration Association or
National Arbitration and Mediation (or any mutually agreeable arbitration
organization), the qualifications of the arbitrator, the location of the
arbitration hearing, payment of fees, and the application of the FAA.  (Id.)  
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that he does not oppose resolving this dispute
through arbitration or a stay in the action, but opposes being ordered to
arbitration with the AAA because: (1) arbitrating with the AAA would be
unconscionable under California law because AAA does not provide him with an
adequate opportunity to conduct discovery; (2) Plaintiff was not informed he
could lose the right to conduct discovery when entering the RISC with the
dealer; and (3) the Arbitration Provision allows the dealer or Plaintiff the
right to choose any of the 2 arbitration forums or allows the parties to
mutually agree on an alternative forum. 
(Opp. at pp 0-1.)  Plaintiff
argues that the only way to prove his claims against Knight for fraud is to
obtain discovery and have witnesses testify under oath.  He argues that if Knight agrees only to AAA,
then he will be deprived of any meaningful choice and the right to select an
arbitration forum under the RISC is illusory. 
Thus, Plaintiff requests that the Court honor Plaintiff’s right to
choose an arbitration forum or requests that the Court appoint an arbitrator
other than AAA under CCP § 1281.6.  
            In
reply, Knight argues that it will not agree to conduct the arbitration by JAMS
(as suggested by Plaintiff) and, thus, argues that the Court should grant the
motion to compel arbitration and order the parties to use AAA pursuant to the
terms of the RISC.  Knight argues that
the RISC is self-executing and the RISC calls for AAA.
            The
RISC states: “You or we may choose the American Arbitration Association
(www.adr.org) or National Arbitration and Mediation (www.namadr.com) as the
arbitration organization to conduct the arbitration.  If you and we agree, you or we may choose a
different arbitration organization.  You
may get a copy of the rules of an arbitration organization by contacting the
organization or visiting its website.” 
(RISC at Arbitration Provision.)
            The
RISC provides that the arbitration may be conducted by AAA or NAM, or if the parties
agree, a separate arbitration organization. 
The Court inquires if the parties are amenable to using NAM as the
preferred arbitration service.   The Court disagrees with the assessment that
AAA rules prevent discovery of relevant information. Although discovery is
limited in light of the remedy involved, some discovery is available in the
discretion of the arbitrator. In addition, arbitrators have the right to issue
subpoenas. Nevertheless, the Plaintiff seems to have a contractual right to
choose NAM over AAA. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant
Knight Sunrise Hollywood, LLC’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  The remainder of the action as alleged
against Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association shall be stayed
pending the outcome of the arbitration. 
The parties are
ordered to attend the hearing to discuss whether a mutually agreeable
arbitrator can be chosen.  The Court will inquire if the parties are amenable to using National
Arbitration and Mediation as the preferred arbitration service, why Plaintiff
is opposed to using American
Arbitration Association (the alternatively agreed upon service in the
contract), and why Defendant is opposed to mutually agreeing to the use of
JAMS.  
The
Court sets a Status Conference re: Status of Arbitration for August 7, 2024 at
8:30 a.m. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order.
 
DATED: February 2, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 