 Case Number:  23BBCV00770    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
kababe,
  inc.,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
marilyn
  karmazyn, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV00770
 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motions to compel 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Kababe, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or
“Kababe”) alleges that Defendant International Real Estate Holdings, LLC
(“IREH”) owned real property located at 2320 W. Victory Blvd., Burbank, CA
91506 and that Defendant Marilyn Karmazyn (“Karmazyn”) leased the property
where she operated Defendant Blazin’ Burgers LLC (“Blazin’ Burgers”).  Plaintiff alleges that Karmazyn added a
drive-through to the property at some point during her tenancy.  In 2022, IREH and/or Karmazyn retained
Defendants Zoom Business Brokers (“Zoom”) and Defendant Joseph Khoury (“Khoury”)
to sell Blazin’ Burgers and find a new tenant to lease the property, or to sell
the property to a third party.  
In October 2022, the Burbank City Council
voted to enact a moratorium on all drive-through restaurants.  (See Compl., ¶¶13-18.)  In October 2022, Khoury called the City of
Burbank to inquire about the moratorium’s impact on the property.  Plaintiff alleges that despite the
moratorium, Khoury and Zoom improperly listed the property and business for
sale as an existing drive-through restaurant that could be permitted for a new
restaurant.  Plaintiff alleges that the
listing falsely advertised that the property and business benefitted from an
existing drive-through that could be sold and transferred to a new owner
operating a new and different restaurant, but contrary to the representations,
the drive-through could only be used if the business did not make any changes
to the operating name, menu, hours, or physical appearance to the
property.  
Plaintiff alleges that in December 2022,
Khoury brokered a deal to sell the drive-through business to Plaintiff and
lease the property to Plaintiff, knowing that Plaintiff wanted to change the
use of the property from Blazin’ Burgers into a kabab restaurant with a
different name and menu.  Plaintiff
alleges that on November 19, 2022, Plaintiff and Karmazyn signed a written Purchase Agreement for Business Assets from
Karmazyn/Blazin’ Burgers for $80,000.  Plaintiff
alleges that in December 2023, it attempted to get a permit to operate the
replacement restaurant at the property, but was informed for the first time
that the moratorium would not allow it to make any changes to the business or
get permits for the restaurant.  Plaintiff
demands mediation in attempts to cancel the Purchase Agreement and Lease.  
The complaint, filed April 7, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) appointment of mediator; (2) breach of
written contract; (3) negligence/negligent misrepresentation; (4) fraud; (5)
cancellation of instrument; and (6) declaratory relief. 
B.    
Cross-Complaints 
On May 15, 2023, Zoom Business Brokers
filed a cross-complaint against Kababe and Arouti Agoupi for: (1) breach of
contract; and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.
On May 24, 2023, International Real Estate
Holdings, LLC filed a cross-complaint against Kababe and Arouti Agoupi for: (1)
breach of contract; and (2) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing. 
C.    
Motions on Calendar 
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
single motion to compel: (1) the deposition of the person most knowledgeable
(“PMK”) for Blazin’ Burgers LLC; (2) the deposition of Marilyn Karmazyn; (3) responses to Form
Interrogatories (“FROG”) from Karmazyn;
and (4) responses to Requests for Production of Documents (“RPD”) from Karmazyn.  
On January 3, 2024, Defendants Karmazyn and Blazin’ Burgers filed a
limited opposition requesting the postponement of the motion. 
 On
January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
The matter initially came for hearing on
January 19, 2024.  The Court heard the
motion to compel the depositions, but continued the hearing on the motions to
compel responses to February 2, 2024 so that Plaintiff could pay the filing
fees for these additional discovery motions. 

DISCUSSION

            Plaintiff moves to compel
Karmazyan’s responses to the FROG and RPD. 

On September 14,
2023, Plaintiff served on Karmazyan the discovery requests.  (Mot., Ex. D [FROG], Ex. E [RPD].)  Plaintiff argues that Defendants served one
improperly formatted joint objection, entitled “Objection to Written Discovery
and Notice of Deposition of the Person Most Knowledgeable for Blazin’ Burgers
LLC,” and did not include a list of objections to any specific interrogatory or
RPD.  (Mot., Ex. G.)  The objection is two-pages in length and largely
addresses the PMK deposition only, but not the FROG and RPD requests.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s general
objections failed to identify any FROG or RPD numbers and were procedurally
improper.  As of the filing of the
motions, Plaintiff has not received initial responses from Karmazyan.  
In opposition,
Karmazyan’s prior counsel argues that the motions should be continued since
counsel is seeking withdrawal.  There are
no substantive arguments in the opposition brief.  On January 19, 2024, Karmazyan’s prior
counsel was relieved as counsel, such that Karmazyan is now a self-represented
litigant.  
Plaintiff’s motions to compel
responses to the FROG and RPD are granted pursuant to CCP §§ 2030.290 and
2031.300.  Karmazyan
is
ordered to provide verified responses to Plaintiff’s discovery
requests, without
objections, within 20 days of notice of this order.  
            Plaintiff requests sanctions in
connection with the motion.  The Court
will award Plaintiff $1,000 in attorney’s fees and $120 in filing fees for
sanctions on this motion.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Plaintiff
Kababe, Inc.’s motion to compel Defendant Marilyn Karmazyn’s initial responses to the FROG and RPD is granted.  Defendant
is ordered to provide verified responses to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests, without
objections, within 20 days of notice of this order.  Defendant is ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $1,120 to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within
20 days of notice of this order.
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED: February 2, 2024                                                     ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 