 Case Number:  23BBCV02296    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
john doe, a minior, by a nd
  through his guardian ad litem,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
los angeles unified school
  district, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02296
 
  Hearing Date:  February 2, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order
  RE: 
demurrers; motions
  to strike 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff John Doe (“Plaintiff”) alleges that
he was a minor attending John H. Francis Polytechnic High School (“Polytechnic
High”), which is a part of Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”).  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Kirk Jeppson
(“Jeppson”) is the Ninth Grade assistant principal, Defendant Gary Aragon (“Aragon”)
was the Ninth Grade dean, and Defendant Lisa Donley-Jay (“Donley-Jay”) was the
Ninth Grade counselor at Polytechnic High and they were employed by LAUSD.  
Plaintiff alleges that he was enrolled at Polytechnic
High for ninth grade during the 2022 to 2023 school year.  He alleges that he had several problematic classmates
who were bullying him, verbally harassed him, and made disparaging comments,
which turned into physical harm.  Plaintiff
alleges he had 4 classes with the bullies and that at least 4 different
teachers witnessed the bullying.  Plaintiff alleges he was also cyberbullied.  Plaintiff alleges he showed a video of him
being punched in class by a bully to Jeppson, but Jeppson took no meaningful actions
to stop the bullying.  Plaintiff alleges
that on January 31, 2023, he was jumped by the bullies during lunch, the
assault was recorded, and school administrators witnessed the assault being
recorded.  He alleges that Jeppson downplayed
the incident, but the video was posted on Instagram.  Plaintiff alleges that the school officials
took no meaningful actions though Plaintiff informed counselor Onley-Jay that he
was threatened again.  On February 7,
2023, Plaintiff was jumped again by the bullies in plain sight, the incident
was recorded, and the video was again posted on Instagram.  Plaintiff alleges that he and his family met
with Jeppson and Aragon and that Jeppson blamed Plaintiff for the incident by
claiming that the bullies said Plaintiff had sexually touched female
students.  After February 7, 2023,
Plaintiff did not return to Polytechnic High and was transferred to another
school.  
The complaint, filed October 4, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) negligent failure to warn; and (3)
breach of mandatory duty.  
On November 13, 2023, the dismissal without
prejudice of Lisa Donley-Jay (only) was entered. 
B.    
Motions
on Calendar 
On November 15, 2023, LAUSD filed a demurrer and motion to strike
portions of the complaint.  On January
22, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs. 
On January 25, 2024, LAUSD filed a reply brief to the demurrer and a
joint reply brief to the motion to strike with Jeppson.  
On December 6, 2023, Jeppson filed a demurrer and motion to strike
portions of the complaint.  On January
22, 2024, Plaintiff filed opposition briefs.  On January 25, 2024, Jeppson filed a reply
brief to the demurrer and a joint reply brief to the motion to strike with
LAUSD.  
DISCUSSION RE DEMURRERS
            LAUSD and Jeppson demur to the 2nd
and 3rd causes of action alleged in the complaint for negligent
failure to warn (Gov’t Code, §§ 815.2(a) and 820) and breach of mandatory duty:
failure to report suspected child abuse (Penal Code, § 11166 et seq.).[1]  As the arguments are essentially the same in
both demurrers brought by Defendants, the Court will consider the demurrers
together.  
A.   
2nd
cause of action 
Under the
statutory scheme in California, all government tort liability must be based on
statute.  (Duarte v. City of San Jose (1980) 100 Cal.App.3d 648, 653.)  Government Code § 815, enacted in 1963,
abolished all common law or judicially declared forms of liability for public
entities, except for such liability as may be required by the federal or state
Constitution.  (Cochran v. Herzog Engraving Co. (1984) 155 Cal. App. 3d 405, 409.)  Accordingly, in the absence of some
constitutional requirement, public entities may be liable only if a statute
declares them to be liable.  (Id.) 
Further, in order to state a cause of action for government tort
liability, every fact essential to the existence of statutory liability must be
pleaded with particularity, including the existence of a statutory duty.  (Zuniga
v. Housing Authority (1995) 41 Cal. App. 4th 82, 96.)  Since the duty of a public entity can only be
created by statute, the statute claimed to establish the duty must be
identified.  (Id.)  
In the 2nd
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that LAUSD and Jeppson had a duty to warn
students in their custody, care, and control like Plaintiff about known and
knowable dangers posed by other students and they had knowledge that Plaintiff
was being bullied and had been physically assaulted on campus.  (Compl., ¶¶65-66.)  Plaintiff alleges that LAUSD and Jeppson breached
their duty to Plaintiff when they failed to warn him that the bullies would not
be suspended from school, thereby posing a serious risk to Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶67.)  Plaintiff alleges that had LAUSD and Jeppson
warned Plaintiff that no action would have been taken against the bullies, Plaintiff
would have been kept home from school.  (Id.,
¶68.)  Plaintiff alleges that he suffered
as a result of LAUSD and Jeppson’s acts and omissions.  (Id., ¶69.)  
            LAUSD
and Jeppson argue that a public entity’s liability can only be derived by
statute and there is no statute
for a failure to warn cause of action.  
            “[A] school district and its employees have a special
relationship with the district's pupils, a relationship arising from the
mandatory character of school attendance and the comprehensive control over
students exercised by school personnel, ‘analogous in many ways to the
relationship between parents and their children.’”  (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 869.)  “Because of this special relationship, imposing obligations
beyond what each person generally owes others under Civil Code section 1714,
the duty of care owed by school personnel includes the duty to use reasonable
measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at the hands of third
parties acting negligently or intentionally.[] This principle has been applied
in cases of employees' alleged negligence resulting in injury to a student by
another student [citation], injury to a student by a nonstudent [citation] and—on
facts remarkably close to the present case—injuries to a student resulting from
a teacher's sexual assault [citation].” 
(Id. at 870 [internal quotation marks and footnote omitted]; see
also Regents of University of California v. Superior Court
(2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 619 [“Similarly, a duty to warn or protect may be found
if the defendant has a special relationship with the potential victim that
gives the victim a right to expect protection.”].)  
            Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts showing that LAUSD
and Jeppson had a duty to warn Plaintiff (and his parents) about the bullying
and that LAUSD and Jeppson were not suspending the bullies, which allegedly posed
a risk to Plaintiff.  The complaint
sufficiently alleges a special school/student relationship between Plaintiff
and LAUSD/Jeppson and that LAUSD/Jeppson were previously aware that Plaintiff
had been bullied and/or attacked on multiple occasions.  At the demurrer stage, the allegations are sufficient
to allege cause of action for negligence based on a failure to warn. 
            In their demurrer papers,
LAUSD and Jeppson rely on Skinner v. Vacaville Unified School District
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 31, 41, wherein the Court of Appeal stated: “Although we
have found no case involving a school district, the courts have upheld causes
of action against other public entities based on failure to warn third persons
of the violent tendencies of persons under their care.”  LAUSD and Jeppson argue this case and the
other cases relied upon by the Skinner court (i.e., Tarasoff v.
Regents of University of California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 425 and Johnson v.
State of California (1968) 69 Cal.2d 782) are inapposite.  However, the Court does not read the cases so
narrowly as Defendants.  Further, more
recent cases show that a negligence cause of action based on failure to warn is
a viable cause of action against a public entity like LAUSD and Jeppson.  (The Court also notes that Defendants argue
that they offered Plaintiff a “safety plan,” which was rejected by Plaintiff’s
mother; however, the Court declines to consider extrinsic facts that are
outside the allegations of the complaint.) 

            At this time, the Court
finds that the allegations of the complaint are sufficient to allege a claim
for negligence based on failure to warn against Defendants.  The demurrer to the 2nd cause of
action is overruled.  
B.    
3rd
cause of action 
Penal Code, § 11166(a) states: “Except as
provided in subdivision (d), and in Section 11166.05, a mandated reporter shall
make a report to an agency specified in Section 11165.9 whenever the mandated
reporter, in the mandated reporter's professional capacity or within the scope
of the mandated reporter's employment, has knowledge of or observes a child
whom the mandated reporter knows or reasonably suspects has been the victim of
child abuse or neglect. The mandated reporter shall make an initial report by telephone
to the agency immediately or as soon as is practicably possible, and shall
prepare and send, fax, or electronically transmit a written follow-up report
within 36 hours of receiving the information concerning the incident. The mandated reporter
may include with the report any nonprivileged documentary evidence the mandated
reporter possesses relating to the incident.”  Section 11165.6 defines “child abuse or
neglect” as follows: 
[P]hysical injury or death inflicted by other than
accidental means upon a child by another person, sexual abuse as defined in
Section 11165.1, neglect as defined in Section 11165.2, the willful harming or
injuring of a child or the endangering of the person or health of a child, as
defined in Section 11165.3, and unlawful corporal punishment or injury as
defined in Section 11165.4. “Child abuse or neglect” does not include a mutual
affray between minors. “Child abuse or neglect” does not include an injury caused
by reasonable and necessary force used by a peace officer acting within the
course and scope of his or her employment as a peace officer.
(Pen. Code, § 11165.6.) 

            In the 3rd
cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that LAUSD and
Jeppson were subject to the provisions of the Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting
Act (Penal Code, § 11166 et seq.) and were “mandated reporters” of
suspected child abuse, such that they were required to report known or
reasonably suspected incidents of child abuse to a child protective agency
immediately upon learning of such incidents. 
(Compl., ¶¶72-74.)  Plaintiff alleges
that LAUSD and Jeppson were aware that he was being bullied and abused by other
students, but they failed to report the abuse to a law enforcement agency or
child protective services as required by the Act.  (Id., ¶¶75-76.)  Plaintiff alleges that when LAUSD and Jeppson
violated the Act, they were acting within the course and scope of their
employment with LAUSD and LAUSD is vicariously liable for injuries to Plaintiff
caused by its employees.  (Id., ¶77.)  
            LAUSD
and Jeppson argue that the 3rd cause of action fails because the Act
cannot be invoked for failure to report students to DCFS or on a “bullying”
theory, as bullying is not abuse, neglect, or sexual assault.  In opposition, Plaintiff acknowledges that
while child abuse/neglect does not include a “mutual affray” between minors, Plaintiff
argues that the complaint alleges that the bullying and attacks were not “mutual.”  The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was
jumped by the bullies during lunch on January 31, 2023 and he was jumped
against on February 7, 2023.  (Compl.,
¶¶36, 45.)  Plaintiff argues that he did
not make any allegations that he mutually engaged in the fights, such that this
exception does not apply.  
            At the
demurrer stage, the Court accepts the allegations of the complaint as
true.  As currently alleged, the 3rd
cause of action sufficiently alleges a claim against LAUSD and Jeppson.  However, whether Plaintiff will be able to
prove the elements of this cause of action will be determined upon the consideration
of evidence (and perhaps the video recordings or screen captures) at the motion
for summary judgment or trial stage.  The
demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is overruled.  
DISCUSSION RE MOTIONS
TO STRIKE
            LAUSD and Jeppson move to strike paragraphs 16 to 21 of the complaint under
the heading “History of Failing to Protect Minors” and paragraphs 25 to 27
about different incidents and reports.  
            In paragraphs 16 to 21, Plaintiff alleges
that from 2013 to 2017, multiple sexual offenders were employed at Polytechnic
High, including Terry Gillard, who was the wrestling coach.  (Compl., ¶¶16-17.)  Plaintiff alleges that in October 2019, Gillard
was sentenced to 71 years in prison for sexually assaulting 14 young
students.  (Id., ¶18.)  Plaintiff alleges that in October 2022, LAUSD
settled multiple lawsuits related to Gillard for $52 million.  (Id., ¶19.)  Plaintiff alleges that LAUSD’s and its
administrators’ failure to report Gillard and prevent his actions, this damning
evidence shows failure by Polytechnic High’s administrators, and that principal
Ari Bennett was transferred to an even larger school and assistant principal
Elidia Vazquez was promoted to principal. 
(Id., ¶¶20-21.) 
            While paragraphs 16 to 21 provide
some background facts about Polytechnic High, the allegations are irrelevant to
this action.  This action does not
involve a sexual assault claim by a teacher, but instead incidents of bullying
by other students.  In addition, Plaintiff
alleges that the principal during the Gillard events was transferred and the
assistant principal at issue in the time of Plaintiff’s subject incident was Jeppson.  Thus, the Court grants the motion to strike
paragraphs 16 to 21 of the complaint. 
            Paragraphs 25 to 27 allege that:
(25) in 2017, a female student in Yucaipa committed suicide after being bullied
in school; (26) in 2019, a male student was sucker-punched by 2 older male
students at school, which caused him to strike his head on a concrete pillar
and die (no school district mentioned); and (27) in 2022, a USC analysis found that
about 1 in 3 middle and high school students surveyed reported being bullied or
harassed over a 5-year period.  These
paragraphs follow allegations regarding AB 746, AB 1156, and AB 9.  (Compl., ¶¶22-24.)  The Court grants the motion to strike paragraph
25 as it is irrelevant to the pleadings and Plaintiff’s causes of action.  An incident that occurred in Yucaipa (which
is not in the Los Angeles Unified School District) is irrelevant to the claims
here.  Further, the 2019 incident fails
to mention any geographical location or district and does not appear to be
relevant to the action.  Finally, it is
unclear what relevance the 2022 USC study has on this action, whether it was a
study about LAUSD students, etc.  Thus,
the motion to strike paragraphs 25 to 27 is granted.    
            The Court notes that its rulings are
not full and final as to what evidence may be permitted at trial.  Nevertheless, based on the complaint itself,
they appear to be unnecessary and relevant to the pleading of these causes of
action. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s demurrer to the 2nd
and 3rd causes of action in the complaint is overruled.  The motion to strike paragraphs 16-21 and
25-27 is granted without leave to amend. 
Defendant Kirk Jeppson’s demurrer to the 2nd and 3rd
causes of action in the complaint is overruled.  The motion to strike paragraphs 16-21 and
25-27 is granted without leave to amend.
Defendants are ordered to answer. 
            Defendants shall provide notice of
this order. 
            Note: The Court will be
handling hearings remotely on February 2, 2024. If you wish to be heard in
person, please inform the clerk and your matter will be continued to allow you
to appear personally. 
 
 
DATED: 
February 2, 2024                                        ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court


