 Case Number:  23STCV01907    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of  California County of Los Angeles Department 26        DONG PARK;    RAMBLEWOOD HOLDINGS, LTD; and DP TEXTILE, INC.,                           Plaintiff,             vs.   BORIS TREYZON, et al.,                           Defendants.      Case No.: 23STCV01907    Hearing Date: April 18, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE: DEFENDANT ABIR COHEN TREYZON SALOS, LLP’S    DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT          Background             On  January 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Dong Park; Ramblewood Holdings, Ltd., and DP  Textile, Inc. (“Plaintiffs”) filed the instant action arises out of the legal  representation of Plaintiffs by Defendants Boris Treyzon, A. Monica Szkopek,  Katrina Yu, Kevin Khonsari, Elizabeth Isisquiza, Abir Cohen Treyzon Salos LLP,  ACTS Law, and DOES 1 through 50 (“Defendants”).             On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed  the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants asserting  seven causes of action for (1) Professional Negligence; (2) Breach of Fiduciary  Duty; (3) Breach of Contract; (4) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and  Fair Dealing; (5) Fraud and Deceit; (6) Constructive Fraud; and (7) Negligent  Misrepresentation.             On November 7, 2023, Defendant Abir  Cohen Treyzon Salos, LLP (“ACTS LLP”) filed the instant demurrer and motion to  strike the FAC. On April 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the  demurrer. On April 11, 2024, ACTS LLP filed a reply as to the opposition and  notice of non-opposition to the motion to strike.    Allegations  of  the Operative FAC The FAC alleges as  follows: The allegations contained  in Paragraphs 1 through 44 are referred to and incorporated by reference. (FAC  ¶ 44.) Defendants represented Plaintiffs and each of them in the Underlying  Action and shared an attorney client relationship. (FAC ¶ 45.) Due to the  attorney-client relationship, Defendants had a legal duty to exercise that degree  of learning, and use the degree of care and skill, ordinarily possessed by a  reputable attorney or law firm, practicing under similar circumstances. (FAC ¶¶  46, 54-55, 82.) Defendants had a duty to use reasonable diligence and their  best judgment in the exercise of skill and the application of that learning. (Id.) Defendants owed all customary professional  and fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs and owed a duty of loyalty to Plaintiffs not  to act adversely to Plaintiffs interests, and to refrain from taking any action  or omitting to take any action which was likely to result in loss, injury,  damage, harm or detriment to Plaintiffs, but Defendants had an affirmative  obligation to Plaintiffs to take all such reasonable steps necessary to  protects their interests in the underlying litigation. (FAC ¶ 48.) Defendants  breached their duties and professional obligations owed to Plaintiffs. (FAC ¶¶  49, 56-57, 63-66, 71, 83-85.) Defendants breach of duties were he direct and  proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ damages sustained in the Underlying Action. (FAC  ¶¶ 51, 59, 67, 73, 79, 89, 94.) Plaintiffs performed each  and every obligation to be performed by and pursuant to the Fee Agreement  except to the extent excused by the conduct of the Defendants. Defendants have  failed and refused to provide Plaintiffs with a copy of the Fee Agreement. (FAC  ¶ 62.) There is implied in every  agreement set forth above between Plaintiffs and Defendants, a covenant of good  faith and fair dealing wherein Defendants, and each of them, impliedly  covenanted that Defendants would in good faith and the exercise of fair  dealing, deal with Plaintiffs fairly, honestly, and do nothing to impair,  interfere with, or hinder, or potentially injure the rights of Plaintiffs to  receive the benefits provided by the Retainer Agreement. (FAC ¶ 69.) Defendants, and each of them, billed for which  was unnecessary, duplicative, negligent, and careless, and most importantly  wrongfully attempted to switch-out a contingency agreement for an hourly fee  agreement. (FAC ¶ 70.) Defendants’ conduct in  connection with their financial dealings with Plaintiffs and their intentional  concealments about their billing were egregious as Defendants hold themselves  out as being supremely qualified as attorneys, as their billboard attests. (FAC  ¶ 72.)Defendants falsely and  fraudulently made representations to Plaintiffs, they knew or should have known  them to be false, with the intent to defraud and deceive Plaintiffs, and to  conceal and cover up Defendants’ breaches and mistakes during discovery in the  Underlying Action. (FAC ¶¶76-77, 86-87, 92-93.) In reasonable reliance on said  false representations, among others, Plaintiffs did not take steps to retain  competent legal counsel or to take other steps to protect their interests. (FAC  ¶ 78, 88.) Had Plaintiffs known the true facts, they would not have taken such  actions and/or would have taken other actions. (Id.) Legal StandardDemurrer Standard A  demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the  pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially  noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other  extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). (Ion  Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)A demurrer for  sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.  Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)   When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in  context.  (Taylor v. City of Los  Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216,  1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the  defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.  Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies  only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially  noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984)  153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only  issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,  unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)   Motion to Strike  StandardMotions  to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not  challengeable by demurrer (i.e., words, phrases, prayer for damages,  etc.).  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§  435-437.)  A party may file a motion to  strike in whole or in part within the time allowed to respond to a pleading,  however, if a party serves and files a motion to strike without demurring to  the complaint, the time to answer is extended.   (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435(b)(1), 435(c).)A  motion to strike lies only where the pleading has irrelevant, false, or  improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear  on the face of the pleadings or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Meet and Confer  Requirement Code  of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a  demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in  person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to  demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached  that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties  are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive  pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be  granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.41(a)(2).)  The demurring party must also file and serve a declaration  detailing the meet and confer efforts.  (Id.¿at (a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must  meet and confer again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended  pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)   There is a similar meet and confer requirement for motions to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.)Defendant  ACTS LLP has fulfilled the meet and confer requirement.  (Besa Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, Exs. A-B.) Discussion-  Demurrer Second Cause of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duty            Defendant  ACTS LLP contends the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty is  (1) duplicative of the first cause of action for professional negligence and  (2) fails to state sufficient facts to plead a cause of action as to Defendant  ACTS LLP.  To state a cause  of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff must establish “(1) the  existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3) damage  proximately caused by that breach.” (O’Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees’  Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.)However, the  California courts are split on whether or not a demurrer may be sustained where  a cause of action is duplicative of another cause of action. In Blickman  Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, the  court held that duplicity is not a ground on which a demurer may be sustained  but rather a motion to strike is the proper way to address such issue. (Blickman  Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 890  [that a cause of action is duplicative “is not a ground on which a demurrer may  be sustained”].) By contrast, the court in Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners  Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, held that a demurrer may  sustained on the basis of duplicity where a cause of action contains  allegations of other causes, thus adds nothing to the complaint by way of fact  or theory of recovery. (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Parth  (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.) Nevertheless, in Buehler v. Sbardellati  (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1527, the court noted “there is authority for the view  the breach of fiduciary duty theory is separate from the professional  negligence theory” because it has been recognized as an action in tort, not  contract “which is a distinct and independent from professional negligence but  still comprises of legal malpractice.” (Buehler v. Sbardellati (1995) 34  Cal.App.4th 1527, 1545, fn. 9.)Here, Plaintiffs  undoubtedly allege legal malpractice against Defendants under the theories of  professional negligence and breach of fiduciary concerning the Underlying  Action. Although the allegations for the first cause of action for professional  negligence and second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty contained  allegations for failure to provide legal services professionally, the second  cause of action does plead additional facts that adds to the FAC such as  Defendants failure to timely provide accurate billing statements and Defendants  acting in their own interest. (FAC ¶ 56.) Furthermore, Plaintiff sufficiently  pleads facts to support that the parties had a fiduciary relationship by virtue  of the attorney-client relationship, Defendants’ breach that fiduciary duty,  and Defendants breach was the proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ damages. Therefore,  Defendant ACTS LLP demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED. Third Cause of Action: Breach of ContractDefendant ACTS  LLP contends the third cause of action for breach of contract fails to state  sufficient facts (1) to ascertain whether the alleged contract is written,  oral, or is implied by conduct and (2) to plead a cause of action as to  Defendant ACTS LLP. To state a cause  of action for breach of contract, plaintiff must plead: “(1) the existence of  the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)  defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo  Bros. of California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th  790, 800.)Plaintiffs allege  the parties entered into a Contingency Fee Agreement for Defendants to provide  legal services to Plaintiffs in 2016. (FAC ¶ 23.) The FAC further alleges that  the parties entered into an Hourly Fee Agreement on or about June 17, 2017. (Id.  ¶ 24.) The FAC also allege Plaintiffs performed each and every obligation under  the Fee Agreement except to the extent excused by Defendants’ conduct. The FAC  goes on to allege that Defendants breached the agreements, which resulted in  damages to Plaintiffs. (Id. ¶¶ 63-67.) As such, Plaintiffs sufficiently  plead a cause of action for breach of contract.Therefore,  Defendant ACTS LLP’s demurrer as to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. Fourth Cause of Action: Breach of the Implied  Covenant of Good Faith and Fair DealingDefendant ACTS  LLP contends the fourth cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of  good faith and fair dealing is duplicative of the third cause of action for  breach of contract as to Defendant ACTS LLP. “The [implied]  covenant of good faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every contract.  The covenant is read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to the  express contractual covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in  conduct which (while not technically transgressing the express covenants)  frustrates the other party's rights to the benefits of the contract.’” (Thrifty  Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230,  1244.) As such, “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of  the contract.” (Id.)¿Plaintiffs’  claim for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is  predicated on the existence a contract. As discussed above, Plaintiffs have  plead that two contracts existed between the parties for legal services in  exchange for payment. Furthermore, the FAC alleges Defendants breached the  contracts and Plaintiffs’ suffered damages as a proximate result of Defendants’  breach. However, Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for breach of contract and  fourth cause of action for breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing are based on the same two contracts and the same factual allegations.  Moreover, Plaintiffs’ allegations in the fourth cause of action do not go  beyond mere contract breach and “absent those limited cases where a breach of a  consensual contract term is not claimed or alleged, the only justification for  asserting a separate cause of action for breach of the implied covenant is to  obtain a tort recovery.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business  Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.) There is no indication from  the pleadings that Plaintiffs assert the fourth cause of action as basis for  tort recovery. As such, Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action is duplicative of  the third cause of action.Therefore,  Defendant ACTS LLP demurrer as to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with  Leave to Amend.  Fifth Cause of Action: Fraud and DeceitDefendant ACTS  LLP contends the fifth cause of action for fraud and deceit is (1) duplicative  of the first, sixth, seventh, and eight cause of action for fraud in the  inducement[1]  and (2) fails to state sufficient facts with specificity to plead a cause of  action as to Defendant ACTS LLP. “The elements of  fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation  (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity  (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable  reliance; and (e) resulting damage” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205  Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.) “Each element must be alleged with particularity.” (Id.)Plaintiffs  merely allege Defendants made false, fraudulent representations to Plaintiffs  concerning fully protecting their interests; truthfully advising them in the  Underlying Action on the proper course of action, using best efforts to keep  Plaintiffs informed about the Underlying Action, the adequacy of discovery  responses, and their expertise in handling business litigation matters.  Plaintiffs also allege Defendants made these representations to them knowing or  should have known they were false and concealing the true facts with the intent  to defraud and deceive Plaintiffs. Furthermore, Plaintiffs allege in reasonable  reliance on these false representations, they did not take steps to retain  competent legal counsel or protect their interests resulting in damages.  Moreover, Plaintiffs allege the procedural posture of the discovery responses  and sanctions. (FAC ¶¶ 26-39.) However, none these facts allege which Defendant  made what representations, what specific statements were made regarding the  adequacy of the discovery responses, when these representations were made to  Plaintiffs, and the method by which these representations were made such as  orally, email, text message, etc. As such, Plaintiffs have not plead the fifth  cause of action with particularity.Therefore,  Defendant ACTS LLP demurrer as to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with  Leave to Amend. Sixth Cause of Action: Constructive FraudDefendant ACTS  LLP contends the sixth cause of action for constructive fraud is (1)  duplicative of the first, fifth, and seventh causes of action and (2) fails to  state sufficient facts with specificity to plead a cause of action as to  Defendant ACTS LLP. Under Civil Code  Section 1573, “[c]onstructive fraud consists: (1) [i]n any breach of duty  which, without an actually fraudulent intent, gains an advantage to the person  in fault, or any one claiming under him, by misleading another to his  prejudice, or to the prejudice of any one claiming under him; or (2) [i]n any  such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent, without  respect to actual fraud.” (Civ. Code § 1573.)“A breach of a  fiduciary duty usually constitutes constructive fraud. Constructive fraud, like  actual fraud, must be pleaded with specificity.” (Knox v. Dean II (2012)  205 Cal.App.4th 417, 434.)Here, Plaintiffs  allege Defendants breached their fiduciary duties owed to Plaintiffs as  explained above. However, Plaintiffs have not plead any specific facts as to  Defendant purported false representations/misrepresentations. Plaintiffs merely  allege Defendant made misrepresentations and concealed facts that Defendants  had a duty to disclose with the intent to induce Plaintiffs reliance.  Plaintiffs also merely allege they relied on those misrepresentations resulting  in damages. As such, Plaintiffs fail to plead the sixth cause of action with  particularity. Therefore,  Defendant ACTS LLP demurrer as to the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with  Leave to Amend. Seventh Cause of Action: Negligent MisrepresentationDefendant ACTS  LLP contends the seventh cause of action for negligent misrepresentation is (1)  duplicative of the first, fifth, and sixth causes of action and (2) fails to  state sufficient facts with specificity to plead a cause of action as to  Defendant ACTS LLP. “The elements of  negligent misrepresentation are ‘(1) the misrepresentation of a past or  existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it to be  true, (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented,  (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.’”  (National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated  Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35, 50.) As to a cause of  action for negligent misrepresentation “[t]he plaintiff must allege the  specifics of his or her reliance on the misrepresentation to show a bona fide  claim of actual reliance.” (Cadlo v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (2004) 125  Cal.App.4th 513, 519.)Plaintiffs allege  Defendants made misrepresentations during the course of their legal  representation of Plaintiffs concerning protecting Plaintiffs’ interests,  truthfully advising them, using best efforts to inform them about the case  status, and adequacy of the discovery responses in the Underlying Action.  Plaintiffs also allege they relied on these misrepresentations resulting in  damages. Although Plaintiffs allegations in the seventh cause of action for  negligent misrepresentation are almost identical to the allegations set forth  in the fifth cause of action, Plaintiffs do allege additional facts concerning  Defendants concealment of the Discovery Referee and Court Orders. Nevertheless,  Plaintiffs do not plead any specific facts of how they actually relied on  Defendants purported misrepresentations such as emails, text messages, oral  conversations with Defendants of the alleged misrepresentations. As such,  Plaintiffs have not stated sufficient facts to support the seventh cause of  action. Therefore,  Defendant ACTS LLP demurrer as to the seventh cause of action is SUSTAINED with  Leave to Amend. Discussion –  Motion to Strike Defendant ACTS  LLP moves to strike numerous paragraphs of the FAC. Specifically, Defendant  ACTS LLP moves to strike paragraphs 52, 60, 74, 80, 90, 95, 98, 108, and 109. Defendant ACTS  LLP contends (1) Plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages since no  evidence of malice, oppression, or fraudulent conduct is sufficiently pled; and  (2) Plaintiffs are not entitled to disgorgement since no fees were paid to ACTS  LAW and no “egregious” ethical breach is alleged.California Civil  Code section 3294, subdivision (a), provides: “In an action for the breach of  an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and  convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages  for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.”  “‘Malice’  means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the  plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a  willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id.  at (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to  cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id.  at (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or  concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the  part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights  or otherwise causing injury.” (Id. at (c)(3).) Punitive damages thus  require more than the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior  Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95.)  Moreover, a  demand for punitive damages for the commission of any tort requires more than  the mere conclusory allegations of “oppression, fraud, and malice.”  (Civ.  Code § 3294; see Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117 Cal. App.3d 1,  6-7.) As set forth  above, the FAC fails to sufficiently plead facts to support the fifth sixth,  and seventh causes of action based on fraudulent misrepresentations. However,  the FAC does sufficiently allege facts to support the second and third causes  of action. As such, a reasonable jury could find that Defendants conduct in  allegedly informing Plaintiffs’ that their discovery responses were adequate  when there were court orders stating otherwise was done with intent to cause  injury to Plaintiffs. Likewise, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend  as to the fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action. Therefore,  Defendant ACTS LLP’s motion to strike is GRANTED, in part as to the punitive damages allegations.  Conclusion and ORDER            Based on the foregoing, Defendant  Abir Cohen Treyzon Salos LLP’s demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART as to the second  and third causes of action and SUSTAINED IN PART with 30 days leave to amend as  to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action.            Defendant Abir Cohen Treyzon Salos  LLP’s motion to strike is GRANTED, in part as to the punitive damages allegations with 30 days leave to amend.             Moving Party to give notice within  seven (7) days. DATED: April 18, 2024                                                                                    ___________________________                                                                                          Yolanda  Orozco                                                                                          Judge  of the Superior Court     