 Case Number:  23CHCV02662    Hearing Date:   March 18, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-18-24
Case # 23CHCV02662, Golden Hammer OPS, LLC d/b/a
Golden Hammer Services d/b/a Golden Hammer Hosting vs. JETNET LLC, et al. 
Trial Date: Not set. 
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant ADSBEXCHANGE.COM, LLC’S
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiff Golden Hammer Ops, LLC’s
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
First Cause of Action – Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets
·        
Second Cause of Action – Breach of Contract 
 
RULING: Demurrer is overruled as to the first and
second causes of action. 
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
Plaintiff Golden Hammer Ops, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed its
Complaint on September 5, 2023. The Complaint includes two claims against
ADSBEXCHANGE.COM, LLC (“Defendant” or “ADSB”) alleging: (i) misappropriation of
trade secrets under Civil Code Section § 3426 et seq.; and (ii) breach of
contract. 
 
On November 6, 2023, Defendant filed its demurrer.
Plaintiff filed its opposition on March 5, 2024. On March 11, 2024, Defendant
filed its reply.
 
ANALYSIS
Request for Judicial Notice: Defendant requests that the
Court take judicial notice of a redacted version of the Asset Purchase
Agreement by and among JETNET, L.L.C., ADSBexchange.com, LLC, and Daniel
Streufert, Dated as of January 19, 2023 (the “APA”). A true and correct copy of
the redacted APA is attached as Exhibit 1. 
 
Defendant asks the court to judicially notice these
documents under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h), which applies to
“[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (h).) Defendant
argues that the terms of the APA are not reasonably subject to dispute and are
capable of immediate and accurate determination. Additionally, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s claims against ADSB are premised entirely on ADSB’s sale of
assets to JETNET, and whether or not ADSB transferred the Services Agreement to
JETNET without Plaintiff’s consent. The Complaint discusses the transaction
between JETNET and ADSB in multiple paragraphs. Plaintiff argues that this
would be improper use of judicial notice because Defendant is attempting to
have the Court determine the “content and legal effect.” The Court agrees.
Further, the interpretation of the APA is subject to disputed. Therefore, the
request for judicial notice is denied.
 
Defendant brings a demurrer to Plaintiff’s first and second
causes of actions on the basis that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s demurrer because it argues
that Plaintiff’s complaint sufficiently pleads all necessary elements of the
causes of action. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant fails to address all of
Plaintiff’s theories in the verified complaint. 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(emphasis added, CCP § 430.41(a).)
 
Here, Defense counsel testifies that he met and conferred
with Plaintiff’s counsel on five occasions, but they reached an impasse. (Royal
Decl. ¶ 3.) Thus, the meet and confer requirement was satisfied.
 
First Cause of Action: Misappropriation of Trade Secrets
 
Defendant argues that the Complaint fails to allege any
facts supporting that ADSB misappropriated any purported trade secrets or took
any improper action after the Closing. Rather, the Complaint specifically
alleges that any actions to access Plaintiff’s software and trade secrets
occurred after ADSB sold its assets. (Not. of Dem. p.2.) Moreover, Defendant
also argues that it cannot have “acquired” the trade secrets at issue by
improper means because of the license in the Services Agreement (Dem. p. 12.) Plaintiff
argues that the license does not shield Defendant from this cause of action
because it does not permit ADS-B Exchange to disclose or use Golden Hammer’s
software for the benefit of a third-party sublicensor. (Opp. p. 12.) In reply,
Defendant argues reiterates similar arguments as those in its demurrer. (Reply
p. 9.)
 
Defendant relies on Silvaco Data Systems v. Intel Corp
and claims “simply running executable software, allegedly tainted by
incorporation of wrongfully obtained design features, does not constitute
“acquisition” or “use,” such that an end user is liable for misappropriation.”
(Silvaco, 184 Cal.App.4th at pp. 222-24.) In opposition, Plaintiff
distinguished the present case from Silvaco. (Opp. p.14.) The court
notes, this argument is beyond the scope of the motion at hand because
determining whether the holding of Silvaco applies to the present matter
requires substantial investigation and technical evidence. A factual
dispute over whether the trade secrets at issue consist of both
source code, scripts, algorithms, and other information Golden Hammer kept
confidential is a factual issue beyond the scope of the court’s review of the
Demurrer.  
 
To successfully plead a claim for misappropriation of trade
secrets, a plaintiff must allege that (1) the plaintiff owned the trade secret,
(2) at the time of misappropriation, the information was a trade secret, (3)
the defendant improperly acquired, used, or disclosed the trade secret, (4) the
plaintiff was harmed, and (5) the defendant’s acquisition, use, or disclosure
of the trade secret was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff harm.
(Cal. Civ. Code § 3426.1(b), Cal. Civ. Code § 3426.3(a)-(b); AMN Healthcare,
Inc. v. Aya Healthcare Services, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal. App. 5th 923,
942-943.) 
 
Here, the Verified Complaint alleges (1) Plaintiff “owned
and was in possession of trade secrets including those set forth in paragraph
34 above, its source code and documentation, and other highly confidential information.”
(Complaint ¶ 84.) The Complaint further alleges (2) “Golden Hammer’s trade
secrets derive independent economic value, both actual and potential, from not
being generally known to other persons, businesses, or the public, who could
obtain economic value from their disclosure or use.” (Complaint ¶ 85.) The
Complaint also alleges (3) “ADS-B Exchange, without authorization, acquired,
copied, and transferred to JETNET Golden Hammer’s confidential information and
trade secrets.” (Complaint ¶ 87.) The Verified Complaint further alleges that
ADS-B Exchange acquired Golden Hammer’s trade secrets and made them available
to JETNET by providing a JETNET engineer with credentials to access Golden
Hammer’s computer systems and networks. (Complaint at ¶¶ 7-8, 57-70). The
Verified Complaint also alleges that ADS-B Exchange acquired and disclosed
Golden Hammer’s trade secrets when it provided to JETNET Golden Hammer software
stored at the data center located in Phoenix. (Id. at ¶¶ 10, 38-40). The
Verified Complaint also states satisfies the fourth and fifth element because
it states “[a]s a proximate result of Defendant’s misappropriation, Golden
Hammer has been injured and faces further irreparable harm. Golden Hammer is
threatened with losing its trade secrets and confidential information, and the
ability to sell or license its software to other flighttracking enterprises,
causing damages in amounts which may be impossible to determine, unless ADS-B
Exchange and JETNET are enjoined and restrained by order of this Court.”
(Complaint ¶ 93.) These facts are sufficient to state a cause of action misappropriation
of trade secrets because they are not conclusory. 
 
Therefore, the court overrules the demurrer as to the first
cause of action for misappropriation of trade secrets. 
 
Second Cause of Action: 
Breach of Contract 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff “[cannot] plead sufficient
facts … for breach of the Services Agreement because the APA governing the
JETNET Transaction explicitly states that [ADS-B Exchange] did not transfer any
rights under the Services Agreement.” (Dem. p.9.) In opposition, Plaintiff
states “the language Defendant relies upon, in Section 2.12 of the APA, applies
only to assignment or transfer of the contract itself. . . It does not state or
provide any evidence that ADS-B Exchange honored its promises not to transfer
or sublicense Golden Hammer’s software to JETNET.”  (Opp. 5.) In reply, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s Complaint makes no factual allegations that the Services Agreement
was improperly sublicensed. (Reply p.4.) Moreover, Defendant asserts that the
allegations were not based against ADSB, were conclusory, and directly
contradicted by the plain terms of the APA. (Reply p.3-4.)
 
To successfully plead a claim for breach of contract, the
Plaintiff must allege “(1) the existence of a contract, (2) the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.” (Richman v. Hartley
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)
 
Here, the Verified Complaint alleges (1) “The Services
Agreement is a valid and enforceable contract.” (Complaint ¶¶ 3, 4, 99 .) The
Verified Complaint further alleges (2) “Golden Hammer performed all of its
obligations under the agreement, including by developing, maintaining, and
improving the software code and infrastructure of the ADS-B Exchange platform.”
(Complaint ¶ 100.) The Verified Complaint also alleges ADS-B Exchange breached
the Services Agreement “by assigning, transferring, delegating, or subcontracting
its rights under the Services Agreement to JETNET”, “by transferring or
sublicensing its limited license to use Golden Hammer intellectual property
under the Services Agreement to JETNET”, “by using Golden Hammer’s confidential
information and trade secrets for a purpose other than exercising its rights
and performing its obligations under the Services Agreement” and “by disclosing
Golden Hammer’s confidential information and trade secrets to unauthorized
parties, including JETNET.” (Complaint ¶¶ 101-104.) Specifically, the Verified
Complaint alleges that Mr. Streufert provided his secret credentials and a list
of Golden Hammer’s servers to JETNET, information that could only be known to
ADS-B Exchange. (Id. at ¶¶ 7-11, 38-40, 57-70.) Additionally, the
Verified Complaint further alleges that Mr. Streufert disclosed or made
available to JETNET a disaster recovery set of its software that it hosted at a
Phoenix data center under the Services Agreement. (Id. at ¶¶ 10, 38,
40.) Lastly, the Verified Complaint alleges (4) Plaintiff  has “been injured and faces further
irreparable harm. Golden Hammer is threatened with losing its trade secrets and
confidential information, causing damages in amounts which may be impossible to
determine.” These facts are sufficient to state a cause of action for breach of
contract because they are not conclusory. However, the court notes that the
demurrer is based solely on the APA and without the APA, the argument fails. 
 
Therefore, the court overrules the demurrer as to the second
cause of action for breach of contract. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as
to both the first and second causes of action.
 
Moving party to give notice.