 Case Number:  21STCV43096    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses is GRANTED.
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED.
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
Background
Plaintiff Polin Lee Cheng (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was
injured on May 7, 2021, when she tripped and fell on scrap and/or slabs of
marble rock building supplies on certain premises on Valley Boulevard in
Rosemead, California.  On November 22,
2021, Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this action asserting a cause of action
for premises liability against Defendants Jeannie Shen and Does 1 through 25.
On March 14, 2022, Plaintiff amended her complaint to name
Phido Shen, as Trustee of the Shen Revocable Family Trust, as Doe 1.  On September 21, 2022, Plaintiff amended her
complaint to name 8755 East Valley Property, LLC (“Defendant”) as Doe 2.
On November 8, 2022, Defendant filed its Answer.
On November 14, 2022, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff,
dismissed the claims against Defendants Jeannie Shen and Phido Shen, as Trustee
of the Shen Revocable Family Trust, without prejudice.
On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel
further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, as it relates to Requests for
Admission Nos. 8, 16, and 21.  Plaintiff
also seeks sanctions.  Defendant filed
its opposition and request for sanctions on November 15, and Plaintiff filed
her reply on November 17.
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“If a party then
fails to obey an order compelling further response to interrogatories, the
court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (e).)
In Chapter 7 of the
Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a)
provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that any person “engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct.” A “misuse of
the discovery process” includes (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive
response to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery;
and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
As a threshold matter, the Court finds that Plaintiff has made
a good faith effort to resolve the discovery disputes through the process of
meeting and conferring and participating in an informal discovery conference.  (Yorke Decl., ¶¶ 6-12 & Exhs. C-D; Sorkin
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3; Orloff Decl., ¶¶ 6-8.)  These
efforts have not resolved the parties’ dispute.
Turning to the merits, Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 requests
that the responding party state, for each response to a request for admission (“RFA”)
that is not an “unqualified admission,” the following: (a) the number of the
RFA; (b) all facts upon which the responding party bases its response; (c) the
names, addresses, and telephone numbers of all persons with knowledge of those
facts; and (d) the identity of all documents that support the response and the
identity of the person who has each document.
Requests for Admission Nos. 8 and 16
Plaintiff’s RFA No. 8 requests that Defendant admit that
Plaintiff “sustained an injury in the INCIDENT, which is the subject matter of
this litigation.”  RFA No. 16 is almost
identical and requests that Defendant admit that Plaintiff “sustained injury in
the INCIDENT, which is the subject matter of this litigation.”
In response to each of these RFAs, Defendant made various objections
and then stated, “Responding Party has made a reasonable inquiry concerning the
matter in the request and the information known and readily obtainable is
insufficient to enable Responding Party to admit or deny this request.”  That appears to be a code compliant response
(see Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (c)), and the Court does not understand
Plaintiff to contend otherwise.
In the corresponding request to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1
for each of these RFAs, Defendant asserts various objections and then (a)
identifies the RFA; (b) states that “Responding Party lacks sufficient
information and knowledge to respond to these requests prior to the completion
of additional discovery”; that Defendant “has yet to conduct expert discovery”
and Plaintiff “has yet to undergo an independent medical examination”; and that
the requests “calls for Responding Party to provide responses as to medical and
scientific matters on which expert testimony will be called upon at trial; (c)
identifies “Responding Party” as the only person with knowledge; and (d) states
that Responding Party is not aware of any supporting documents.  (See Yorke Decl., Exh. D.)
All of Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED.  This includes the general objections stated
at the beginning of the response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 as well as the
objections relating to incomplete discovery and expert testimony; the
interrogatory requires Defendant to respond with all information known or reasonably
available to Defendant at the time of the response, and the fact that Defendant
might obtain additional information later (including through discovery and/or retaining
consultants or experts) does not excuse Defendant’s obligation to provide the
information currently known or reasonably available to it.
Defendant’s substantive responses are not code compliant.  
As to subdivisions (b) and (d), Defendant provides no indication
that it has made a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain responsive information.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).)  The references to the “completion of
additional discovery,” expert discovery, and a medical examination in subdivision
(b) are evasive at best, as the obligation to respond to an interrogatory
includes all information known or reasonably available to the responding party,
not just information obtained through formal discovery.  The Court understands that Defendant is
asserting that it does not have sufficient information to enable it to admit or
deny the corresponding RFAs, but Defendant still must provide all facts known
or reasonably available to it at the time of the response, and identify the
documents supporting the response, even if that information is partial and not
sufficient to allow Defendant to admit or deny the RFA.
Of course, if Defendant truly has absolutely no responsive information
(known or reasonably available to Defendant at the time of the response),
Defendant may say so, but Defendant must do so in a code compliant manner.
As to subdivision (c), the response is, on its face, evasive and
neither complete nor straightforward.  Defendant
is an entity, and if it has knowledge (and Defendant says it does), then one or
more natural persons must also have that knowledge.  Defendant must identify such persons. 
The motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d), is GRANTED as it relates to RFAs Nos.
8 and 16.
Requests for Admission No. 21
Plaintiff’s RFA No. 21 requests that Defendant admit that it
was “negligent in the use and maintenance of the property at the time of the
subject INCIDENT.”
In response to the RFA, Defendant asserts various objections and
then states, “Deny.”  That is a complete
and straightforward, code compliant response.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subds. (a)
and (b).)
In the corresponding request to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, Defendant
asserts various objections and then (a) identifies the RFA; (b) states that “Responding
Party lacks sufficient information and knowledge to respond to these requests
prior to the completion of additional discovery”; and that the request “calls
for Responding Party to provide responses as to medical and scientific matters
on which expert testimony will be called upon at trial; (c) identifies “Responding
Party” and “Peggy Tsai, property manager, who can be reached through counsel of
record”; and (d) states that Responding Party is not aware of any supporting
documents.
All of Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED.  This includes the general objections stated
at the response to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1 as well as the objection
relating to expert testimony; the interrogatory requires Defendant to respond
with all information known or reasonably available to Defendant at the time of
the response, and the fact that Defendant might obtain additional information
later (including through retaining consultants or experts) does not excuse
Defendant’s obligation to provide the information currently known or reasonably
available to it.  It is also unclear (at
best) as to what “medical” information is needed to address Defendant’s alleged
negligence.
Defendant’s substantive responses are not code compliant.  
As to subdivisions (b) and (d), Defendant provides no indication
that it has made a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain responsive information.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (c).)  The reference to the “completion of
additional discovery” in subdivision (b) is evasive at best, as the obligation
to respond to an interrogatory includes all information known or reasonably
available to the responding party, not just information obtained through formal
discovery.  Moreover, this interrogatory
asks Defendant to provide at least some information about its own conduct, and Defendant
has not explained why formal discovery is necessary for it to provide information
regarding its own conduct.  Defendant has
denied RFA No. 21, and Plaintiff is entitled to substantive answers with regard
to all the facts and all documents that support Defendant’s denial.
As to subdivision (c), the response is, on its face, code
compliant. 
The motion to compel further responses to Form Interrogatory
No. 17.1, subdivisions (b) and (d), is GRANTED as it relates to RFA No. 21.
Sanctions
Defendant and its
counsel have unsuccessfully opposed a motion to compel and are therefore
subject to sanctions.  The Court does not
find that Defendant or its counsel acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
The Court awards
sanctions in the amount of $2,260, calculated as follows: 5.5 hours of
reasonable attorney time preparing the motion and supporting papers, reviewing the
opposition, preparing the reply, and preparing for the hearing, multiplied by
counsel’s billing rate of $400 per hour, plus a $60 filing fee.  (Yorke Decl., ¶ 13.)  The Court bases this award on the information
provided by Plaintiff’s counsel in his declaration but also notes that Defendant’s
counsel in his declaration states that he has spent or will spend a total of 9
hours of time reviewing Plaintiff’s motion, preparing the opposition, reviewing
the reply, and preparing for the hearing. 
(Orloff Decl., ¶ 10.)
Defendant’s request
for sanctions is denied.
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1 is GRANTED.
The Court ORDERS Defendant to provide complete and straightforward,
code compliant, verified responses, without objection, to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatory No. 17.1, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d) as it relates to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Admission No. 8 and 16, and to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory No.
17.1, subdivisions (b) and (d) as it relates to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission
No. 21, within 21 days of notice of the ruling.
The Court ORDERS Defendant and counsel of record Grant,
Genovese & Baratta, LLP, jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions
to Plaintiff under the Civil Discovery Act in the amount of $2,260 within 21
days of notice of the ruling.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.