 Case Number:  22STCV38722    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
The motion is GRANTED.
Background
On December 13, 2022, Plaintiff Phillip
Howell ("Plaintiff") filed suit against City
of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), Hot and Cool
Corporation DBA Hot and Cool Café (“Hot and Cool”), Botach Inc. (“Botach”), and
Does 1 through 100, for a trip and fall incident on June 19, 2022.  In the Complaint, Plaintiff asserts three causes
of action: (1) Liability for Dangerous Condition of Public Property, Pursuant
to Government Code section 835 et seq., (2) Negligence, and (3) Premises
Liability. 
 
City and Botach filed their Answers on
January 18, 2023. 
 
On January 24, 2023, Hot and Cool
filed an Answer and a Cross-Complaint against City, County, Botach, and Roes 1
through 10.
 
On February 7, 2023, Botach filed a
Cross-Complaint against Hot and Cool and Moes 1 through 10.
 
City filed a motion for leave to file
cross-complaints on March 3, 2023.  The
proposed cross-complaints are against Hot and Cool, Botach, and “Does 1 to
POES.” 
 
No party has filed an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil
Procedure § 428.50 provides: 
“(a) A party
shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint
or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer
to the complaint or cross-complaint. 
(b) Any other
cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for
trial. 
(c) A party
shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one filed within
the time specified in subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the
interest of justice at any time during the course of the action.” 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to
the requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence,
mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend
his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time
during the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.  This subdivision shall be liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) (Emphasis added.)
 
The Court of
Appeal has explained: “The legislative mandate is clear. A policy of liberal
construction of section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action is
imposed on the trial court. A motion to file a cross-complaint at any time
during the course of the action must be granted unless bad faith of the moving
party is demonstrated where forfeiture would otherwise result. Factors such as
oversight, inadvertence, neglect, mistake or other cause, are insufficient
grounds to deny the motion unless accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99.) “‘‘Bad
faith,’ is defined as ‘[t]he opposite of ‘good faith,’ generally implying or
involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or deceive
another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some contractual
obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . ., but by some interested or
sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence, but rather . .
. the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or moral
obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating with
furtive design or ill will. 
[Citation.]’  [Citations.]’  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 100.)
Discussion
City states it
did not file a cross-complaint against either Hot and Cool Corporation or
Botach Inc through inadvertence. (Motion, 3:14-15; Declaration of Valerie R.
Valadez (“Valadez Decl.”), ¶ 7.) City argues in the interests of justice, it be
allowed to file its cross-complaint as its claim arises out of the same
transaction as the Complaint and the existing cross-complaints, and the
proposed cross-defendants are already parties to the action and aware of the
issues raised because they have filed their own answers and cross-complaints.
(Motion, 4:15-20; Valadez Decl., ¶ 10.)
City seeks to
bring its cross-complaints so it has a recourse against the proposed cross-defendants
in the event that City is found at all liable for the subject incident. (Motion,
5:3-9.) 
City attaches copies
of the proposed cross-complaints to its motion. (Valadez Decl., Exhibits A
& B.)
The motion is
unopposed. 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 426.50 is liberally construed in favor of granting a motion
to file a cross-complaint and must be granted unless the moving party acts in
bad faith.  There is no evidence of any
bad faith in the record. 
Therefore, the
Court GRANTS City’s motion for leave to file cross-complaints. 
 
Conclusion
 
City’s motion to file the two cross-complaint
is GRANTED.
 
City is authorized and directed to file the
cross-complaints within 10 days.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 