 Case Number:  22STCV38781    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon.
Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION
TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED
Hearing
Date: 6/25/24 
CASE
NO./NAME: 22STCV38781 DANIEL CHAVEZ vs SIMON JIHOON SOHNG 
Moving
Party: Plaintiff
Responding
Party: Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng
Notice:
Sufficient 
Ruling:
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED IS DENIED
 
On October 3,
2023, Plaintiff served Requests for Admissions, Set One (“subject discovery”),
on Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng. Plaintiff’s counsel granted Defendant several
extensions, with a final deadline allegedly set for December 8, 2023. On
December 18, 2023, Defendant served unverified responses. Plaintiff now moves
the Court to deem the contents of his RFAs, Set One, admitted.
There is no
dispute that Defendant’s responses were served on December 18, 2023. Plaintiff
argues that he gave Defendant only until December 8 to serve the responses,
while Defendant argues that his responses were timely because an extension to
December 18, 2023, was provided.
Defendant
provided an email dated December 8, 2023, stating, “This email serves as a
confirmation that you have graciously agreed to grant Defendant Simon Song a
further extension to respond to Plaintiff's discovery up to December 18, 2023.”
(Def’s Ex 2.) Plaintiff did not file a reply disputing this email or that an
extension to December 18, 2023, was given. The emails attached to the moving
papers show that an extension to December 8 was given but are silent regarding
the extension to December 18. Based on the evidence submitted, the Court finds
that the discovery responses were timely served.  Further, even if they were not timely served,
the responses were provided well in advance of this hearing, and, as a result, Plaintiff’s
counsel should have, upon receiving the responses, taken this motion off
calendar.
Regarding the issue of lack of
verification, Defendant’s discovery responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs, Set One,
contain only objections. Under CCP § 2033.240, responses consisting solely of
objections need not be verified. The Court finds Defendant’s responses to be
timely served and no verifications were needed. Thus, the present motion is
denied.  
MOTION TO STRIKE
Moving Party:
Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng
Responding Party:
Plaintiff
Notice:
Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO
STRIKE IS DENIED
 
Background
On
April 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint, alleging that at
the time of the incident, he was employed as a firefighter/paramedic and was
seated in the front passenger seat of an on-duty ambulance with its sirens
activated. He was struck by Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng, who was under the
influence of methamphetamine at the intersection of Laveta Terrace and Temple
Street. In the FAC, Plaintiff seeks punitive damages against Defendant.
Defendant now moves the Court to strike the following allegation in the FAC
concerning punitive damages.
1. Page 4,
paragraph 11, line 6: “knowingly and intentionally”. 
2. Page 4,
paragraph 12, lines 14-20: Starting with “12. Plaintiff is informed and
believes and thereupon alleges that on the same day, and immediately prior to,
the SUBJECT INCIDENT, Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng willfully and intentionally
consumed METH
. . .” and ending
with “. . . on the public streets and busy roadways of the City of Los
Angeles.”
 3. Page 5, paragraph 14, lines 4-5: “with
willful and conscious disregard for the safety of others and the public at
large,” 
4. Page 5,
paragraph 15, lines 9-13: Starting with “15. Plaintiff is informed and believes
and thereupon alleges, that, on the same day, but prior to, the SUBJECT
INCIDENT, Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng was well aware that consumption of METH.
. .” and ending with “. . . densely populated urban center such as the Cityof
Los Angeles.” 
5. Page 5,
paragraph 16, lines 14-20: Starting with “16. Furthermore, Plaintiff is also
informed and believes and thereupon alleged that prior to and at the time of
the SUBECT INCIDENT, Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng was well aware . . .” and
ending with “. . . persons lawfully upon the roadways including other drivers,
pedestrians, and bystanders.” 
6. Page 6,
paragraph 18, lines 4-5: “, knowingly, despicably and with conscious disregard
for the safety of others and the public at large,” 
7. Page 6,
paragraph 18, lines 8-9: “and highly probable” 
8. Page 6,
paragraph 18, line 9: “willful”
9. Page 7,
paragraph 21, lines 3-4: “with an intentional, knowing, and wanton disregard,” 
10. Page 7,
paragraph 21, line 6: “probably
11. Page 10,
paragraph 35, lines 10-22: Starting with “35. Per California Civil Code, § 3294
(which gives a Plaintiff the right to seek punitive damages . . .” and ending
with “. . . for his malicious actions against Plaintiff, which did cause him
severe physical and emotional injuries.” 
12. Page 11,
paragraph 6, lines 5-6: “For punitive and exemplary damages in an amount to
appropriately punish Defendant Simon Johoon Sohng, DOES 1 through 50,
inclusive, and each of them;”
Legal Standard
The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The
grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or
improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id.
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.) 
 
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect
which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow
leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  

 
Driving While
Intoxicated
The
case of Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890 is instructive
with respect to punitive damages for driving while under the influence. There,
the court discussed punitive damages and fell short of holding that punitive
damages are always appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated. (Taylor,
24 Cal.3d at 892.)  The Taylor
court noted, “we have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while
intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under section 3294 if performed
under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable
dangerous consequences.”  (Id.
(emphasis added).)
 
Subsequently,
in Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 89, the court held
that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for
punitive damages: “[W]e do not agree that the risk created generally by one who
becomes intoxicated and decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle to the public
streets is the same as the risk created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to
zigzag in and out of traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation
area at 1:30 in the afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others
from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not
necessarily probable.” In Dawes, the Court found that the risk of injury
to others from the defendant’s conduct under the circumstances was probable. (Id.)
 
The
Dawes court went on to note, “. . . petitioners pleaded specific facts
from which the conscious disregard of probable injury to others may reasonably
be inferred.  Justice Franson aptly noted
the distinction in his article on punitive damages in vehicle accident cases:
‘Allegations of intoxication, excessive speed, driving with defective equipment
or the running of a stop signal, without more, do not state a cause of action
for punitive damages. [Par.] On the other hand, if the facts show that the
defendant intentionally drove his vehicle at a high speed into an intersection
crowded with pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed through a crowded
residential area where children were playing in the street, a legitimate
inference of actual malice perhaps could arise. (Id. at 90.)
 
Discussion
 
Here,
Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to support a prayer for punitive damages
under the "drunk driving plus" standard adopted by the progeny in Taylor
and Dawes. First, Defendant was not merely drinking but was under the
influence of methamphetamine, a substance whose mind-altering capabilities far
exceed that of alcohol prior to the incident. (FAC ¶ 11.) Second, Defendant was
driving at excessive speeds, approximately 40-60 mph on a small road, Laveta
Terrace. (FAC ¶ 22.) Third, Defendant ran the red light and as a result struck
the ambulance carrying Plaintiff at the intersection. (FAC ¶ 10.) The
combination of methamphetamine use, running red lights, and excessive speeding
demonstrates that the risk of injury to others was not only foreseeable but
necessarily probable. Thus, the present motion to strike is DENIED.
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:
Plaintiff
Responding Party:
Defendant Simon Jihoon Sohng
Notice:
Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO
COMPEL DEPOSITION AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Plaintiff
originally noticed Defendant’s deposition for December 6, 2023. Counsel for the
parties met and conferred, agreeing to reschedule Defendant’s deposition to
February 28, 2023. On that date, Defendant failed to appear for his noticed
deposition, without serving any objections or providing any reasons or
explanations to justify his nonappearance. Consequently, a certificate of
nonappearance was issued.
Defendant
presents several procedural arguments. Defendant asserts that the motion was
mistakenly brought under Code of Civil Procedure § 2025.480, while the correct
statute is § 2025.450. The Court, after reviewing the moving papers, has verified
that the notice correctly cited the motion under § 2025.450(a). (Moving Paper
at pg. 2.) Second, Defendant requests a protective order in the opposition.
This is procedurally improper as Defendant must file a motion for a protective
order. Making such a request within the opposition fails to provide Plaintiff
with proper notice, does not give Plaintiff the statutorily allotted time to
formulate an opposition, and deprives the Court of a full briefing on the
issue.
As
to the substance of the motion, counsel for Defendant does not dispute that
Plaintiff is entitled to an order compelling Defendant’s deposition (Opposition
at pg. 4), but requests additional time to comply as counsel has lost contact
with Defendant.
Similarly,
Defendant requests that sanctions not be imposed against counsel, noting that
considerable efforts have been made to locate Defendant, including the hiring
of a private investigator. Under these circumstances, the Court orders
Defendant to sit for his deposition within 60 days from today (instead of the
standard 20 days), and sanctions in the amount of $2,204.00, which the Court
finds reasonable, to be paid to Plaintiff within 60 days by Defendant only.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by
the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email
to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others
may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a tentative
ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.