  Case Number:  22SCV12898    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Hearing Date: 6/25/24
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV12898 GEVORG BADALYAN
vs. BROOKFIELD PROPERTIES
Moving Party: Defendant Watch Zone
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part
of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. §
436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)
 
Leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the
defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court
should allow leave to amend.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
 
Punitive Damages
 
A plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice.¿ To wit, there is a heightened
pleading requirement regarding
a claim for punitive damages.¿ (Smith
v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042; Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193.)
 
“An employer shall not
be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an
employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294(b).) 
 
Discussion
On April 18, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint against Defendants Brookfield Properties,
Helzberg's Diamond Shops, LLC, and Glendale Galleria. Plaintiff alleges that an
employee from Helzberg Diamond accused Plaintiff of stealing jewelry from the
store. As a result, Plaintiff was arrested, falsely accused of theft, and
unlawfully detained. On March 1, 2024, Defendant Watch Zone was added to the
case as a Doe amendment. Defendant Watch Zone moves to strike from Plaintiff’s
Complaint Plaintiff's prayer for "punitive and exemplary damages” in the
Third, Fourth, Sixth, and Eighth causes of action" as stated in
Plaintiff’s Complaint, page 33, lines 3-4.
Although the complaint
contains various allegations against named Defendants, no specific allegations
were made against Defendant Watch Zone, who was a Doe Defendant in the original
complaint. The Court is not sure how Defendant Watch Zone is involved in this
matter, though from the Complaint and briefing on this motion it appears that Defendant
Watch Zone was involved in reporting to the police that Plaintiff had stolen
something from Defendant Helzberg Diamond. In the opposition, Plaintiff claims
that the following allegations are sufficient to sustain a prayer for punitive
damages: “Based on knowledge of past incidents of inappropriate conduct and
behavior of its employees and/or agents, Brookfield Properties, Helzberg's
Diamond, and/or Glendale Galleria, Does 2-10, Does 12-100, and each of them,
knew, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence should have known that such
behavior, as that exhibited by Defendant Doe 1, was likely to reoccur and cause
physical injury and emotional distress to other similarly situated patrons,
like Plaintiff. However, the Defendants failed to properly investigate the
prior incidents resulting in the occurrence of the subject incident and the
baseless accusation of the Plaintiff for stealing jewelry from the jewelry
store.”
The court is not
persuaded for several reasons. First, the allegations relied on by Plaintiff
are not specific to Watch Zone; the allegations apply to multiple other
Defendants. Second, Plaintiff failed to plead facts with specificity how
Defendant Watch Zone had any knowledge about anything regarding Doe 1, the Helzberg’s
Diamond sales associate who allegedly falsely accused Plaintiff of stealing
jewelry that led to Plaintiff being falsely accused of theft and wrongfully
detained -- Doe 1 is an employee of Helzberg Diamond, not Watch Zone.
(Complaint ¶ 24). There is an allegation relating to Watch Zone, but that
allegation states that an employee of Watch Zone refused to falsely lie and
falsely accuse Plaintiff of cheating when asked by Doe 1 (Complaint ¶ 30).
The
present motion to strike is granted without leave to amend.  Plaintiff has not provided information to
persuade the Court that he can amend the complaint to appropriately allege
punitive damages against Defendant Watch Zone.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 