 Case Number:  22STCV26272    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 6/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV26272 ANTONIO ROMO
GARCIA vs EMANATE HEALTH MEDICAL CENTER
Moving Party: Defendant Emanate Health Medical
Center
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
Analysis
 
On August 12,
2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging premises liability and general
negligence against Defendant Emanate Health Queen of the Valley Hospital. On
December 11, 2023, Defendant served its Requests for Admission (Set One) on
Plaintiff. As of May 29, 2024, the date on which Defendant filed the present
motion, Plaintiff has not provided the discovery responses at issue.
 
It is
undisputed that Plaintiff failed to serve an initial response within the
timeframe required by CCP § 2033.250(a). Plaintiff did not file an opposition
or any other documents indicating that the discovery response has been served
prior to the hearing. Therefore, the current Motion to Deem Defendant’s
Requests for Admission (Set One) Admitted is GRANTED.
 
Sanctions are mandatory against
the party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely discovery
response forced Defendant to file the present motion. CCP § 2033.280(c).
Defendant has requested sanctions in the amount of $1,060.00, which the Court deems
reasonable. Consequently,
the Court sanctions Plaintiff in the amount of $1,060.00. Plaintiff and his counsel are ORDERED, jointly
and severally, to pay sanctions of $1,060.00 to Defendant within 20 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 