 Case Number:  22STCV16693    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE
Hearing Date: 6/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV16693 KHALIFA LAHUT vs
ALBERTSONS COMPANIES
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO SET ASIDE IS
GRANTED 
 
Legal standard
 
“It is … well
established that it is the policy of the law to bring about a trial on the
merits whenever possible, so that any doubts which may exist should be resolved
in favor of the application, to the end of securing to a litigant his day in
court and a trial upon the merits.” (Frank E. Beckett Co. v. Bobbitt (1960) 180 Cal.App.2d Supp. 921, 928.)
 
Section 473, subdivision
(b) provides for two distinct types of relief—commonly differentiated as
“discretionary” and “mandatory”—from certain prior actions or proceedings in
the trial court. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.)
“Under the discretionary relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,’ the court has discretion to
allow relief from a ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against’ a party or his or her attorney.  Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a
showing by attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court shall vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’” (Ibid.,
internal citations and quotation marks omitted, quoting CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
 
An application for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b)
must be made within a reasonable time and in no case, exceeding six months
after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which
relief is sought. (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
 
The mandatory portion of section
473 requires the court to, “whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
On
May 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present premises liability case against
Defendant Albertsons. On November 17, 2023, the Court dismissed the action for
failure to prosecute because Defendant Albertsons Companies, Inc. was not
served and no one appeared at the hearing. Plaintiff's counsel states that the
reason for not appearing at the hearing was due to counsel’s assistant failing
to properly set the alarm for the hearing; therefore, he was not aware of the
hearing and did not attend. On May 10, 2024, Plaintiff moved the Court for
relief.
Plaintiff’s
request is timely filed. The Court dismissed the case on November 17, 2023, and
Plaintiff filed the present motion on May 10, 2024, within six months of the
dismissal. Furthermore, Defendant’s relief is mandatory. The court order at
issue is an order of dismissal, and the moving papers contain the attorney’s
affidavit attesting to his mistake that resulted in the dismissal of the case.
Furthermore, no opposition was filed alleging prejudice, and there is no reason
for the Court to find that the dismissal was not a result of counsel’s mistake.
All requirements for mandatory relief have been met. Thus, the Court grants the
present motion.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 