 Case Number:  BC649616    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO VACATE
Hearing Date: 6/25/24 
CASE NO./NAME: BC649616 ROSA VELASCO VS
RICHARD ESCOTO
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO VACATE IS DENIED
 
Legal standard 
 
CCP Section 473(b) provides for two distinct
types of relief—commonly differentiated as “discretionary” and “mandatory”—from
certain prior actions or proceedings in the trial court. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003)
107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1124.) “Under the discretionary relief provision, on a
showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,’ the court
has discretion to allow relief from a ‘judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against’ a party or his or her attorney.  Under the mandatory relief provision, on the
other hand, upon a showing by attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect,’ the court shall vacate any ‘resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered.’” (Ibid., internal citations and quotation marks
omitted, quoting CCP § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
An
application for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) must be
made within a reasonable time and in no case, exceeding six months after entry
of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief is
sought. (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)
 
The mandatory portion of section
473 requires the court to, “whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
Discussion
 
On February 22, 2017,
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant Janet Delaney. On June 11, 2019,
the complaint was amended to add Defendant Richard Escoto. On February 28,
2020, Defendant Escoto was served. On June 21, 2021, Defendant Delaney’s motion
for summary judgment was granted. On November 8, 2023, after multiple failures
to acquire a default judgment against Escoto, the Court informed Plaintiff
during the hearing that the case would be dismissed. On May 9, 2024, Defendant
moved the Court for mandatory relief under CCP §
473(b),
alleging a mistake by Defendant’s counsel.
In the November 8,
2023, minute order, the Court heard from Plaintiff and indicated, “There being
no default judgment entered on this date and given the age of the case, the
Court dismisses this action without prejudice pursuant to CCP § 581(g), CCP §
583.410, and CRC Rule 3.110(h).” 
This case was dismissed
on November 8, 2023, and the present motion for relief was filed more than six
months later on May 9, 2024. CCP § 473(b) requires a motion for relief to be
filed within “six months after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding
was taken.” Furthermore, no proof of service was attached to the moving papers
showing that Defendant Escoto was notified of the present motion.  Also, as required under CCP §
473(b), the proposed document to be filed to correct the issues that arose
regarding the default judgement was not included with Plaintiff’s motion.
Defendant argues that
the five-year period for bringing Plaintiff's matter to trial was tolled on
December 22, 2021, when default was entered against Defendant. This argument is
irrelevant. The dismissal was pursuant to CCP § 583.410, where a court has discretion
to dismiss an action for delay in prosecution (see Code Civ. Proc., §
583.410(a).) Pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1340, the Court can dismiss a case under
CPP 583.410 for failing to be brought to trial or conditionally settled after
two years. Technicalities aside, the point is that Defendant was added in June
2019, and as of November 2023, more than four years later, Plaintiff had still
not obtained a default judgment against Defendant despite numerous attempts. It
was not one mistake that led to the Court’s decision, but rather the overall
conduct of Plaintiff’s counsel throughout the case. Thus, the court does not
find that the dismissal was caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. Therefore, the present motion is denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 