  Case Number:  22STCV18602    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  73 09/13/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
AVERY v. BELANGER, et al. (22STCV18602)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Jason Stone
(Stone & Sallus, LLP)
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  R. Steven
Derryberry (Derryberry & Associates LLP)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT ONLY ESCROW, INC.’S RESPONSES
TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR MONETARY
SANCTIONS (filed 08/05/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
propounded on Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant Only Escrow,
Inc shall provide verified responses within 30 days. 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Only Escrow, Inc. in the reduced amount of $1,515.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff
within 30 days of the date of this order. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 7, 2022, Plaintiff Veronica Avery filed the instant action
against Defendants Catherine Belanger (“Catherine”), Benjamin Belanger,
Kannella, Inc. dba Re/Max All-Pro (Re/Max), and Does 1-10.
 
On October 3, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1.     Elder
Financial Abuse
2.     Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
3.     Fraud
4.     Violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200 
5.     Declaratory
Relief and Injunctive Relief
The FAC
alleges that Plaintiff is an elder with dementia and cognitive decline, and
that Plaintiff suffered damages when Defendants took her home against her will
and forged her signature to complete the sale of her home to themselves at a
discounted price. 
 
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One against Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendant and/or its counsel in the amount of $2,000.
 
No opposition was filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
If the response to an RFP includes an objection to the demand
in part, it must also include a statement of compliance or noncompliance. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).) Additionally, the response must (1) identify
the particular document that falls within the category of the request to which
the objection is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the extent of, and
specific ground for, the objection. (Id., subd. (b).)¿A propounding
party may move for an order compelling further response to a request for
production if it decides that “an objection in the response is without merit or
too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If
a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a monetary
sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290 (c).)
Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).) 
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Here,
Plaintiff served the Request for Production of Documents, Set One on Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. on June 7,
2024. (Carpinelli Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Defendant’s response was due on or before
July 9, 2024, however, no response has been served. (Ibid.)  Therefore, because a response
has not been served, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions for counsel’s
work on the instant motion. Plaintiff requests a total of $2,000.00, representing
3 hours spent on the motion and to draft a Reply, and 1 hour to appear at the
hearing, at an hourly rate of $485, plus $60 for the filing fee. (Id. ¶ 4.)
 
The Court finds sanctions are warranted because
Defendant has failed to respond. However, since no opposition was filed, the
Court reduces the total award by $485.00 which represents one hour of Plaintiff
counsel’s hourly rate. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the total amount
of $1,515. 
 
DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One,
propounded on Defendant Only Escrow, Inc. is GRANTED. Defendant Only Escrow,
Inc shall provide verified responses within 30 days. 
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
Only Escrow, Inc. in the reduced amount of $1,515.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff
within 30 days of the date of this order. 