  Case Number:  23STCV12769    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TIMOTHY KINMAN
  
        
  vs.
 
MANHATTAN LOFT LLC, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV12769  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 9, 2024




 
 
            Defendant
FPI’s demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 10 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND, as to the second,
sixth, eighth, ninth, tenth, and twelfth causes of action.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion to strike is MOOT.
 
On 6/5/2023,
Plaintiff Timothy Kinman (Plaintiff) filed suit against 12 distinct Defendants
alleging: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; (2) tortious breach of
the warranty of habitability; (3) private nuisance; (4) business and
professions Code section 17200; (5) negligence; (6) breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8) negligence per
se; (9) violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act (CLRA); (10) toxic
environmental mold tort; (11) violation of tenant anti-harassment ordinance;
(12) California Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600; and (13) false
advertising 
 
On
10/26/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) asserting the same
causes of action. 
 
            Now,
Defendant FPI Management (Defendant) demurs to the FAC’s second, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and twelfth causes of action.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to state a claim as to his second, sixth,
seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and twelfth causes of action.
 
            As
for the contractual causes of action (2nd and 6th COAs),
Plaintiff’s verified FAC alleges that “[t]he Defendants, including FPI, are in
a contractual relationship with the Plaintiff, and the terms included that they
pay rent to FPI…The contract is in the possession of the Defendant, FPI, and
not in the immediate possession of the Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶111) In its motion,
Defendant argues that this is indisputably false: 
 
Plaintiff
produced in response to discovery requests, the March 2022 lease agreement
identifying the landlord as “Manhattan Loft, LLC”. (RJN, ¶2, Exhibit B).
Further, Plaintiff produced the May 2023 lease agreement. The lease itself was
signed by FPI, however, that signature was as a designated agent for the
disclosed owner, 600 S Spring Owner, LLC. (RJN ¶3, Exhibit C). An entity that
signs a lease as a designated agent for a disclosed principal does not
personally assume the obligations of that principal. (Barrett v. Hammer
Builders, Inc. (1961) 195 Cal.App.2d 305, 317; see also Hacker Pipe &
Supply Co. v. Chapman Valve Mfg. Co. (1936) 17 Cal.App.2d 265, 276.) The
document, produced by Plaintiff, on its face speaks for itself and identifies
the parties to the lease agreement; Plaintiff, Timothy Kinman and 600 S Spring
Owner, LLC. 
 
            (4:
5-6.)
 
            A court may take
judicial notice of something that cannot reasonably be controverted, even if it
negates an express allegation of the pleading. (Poseidon Development,
Inc. v. Woodland Lane Estates, LLC (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1106,
1117.)  
Here, Plaintiff’s own discovery
production identifies Manhattan Loft, LLC and the landlord under the March 2022
agreement, and the 2023 lease agreement identifies him and 600 S Spring Owner,
LLC to be the parties to the lease. While the lease itself was signed by FPI,
that signature was as a designated agent for the disclosed owner, 600 S Spring
Owner, LLC. (RJN ¶3, Exhibit C). An entity that signs a lease as a designated
agent for a disclosed principal does not personally assume the obligations of
that principal. (Barrett v. Hammer Builders, Inc. (1961) 195 Cal.App.2d
305, 317; see also Hacker Pipe & Supply Co. v. Chapman Valve Mfg. Co.
(1936) 17 Cal.App.2d 265, 276.)
 
As such,
without additional facts, the Court finds uncontroverted evidence, produced by Plaintiff
himself, that Defendant FPI here was not in landlord/tenant relationship with
him. Plaintiff must allege facts which could show that they are in such a
relationship, or which could show that Defendant assumed obligations as a
designated agent. Leave to amend will be afforded to allow Plaintiff the
opportunity to allege these facts. 
 
As for the
seventh cause of action, the Court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to
this claim based on a conclusion that Plaintiff had not alleged sufficient
facts to show emotional distress. Now, Plaintiff alleges: “The Plaintiffs [sic]
have suffered severe emotional distress as a direct and proximate result of the
Defendants’ conduct, as alleged above herein. The Plaintiffs [sic] experienced
prolonged, overpowering fearfulness, sadness, anxiety, depression,
hopelessness, despair and other related emotions. The Plaintiffs lived in
constant fear that their health would take a turn for the worse because the
Subject Property was not suited their health and safety…The Plaintiffs’
emotional distress was severe in that it was long-lasting, burdened their day
to day life, and was based in serious concern for their health and safety.”
(FAC ¶188) While Defendant contends that these allegations are verbatim and
cited in at least 10 other cases by Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court accepts
well-pled allegations as true at the pleading stage. Frivolous allegations can
be sanctioned in other ways, and the Court may not make factual determinations
at this stage. These allegations are sufficient at this stage in that they
could show that he suffered emotional distress. 
 
As for the
eighth cause of action, negligence per se is not, “a separate cause of action,
but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a
cause of action for negligence.” (Millard v. Biosources, Inc. (2007) 156
Cal.App.4th 1338, 1611, fn. 2.) Negligence per se does not provide a private
right of action for violation of a statute. (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1285.) Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence
per se still does not set out further facts which are distinct and establish a
cause of action separate from negligence. 

 
As for the
ninth cause of action, the CLRA protects against enumerated unfair methods of
competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by an person
in a transaction intended to result or that results in the sale or lease of
goods or services to any consumer. (Civil Code §1770, et seq.) Plaintiff’s FAC
makes it clear that Plaintiff’s transaction does not allege the lease of a
“good” and therefore CLRA does not apply and the cause of action fails against
FPI.
 
As for the
tenth cause of action, the Court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to
this claim because the Court could not identify any statute or case law that
creates such a cause of action for “Toxic Environmental Mold Tort. Now, in an
effort to address this deficiency, Plaintiff adds the following in support of
his Toxic Mold cause of action: “…such citation was because of the dangerous
and high levels of mold found within the property. Furthermore, the products
liability issue is the ceiling and within the unit, which were installed, owned
and operated by the Defendant which would frequently leak water, and such water
was the originating factor in the mold development...” (FAC ¶230). However,
this only creates further uncertainty. As argued by Defendants “Is Plaintiff
now bringing a products liability/strict liability action? Why has the
manufacturer of the ceiling fan or the retailer who sold the ceiling fan not
been added as defendants?” (Motion, 8: 3-4.) Plaintiff must allege facts which
could resolve this uncertainty. 
 
Finally, as
for the twelfth cause of action, the Court previously sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to this claim for elder abuse because “Plaintiff does not allege that
Defendant knew Plaintiff was a dependent adult, and Plaintiff’s alleged
conditions—heart issues and a nerve disorder—are not readily visually apparent.
Moreover, Plaintiff does not allege any facts which could that Defendant, a
management company, was somehow responsible for providing Plaintiff’s basic
needs. Finally, Plaintiff alleges habitability violations against “Defendants”
collectively, which, again, is insufficiently specific.” (Minute
Order,10/9/2023.) 
 
Now,
Plaintiff alleges that he has a “distinct and noticeable gait, which placed the
Defendants, including FPI Management on notice of.” (FAC ¶251) However, this still
falls far short of the requirement that FPI have knowledge of conditions which
made the dependent adult “unable to provide for his or her own basic needs,” or
that FPI was responsible “for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent
adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care.” 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained as to the second, sixth, eighth,
ninth, tenth, and twelfth causes of action, with 10 days leave to amend.
Plaintiff will be afforded a final opportunity to address the deficiencies now
identified in two successive rounds of demurrers. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 