 Case Number:  BC482598    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Renewed Motion to Stay Execution of
Judgment Pending Active Litigation Pursuant to C.C.P. § 918.5
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Debtor Ehsan Bashi
Resp. Party:    Judgment Creditor Samsum Shadanloo
 
 
The Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment is
DENIED. 
 
        Judgment
Creditor’s Request for Sanctions is GRANTED in part. Sanctions are AWARDED in
favor of Judgment Creditor and against Judgment Debtor and Judgment’s Debtor’s
Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $1,500.00
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENT:
 
This case has recently been transferred to Department 34. The has Court
become concerned with a lack of civility that the Parties and their respective
Counsel are showing each other. 
 
For example, Judgment Creditor’s Counsel argues that Judgment Debtor
and his counsel “have engaged in deceptive and unscrupulous conduct, and it is
clear Defendant [sic] Judgment Debtor Bashi’s sole purpose is to avoid the
legal process for enforcement of judgment proceedings.” (Opposition, p.
6:11–13.)
 
On the other side, Judgment Debtor’s Counsel argues that Judgment
Creditor “is currently committing fraud against the Court” and that Judgment
Creditor’s Opposition “is frivolous and perjured to avoid the 21-day safe
harbor requirement.” (Reply, pp. 3:7, 10:3–4.) 
 
This is to say nothing of the conduct alleged in the separate,
unrelated litigation in which the Parties are engaged. 
 
“Counsel should at all times be civil and courteous in communicating
with adversaries, whether in writing or orally.” (Los Angeles Super. Ct., Local
Rules, App. 3.A [Guidelines for Civility in Litigation], subd. (d)(1).”)
 
“The timbre
of our time has become unfortunately aggressive and disrespectful. Language
addressed to opposing counsel and courts has lurched off the path of discourse
and into the ditch of abuse. This isn’t who we are.” (In re Mahoney¿(2021)¿65
Cal.App.5th 376.)
 
"We
close this discussion with a reminder to counsel — all counsel, regardless of
practice, regardless of age — that zealous advocacy does not equate with
‘attack dog’ or ‘scorched earth’; nor does it mean lack of civility. Zeal and
vigor in the representation of clients are commendable. So are civility,
courtesy, and cooperation. They are not mutually exclusive."¿¿(In re
Marriage of Davenport (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1507, 1537.)
 
Although the
Court is not imposing sanctions for lack of civility, the Court suggests that
both counsel familiarize themselves with the recent case of Snoeck v.
ExakTime Innovations, Inc. (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 908, which held that
civility is an aspect of an attorney’s skill and “a trial court may consider an
attorney’s pervasive incivility in determining the reasonableness of the
requested fees.”  (Id. at p. 911.)
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
I.         
Pre-Judgment Background
 
On April 11, 2012, Plaintiff Samsum Shadanloo filed his
Complaint against Defendant 6623 Hollywood Cherokee, LLC (erroneously sued as
SBE Entertainment Group, LLC) on causes of action arising from an assault and
battery against Plaintiff at Defendant’s nightclub. 
 
On August 13, 2012, Plaintiff filed his First Amended
Complaint (FAC). 
 
On December 28, 2012, Plaintiff amended his Complaint to
substitute Doe 1 with Ehsan Bashi. 
 
On March 13, 2013, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s
Office dismissed with prejudice Defendant 6623 Hollywood Cherokee, LLC from the
FAC. 
 
On July 31, 2013, the Court granted 6623 Hollywood
Cherokee, LLC’s application for determination of good faith settlement. 
 
On May 1, 2014, the Court held a trial in this matter.
The Court found in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant Ehsan Bashi on a
cause of action for battery. 
 
On May 23, 2014, the Court entered judgment in this
matter. After an offset from the good faith settlement of 6623 Hollywood
Cherokee, LLC, the Court awarded total damages of $27,099.00 in favor of
Plaintiff and against Defendant Ehsan Bashi, plus accrued interest at the legal
rate.
 
II.       Post-Judgment
Background
 
On multiple occasions since Judgment was entered in this
matter, Plaintiff (now Judgment Creditor) has moved to have Defendant Ehsan
Bashi (now Judgment Debtor) appear for examination. 
 
Suffice it to say that Judgment Debtor has resisted and
continues to resist examination. (See Minute Order dated August 3, 2023, p. 6
[“Defendant has for several months undertaken herculean efforts to resist being
forced to sit for a debtor’s examination — including, but not limited to
challenging service, moving to reconsider when the challenge to service was
rejected, filing a separate action against Plaintiff, filing this motion to
stay enforcement of the judgment in the Main Action, asking for a live
evidentiary hearing on the motion to stay, and submitting numerous ex parte
applications.”].)
 
On August 3, 2023, the Court denied Judgment Debtor’s
Motion for Temporary Stay [on] Judgment Enforcement Pending Disposition of
Pending Civil Matter (“Motion to Stay Judgment”), which was filed on July 3,
2023. 
 
On November 20, 2023, Judgment Debtor filed his Renewed
Motion to Stay Execution of Judgment Pending Active Litigation Pursuant to
C.C.P. § 918.5 (“Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment”). In support of his Renewed
Motion to Stay Judgment, Judgment Debtor concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of
Ehsan Bashi; (2) Declaration of Paymon John Vafa; (3) Request for Judicial
Notice; (4) Index of Exhibits; and (5) Notice of Lodging of USB. 
 
On December 4, 2023, Judgment Creditor filed his
Opposition to the Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment. In support of his Opposition,
Judgment Creditor concurrently filed Declaration of Jason Lonas. The Opposition
includes a Request for Sanctions. 
 
On December 11, 2023, Judgment Debtor filed his Reply
regarding the Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment, In support of his Reply,
Judgment Debtor concurrently filed: (1) Supplemental Declaration of Paymon John
Vafa; (2) Evidentiary Objections; and (3) Objection and Invitation for Judgment
Creditor to Cure Opposition[,] for the Court to Exercise its Discretion to
Strike [the] Opposition, or in the Alternative, Strike, the Offending Portions
Pursuant to C.C.P §§ 435 & 436 (“Objection and Invitation”).
 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Objections
 
Judgment Debtor filed evidentiary objections to Judgment Creditor’s
Declaration of Jason Lonas. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2



OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


SUSTAINED


 




5



OVERRULED




6


SUSTAINED


 




7



OVERRULED




8


 


OVERRULED




9


 


OVERRULED




10


 


OVERRULED




11


 


OVERRULED




12


 


OVERRULED




 
        
Judgment Debtor also filed its “Objection and Invitation,” which, among
other things, invites the Court to use its discretion to strike portions of the
Opposition. The Court declines the “invitation” and instead considers all the
items filed by both Parties. 
 
II.      
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Judgment Debtor requests that the Court take judicial notice of many
documents. These documents can be categorized into three groupings: (1)
documents that are part of Case No. 23STRO00340 and Appellate Case No. B328215
(“Civil Restraining Order Documents”); (2) documents that are part of Case No.
23SMCV01998 (“IIED Civil Action Documents”); and (3) documents that are part of
this case (Case No. BC482598). 
 
        The Court GRANTS judicial notice as to
the Civil Restraining Order Documents and the IIED Civil Action Documents. 
 
        The Court DENIES as superfluous judicial
notice as to documents filed in this matter (Case No. BC482598). Any party that wishes to draw the Court’s attention to a
matter filed in this action may simply cite directly to the document by
execution and filing date. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(d).)
 
III.    
Legal Standard
 
A.      Renewed
Motions
 
“A party who
originally made an application for an order which was refused in whole or part,
or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the
same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it
shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on ex parte motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b).)
 
B.         
Motions to Stay Enforcement of Judgment if Other Action
Pending
 
“The trial court may, in its discretion,
stay the enforcement of a judgment or order if the judgment debtor has another
action pending on a disputed claim against the judgment creditor.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 918.5, subd. (a).)
 
“In exercising its discretion under this
section, the court shall consider all of the following:
 
“(1) The likelihood of the judgment debtor prevailing
in the other action.
 
“(2) The amount of the judgment of the judgment
creditor as compared to the amount of the probable recovery of the judgment
debtor in the action on the disputed claim.
 
“(3) The financial ability of the judgment creditor
to satisfy the judgment if a judgment is rendered against the judgment creditor
in the action on the disputed claim.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
918.5, subd. (b).)
 
IV.     
Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Judgment Debtor moves the Court again to stay execution of the Judgment
in this matter pending resolution of separate, ongoing litigation.
 
Judgment Debtor argues: (1) that there are new facts, evidence, and
circumstances in this matter; (2) that there are other cases that also have new
facts, evidence, and circumstances; (3) that this renewed motion is timely
made; (4) that this renewed motion is not a motion for reconsideration, and
thus the Court is not confined to the Minute Order dated August 3, 2023; and
(5) that the active litigation, including the filing of a demurrer, warrants a
stay pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 918.5, subdivision (b).
(Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment, pp. 5:9–10, 5:15–16, 6:26, 8:15–16, 9:16–18,
12:12–13.)
 
Judgment Creditor opposes the Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment, arguing:
(1) that all of Judgment Debtor’s prior motions requesting a stay in this
matter have been denied; (2) that Judgment Debtor is avoiding sitting for a
debtor’s examination; and (3) that the Court should award attorney’s fees and
costs in favor of Judgment Creditor and against Judgment Debtor and his counsel
because this is a frivolous and bad faith motion. (Opposition, pp. 3:14–21, 4:1–6,
9:15–19.)
 
In his Reply, Judgment Debtor argues: (1) that there are additional
facts to consider, including that Judgment Creditor “is currently committing
fraud against the Court”; (2) that the Opposition is misleading the Court by
attempting to argue that renewed motions are the same as reconsiderations; (3)
that the Opposition fails to discuss Code of Civil Procedure section 918.5 and
its codification of prior California jurisprudence; (4) that Code of Civil
Procedure section 918.5, subdivision (b) was expressly drafted by the
Legislature to protect Judgment Debtor in pending litigation against Judgment
Creditor; and (5) that Judgment Creditor’s Opposition is frivolous and perjured
to avoid the 21-day safe harbor requirement. (Reply, pp. 2:5, 5:24–25, 6:16–17,
9:1–3, 10:3–4.)
 
B.      The
Renewed Motion
 
The Court agrees with the proposition that a motion for reconsideration
is different from a renewed motion. (Compare Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(a). with Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b).) Yet both motions for
reconsideration and renewed motions require an affidavit that states “what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.” (Ibid.)
 
In addition, “[c]ourts have construed section 1008 to require a party
filing an application for reconsideration or a renewed application to show
diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not having presented the new or
different information earlier.” (Even Zohar Constr. & Remodeling, Inc.
v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830, 839, citations omitted;
see also Cal. Corr. Peace Officers Ass’n v. Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th
30, 46, fn. 15.)
 
Judgment Debtor points to the following items as new or different
information: 
 
(1)       Judgment Creditor’s
filing and then withdrawing of various discovery requests in one of the
unrelated matters;
 
(2)       Judgment Debtor’s
letter from his current psychologist, who was retained recently; 
 
(3)       Judgment Creditor’s
safe harbor notice, filed in one of the unrelated matters on September 21,
2023; 
 
(4)       Judgment Creditor’s
demurrer, filed in one of the unrelated matters on October 12, 2023; 
 
(5)       Judgment Debtor’s
safe harbor notices, filed in one of the unrelated matters on October 25, 2023;

 
(6)       Judgment Debtor’s
written discovery responses, served on Judgment Creditor in September 2023;
 
(7)       Judgment Creditor’s
written discovery responses, served on Judgment Debtor on November 8, 2023;
 
(8)       oral testimony from
Judgment Debtor, which the prior judicial officer denied;
 
(9)       the “Johnston”
evidence (a memorandum and evidence submitted by Judgment Debtor), which the
prior judicial officer purportedly did not consider; and
 
(10)    case law submitted by
Judgment Debtor, which the prior judicial officer purportedly did not consider.
 
(Decl. Vafa, ¶¶
5–15.)
 
        Judgment Debtor also seems to argue that
the Court should not have sustained an objection to evidence from
Jonathan Charles, and that if the Court chooses to do so now, then that would
be new or different. (Decl. Vafa, ¶¶ 12, 16.)
 
        The Court has not been presented with
sufficiently new or different information to reach the merits of a renewed
motion. All of the items that are claimed to be “new or different” are
actually: (1) items that Judgment Debtor could have previously presented (by
acting with diligence) to the Court at the time the Court made its prior
rulings; (2) items that Judgment Debtor and/or Judgment Creditor previously
presented to the Court, which the prior judicial officer either accepted,
rejected, or chose not to discuss in its rulings; or (3) items that do not have
any bearing on relief could be granted pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 918.5. 
 
        For this reason alone, the Court could
deny the Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment. 
 
C.      The
Merits
 
Even if the Court were to reach the merits of the Renewed Motion to
Stay Judgment, the Court would not grant it. 
 
If the Court chose to exercise its discretion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 918.5, the Court would need to consider:
 
(1)       The likelihood of the
judgment debtor prevailing in the other action.
 
(2)       The amount of the
judgment of the judgment creditor as compared to the amount of the probable
recovery of the judgment debtor in the action on the disputed claim.
 
(3)       The financial ability
of the judgment creditor to satisfy the judgment if a judgment is rendered
against the judgment creditor in the action on the disputed claim.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
918.5, subd. (b).)
 
        Based on the limited information
presented to the Court, it is unclear what is the likelihood of Judgment Debtor
prevailing in either the civil harassment cases (Case No. 23STRO00340 and
Appellate Case No. B328215) or the civil damages case for intentional
infliction of emotional distress (Case No. Case No. 23SMCV01998). At bottom,
the Parties’ respective and relative credibility is highly likely to play a
determining factor in these cases. A previous judge of this case had “questions
about Defendant’s credibility.”  (Hon.
Steven Ellis, Minute Order, 8/3/23, p. 6.) 
Currently, this Court does not have any reason to believe that Judgment
Debtor is any more likely to prevail than Judgment Creditor in those matters.
Because it will be Judgment Debtor’s burden to prove the cases he has brought,
the Court cannot say that it is more likely than not that Judgment Debtor will
prevail in the other actions. 
 
        Similarly, it is difficult to ascertain
at this time what the probable recovery of Judgment Debtor would be in the
other actions. Unlike causes of action like breach of contract or unlawful
receipt of stolen goods — which typically involve allegations of damages that
are clear and liquidated at the time the complaint is filed — it is not at all
clear at this time what amount of damages Judgment Debtor could or would receive
for intentional infliction of emotional distress. Ascertaining such damages is
a highly-fact-specific inquiry that the Court cannot conduct (or at least not
conduct with a high degree of precision and accuracy) based on the very limited
information submitted. Because the Court cannot ascertain Judgment Debtor’s
probable recovery, the Court cannot compare such a recovery with the amount of
the Judgment that Judgment Creditor has already obtained against Judgment
Debtor. 
 
        Finally, the prior judicial officer
remarked that “neither party has presented much evidence as to [Judgment
Creditor’s] ability to satisfy any judgment in the IIED Action.” (Minute Order
dated August 3, 2023, p. 6.) No additional information has been provided that
would clarify Judgment Creditor’s ability to satisfy any judgment in favor of
Judgment Debtor and against Judgment Creditor. While it may have previously
been the case that this situation “weighs in [Judgment Debtor’s] favor, as
[Judgment Creditor] is certainly in a superior position to present this
evidence to the Court but failed to do so,” that is no longer the case because
Judgment Debtor has clearly been engaging in discovery. As both Parties should
now have this information but have chosen not to share it with the Court, the
Court’s current lack of information on this matter inclines the Court away from
imposing a discretionary stay. Instead, it appears more prudent for the Court
to maintain the status quo because the Court has not been presented with
adequate information to justify changing it. 
 
        Upon considering each of the factors
listed in Code of Civil Procedure section 918.5, subdivision (b), the Court
would not be inclined to exercise discretion to stay enforcement of the
Judgment in this matter in the alternative scenario where the merits of the
renewed motion should be considered. 
 
D.     Sanctions
 
        Judgment Creditor requests monetary
sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5. 
 
“A trial court
may order a party, the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of
actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to
cause unnecessary delay. This section also applies to judicial arbitration
proceedings under Chapter 2.5 (commencing with Section 1141.10) of Title 3 of
Part 3.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)
 
        Given that Judgment Debtor did not meet
the standard for filing a renewed motion, it appears to the Court that the
renewed motion was frivolous. The Court will order Judgment Debtor and Judgment
Debtor’s Counsel to pay reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred “as a result of” the frivolous renewed motion. 
 
        In the Opposition, Judgment Creditor
requests $7,500.00 in fees and $950.00 in costs. (Opposition, p. 9:15–19.) But
in the Declaration of Jason Lonas, Judgment Creditor appears to request
$10,800.00 in fees and $950.00 in costs. (Decl. Lonas, ¶¶ 15, 19, 21.) The
Court bases the amount of fees requests on the declaration, which explains what
work was done and on what.
 
Regarding the costs, all of the costs requested arose from the cost of
a court reporter at a debtor’s examination that Judgment Debtor did not attend.
Put differently, none of the costs requested directly involve the renewed
motion. 
 
The
Court declines to award the requested costs. Those costs were not incurred for
the renewed motion; the costs must have been incurred “as a result of” the
frivolous motion in order to be expenses awarded pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 128.5, subdivision (a). 
 
Regarding the fees, Judgment Creditor’s Counsel declares that they
incurred thirty-six hours of work at $300.00 per hour, although only eight
hours were incurred on the Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment and four hours are
expected to be incurred at the hearing on the renewed motion. (Decl. Lone, ¶
17.)
 
While
the hourly rate requested is reasonable, the number of hours spent on the renewed
motion was not reasonable. The Court will award fees for five hours of work
(which includes one hour for the reply and one hour for the hearing) at the
hourly rate of $300.00. 
 
V.     Conclusion
        
The Renewed Motion to Stay Judgment is DENIED. 
 
        Judgment Creditor’s Request for
Sanctions is GRANTED in part. Sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Judgment
Creditor and against Judgment Debtor and Judgment’s Debtor’s Counsel, jointly
and severally, in the total amount of $1,500.00.
 
 