  Case Number:  22STCV32439    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary
Sanctions
 
Moving Party: Defendant Martin Luther King Jr. – Los Angeles
(MLK-LA) Healthcare Corporation
Resp. Party: 
  None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Verified
Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two 
 
Moving Party: Defendant Martin Luther King Jr. – Los Angeles
(MLK-LA) Healthcare Corporation
Resp. Party: 
  None
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for Order Deeming the Matters Specified
in the Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted
 
Moving Party: Defendant Martin Luther King Jr. – Los Angeles
(MLK-LA) Healthcare Corporation
Resp. Party: 
  None
 
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary
Sanctions is GRANTED in part.  
 
Defendant Martin Luther King, Jr. Healthcare
Corporation is DISMISSED with prejudice from Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint. 
 
The other motions filed by Defendant
Martin Luther King Jr. Healthcare Corp. are taken off-calendar.
 
        The Case is DISMISSED.
 
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October 4, 2022,
Plaintiff Fatimah Muhammad filed her Complaint against Defendant Martin Luther
King Jr. Healthcare Corporation, as well as against Nominal Defendants Hakimah
Muhammad and Habeeb Muhammad. Plaintiff alleged causes of action for elder
abuse, negligence, negligent hiring and supervision, fraud, and wrongful death.
Plaintiff Fatimah Muhammad concurrently filed her Declaration as successor in
interest pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.
 
On December
29, 2022, Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
 
On January
31, 2023, Defendant Martin Luther King Jr. Healthcare Corporation (“Defendant”)
filed its Answer to the FAC.
 
On February
7, 2023, by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without
prejudice the fourth cause of action for fraud from the FAC.
 
On August 4,
2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
 
On September
11 and 12, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s discovery motions, in which the
Court deemed admitted certain requests for admission and compelled Plaintiff to
provide initial responses to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and
requests for production of documents. 
 
On October
31, 2023, Defendant filed its Motion for Summary Judgment, with concurrent
filings in support of it. 
 
On November
17, 2023, Defendant filed: (1) Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary
Sanctions; (2) Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Verified Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set Two; and (3) Motion for Order Deeming the Matters
Specified in the Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted. Defendant
concurrently filed a proposed order with each of these motions. 
 
No
oppositions or other responses have been filed to any of these motions. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion for
Terminating Sanctions
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 gives
the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a
misuse of the discovery process. A court may impose terminating sanctions by
striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering
default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) A violation of a
discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions. (Collison
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating
sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's
orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795–796.)
 
A terminating sanction is a "drastic
measure which should be employed with caution." (Deyo, supra,
at p. 793.) 
 
"A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279–280.)
 
While the court has discretion to impose
terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery." (Deyo, supra,
84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate
sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with
his discovery obligations." (Id.) Discovery sanctions are not to be
imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of
discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife
v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as
stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971.)
 
"A trial court has broad discretion to
impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions . . . (1) absent unusual circumstances, there
must be a failure to comply with a court order, and (2) the failure must be
willful." (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315,
1327; but see Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1291
["willfulness is no longer a requirement for the imposition of discovery
sanctions."].)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to dismiss
with prejudice Plaintiff’s FAC and order monetary sanctions against her.
(Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary Sanctions, p. 6:9–13.) Defendant
argues that this would be appropriate because Plaintiff has not complied with
the Court’s Minute Orders dated September 11 and 12, 2023 in that no discovery
responses have been served. (Motion for Terminating Sanctions, p.
5:13–15.) Id., Decl. Moulin, ¶ 9.)
 
        The Court agrees with Defendant’s
argument. There is no indication that Plaintiff has served discovery responses
or otherwise complied with the Court’s Orders of September 11 and 12, 2023.
There is also no indication that any sanction would result in Plaintiff serving
responses to Defendant’s discovery requests. Further, considering that the
Court has deemed admitted Defendant’s Requests for Admission, the result of a Motion
for Summary Judgment is almost a foregone conclusion.  
 
Considering that she did not respond to the
discovery requests, obtain new counsel after Plaintiff’s former counsel left
the representation, respond to the motions to compel responses, or respond to
this motion for terminating sanctions, it appears that Plaintiff has decided
not to continue to litigate this case. 
 
        The Court will issue terminating
sanctions. However, given that Plaintiff has been litigating this matter in
propria persona since the time these discovery issues arose, monetary sanctions
would not be appropriate here. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions and Monetary
Sanctions is GRANTED in part.  
 
Defendant Martin Luther King, Jr. Healthcare
Corporation is DISMISSED with prejudice from Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.

 
The Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
II.       The Remaining Motions
 
Three motions remain on calendar:
the other two discovery motions (also set for a hearing on December 18, 2023)
and a motion for summary judgment (set for a hearing on January 19, 2024). All
of these motions were filed by Defendant Martin Luther King, Jr. Healthcare
Corporation. 
 
The remaining motions filed in this
matter are TAKEN OFF CALENDAR. 
 
        The Case is DISMISSED.