 Case Number:  23BBCV02204    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 7, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV02204

 



MP:  


Safe Ride Medical Transport Inc.
  (Defendant) 




RP:  


Anahid Hartoonian (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anahid Hartoonian
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Safe
Ride Medical Transport Inc. (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that she was injured
while she was a passenger in a vehicle operated by Defendant. Plaintiff alleges
that the collision resulted from the negligent operation of the vehicle by one
of Defendant’s employees. 
 
Defendant now
brings three motions to compel initial discovery responses. Defendant seeks
responses to their Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request
for the Production of Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff opposes the motion on grounds
that they have subsequently produced responses.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On
December 12, 2023, Defendant propounded its Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, and RFPD on Plaintiff’s counsel via email. (Danishwar Decl. ¶
3.) Plaintiff’s responses were due on January 16, 2024, though Defendant did
not receive responses by that deadline. (Danishwar Decl. ¶ 4.) On February
6, 2024, Plaintiff contacted Defendant’s counsel and requested a 30-day
extension to respond (Danishwar Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant agreed to the extension
but noted that Plaintiff had waived objections by responding late. (Danishwar
Decl. Exh. 2.) Plaintiff thereafter requested another week extension, which was
subsequently granted. (Danishwar Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 3.) Defendant asserts
that, as of the filing of these motions, March 26, 2024, no responses have been
received. (Danishwar Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Plaintiff
explains that they failed to respond timely because the discovery requests were
served to the wrong email. Plaintiff’s counsel states their firm only accepts
service of discovery to the email address “legal@lainjuryattorneys.com.”
(Berman Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel explains that this is done to
ensure timely response to discovery requests, as emails to individual
attorney’s often get lost in spam filters or are directed to the incorrect
handling attorney. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel states they eventually served objection only responses on March 4, 2024
as they were having difficulty communicating with Plaintiff. (Berman Decl.
¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel states they served fully verified responses on
April 2, 2024. (Id.) 
 
“In many
cases involving untimely responses, the propounding party will take the motion
off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions. If the propounding
party proceeds with the motion, however, the trial court has the discretion to
rule on the motion. The trial court might compel responses without objection if
it finds no legally valid responses have been provided to one or more
interrogatories; it might deny the motion to compel responses as essentially
unnecessary, in whole or in part, and just impose sanctions; it might treat the
motion as one under section 2030.300 and either determine that
further answers are required, or order the propounding party to “meet and
confer” (§ 2030.300, subd. (b)) and file a separate statement (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1020(a)(2), (c)); or it might take the motion off calendar,
thereby requiring the propounding party to file a motion under section
2030.300.” (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390. [emphasis added])
 
Defendant
has rendered no reply to Plaintiff’s opposition in this matter. As such, the
Court is unaware if Defendant contests that any of the verified responses are
not compliant with their requests. It is also unclear whether the April 2, 2024
responses contain objections as the responses are not attached to Plaintiff’s
opposing papers. With the information currently available, the Court finds the
motions to compel are mooted by Plaintiff’s subsequent production. To the
extent that Defendant believes the April 2, 2024 production is insufficient,
such would be the subject of a motion to compel further responses. 
 
The Court
also finds that there was no waiver of objections by virtue of Plaintiff’s
untimely response. On December 13, 2024, it appears that Plaintiff’s counsel
notified Defendant’s counsel that the handling attorney on the matter was
changing. (Flores Decl. Exh. B.) On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
requested its initial extension and noted to Defendant’s counsel that the
discovery had been served to the improper email address. (Id. at p. 2.)
Defendant’s counsel replied that he was never made aware of the email address
for proper service and asked when Plaintiff’s counsel had notified him as such.
(Id.) Plaintiff’s counsel then directed Defendant’s counsel to the
change of handling attorney email which contained the statement that all
notices, pleadings, and documents must continue to be served to
legal@lainjuryattorneys.com. (Id. p. 3.). 
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s counsel had adequately demonstrated that their failure
to timely respond was the result of miscommunication. Given the notice
provided, Plaintiff’s counsel was reasonable to assume that any discovery in
this matter would be served to the proper address. It also appears that
Plaintiff’s counsel acted promptly to get responses to Defendant once they
became aware of the discovery demands. At the very least, the Court finds Plaintiff’s
failure to timely respond would be entitled to relief from waiver under C.C.P.
§§ 2030.90(a) & 2031.300(a) on grounds of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motions to compel are MOOT. 
 
Sanctions

 
 The Court may impose a monetary sanction
ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any
attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. (C.C.P. §
2023.030(a).)
 
The Court
shall impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2030.290(c).) The same is true for a motion
to compel a response to a demand for the production of documents. (C.C.P. §
2031.300(c).)
 
The Court
declines to grant sanctions in connection with these motions. As the motions to
compel are moot, any sanctions granted would necessarily fall under the
discretionary provisions of C.C.P. § 2023.030. The Court finds that Plaintiff’s
failure to respond because of a miscommunication does not constitute an abuse
of the discovery process. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Safe Ride
Medical Transport Inc.’s Motions to Compel
Discovery Responses came on regularly for hearing on June
7, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUEST FOR THE PRODUCTION
OF DOCUMENTS ARE MOOT. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: June
7, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 