 Case Number:  23GDCV02147    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 7, 2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL DISCOVERY RESPONSES & DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23GDCV02147

 



MP:  


Juan Diego Galvan (Plaintiff)




RP:  


FCA (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Juan Diego Galvan
(Plaintiff)
brings this action against FCA, US LLC (Defendant) for claims arising out of the purchase of a 2020 Jeep Grand
Cherokee (the Subject Vehicle). The Complaint alleges several causes of action
for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s initial response
to his Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for the
Production of Documents (RFPD). Plaintiff also moves to deem matters in his Request
for Admissions (RFA) matters admitted. On May 24, 2024, Defendant filed
untimely oppositions to each of the three motions. The Court, in its
discretion, elects to consider Defendant’s oppositions. Defendant’s oppositions
claimed that they had rendered subsequent responses that were in substantial
compliance such that Plaintiff’s motions were moot. 
 
On May 31, 2024, this matter came on for hearing. Plaintiff represented
to the Court that the subsequent responses rendered by Defendant were not code
compliant such that the motions to compel should not be considered moot. The
Court continued the motion to the current date to allow Plaintiff the time to
file his reply papers. Having read Plaintiff’s reply briefs, the Court now rules
as follows: 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
 
Motions to
Compel
 
If a party
to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
propounding party may move for an order compelling response and for a monetary
sanction.  (C.C.P. § 2030.290(b).)  The statute contains no time
limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All
that need be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was
properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired,
and that no response of any kind has been served.  (See Leach v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a demand to produce documents, the
demanding party may seek an order compelling a response.  (C.C.P. §
2031.300(b).)  Failure to timely respond waives all objections, including
privilege and work product.  (C.C.P. § 2031.300 (a).)  Thus, unless
the party to whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she
cannot raise objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a
motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving
party need not attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the
motion. 
 
If a party fails to respond
to requests for admission in a timely manner, the requesting party may move for
an order that the matters be deemed admitted. (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) The requesting party’s motion must be
granted by the court unless the party to whom the requests for admission have
been directed has served a proposed response to the requests for admission that
is in substantial compliance with C.C.P. § 2033.220 prior to the hearing. 
(C.C.P. § 2033.280(c).)  By failing
to timely respond, the party to whom the requests are directed waives any
objection to the requests, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (C.C.P. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
Relief from Waiver 
 
C.C.P. §§
2030.290, 2031.300, & 2033.280 provide that a failure to respond to an Interrogatory,
RFPD, or RFA will result in the waiver of any objections by the party to whom
the requests are directed.   Each statute
provides that the Court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver
upon a finding both that: 
 
(1) The party has subsequently served a response
that is in substantial compliance with the relevant code sections; and 
 
(2) The party's failure to serve a timely
response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
 
(C.C.P.
§§ 2030.290(a)(1)-(2), 2031.300(a)(1)-(2), & 2033.280(a)(1)-(2).) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Request to Compel Responses

 
On November
29, 2023, Plaintiff propounded his interrogatories, RFPD, and RFA on Defendant via
email upon their counsel. (Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 1.) Discovery responses
were due December 29, 2023 but Plaintiff received no responses. (Sogogyan Decl.
¶¶ 9, 10.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that, despite having no obligation to do
so, Plaintiff refrained from bringing the instant motions for a period of four
months to allow Defendant time to respond. 
(Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 11.) As of the filing of this motion, Plaintiff
has received no responses. (Sogogyan Decl. ¶ 13.) 
 
Defendants
Opposition 
 
In its
opposition Defendant argues that it subsequently responded to discovery in
substantial compliance with the discovery statutes on May 22, 2024. (Dao Decl.
¶ 4, Exh. A.) Defendant contends that these subsequent responses serve to
relieve them of their waiver of objections. The Court finds this argument puts
the cart before the horse. Before the Court can analyze whether Defendant is
entitled to relief from waiver, it must first determine that subsequent
responses have been actually served such that the motion to compel is moot. 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has demonstrated that Defendant’s subsequent responses were
unverified (Serrano Reply Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. 3.) As Plaintiff notes,
unverified responses to discovery are tantamount to no response at all and are
subject to a motion to compel responses. (See Appleton v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) The Court finds the service of unverified
responses does not moot Plaintiff’s motion to compel. Plaintiff is still
functionally without responses to the relevant discovery, and the demands
remain the proper subject of a motion to compel. 
 
As
concerns the relief from waiver of objections, the Court is unpersuaded that
the unverified responses qualify as substantially compliant. The Civil
Discovery Act does not include a definition of “substantial compliance,” and
few cases have addressed the circumstances under which a response will be
deemed not in substantial compliance. (See St. Mary v. Superior Court
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778.) Substantial compliance means actual
compliance with respect to the substance essential to every reasonable
objective of the statute. (Id. at 790.) However, unverified responses
have been explicitly held to not be in substantial compliance. (See Appleton
supra, 206 Cal.App.3d at 636.) As no responses in substantial
compliance have been rendered, the Court need not reach a determination on
whether the failure to response the result of mistake, inadvertence, or
excusable neglect was. 
 
In short,
the Court finds that Defendants unverified responses do not moot Plaintiff’s
motions. Accordingly, the motions to compel responses to Plaintiff’ Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and RFPD are GRANTED. The motion to
deem RFA matters admitted is also GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
Here,
Plaintiff requests no sanctions in connection with the three motions to compel.
Accordingly, the Court declines to grant sanctions at this time.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Juan Diego
Galvan’s Motions to Compel Responses to
Discovery and Deem Request for Admissions Matters Admitted came on regularly for hearing on June 7, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’
FORM INTERROGATORIES, SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, AND REQUEST FOR THE PRODUCTION
OF DOCUMENTS ARE GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER PRODUCTION TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 CALENDAR DAYS.

 
THE MOTION TO DEEM RFA MATTERS ADMITTED IS
GRANTED.
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SCHEDULED FOR
JULY 2, 2024 IS ADVANCED AND CONTINUED TO AUGUST 26, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF IS
TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
  
DATE: 
June 7, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 