 Case Number:  24BBCV00197    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 7, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00197

 



MP:  


Javier Montoya (Defendant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:

The Court is not requesting oral
argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear is requested. 
Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no argument is
requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other parties and
the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s
intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the
ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Salvador
Rios Guzman (Plaintiff) brings this action against Granada Restaurant Employee,
Inc. (Granada). Sergio Ugalde Hernandez (Hernandez), and Javier Montoya
(Montoya). In 2011 Hernandez, Montoya, Jose Angel Gomez (Gomez), and Plaintiff formed
Granada for the purposes of operating a restaurant. Each of the founding
members was a shareholder of Granada. Gomez negotiated a buyout of his shares
in 2022 and Hernandez passed away in January 2024. As a result, Plaintiff and Montoya
are the only living Granada shareholders. 
 
Plaintiff’s
action arises from a dispute with Granada/Montoya. Plaintiff alleges Montoya
and Hernandez improperly used funds loaned by Plaintiff and failed to accurately
report business earnings. Plaintiff also alleges that his access to the
business and its accounts were frozen after his equity buyout request and the
return of the money he loaned. Plaintiff seeks Granada’s involuntary
dissolution as well as various other causes of action because of his improper
removal. 
 
Before
the Court is a motion to compel arbitration brought by Montoya. Montoya argues
that Guzman is bound to arbitrate this matter by virtue of the Shareholder
Agreement between the parties. Plaintiff has filed no opposition to this
motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Existence
of Agreement
 
As evidence
of a valid arbitration agreement between the parties, Montoya offers the
Shareholder Agreement for Granda (the Agreement). (See Montoya Decl., Exh. 3.) The
Agreement is dated February 18, 2011. (Id.) The Agreement bears the
signatures of Gomez, Hernandez, Montoya and Plaintiff. (Id. at p. 18.)
The Agreement’s sections concerning arbitration are reproduced, in relevant
part, below: 
 
7. Arbitration. Any controversy or claim arising
out of or relating to this Agreement, or the actual or alleged breach thereof,
or arising out of or relating to Granada, or the rights or duties or
obligations of the Shareholders as shareholders, lenders, directors, officers,
or employees (the term "Shareholder" as used below in this Section 7
shall refer to all such capacities) of Granada (other than involuntary
dissolution of Granada pursuant to Chapter 15 of the Law) shall be settled by
arbitration conducted in the City of Los Angeles; California, in accordance with;
and by an arbitrator appointed pursuant to, the Rules of the American
Arbitration Association in effect at the time. Judgment upon an award rendered
pursuant thereto may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. All rights or
remedies of any Shareholder to the contrary are hereby expressly waived. Prior
arbitration pursuant to the provisions of this Section and an award pursuant
thereto shall be a condition precedent to the bringing of any action, suit, or
proceeding (other than for involuntary dissolution) by any Shareholder subject
to this Agreement, either individually or in [sic] behalf of Granada for any
form of relief against Granada or any Shareholder subject to this Agreement.
 
Each Shareholder intends that the foregoing
shall be an agreement of the Shareholders within the meaning of the California
Arbitration Statutes (California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1280-1294.2)
 
The Shareholders intend that any court in which
an action for involuntary dissolution is filed shall consider and take into
account the extent to which the party filing that action in good faith
reasonably attempted to negotiate or arbitrate, prior to filing, the dispute or
disputes leading to filing.
 
(Id.
at pgs. 12-13.) 
 
The Court
must first determine whether the Agreement is a valid arbitration agreement. “The
existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate is determined by reference to state
law principles regarding the formation, revocation and enforceability of
contracts generally.” (Bolter v. Superior Court (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 900, 906.) Here, the Agreement evidences the formation of an
agreement to arbitrate between the shareholders of Granada. The Agreement
contains clear language requiring the arbitration of disputes and bears
Plaintiff’s signature. There exists no evidence before the Court as to
revocation by Plaintiff such that he could not be bound by the Agreement. As
such, the Agreement appears to be valid. 

 
The
Agreement must also relate to the action before the Court. “In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.” (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353). 
 
Here, the
Court finds the Agreement is integral to the facts of the Complaint. The
Complaint explicitly alleges duties of the parties stemming from the Agreement.
(See Compl. ¶ 8 [alleging, among other things, that Montoya was designated the
Controlling Financial Officer of Granada pursuant to the Agreement.]) Each of
the Complaint’s causes of action stems from the alleged actions of Montoya and
Hernandez as shareholders of Granada. Plaintiff alleges that Montoya and
Hernandez obfuscated business records, improperly obtained an SBA loan, and
functionally removed him from his position at Granada. (See Compl. ¶¶ 9
-11.) Each of these allegations is inherently related to the Agreement between
the parties. Given the language of the Agreement is broad, encompassing any
claim or controversy arising out of the operation of Granda, the Court finds
the Agreement relates to the instant action. 
 
In short,
the Court finds Montoya has demonstrated the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties. As such, Montoya has upheld his initial burden and
the burden shifts to Plaintiff to show falsity or unenforceability. As
Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to this motion, the Court finds his burden
has not been met. Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event a party requests a signed order or the court in its discretion elects to
sign a formal order, the following form will be either electronically signed or
signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Javier Montoya’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration came on regularly for
hearing on June 7, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the Court took the matter under submission and now
rules as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS GRANTED.
 
THE COURT ISSUES A STAY ON THE CASE FOR
ARBITRATION.
 
THE COURT SETS A STATUS CONFERENCE RE
ARBITRATION FOR JANUARY 26, 2025 AT 9:00 A.M.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT MONTOYA
TO GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 7, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 