  Case Number:  23BBCV01053    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 7, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01053

 
MP:     Avalon Bay Communities Inc. (Defendant)
RP:     Anthony
Lavigne (Plaintiff)

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Anthony Lavigne (“Plaintiff”) brings this action
against Avalon Bay Communities Inc. (“Defendant”) in relation to an apartment
Plaintiff rents from Defendant located at 10987 Bluffside Drive, Apartment 4116
Studio City, California. 91604 (“Subject Property”). Plaintiff alleges a number
of issues with the Subject Property that render it uninhabitable. Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendant continues to collect rent for the Subject
Property while refusing to remediate issues of water intrusion, mold, and insect
infestation. 
 
The Court previously sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to several causes of action with leave to amend. Plaintiff
subsequently filed his FAC. Defendant now demurs to the following causes of
action on grounds they state insufficient facts: 
 
(9) Violation of the California Consumer
Remedies Act 
 
Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages, statutory damages, request for attorney’s fees, and
references to various code sections. 
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and the motion
to strike and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)  A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion to Strike
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435,
“[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion
to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.)
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)1
 
To
succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages allegations, it must be said as
a matter of law that the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or
contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and despised by ordinary
decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal. App. 4th 1217,
1228-1229.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) require that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Aslanyan Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.) 
 
Facts
Alleged 
 
Plaintiff
alleges he began renting the Subject Property around June of 2021. (FAC ¶¶ 1,
62.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges the Subject Property suffers from dysfunctional plumbing and that in
June of 2022 there was a major intrusion of sewage water into the apartment. (FAC
¶ 33, 63.) Plaintiff alleges Defendant hired unlicensed workers to clean up the
water, but the workers left the floor and carpeting wet. (FAC ¶ 63.)
Plaintiff alleges this inadequate remediation resulted in the growth of mold in
the carpeting and that subsequent carpet cleanings by Defendant have not
resolved the issue. (FAC ¶ 63.) 
 
Plaintiff
further asserts that the Subject Property is not properly weatherproofed,
leading to the intrusion of water in large quantities and the growth of toxic
mold in the walls and carpeting. (FAC ¶¶ 28-31.) Plaintiff alleges he
noticed rain pouring his bedroom wall in January of 2023. (FAC ¶ 70.) In
addition, Plaintiff alleges the following: Defendant hired unlicensed
contractors to demolish and reconstruct the leaking wall without covering any
of Plaintiff’s possessions (FAC ¶ 71); the carpet in the room with the
leaking wall was never replaced (FAC ¶ 72);  the City of Los Angeles Housing Department
Code Enforcement Division inspected the property on March 10, 2023 and issued a
citation for inadequate weatherproofing. (FAC ¶ 76.) 
 
Plaintiff
also alleges there is a cockroach infestation which has been persistent for
several months but intensified in February of 2023. (FAC ¶ 69.) Plaintiff
alleges there are cockroaches infesting his kitchen appliances. (FAC ¶ 32.)
Plaintiff states it took weeks for Defendant’s to reply to his request for pest
control and that Plaintiff is still tasked with the removal of dead
cockroaches. (FAC ¶ 69.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges the property does not have adequate security and that trespassers are
routinely allowed to inhabit common areas of the building. (FAC ¶ 35.)
Plaintiff alleges the failure to secure the building resulted in his car being
broken into while parked in the building’s covered lot. (FAC ¶¶ 35, 81.)
Plaintiff’s request that the security footage of the incident be preserved was
ignored by Defendant. (FAC ¶ 82.) Plaintiff also alleges the security
guards hired by Defendant are ineffective at securing the building. (FAC ¶ 82.)

 
Plaintiff
alleges, upon information and belief, that Defendant has received multiple
government notices informing them of violations of health and safety codes. (FAC
¶ 36.) Plaintiff alleges that despite knowledge of these defects,
Defendant has routinely refused to take any action to remedy them. (FAC
¶ 38.)  
 

Demurrer to Ninth Cause of Action for Violation of the
California Consumer Remedies Act 
 
Defendant previously demurred to
this cause of action and the Court sustained with leave to amend. The Court
reasoned that because Plaintiff had not alleged any facts as to written notice
provided to Defendant, the cause of action was subject to demurrer. The Court
granted leave to amend so that Plaintiff could allege facts as to the written notice
if such facts existed.  
 
California Civil Code § 1782(a)
states:  
 
Thirty days or more
prior to the commencement of an action for damages pursuant to this title, the
consumer shall do the following: (1) Notify the person alleged to have employed
or committed methods, acts, or practices declared unlawful by Section 1770 of
the particular alleged violations of Section 1770 and (2) Demand that the
person correct, repair, replace, or otherwise rectify the goods or services
alleged to be in violation of Section 1770. The notice shall be in writing and
shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, to the
place where the transaction occurred or to the person's principal place of
business within California.
 
The FAC’s only additional
allegation regarding this cause of action is as follows: 
 
Plaintiff attests
that he complied with the written notice requirements and provided said written
notice to the Defendant in an effort to correct the deficiencies within the
home, to no avail. The Defendant ignored such good faith attempts to rectify
the issues at the home. (FAC ¶ 178.) 
 
The Court does not view the above
addition as curing the deficiency of the original Complaint. Statutory causes
of action must be pleaded with particularity. (Hood v. Hacienda La Puente
Unified School District (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 435, 439 [“the general rule
[is] that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity[.]”)
Here, Plaintiff has pled statutory compliance in the vaguest possible terms.
The Court does not view the bare allegation that Plaintiff “complied with the
written notice requirements” as being pled with the requisite specificity. 
 
The Court disagrees with
Plaintiff’s argument in opposition that the facts surrounding notice have been
pled throughout the FAC. In reviewing the FAC, the Court finds there are many
references to Plaintiff notifying Defendant of habitability issues. The relevant
allegations are as follows:  
 
·        
“Despite numerous complaints, Defendants
routinely ignore these problems” (FAC ¶ 33.) 
 
·        
Defendants received “…complaints from tenants,
including the Plaintiff herein named” (FAC ¶ 36.) 
 
·        
“Each adult Plaintiff notified the Defendants
and their agents about their habitability violations, but Defendants have
failed to correct the habitability conditions” (FAC ¶ 37.) 
 
·        
In spite of numerous Notices and Orders to
Comply from government entities, Defendants have failed to correct the cited
deficiencies throughout the Subject Property. (FAC ¶ 48.) 
 
·        
“Plaintiff has complained to Defendants about
the severe and detrimental impact that the apartment conditions and/or rampant
infestations have on Plaintiff in their daily lives.” (FAC ¶ 52.) 
 
·        
On June 29, 2022 Plaintiff alerted Defendants to
a water leak which Defendants are alleged to have improperly fixed. (FAC
¶ 63.) 
 
·        
“The Plaintiff complained to the property
manager on multiple occasions and also complained to the Defendants’ agents
about the issues with the toxic mold to no avail.” (FAC ¶ 68.) 
 
·        
“The Plaintiff began demanding pest control in
February of 2023, and alleges that the Defendants finally, after weeks of
complaints, provided pest control, despite knowledge and notice that the
Plaintiff is allergic to cockroaches” (FAC ¶ 69.) 
 
·        
On January 3, 2023, Plaintiff demanded the
carpet in the apartment be replaced. (FAC ¶ 72.) 
 
·        
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff demanded the
property be weatherproofed. (FAC ¶ 73.) 
 
·        
“The Plaintiff continued to complain and demand
the weatherproofing, mold growth, and carpeting issues be addressed.” (FAC
¶ 74.) 
 
The Court notes that these
allegations appear unchanged from the Complaint. The Court read and considered
these allegations in making its previous ruling. Regardless the Court will
address them for the sake of clarity. 
 
None of the above allegations are
sufficiently detailed for purposes of a cause of action under the California
Consumer Remedies Act. First, there is no mention of how Plaintiff complained
or provided notice to Defendant. Civil Code § 1782(a) is clear that notice must
be written and provided thirty days in advance. The FAC remains without
allegations that such code complaint notice was ever provided. The only
aversion to written notices provided to Defendant are those from the City and
County of Los Angeles. (See FAC ¶ 18.) Further, Civil Code § 1782(a)
requires the written notice notify the person of the particular alleged
violations of Section 1770. None of the above allegations identify that a
particular violation of Civil Code § 1770 were identified in the written notice
allegedly provided to Defendant. 
 
Plaintiff’s argument that the
Defendant’s demurrer requires the presentation and weighing of evidence is
unpersuasive. Plaintiff is not being asked to produce any evidence, only to
allege particular facts in his pleadings. The Court is not evaluating whether
Plaintiff did or did not provide written notice, it is evaluating whether
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that he did so. Plaintiff is pleading he is
entitled to relief under specific statute, and it is not beyond the role of a
demurrer to require him to plead such an action with specificity. 
 
 
In short, the allegations in the
FAC fall far short of particular. While Plaintiff’s general allegations of
notice may be sufficient to allege knowledge for purposes of common law
negligence, they do not meet the more exacting requirement for pleading a statutory
cause of action. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the Ninth
Cause of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. The Court grants
leave to amend only in so far as Plaintiff might include factual allegations as
to the written notice under Civil Code § 1782(a). Should Plaintiff fail to
allege the particulars of the written notice provided in his amended pleading,
the Court would be inclined to deny leave to amend at that point. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Punitive Damages 
 
The Court previously granted
Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages with leave to amend. The Court
reasoned that the Complaint contained no allegations which rose to the level of
willful and despicable behavior required to state punitive damages. (See Johnson
& Johnson Talcum Powder Cases (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 292, 332 [“When
there is no evidence the defendant intended to harm the plaintiff, there must
be evidence of conduct that is both willful and despicable.”].) The Court found
that Plaintiff’s allegations of failure to remediate various building
conditions did not rise to the level of despicable conduct which “so vile,
base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (See Id. at 333.) 
 
Plaintiff’s primary argument in
opposition is that the Court must read the allegations of the complaint in the
aggregate to determine whether behavior supporting punitive damages has been
properly alleged. (citing Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1.) In reviewing the FAC, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
allegations remain insufficient to remedy the previous deficiency. The only
additional allegations the Court can identify which are intended to support the
claim for punitive damages are as follows: 
 
When the Plaintiff
made these issues known to the Defendant, and their agents, the agents laughed
at him and told him to “suck it up.” (FAC. ¶ 78.) Instead of helping the
vulnerable Plaintiff, the agents laughed at him and refused to provide remediation
services: they ignored him, despite being told that such difficult breathing
was harmful to his lungs. (FAC. ¶ 68.) 
 
The Court finds the above
allegations are inconsistent with Plaintiff’s allegations that Defendant’s
attempted to remediate the mold issue but that their remediation attempts were
insufficient. Plaintiff cites to Stoiber v. Honeychuck in stating that a
claim for nuisance against a landlord can support punitive damages. (Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903.) Unlike the instant case, Stoiber
concerned allegations that a landlord had outright refused to remediate
defective property conditions. (Id. at 913.) In contrast, Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendant attempted to remediate but were unable to do so to Plaintiff’s
satisfaction are not indicative of despicable conduct. 
 
In short, Plaintiff’s previous
allegations were found insufficient to state a claim for punitive damages.
Plaintiff’s additional allegations on amendment remain insufficient. 
 
Accordingly, Paragraphs 44-47,
88, 90, 110, 122, 141, 186, 205 of the FAC are ordered stricken. Paragraphs 4
and 9 of the Prayer for Relief are also ordered stricken.  
 
Attorney’s Fees 
 
C.C.P. § 1021 provides “Except as
attorney's fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and mode
of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the agreement,
express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or proceedings are
entitled to their costs, as hereinafter provided.”
 
Plaintiff’s FAC contains a
request for reasonable attorney’s fees in connection with (1) his First Cause
of Action for violation of Civil Code § 1942.4, (2) his Ninth Cause of Action
for violation of Civil Code § 1780, and (3) his allegation that Defendant
violated Civil Code § 3304.
 
Civil Code § 1942.4(b)(2) states:
“The prevailing party shall be entitled to recovery of reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs of the suit in an amount fixed by the court.” As Plaintiff has
stated a viable cause of action under 1942.4, the court denies the motion to
strike attorney’s fees. Neither Defendant nor Plaintiff address this code
section in their briefing. Given that there is no challenge to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action, the Court finds Plaintiff has sufficiently pled facts in
support of his request for attorney’s fees as relates to Civil Code § 1942.4. 
 
As concerns Civil Code § 1780,
the Court has once against sustained the demurrer to the relevant cause of
action with leave to amend. As such, the motion to strike attorney’s fees
relating to the Ninth Cause of Action is moot. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff alleges he is
entitled to attorney’s fees pursuant Civil Code § 3304. This section reads: 
 
The detriment caused
by the breach of a covenant of “seizin,” of “right to convey,” of “warranty,”
or of “quiet enjoyment,” in a grant of an estate in real property, is deemed to
be:
 
1. The price paid to
the grantor; or, if the breach is partial only, such proportion of the price as
the value of the property affected by the breach bore at the time of the grant
to the value of the whole property;
 
2. Interest thereon
for the time during which the grantee derived no benefit from the property, not
exceeding five years;
 
3. Any expenses
properly incurred by the covenantee in defending his possession.
 
Plaintiff and Defendant both
argue that no clear law exists which defines the nature of the “expenses
properly incurred” under the statute. Plaintiff argues that because no law
exists, the Court must interpret expenses as including attorney’s fees. The Court
finds this argument unpersuasive. As evidenced by the above other statutes upon
which Plaintiff relies, the right to recover attorney’s fees is a right usually
explicitly provided for by the statute. C.C.P. § 1021 requires that the
attorney’s fees be “specifically provided for by statute”. The Court does not
construe the language of Civil Code § 3304 as specifically providing for
attorney’s fees.  In comparison, Civil
Code §3306a states that expenses are recoverable for enforcement.  This section goes on to state, “Such expenses
which shall include reasonable attorneys’ fees shall be fixed by the court in
the quiet title action.”  Clearly, when
the legislature seeks to include attorney’s fees, they expressly do so.  Section 3304, unlike §3306a, does not include
such language.
 
Accordingly, the portion of
Paragraph 8 of the Prayer for Relief which references Civil Code § 3304 is
ordered stricken. 
 
Lastly, the Court notes that
Plaintiff has declined to renew their Twelfth Cause of Action upon amendment.
Accordingly, any requests for attorney’s fees in connection with that cause of
action were also not renewed. 
 
Statutory Damages 
 
Plaintiff again requests
statutory damages in relation to his sixth cause of action for Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment. Defendant argues that the Complaint alleges no
facts as to their engaging in behavior violative of Civil Code § 1940.2
 
Civil Code § 1940.2 provides that
it is unlawful for a landlord to influence a tenant to vacate the dwelling unit
by doing any of the following: 
 
(1) Engage in
conduct that violates subdivision (a) of Section 484 of the Penal Code. 
 
(2) Engage in
conduct that violates Section 518 of the Penal Code. 
 
(3) Use, or threaten
to use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct constituting a course of
conduct that interferes with the tenant’s quiet enjoyment of the premises in
violation of Section 1927 that would create an apprehension of harm in a reasonable
person… 
 
(4) Commit a
significant and intentional violation of Section 1954. 
 
(5) Threaten to disclose
information regarding or relating to the immigration or citizenship status of a
tenant, occupant, or other person known to the landlord to be associated with a
tenant or occupant…
 
The Court previously granted the
motion to strike Plaintiff’s request, finding that the Complaint was devoid of
any allegations that Defendant menaced Plaintiff or ever attempted to have him
vacate the premises. Upon review, it does not appear that Plaintiff has
included allegations upon amendment which cures this deficiency. 
 
Plaintiff’s argues in opposition
that the allegations in his Eleventh Cause of Action support the claim for
statutory damages. Plaintiff argues that he has sufficiently alleged that
Defendant refused to remediate for the purpose of causing Plaintiff to move out
of his rent stabilized apartment. The Court finds these allegations are
conclusory. Plaintiff states no factual allegations which cause him to believe
that Defendant intended to retaliate against him. Further, Plaintiff still
cites to no authority that the failure to repair constitutes “use, or threaten
to use, force, willful threats, or menacing conduct” within the meaning of the
statute. 
 
Accordingly, Paragraph 151 of the
FAC is ordered stricken. 
 
Statutory Violations 
 
Defendant moves to strike the
following paragraphs as irrelevant or improper: 

 
All the while, the
Plaintiff has made their rent payments to Defendant, and Defendant refused to
or failed to give proper receipts to Plaintiff, in direct violation of
California Code of Civil Procedure § 2075. (FAC. ¶ 40.) 
 
Plaintiffs Complaint
is founded on duties established by law both common and statutory law. Several
causes of action are grounded on claims of common law, fraudulent
misrepresentation, and concealment, which are codified in Civil Code § 1572,
subsections 1 and 2. Several other causes of action are grounded on Civil Code
§ 1573, subsections 1 and 2 (constructive fraud). (FAC ¶ 84.) 
 
Defendants, at all
times herein mentioned, were in violation of the following statutes, including
but not limited to: California Civil Code Sections 1572, 1573, 1941.1, 1940.2,
1942.4, 3294, 3304, 3479, Health and Safety Code Sections 17920.1, 17920.3, 13113.7,
13113.8, Business and Professions Code Section 17200, Los Angeles County Code
Title 1 1, section 1 1 .20.140. Defendants also engaged in illegal behaviors,
including but not limited to those defined under: California Civil Code
Sections 1709, 1710, 3294. (FAC ¶ 164.) 
 
Defendant argues that each of the
above references to an alleged code violation are improper because they do not
relate to a corresponding cause of action. Plaintiff argues in opposition that
these paragraphs are present to bolster his allegations of negligence. The Court
finds Plaintiff’s argument unpersuasive. 
 
Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.)
Here, Plaintiff’s allegations of failure to provide receipts and his allegations
in paragraph 84 are wholly unconnected to any related cause of action and thus
irrelevant. As concerns Paragraph 164, the Court finds the allegations are
sufficiently related to Plaintiff’s Eighth Cause of Action for Negligence Per
Se. To the extent that Defendant believes that Plaintiff has not pled
sufficient facts in connection with his cause of action for negligence per se,
such arguments speak to a demurrer and not a motion to strike.   
 
Accordingly, Paragraphs 40 and 84
of the FAC are ordered stricken. 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
Avalon Bay Communities Inc.’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike came on regularly
for hearing on June 7, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS SUSTAINED WIT 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.

 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART. PARAGRAPHS 44-47, 88,
90, 110, 122, 141, 186, 205 OF THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT ARE ORDERED
STRICKEN. PARAGRAPHS 4 AND 9 OF THE PRAYER FOR RELIEF ARE ORDERED
STRICKEN.  
 
THE PORTION OF PARAGRAPH 8 OF THE
PRAYER FOR RELIEF WHICH REFERENCES CIVIL CODE § 3304 IS ORDERED STRICKEN.
 
PARAGRAPH 151 OF THE FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT IS ORDERED STRICKEN. 
 
PARAGRAPHS
40 AND 84 OF THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT ARE ORDERED STRICKEN.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  June
7, 2024                          _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 