 Case Number:  21STCV45207    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October
  25, 2023




CASE NUMBER


21STCV45207




MOTION


Motion
  to Specially Set Hearing Date or, in the alternative, Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Cao Son Do




OPPOSING PARTY


Unopposed
  



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Cao Son Do (Defendant) moves to specially set the hearing
date on his motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, continue trial
and all related dates. No opposition has been filed. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on December 10, 2021.
 
The answer was filed on March 14, 2022.
 
On June 26, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s complaint. The hearing for summary judgment is currently scheduled
for January 2, 2024. 
 
Trial is currently set for December 20, 2023.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1335 states as follows:¿¿ 
¿ 
(a)
Noticed motion or application required¿ 
A party
seeking to advance, specially set, or reset a case for trial must make this
request by noticed motion or ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division.¿ 
(b)
Grounds for motion or application¿ 
The
request may be granted only upon an affirmative showing by the moving party of
good cause based on a declaration served and filed with the motion or
application.¿ 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1335(a)-(b).)¿ 
 
A party may move for summary judgment “at any time after 60
days have elapsed since the general appearance in the action or proceeding of
each party against whom the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the
general appearance that the court, with or without notice and upon good cause
shown, may direct.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)¿ Notice of the
motion and supporting papers must be served on all other parties at least 75
days before the time appointed for hearing.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(2).)¿ The
motion must be heard no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the
court for good cause orders otherwise.¿ (Id., subd. (a)(3).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The importance of providing the minimum statutory notice
of a summary judgment hearing cannot be overemphasized.”¿ (Robinson v. Woods
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1258, 1262 (Robinson).)¿ “Because it is
potentially case dispositive and usually requires considerable time and effort
to prepare, a summary judgment motion is perhaps the most important pretrial
motion in a civil case.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ “Therefore, the Legislature was
entitled to conclude that parties should be afforded a minimum notice period
for the hearing of summary judgment motions so that they have sufficient time
to assemble the relevant evidence and prepare an adequate opposition.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
Thus, without the parties’ consent, “in light of the express statutory
language, trial courts do not have authority to shorten the minimum notice
period for summary judgment hearings.”¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
 
Discussion
 
 Defendant timely filed his
motion for summary judgment on June 26, 2023. Defendant argues that the
earliest date available for a summary judgment hearing was January 2, 2024. Since
this date is after trial, Defendant requests the motion for summary judgement
be heard by at least November 17, 2023, 30 days before the current trial date. Defendant
would be
prejudiced if he does not have an opportunity for the motion for summary judgment
to be heard before trial. 
 
In
the alternative, Defendant requests that the Court continue the trial date to
allow for the motion for summary judgment to be heard. The Court notes that
other defendants in this case have either filed or reserved dates for motions
for summary judgment, all of which would be difficult for the Court to hear
prior to the current trial date. Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to continue
trial.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial and DENIES Defendant’s
motion to advance the hearing date for the motion for summary judgment.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to January 31, 2024 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to February 14, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32
of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 