  Case Number:  20STCV37363    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  25, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV37363




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Deem Admitted Request for Admissions, Set One and Motions to Compel
  Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One,
  and Requests for Production, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Emanate Health Queen of the
  Valley Hospital 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Emanate Health Queen
of the Valley Hospital (Defendant) moves to deem admitted Request for
Admissions, Set One against Plaintiff Natividad Eusebio (Plaintiff). Defendant
also moves to compel responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One propounded on
Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Deem
Admitted Request for Admissions
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
On
October 14, 2022, Defendant propounded Requests for Admissions, Set One on
Plaintiff. (Hayati Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff was granted an extension
to respond by December 15, 2022. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. C.) Plaintiff did not request
an additional extension and no responses have been received. No opposition has
been filed. Therefore, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to deem admitted the
requests for admissions, set one. 
 
Compel
Form and Special Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
On October 13, 2022, Defendant propounded Form Interrogatories, Set
One on Plaintiff. (Hayati Decl. ¶ 3.) On October 20, 2022, Defendant propounded
Special Interrogatories, Set One on Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff was granted
an extension to respond by December 15, 2022. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. C.) Plaintiff did
not request an additional extension and no responses have been received. No
opposition has been filed. Therefore, the Court grants the motions to compel
responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One and Special Interrogatories, Set One
 
Compel
Requests for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
On October 13, 2022, Defendant propounded Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One on Plaintiff. (Hayati Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff was granted an
extension to respond by December 15, 2022. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. C.) Plaintiff did not
request an additional extension and no responses have been received. No
opposition has been filed. Therefore, the Court grants the motion to compel
responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. 
 
Sanctions
 
Defendant requested monetary sanctions for $840 representing an hourly
rate of $210 for four hours of work. This request was duplicated in each
individual discovery motion. 
The Court finds sanctions
are warranted because Plaintiff has failed to respond. However, the amount
requested is excessive due to the type of motion at issue, the fact no
opposition was filed, and the similar nature of the four motions. Therefore,
the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $840 (4 hours of attorney time to
file and appear at the hearing). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to Deem Admitted Request for
Admissions, Set One is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for
Production, Set One are GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 30 days of notice of this order.  
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $840.00. Said monetary sanctions
are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of this
order.
 
Moving
party to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 