 Case Number:  21STCV23727    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  25, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV23727




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reset Case for Jury Trial




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Bewaji Alabi, and Paul
  Nwachukwu, by and through his Guardian ad litem 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Stan H. Soto and Susan Soto



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 25, 2021, Plaintiffs Bewaji Alabi, and Paul Nwachukwu, by and
through his Guardian ad litem (Plaintiffs), filed a complaint against
Defendants Stan H. Soto and Susan Soto (Defendants) for injuries related to a
motor vehicle accident. Plaintiffs were granted fee waivers on June 28, 2021. 
 
Plaintiff now move to reset this case for jury trial after waiving
their right to a jury trial by failing to pay jury fees.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party can secure their right to a jury trial by timely
demanding a jury trial and posting jury fees. (See Code. Civ. Proc. § 631 (b),
(f)(4).) Code of Civil Procedure section 631 provides that “[a]t least one
party demanding a jury on each side of a civil case shall pay a nonrefundable
fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150), unless the fee has been paid by
another party on the same side of the case.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 631(b).) The
fee must be paid before the date scheduled for the initial case management
conference in the action. (Id., section 631(c).) If no case management
conference is scheduled in a civil action, the fee shall be due no later than
365 calendar days after the filing of the initial complaint. (Id., section
631(c)(2).) A party waives jury trial by failing to timely pay the fee, unless
another party on the same side of the case has paid that fee.  (Id.,
section 631(f)(5).)  
 
“The court may, in its discretion upon just terms, allow a
trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.” (Id.,
section 631(g).)  “A trial court abuses its discretion as a matter of law
when relief has been denied where there has been no prejudice¿to the other
party or to the court from an inadvertent waiver.”¿ (Tesoro del Valle Master
Homeowners Assn. v. Griffin¿(2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 619, 638.) Policy favors
the court using its discretion to proceed with a jury trial.¿ (Bishop v.
Anderson¿(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 821, 823.)¿  
 
“Where the right to jury is threatened, the crucial focus
is whether any prejudice will be suffered by any party or the court if¿a motion
for relief from waiver is granted…relief has been denied where there has been
no prejudice to the other party or to the court from an inadvertent
waiver.’”  (Wharton v. Superior Court¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 100,
104.)¿¿“The mere fact that trial will be by jury is not prejudice per se.”¿¿(Johnson-Stovall
v. Superior Court¿(1993) 17 Cal.App.4th¿808, 811 [prejudice not shown by
need to prepare motions¿in limine, enlarged exhibits, and jury instructions unless
inadequate time also shown].)¿¿Rather, the prejudice that must be shown is
“prejudice from the granting of relief from waiver not prejudice from the jury
trial.”¿¿(Winston v. Superior Court¿(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 600, 602, 603
[fact that it takes longer to try a jury case is not prejudice from granting
relief from waiver].)
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the Court, on its own, takes judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s complaint as a court record under Evidence Code section 452(d).
Here, Plaintiffs filed the complaint on June 25, 2021 and demanded a jury trial
within. However, Plaintiffs did not pay a jury fee of $150 within 365 days of
filing the complaint. As a result, their right to a jury trial was waived. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 631 (f)(5).) 
 
Plaintiffs argue Defendants will suffer no prejudice if relief from
the waiver is granted. Defendants oppose but offer no reason for prejudice,
instead arguing that Plaintiffs have not justified their mistake in failing to
pay the jury fees. The Court notes that Plaintiffs have filed a Notice of
Posting Of Jury Fees on September 20, 2023. Because no prejudice has been
identified by the parties, and in line with the public policy favoring jury
trials, Plaintiff’s motion is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ Motion to Reset Case for Jury Trial is GRANTED.

 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 