 Case Number:  22STCV21753    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  25, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21753




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Il Sook Park




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On July 6, 2022, Plaintiff Il
Sook Park (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Jeffrey Gallup,
Celeste Valentin Canlas, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries related to a motor
vehicle accident. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel the deposition of Defendant Jeffrey
Gallup (Defendant). No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Evan Jacobi describes how Plaintiff has corresponded
with Defendant throughout the year to schedule the deposition. (Jacobi Decl. ¶
11, 12, 17, 18, Exh. 13.) Thus, based on the declaration and attached emails,
it appears Plaintiff has made a good faith attempt to resolve this issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff has noticed Defendant’s deposition five times between
January 2023 and August 2023. Defendant has yet to appear for a deposition. Defendant’s
Fourth Noticed deposition was set to take place on July 7, 2023, as requested
by Defendant’s counsel. (Jacobi Decl. ¶ 15, 16, 17, Exh. 11, 12.) Defendant’s
counsel did not inform Defendant of the deposition and Defendant did not
appear. Based on the fact Defendant has failed to appear for a noticed
deposition, and did not serve objections, the motion to compel is granted.  
 
Plaintiff seeks $3,060.00 in monetary sanctions representing a $250
hourly rate and twelve hours, plus the $60 filing fee. Plaintiff has included
hours spent noticing the previous depositions. The Court finds the amount
requested to be excessive in light of the nature of the motion and the lack of
an opposition, and therefore the Court awards sanctions in the reduced amount
of $560.00 (2 hours of attorney time and the $60 filing fee.) In addition, the
motion seeks sanctions against Plaintiff and his counsel. However, the Court
notes that Defendant’s counsel is seeking to be relieved due to a breakdown in
the attorney-client relationship, and therefore it does not appear that the
attorneys have counseled the discovery abuse. Accordingly, the Court finds an
insufficient basis to award monetary sanctions against Defendant’s counsel.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff
Il Sook Park’s motion to compel Defendant’s deposition is GRANTED. Defendant
shall appear for deposition within 30 days.
 
Defendant Jeffrey Gallup is ordered to pay $560.00 in monetary
sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 