 Case Number:  22STCV37756    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  25, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV37756




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Nicole McClellan




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Weimin Chen



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On December 2, 2022, Plaintiff Nicole
McClellan filed a complaint against Defendants Megan Shum, Greg Transportation,
Inc., Weimin Chen, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle
accident. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel the deposition of Defendant Weimin Chen (Defendant).
Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Evan Jacobi describes how Plaintiff has corresponded
with Defendant throughout the year to schedule the deposition. (Jacobi Decl. ¶¶
27–30, Exh. 18.) Thus, based on the declaration, it appears Plaintiff has made
a good faith attempt to resolve this issue. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff has served five notices to take Defendant’s deposition this
year. Plaintiff served a Third Continued Notice of Deposition set for July 17,
2023 and the Fourth Notice of Deposition set for August 21, 2023. (Jacobi Decl.
¶ 15, Exh. 12; Id. ¶ 24, Exh. 16.) Each time, Defendant claimed he was
unavailable but did not propose additional dates. Notably, the Fourth Notice of
Deposition was served on Defendant’s counsel. (See Jacobi Decl., Exh. 16.)
Plaintiff asserts Defendant has yet to appear at the noticed depositions or to
provide future dates. 
 
Defendant’s counsel asserts that Defendant moved to China and cannot
be contacted. Counsel for Defendant has attempted to make contact with his
client since February 2023. (Opp., 10.) However, the Court notes that Defendant
stipulated to vacate the entry of default in July of 2023 and subsequently
filed an answer on August 31, 2023. Having now appeared in the case, Defendant provides
no legal basis to refuse to continue with the litigation. Because Defendant has
not served objections on the noticed depositions and has failed to appear, the
motion to compel Defendant’s deposition is granted.[1]
 
Plaintiff seeks $3,560.00 in monetary sanctions representing a $250
hourly rate and fourteen hours, plus the $60 filing fee. The Court declines to
award monetary sanctions because the Court finds that sanctions would be unjust.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff Nicole
McClellan’s motion to compel Defendant’s deposition is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant Weimin Chen is ordered to appear for deposition within 30
days of notice of this order.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


