  Case Number:  21STCV20196    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43Date:
8-8-24Case
#21STCV20196, Chad Perrigo, et al. vs. Jorge Edmondo Castaneda RodriguezTrial
Date: 3-24-25 MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Thunder Ridge Transport Inc.RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Chad and Alexa Perrigo RELIEF
REQUESTEDMotion
for Reconsideration of the Court’s May 8, 2024, Minute Order granting in part
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Adjudication. RULING: Motion for
reconsideration is denied. SUMMARY
OF ACTIONOn
April 28, 2021, Plaintiff Chad Perrigo (Chad) was involved in a collision with
a semi-truck driven by Defendant Jorge Castaneda Rodriguez (Castaneda). As a
result of the collision, Chad suffered injuries. At the time of the collision,
Defendant Montecristo Trucking, LLC (Montecristo) owned the tractor and
Defendant Fames Transport, Inc. (Fames) owned the attached trailer. Defendant
Thunder Ridge Transport Inc. (Thunder Ridge) is an interstate US Mail carrier
that contracted with the USPS to deliver packages. Thunder Ridge subcontracted
the USPS Contract to Fames. Fames assumed delivery of packages under the USPS
Contract. Fames subcontracted the USPS Contract to Montecristo and did so
without receiving contractually-required permission from Thunder Ridge. Montecristo
was acting as Fames’ independent contractor while performing under the USPS
Contract. Casteneda is the sole owner of Montecristo. Plaintiffs
Chad and Alexa Perrigo (Plaintiffs) filed their Third Amended Complaint on March
30, 2023, alleging causes of action related to the injuries they suffered
because of the collision. Thunder Ridge filed its answer to Plaintiffs’
complaint on August 10, 2023. In its answer, Thunder Ridge asserted comparative
fault as its First and Sixth Affirmative Defenses, and apportionment as its
Second Affirmative Defense. Furthermore,
in response to a special interrogatory asking whether anyone else, other than
itself, was at fault, Thunder Ridge answered that Montecristo and Castenda were
at fault. Castaneda admitted at deposition that he did not stop or check for
oncoming traffic before turning left without signaling. Castaneda also admitted
that he did not witness Plaintiff Chad Perrigo doing anything wrong at the time
of the incident and that Perrigo had the right of way. Plaintiffs
filed a motion for summary adjudication for the three above-mentioned Affirmative
Defenses on January 24, 2024. The Court issued its minute order for that motion
on May 8, 2024, granting the motion on the issue that, as a matter of
California decisional law, Thunder Ridge owed a nondelegable to Plaintiffs as a
common carrier.  The court incorporates
that ruling here by reference. On
May 21, 2024, Thunder Ridge filed this motion for reconsideration based on a federal
district court case in Texas which recently found that, under federal law
regulating motor carriers, a trucking company was not the employer of a third
trucking company that the first company’s independent contractor hired and with
which the initial trucking company had no contractual relationship.  (Morales v. OK Trans, Inc. (S.D. Tex.
2024) 2024 WL 1349874 (Morales).) Thunder Ridge argues that this case
shows that it did not have a nondelegable duty for Casteneda’s negligence after
Fames subcontracted its scope of work to him. Plaintiffs
argue in their opposition that Thunder Ridge was a suspended corporation when
it filed its answer and is still a suspended corporation, so it cannot defend
itself in civil suits. Next, Plaintiffs argue that Morales does not
count as new law because the decision was issued on March 29, 2024, before this
motion was heard and before the Court issues its decision. Plaintiffs also
argue that the issue of nondelegable duty is a matter of state law. Finally,
Plaintiffs argue that the Morales opinion does not apply because it was
applying Texas law.  Thunder
Ridge argues in its reply that it is incorporated under the laws of Missouri
and conducts interstate business, so it is not required to be registered in
California. Thunder Ridge also argues that Morales is new law and is
directly on point and consistent with existing law. ANALYSISMotions
for reconsideration are allowable pursuant to CCP § 1008(a), which states that
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.”  CCP
§ 1008(a) requires that a motion for reconsideration be based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law. Thunder Ridge is arguing that Morales
is the new law in question and the basis for the motion for reconsideration.  Plaintiffs contend it is not new law because
it was decided more than a month before the court’s ruling on the nondelegable
duty issue. Setting
aside whether Morales is in fact new law, the court rejects Thunder
Ridge’s reliance on Morales for three reasons.  First, unpublished federal court decisions
have only persuasive, not precedential value. 
(Barriga v. 99 Cents Only Stores, LLC (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th
299, 316; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.115(a).) 
Second, Morales has been certified for interlocutory appeal
because there are substantial grounds for a different result.  (Morales v. OK Trans, Inc. (S.D. Texas,
June 18, 2024) 2024 WL 3223676.)  Third,
at issue in Morales was the interpretation of federal statutory law governing
the definition of “employer” under the Federal Motor Carriers Act.  Nowhere in that decision can the words “duty,”
“nondelegable,” or any possible permutation of “delegate” be found.  The nondelegable duty doctrine is a
judicially created rule of California law, and as discussed in the court’s
previous ruling on this issue, is heavily animated by notions of public policy. This
court continues to conclude that the public policy concerns that underlie the
nondelegable duty doctrine call for its application in this case.  Although equity may place most if not all the
blame on Fames as opposed to Thunder Ridge, that notion ignores the possibility
of an intermediate subcontractor such as Fames being uninsured, underinsured,
or insolvent.  The court believes that
the equities between Fames and Thunder Ridge are best resolved by way of an
action for indemnity. Because
Morales is not controlling, it would not qualify as new law for purposes
of a motion for reconsideration under CCP § 1008. Thunder Ridge’s motion for
reconsideration of the May 8, 2024, Minute Order is denied. As
for Plaintiffs’ argument that Thunder Ridge cannot defend this action because
it is suspended with the California Franchise Tax Board, it is a Missouri
corporation registered in the state of Missouri and it is doing interstate
business. That means that it is not required to obtain a certificate of
qualification from the California Secretary of State, as only foreign
corporation doing intrastate business are required to obtain one. (Cal. Corp.
Code § 2105(a) [“A foreign corporation shall not transact intrastate business
without having first obtained from the Secretary of State a certificate of
qualification.”].) CONCLUSION Thunder
Ridge’s motion for reconsideration is denied. 































































































Moving
party to give notice.Dept.  F43 Date:  8-8-24 Case  #21STCV20196, Chad Perrigo, et al. vs. Jorge Edmondo Castaneda Rodriguez Trial  Date: 3-24-25   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT   MOVING  PARTY: Defendant Thunder Ridge Transport Inc. RESPONDING  PARTY: Plaintiffs Chad and Alexa Perrigo   RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  for Summary Judgment   RULING: Motion for  summary judgment is granted in part and denied in part.   SUMMARY  OF ACTION On  April 28, 2021, Plaintiff Chad Perrigo (Chad) was involved in a collision with  a semi-truck driven by Defendant Jorge Castaneda Rodriguez (Castaneda). As a  result of the collision, Chad suffered injuries. At the time of the collision,  Defendant Montecristo Trucking, LLC (Montecristo) owned the tractor and  Defendant Fames Transport, Inc. (Fames) owned the attached trailer.   Defendant  Thunder Ridge Transport Inc. (Thunder Ridge) is an interstate US Mail carrier  that contracted with the USPS to deliver packages. Thunder Ridge subcontracted  the USPS Contract to Fames. Fames assumed delivery of packages under the USPS  Contract. Fames subcontracted the USPS Contract to Montecristo. Montecristo was  acting as Fames’ independent contractor while performing under the USPS  Contract. Casteneda is the sole owner of Montecristo.   Plaintiffs  Chad and Alexa Perrigo (Plaintiffs) filed their Third Amended Complaint on March  30, 2023, alleging causes of action related to the injuries they suffered  because of the collision. Thunder Ridge filed its answer to Plaintiffs’  complaint on August 10, 2023. In its answer, Thunder Ridge asserted comparative  fault as its First and Sixth Affirmative Defenses, and apportionment as its  Second Affirmative Defense.   Plaintiffs  filed a motion for summary adjudication for the three above-mentioned Affirmative  Defenses on January 24, 2024. The Court issued its minute order for that motion  on May 8, 2024, granting the motion on the issue that Thunder Ridge owed a  nondelegable to Plaintiffs as a common carrier.   On  February 14, 2024, Thunder Ridge filed a motion for summary judgment on the  issue that it does not owe a duty to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs oppose Thunder  Ridge’s motion for summary judgment on the basis that it does owe them a  nondelegable duty and because the Court already found that Thunder Ridge owes  Plaintiffs a nondelegable duty in ruling on Plaintiffs’ motion for summary  judgment. Thunder Ridge argues in its reply that the Court did not decide  whether it could be vicariously liable for Montecristo and/or Castaneda, only  for Fames. However, in finding that Thunder Ridge owed a nondelegable duty to  Plaintiffs through Fames, that, by its very nature, extends to Montecristo and  Castaneda.   Thunder  Ridge’s Request for Judicial Notice: Thunder Ridge requests that the Court take  judicial notice of documents filed in this case, including Plaintiffs’ Third  Amended Complaint and Plaintiffs’ Separate Statements. The Court takes judicial  notice of these documents.   Plaintiffs’  Request for Judicial Notice: Plaintiffs have requested that the Court take  judicial notice of two company snapshots from the SAFER website and judicial  notice of the Court’s minute order. The Court takes judicial notice of the  minute, but declines to take judicial notice of the snapshots from the SAFER  website.   Plaintiffs’  Evidentiary Objections:             Sustained: 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12             Overruled: 5, 6, 13   Defendant  Thunder Ridge’s Evidentiary Objections:             Sustained: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6             Overruled: None   ANALYSIS The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)   “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the  trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all  inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other  inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material  fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those  allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.  4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima  (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon  Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)  “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving  party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of  material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,  Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)   “An  issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,  imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v.  Security Pacific National Bank (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation  omitted).)               Issue 1 On  the issue of whether Thunder Ridge owed a duty to Plaintiffs for purposes of  the First Cause of Action for Negligence, this Court previously found that  Thunder Ridge does, in fact, owe a nondelegable duty to Plaintiffs. In the  Court’s May 8, 2024, Minute Order, the Court wrote:   “Finding that  Thunder Ridge had a nondelegable duty as a matter of law best serves the public  policy objectives that underly the doctrine: further encouraging common carrier  trucking companies to ensure that their subcontractors are complying with state  and federal safety regulations, while protecting the public from financially  irresponsible subcontractors. The court recognizes the abstract possibility of  cases where the initial subcontractor has set in motion an extended chain of  multiple unauthorized subcontractors, but that is not this case. Furthermore, the  court stresses that its ruling is limited to the issue of whether a  nondelegable duty exists. It does not consider whether Fames or any of the  other Trucking Defendants were in fact negligent.” (May  8, 2024, Minute Order.)   For  Thunder Ridge’s issues concerning duty, the Court reaffirms its previous ruling  that Thunder Ridge owes Plaintiffs a nondelegable duty. Thunder Ridge’s motion  is denied on this issue.               Issue 2 Next,  Thunder Ridge challenges Plaintiffs’ Second Cause of Action for Negligent  Entrustment and argues that a party cannot negligently entrust a vehicle that  it does not own. (See Flores v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2010) 188  Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063; see also Osborn v. Hertz Corp. (1988) 205  Cal.App.3d 703, 709.) Thunder Ridge did not own the semitruck driven by  Castaneda. Therefore, Thunder Ridge could not have negligently entrusted the  vehicle to Castaneda.   Plaintiffs  do not appear to address this argument in their opposition. Thunder Ridge’s  motion is granted for this issue.               Issue 3 Thunder  Ridge also challenges Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision,  and Retention. To be liable for this cause of action, a defendant must have  hired the employee at issue. (See Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50  Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054; Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172  Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)   The  evidence shows that Thunder Ridge did not hire Castaneda itself. Therefore,  Thunder Ridge cannot be liable for negligent hiring, supervision, and  retention. Plaintiffs also did not address this argument in their opposition.  Thunder Ridge’s motion is granted for this issue.               Issue 4 Thunder  Ridge also moves for summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ Fifth Cause of Action for loss  of consortium cause of action on the basis that it is derivative of Plaintiffs’  negligence claim. However, because the Court denied Thunder Ridge’s motion for  the negligence cause of action, the Court also denies the motion for the loss  of consortium cause of action.               Issue 5 Finally,  Thunder Ridge has moved to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. A  motion for summary judgment is not the appropriate pleading to move to strike a  claim for punitive damages. Its motion explicitly states that the request for  punitive damages should be stricken and uses the standard for a motion to  strike. Thunder Ridge should have done this through a motion to strike or a  motion for summary adjudication. (See CCP § 435(b); CCP § 437c(f).)  Thunder Ridge’s motion is denied for this  issue.   CONCLUSION  Thunder  Ridge’s motion for summary judgment is granted for Plaintiffs’ Second and Third  Causes of Action. Thunder Ridge’s motion is denied for Plaintiffs’ First Cause  of Action, Fifth Cause of Action, and Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.   Moving  party to give notice.