 Case Number:  23CHCV03722    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-9-24
Case #23CHCV03722,
Clark Crozer, et al. vs. General Motors, LLC
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Clark Crozer and Karen Crozer
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Attendance of
Defendant’s PMQ at deposition.
 
RULING: The
parties are ordered to meet and confer.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This action
arises from Plaintiffs Clark Crozer and Karen Crozer’s (Plaintiffs) purchase of
an allegedly defective 2022 Chevrolet Bolt. On December 7, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC (Defendant), alleging a
cause of action for a violation of the Song-Beverly Act.
 
On May 20,
2024, Plaintiffs filed and served this motion to compel deposition and for
monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $2,970.00.
 
On July 29,
2024, Defendant filed its opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion. Defendants argue in
their opposition that Plaintiffs failed to meet and confer in good faith
because Plaintiffs simply demanded deposition dates and did not attempt to
resolve the dispute without court intervention. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiffs only seek irrelevant materials, which is why Defendant objected to
many of the topics for deposition. Defendant also argues that some materials are
not discoverable because they are trade secrets.
 
On July 31,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their reply. Plaintiffs argue that Defendant failed to
respond to any of their meet and confer attempts. Plaintiffs also argue that
their requested matters of examination are relevant and discoverable. Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s trade secret and confidentiality claims are meritless.
 
ANALYSIS
A party “may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved . . . if the matter either is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010.) A party may obtain discovery regarding
relevant material. (CCP § 2017.010.) 
 
Evidence is
relevant “if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating a settlement.” (Glenfed Development
Corp. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Any doubt on relevance
is resolved generally in favor of production. (Mercury Interactive Corp. v.
Klein (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 60, 98.) 
 
If, after
receiving a deposition notice, a party fails to appear, to answer any question,
or to produce any document or tangible thing specified in the deposition
notice, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling
attendance and production. (CCP § 2025.450(a).)
 
On December 28,
2023, Plaintiffs served a Notice of Deposition for Defendant’s Person Most Qualified
(PMQ). The deposition was set for January 19, 2024, but Defendant failed to
appear for the deposition or raise any objections. On March 22, 2024, Plaintiffs
wrote to Defendant to meet and confer regarding the deposition, but Defendant
failed to respond. On March 25, 2024, Plaintiffs served their First Amended
Notice of Deposition. On April 9, 2024, Defendant served its objections to the
Notice. On April 12, 2024, Plaintiffs wrote to Defendant to meet and confer
regarding the objections. Defendant did not respond. On April 15, 2024,
Plaintiffs served their Second Amended Notice of Deposition, withdrawing one of
the categories to which Defendant had objected. On May 7, 2024, following
Defendant’s failure to appear or object to the Second Amended Notice,
Plaintiffs again wrote to Defendant to meet and confer. Defendant once again
did not respond. Plaintiffs then filed this motion.
 
There appears
to have been an utter lack of effort to meet and confer on the part of
Defendant. The parties are ordered to meet and confer and find a mutually
agreeable date for the deposition. As for the dispute over the documents
requested and matters for examination, the Court orders the parties to review
the acceptable topics for a PMQ deposition that are listed in the Court’s Lemon
Law discovery order posted on the Court’s website and to proceed with the meet
and confer and deposition based on those topics.
 
Sanctions
The Court will
not issue sanctions at this time. If either party fails to comply with this
order, the Court will determine if sanctions are appropriate.
 
ORDER
1.      The
parties are ordered to meet and confer about the scope of the deposition in
light of the Court’s Lemon Law discovery order and to find a mutually agreeable
date for the deposition.
2.      Moving
party to give notice.