 Case Number:  21STCV41513    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
8-8-24
Case
#21STCV41513, Sheila Katerelos, et al. vs. Magic Mountain, LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: 2-18-25
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants S&S Worldwide, Inc.; S&S Power, Inc.; and S&S
Arrow LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Sheila Katerelos and Ari Katerelos
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
RULING: Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiffs
Sheila and Ari Katerelos (Plaintiffs) allege that Sheila Katerelos suffered a
subdural hematoma or traumatic brain injury on the X2 roller coaster at
Defendant Magic Mountain, LLC’s Six Flags Magic Mountain theme park on February
16, 2020. Plaintiffs also filed suit against Defendants S&S Worldwide,
S&S Power, and S&S Arrow (S&S Defendants), alleging that these
entities designed the X2 roller coaster ride trains. Plaintiffs allege that Sheila
was injured when her head hit the headrest of her seat on the X2 ride train. 
 
Plaintiffs
have alleged four causes of action for (1) general negligence; (2) strict
products liability; (3) negligent product liability; and (4) loss of consortium
(for Plaintiff Ari Katerelos). 
 
The
S&S Defendants (Defendants) filed this motion for summary judgment on May
15, 2024. Defendants argue that there is no evidence to support Plaintiffs’
causes of action against them, particularly as to the element of causation.
Plaintiffs oppose Defendants’ motion.
 
Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice: Defendants have requested that the Court take
judicial notice of documents filed in this case, a bankruptcy court order from
Utah, and an ASTM document. The Court takes judicial notice of these documents.
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections:
            Sustained: 1, 5, 19, 
Overruled: 2, 3, 4,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27,
28, 29, 30
 
Defendants’
Evidentiary Objections:
            Sustained: 1, 2, 3, 4
            Overruled: 5
 
ANALYSIS
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
            Issue
1
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ First, Second,
Third and Fourth Causes of Action for Negligence, Strict Product Liability,
Negligent Product Liability, and Loss of Consortium against the S&S Defendants
are barred as a matter of law because there is no evidence to support S&S
Defendants’ successor liability to Arrow Dynamics, LLC, the manufacturer of the
X, now the X2.
 
Defendants spend a large portion of their motion
arguing that they are not responsible for the debts and liabilities of Arrow
Dynamics, the builder of X, now X2, under successor liability exceptions. Plaintiffs
argue in their opposition that Defendants’ arguments on this matter are
irrelevant because the design of the X rollercoaster is not at issue in this
case. The X2 rollercoaster is the one that Plaintiff Sheila Katerelos was
allegedly injured on. Plaintiffs argue that the restraint system on the X2 is what
this case has always been about.
 
Defendants argue in their reply that the corporate
successorship liability is relevant because they are not liable for the entire
X2. Defendants argue that their alleged liability only extends to the coaster
trains it redesigned and manufactured for the X2 roller coaster, but does not
include the structure, track, support columns, braking system, etc. Defendants
also argue that the configuration of the X2 trains, the seats, restraints,
etc., did not change from the X, nor did the track profile or ride force/dynamics.
They argue that while they were responsible for the design, engineering, and
manufacturing quality of the X2 trains, they had no duty to repair any defects
in the coaster after the two-year warranty period. (Archer Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. B, ¶
7.3.) Defendants claim that at the time of Plaintiffs’ alleged injury, the
warranty period had long since passed. 
 
However, Defendants then argue that their liability,
if any, is limited to the coaster trains. Defendants’ arguments on this point
appear to be contradictory. They say they are not liable, but if they are
liable, it is only for the coaster trains, but Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges
that her injuries were caused by alleged design defects in the coaster train
and its restraint system. Therefore, Plaintiffs are correct that it is
irrelevant that Defendants were not the designers of the X rollercoaster
because Plaintiff Sheila Katerelos was allegedly injured on the X2
rollercoaster.
 
Because this issue appears to be irrelevant and
Defendants’ arguments for it are contradictory, Defendants’ motion will not be
granted on this issue.  
 
            Issue
2
Next, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ First, Third,
and Fourth Causes of Action for Negligence, Negligent Product Liability, and
Loss of Consortium against the S&S Defendants, are barred, as a matter of
law, because there is no evidence to support Plaintiffs' allegations that the
S&S Defendants’ conduct, even if it breached any alleged duty of care, was
a substantial factor in causing the injuries alleged by Plaintiffs, including
any traumatic brain injury alleged by Plaintiff, Sheila Katerelos.
 
The basic elements of a negligence action are: (1)
the defendant had a legal duty to conform to a standard of conduct to protect
the plaintiff, (2) the defendant failed to meet this standard of conduct, (3)
the defendant’s failure was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting
injury, and (4) the plaintiff was damaged. (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.App.4th 913, 914.)
 
In order to succeed on a claim for negligence, a
plaintiff must establish causation. Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have
insufficient evidence to establish that the X2 rollercoaster caused her
injuries.
 
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition that a triable
issue of material fact exists regarding causation because Defendants have not
met their burden of production and persuasion. Plaintiffs argue that Defendants
have failed to provide any evidence of which train Sheila Katerelos was riding,
the condition of her headrest, the durometer reading for that headrest, or the
last time the headrest was replaced or inspected. Plaintiffs also argue that
Defendants’ expert, Cargill, did not perform any testing as it relates to a
riders head striking the headrest while riding X2. (Lanzetta Decl., Ex. N,
Cargill Depo., 87:4-18.) Plaintiffs argue that because this testing was not
done, the Court cannot find as a matter of law that Plaintiff’s injuries were
not caused by striking her head on the headrest. Plaintiffs also cite a series
of cases where the plaintiffs cannot remember how they were injured, and which
Plaintiffs claim demonstrate that circumstantial evidence of causation may be
sufficient to overcome a motion for summary judgment.
 
Defendants argue in their reply that they met their
burden on summary judgment and shifted the burden of proof to Plaintiffs. Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs’ expert declaration from Dr. Ziejewski does not prove
that Plaintiff’s injuries were caused by the X2. Dr. Ziejewski did not test the
X2 himself and instead relied on the documents of others. Defendants also argue
that the case he relies on to support his argument that biomechanical engineers
are qualified to render an opinion as to the forces generated in particular
accidents and the types of injuries those forces may generate is not binding on
this Court because it is a decision from the Sixth Circuit. He also relied on
Cargill’s testing, which showed that the X2 did not produce sufficient ride
forces to cause a traumatic brain injury. Defendants argue that Dr. Ziejewski’s
declaration is purely speculative, and that he missed the detail in Plaintiff’s
deposition where she said that she hit her head at the end of the ride, not
during the ride. (Ex. G, Sheila Katerelos Depo. Vol. II, pp. 193:8-13,
196:2-10.)
 
As for Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding circumstantial
evidence, Defendants cite the following: “The doctrine of res ipsa loquitor is
applicable where the accident is of such a nature that it can be said, in light
of past experience, that it probably was the result of negligence by someone
and that the defendant is probably the one responsible.” (Howe v. Seven
Forty Two Co., Inc. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1155, 1163-1164.) This
presumption arises when the evidence satisfies the following: “(1) the accident
must be of a kind which ordinarily does not occur in the absence of someone’s
negligence; (2) it must be caused by an agency or instrumentality within the
exclusive control of the defendant; (3) it must not have been due to any
voluntary action of contribution on the part of the plaintiff.” (Brown v.
Poway Unified School Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 825-826.)
 
Defendants argue that the X2 rollercoaster was not in
their exclusive control at the time of the Plaintiff’s injuries. Instead, it
was under the control of the Magic Mountain Defendants, and the warranty period
on the rollercoaster had long since passed. Because it was not in their
control, there cannot be an inference that they were responsible for
Plaintiff’s injuries.
 
Defendants have met their burden in demonstrating
that Plaintiffs have not established causation. In Plaintiffs’ opposition, they
did not present sufficient evidence to demonstrate causation. Because of the
lack of evidence to support Plaintiffs’ position, there are no triable issues
of material fact.
 
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is granted on
this issue.
 
            Issue
3
Defendants also argue that Plaintiffs’ Second Cause
of Action for Strict Product Liability and Third Cause of Action for Negligent
Product Liability based on a theory of design defect against the S&S
Defendants are barred, as a matter of law, because there is no evidence of a design
or manufacturing defect, and Plaintiffs cannot prove the essential element of
causation.
 
Whether product liability is based on strict
liability or negligence, a plaintiff bears the burden of showing that a
defendant’s defective product caused an injury. The plaintiff’s inability to
show a manufacturing defect is fatal to his claims. (Scott v. C.R. Bard,
Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 763, 773.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that summary judgment must be denied
on this issue because the X2 headrest was defective under the consumer
expectations test. The California Supreme Court held “the consumer expectations
test is reserved for cases in which the everyday experience of the product’s
users permits a conclusion that the product’s design violated minimum safety
assumptions, and is thus defective regardless of expert opinion about the
merits of the design. It follows that where the minimum safety of a product is within
the common knowledge of lay jurors, expert witnesses may not be used to
demonstrate what an ordinary consumer would or should expect.” (Soule v.
General Motors Corp. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 548, 567.)
 
While Plaintiffs cite the ordinary consumer test,
Plaintiffs do not point to any evidence that supports their argument. Instead,
they just draw the conclusion that ordinary consumers know how headrests should
work without providing any evidence that the headrest was what caused
Plaintiff’s injuries. 
 
Defendants, on the other hand, have provided evidence
that the rollercoaster was operating as it should and that there are no defects
with the design. Furthermore, as previously noted, Plaintiffs have failed to
establish causation.
 
Therefore, there are no triable issues of material
for the product liability causes of action. Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is granted for this issue.
 
            Issue
4
Finally, Defendants argue that Plaintiff Ari
Katerelos’ Fourth Cause of Action for Loss of Consortium is barred, as a matter
of law, because the claim is derivative of Plaintiff, Sheila Katerelos’ claims
for negligence and strict product liability, and Plaintiffs have failed to
state a cause of action for negligence, negligent product liability and strict
product liability against the S&S Defendants.
 
Because the Court granted summary judgment on the
negligence causes of action, summary judgment is also granted for this cause of
action because it is derivative of the negligence causes of action.
 
CONCLUSION
The motion for summary judgment is granted for Issues
2-4 and all four of Plaintiffs’ causes of action. Defendants are ordered to
submit a proposed judgment.
 
Moving
party to give notice.