 Case Number:  22CHCV00582    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-9-24
Case #22CHCV00582 , John Doe R.W. vs. Doe 1, et al.
Trial Date: 9-23-24
 
MOTION TO COMPEL COMMISSION TO PRODUCE RECORDS
SUBPOENAED BY PLAINTIFF
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
John Doe R.W.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Non-Party California Commission on Teacher Credentialing
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff
requests that the Court require the California Commission on Teacher
Credentialing to release unredacted records subpoenaed by Plaintiff related to
the investigation of alleged misconduct of Defendant Calvin Bernard Smith.
 
RULING: Motion
is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
This is a
childhood sexual assault case where Plaintiff John Doe R.W. (Plaintiff) has
alleged that Defendant Calvin Bernard Smith (Smith), during his employment as a
teacher for the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD), committed acts of
sexual abuse against Plaintiff when Plaintiff was a minor student.
 
During
discovery, Plaintiff issued a deposition subpoena for production of business
records to the California Commission on Teacher Credentialing (the Commission),
seeking records related to Smith. The Commission has refused to produce full,
unredacted records absent a court order, so Plaintiff filed this motion on May
21, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
argues that the Commission’s records are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims that LAUSD negligently hired, supervised, and/or retained Smith.
Plaintiff further argues that any potential generalized privacy rights related
to these documents is minimal in light of Plaintiff’s need for the documents. Finally,
Plaintiff claims that he is unable to obtain the documents anywhere else.
 
The Commission
argues in its opposition that Plaintiff’s subpoena seeks confidential
information that is protected by the Education Code and requires a court order
prior to disclosure, and that disclosure with a court order would violate the
Education Code and may subject the provider to criminal prosecution. Finally, the
Commission argues that Plaintiff bears the burden of providing sufficient
factual evidence to compel the production of documents and that mere
speculation and argument are insufficient.
 
Plaintiff
argues in his reply that the Commission has not presented the Court with any
persuasive reason for why Plaintiff’s motion should be denied. Plaintiff also
argues that the Commission does not contest that private records are
discoverable so long as they are directly relevant and essential to the
litigation. Next, Plaintiff argues that the Education Code does not prohibit
discovery of teacher credentialing records and that the records subpoenaed are
business records and should be produced. Finally, Plaintiff argues that the
deliberative process privilege cited by the Commission is inapplicable.
 
ANALYSIS
Discovery rules
are applied liberally in favor of discovery. (Gonzales v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) Further, all doubts about discovery are
resolved in favor of disclosure. (Glenfed Dev. Corp. v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1119.) “Discovery may be obtained … of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, tangible thing, or land or other property.” (CCP § 2017.010.) Any
information that “might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement” falls within the definition of
permissible discovery. (Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1599, 1611.) 
 
Personal
service of a deposition subpoena obligates the production of whatever documents
or things that are specified in the subpoena and to appear in any proceedings
to enforce discovery. (CCP §2020.220(c).) If a nonparty disobeys a deposition
subpoena, the subpoenaing party may seek a court order pursuant to CCP § 1987.1
compelling the nonparty to comply with the subpoena. (CCP § 2025.480(b); see
also Unzipped Apparel, LLC v. Bader (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 123, 127.)
“The burden of demonstrating a need for non-disclosure is on the agency
claiming the right to withhold the information.” (CBS, Inc. v. Block
(1986) 42 Cal.3d 646, 656.)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the documents in the Commission’s possession may show that LAUSD “knew
or should have known of the dangerous propensities of the employee who injured
plaintiff” or that LAUSD did not take “reasonable measures to guard pupils
against harassment and abuse from foreseeable sources.” (C.A. v. William S.
Hart Union High Sch. Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 871, 878.) Plaintiff
argues that the information in the documents is necessary to show what LAUSD
knew regarding Smith’s misconduct, any complaints LAUSD may have received
regarding Smith, and whether and to what extent LAUSD permitted Smith to have
continued conduct minor children.
 
Next, Plaintiff
argues that Plaintiff’s right to discovery outweighs any asserted privacy
interest, and that the burden is on the Commission to justify its objection and
to demonstrate why the discovery requested is not within the purview of the
Civil Discovery Act. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
541.)
 
Courts have
also affirmed the rights of a sex abuse litigant to the discovery of
disciplinary records of his or her abuser. (See Marken v. Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School District (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1250 [finding
that the public has a significant interest in the competence and misconduct of
public school teachers teaching their children]; see also BRV, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 742 [finding that the balance of
interests favors disclosure of the personnel records and investigative report].)
 
Furthermore,
the Education Code permits the Commission to produce records with a court
order. (Edu. Code § 44230(a)(2).)
 
The Commission
only offers a couple of arguments in opposition. First, the Commission argues
that it cannot produce the records absent a court order, as Plaintiff has
noted. However, that is not an argument against granting the motion, as the
purpose of this motion is to obtain a court order. The only other argument that
the Commission offers is that Plaintiff bears the burden of providing evidence
to compel production and demonstrating that it is not possible to obtain the
information from some other source, and Plaintiff has not done so. The
Commission does not say how Plaintiff’s evidence is insufficient; it only makes
the broad claim that it is insufficient. The Court is not persuaded by the
Commission’s arguments in opposition.
 
Based on the
foregoing and the nature of this case, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
established the relevance of the Commission’s records on Smith and that
Plaintiff’s interest in obtaining these records is greater than any competing
interests.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel compliance with the subpoena is granted. The Commission is ordered
to produce all unredacted records pertaining to Smith.
 
Moving party to
give notice.