 Case Number:  23CHCV03720    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 8-9-24
Case #23CHCV03720, Paola Boteo Alfaro, et al. vs.
Annie Beaudoin, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant City of Los Angeles
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs Paola Boteo Alfaro and Eddio
Botero Perez
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Negligence
·        
4th Cause of Action for Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This action arises out of an automobile versus pedestrian
accident that happened on January 18, 2023. Plaintiff Paola Boteo Alfaro (Plaintiff)
was crossing the street en route to school when Defendant Annie Beaudoin
(Beaudoin), who was operating a motor vehicle, crashed into Plaintiff. 
 
Plaintiff has alleged three causes of action against
Defendant City of Los Angeles (Defendant) for dangerous condition of public
property, negligence, and negligent infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff
alleges that the road she was crossing, which is next to the school, is
unreasonably dangerous. She alleges that Defendants had a duty to make it
safer.
 
Defendant filed its demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended
Complaint (FAC) on June 3, 2024. Plaintiffs Paola Boteo Alfaro and Eddio Botero
Perez oppose Defendant’s demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
As a preliminary matter, Plaintiffs argued in their
opposition that Defendant cannot demur to the FAC because it did not demur to
Plaintiffs’ original complaint. Plaintiffs cite CCP § 430.41(b), which states
that “A party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to
an earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion
of the amended complaint…on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer to
the earlier version of the complaint…” 
 
Plaintiffs filed their original complaint on December 6,
2023. On February 29, 2024, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed its answer to
Plaintiffs’ complaint. On April 18, 2024, Defendant LAUSD filed a demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ complaint. Rather than filing an opposition to LAUSD’s demurrer, Plaintiffs
filed their FAC on May 8, 2024. No demurrer was ever sustained to Plaintiff’s
original complaint. Instead, Plaintiffs’ amended their complaint before LAUSD’s
demurrer could be heard. CCP § 430.41(b) requires that a demurrer be sustained
to block a party’s demurrer to an amended complaint. Because no demurrer was
sustained to the original complaint, Defendant’s present demurrer may be heard.
 
Third Cause of Action for Negligence
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for
negligence on the basis that it does not states facts sufficient to allege a
cause of action against Defendant and because Plaintiffs failed to allege how
Defendant owed them a duty with particularity.
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty,
breach, proximate cause, and damages. (See Peredia v. HR Mobile Services,
Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680.)
 
Defendant argues in its demurrer that Plaintiffs have failed
to cite a statutory basis for their cause of action for negligence. To bring a
cause of action against a public entity, a plaintiff must have statutory
authority to do so. (Gov. Code § 815(a).)
 
Plaintiffs do cite Government Code §§ 815.2, 815.4, and 820,
et seq., in their FAC. These sections all deal with whether a public entity is
liable for injury caused by an act or omission of an employee or independent
contractor of a public entity. There is nothing in Plaintiffs FAC that suggests
that Defendant Beaudoin was an employee of Defendant City of Los Angeles or
that any employee of Defendant was involved in the accident. Plaintiffs also do
not cite any sections that point to the specific duties that they are alleging
that Defendant City and the other Defendants failed to perform. Plaintiffs’
opposition points to Gov. Code § 835, which is the basis for Plaintiffs’
dangerous condition of property cause of action. However, Plaintiffs do not
cite this section under their negligence cause of action as a basis for that
cause of action. Therefore, Plaintiffs have not pled a statutory basis for a
negligence cause of action against Defendant.
 
Because Plaintiffs have failed to indicate a statutory basis
for the duty that Defendant allegedly breached, Plaintiffs cannot maintain a
cause of action for negligence. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third Cause
of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ cause of action for
negligent infliction of emotional distress on the basis that Plaintiffs may not
state a common law cause of action for this against the City, a public entity,
pursuant to the Government Claims Act.
 
A public entity is not liable for common law torts, as such
liability is not provided for by statute. (See Wright v. State of California
(2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 659, 671; see also San Mateo Union High School Dist.
v. County of San Mateo (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 418, 427.)
 
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition that their basis for
this cause of action is Gov. Code § 835. However, as with the previous cause of
action, this section is not cited under the Fourth Cause of Action in
Plaintiffs’ FAC. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs have failed to sufficiently plead
this cause of action against Defendant. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Fourth Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third
and Fourth Causes of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiffs are given 30 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.