 Case Number:  23TRCV00764    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                        Thursday,
September 26, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 13
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
KTL
Logistics, LLC v. Colliers International Greater Los Angeles, Inc., et al.   
23TRCV00764
1.      KTL Logistics, LLC’s Motion for an Order Compelling
Compliance with Request for Production of Documents and for Sanctions  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            KTL Logistics, LLC’s Motion for an
Order Compelling Compliance with Request for Production of Documents and for
Sanctions is deemed moot, in part, and denied, in part. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 15, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Defendants - agents and brokers - represented
Plaintiff in a lease transaction with respect to commercial premises.
Defendants breached their duties by failing to secure a second extension on the
lease. 
 
Motion to Compel Compliance to Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320
states, in relevant part:
“(a) If a party filing a
response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling under
Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280 thereafter fails
to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance with that
party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance.
(b) Except as provided in
subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
(c) Except as provided in
subdivision (d), if a party then fails to obey an order compelling inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the court may make those orders that are just,
including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a
terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In
lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
(d)(1) Notwithstanding
subdivisions (b) and (c), absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not
impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide
electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or
overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic
information system.”
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling Defendant Colliers International Greater Los Angeles, Inc.
(“Colliers” or “Defendant”) to produce documents responsive to their responses
to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Numbers 1–4, 6–7, 9–14, 16–17,
19, 21-24, 28-31, 34, 46, 49–50, and 53–54. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions. The motion is made on the grounds that Defendant has failed to
produce documents that are responsive to their responses indicating that it
will produce documents.
 
Defendant filed a written
opposition indicating that, due to the voluminous nature of the documents that
were required to be produced as well as other factors including pre-planned
vacations and illness of counsel, the documents were served slightly later than
anticipated. Defendant served a production of documents on July 19, 2024, only
two days after the motion was filed.  (Decl.,
Alexa Stephenson, ¶¶ 6-20.)
 
In the Reply, Plaintiff
argues that the document production does not comply with CCP 2031.280(a) which
states: “(a) Any documents or category of documents produced in response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall be identified with
the specific request number to which the documents respond.” Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.280. In addition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant did not serve a proper
privilege log. However, the propriety of the production would be the subject of
a different motion focused on the production of further responses following a
proper meet and confer process prior to the hearing date of the motion.  In addition, the parties are reminded to contact
Dept M to schedule an informal discovery conference prior to the hearing date
of such a motion. Finally, without the ability to examine the manner in which
the production of documents was provided, the Court is in no position at this
time to make a ruling on that issue.
 
Therefore, the motion to
compel compliance is deemed moot. 
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied. 
 
CCP
2031.320(c) states: “Except as provided in subdivision (d), if a party then
fails to obey an order compelling inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,
the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an
issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).
 
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 states: “The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.” 
 
Thus,
in appropriate circumstances, the Court may still award sanctions when the
requested discovery is provided after the motion is filed.  Here, however, the Court determines that
Defendant has provided an adequate reason for why the documents were served
only a few days after the motion was filed.  (Decl., Alexa Stephenson, ¶¶ 6-20.)
 
Therefore,
the request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 