  Case Number:  20STCV25778    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  B JARAD BRYAN vs jarelle kate
sisayan cenidoza
 
Application for Pro Hac Vice
 
Date of Hearing:          November 7, 2024                  Trial Date:       December 2, 2024
Department:               B                                              Case
No.:         20STCV25778
 
Moving Party:             Defendants
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC and Sunrise Senior Living                              Management, Inc.
Responding Party:       None
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from a motor vehicle
accident. Plaintiff Jarad Bryan (“Plaintiff”) alleges that, on July 26, 2018,
Defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC and Sunrise Senior Living Management,
Inc. (“Defendants”) negligently entrusted a motor vehicle to Jarelle Kate
Sisayan Cinidoza (“Cinidoza”), causing Plaintiff to sustain injuries when
Cinidoza struck Plaintiff, a pedestrian.
 
On June 7, 2024, the case was
reassigned to the Honorable Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys
Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.
 
On October 1, 2024, Robert Wright, Esq.
(“Counsel”) filed the instant unopposed application to be appear pro hac vice
on behalf of Defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC and Sunrise Senior Living
Management, Inc.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Robert Wright’s Application to Appear
Pro Hac Vice is DENIED.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in
good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this
State by way of written application upon due notice to all interested parties,
as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in
California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional,
or other activities in the State. (CRC Rule 9.40.) 
 
The written application must provide the following
information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the
courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of
admission; (3) representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good
standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant
attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if
any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California
State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (CRC
9.40(d).)  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Counsel seeks to appear on behalf of Defendants
Sunrise Senior Living, LLC and Sunrise Senior Living Management, Inc. pro hace
vice in this action. Based on the application and the attached declaration: (1)
Counsel is not employed or residing within California (Wright Decl. ¶¶ 1-4);
(2) Counsel has not applied to any other California courts to appear pro hace
vice within the past two years (Ibid. at ¶ 8); (3) the
application has the proper admission information for other courts where the
attorney is admitted (Ibid. at ¶¶ 5-6); (4) the attorney is in good
standing (Ibid. at ¶ 7; and (5) the applicant is to be associated with
local counsel, Devon B. Moore. (Ibid. at ¶ 9). Additionally, notice of
hearing upon this application was served upon the State Bar of California. (See
Application Proof of Service.)
 
However, the application contains the following
deficiencies:
 
1.     
Applicant has not paid the required
$50.00 fee. (CRC 9.40(e).)
 
Accordingly, the application does
not abide by CRC Rule 9.40 and is denied without prejudice.
 