 Case Number:  20STCV3313    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  B  
Hearing:              Thursday,
November 7, 2024
Re:                         Rigoberto Vidauri, Jr. vs Whole Foods California, Inc. (20STCV3313)

 

 
Plaintiff
Rigoberto Vidauri, Jr.’s Motion to Name Successor in Interest
 
Respondent:
NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff
Rigoberto Vidauri, Jr.’s Motion to Name Successor in Interest is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is
a personal injury action arising from a September 19, 2018, slip and fall
incident. Plaintiff Rigoberto Vidauri, Jr. (“Plaintiff”) alleges Defendants Whole
Foods California, Inc. (“Whole Foods”) negligently maintained their premises,
causing Plaintiff to slip and fall on an unknown substance and sustain serious
injuries.
 
On
August 31, 2020, Plaintiff filed their complaint.
 
On June
6, 2024, the case was reassigned to the Honorable Judge Moskowitz in Department
B of the Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.
 
On June
18, 2024, Plaintiff filed their initial Motion to Name Successor in Interest.
 
On August
26, 2024, the Court continued the motion to November 7, 2024, noting that
Plaintiff failed to file proof of service or a certified copy of Decedent’s
death certificate.
 
On
September 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant amended Motion to Name
Successor in Interest. The motion remains unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
For the
following reasons, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Name Successor in
Interest.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Cal. Code
of Civ. Proc. § 377.31 provides that “[o]n motion after the death of a person
who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action
or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (See CCP
§ 377.30; Adams v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A
successor in interest is “the beneficiary of the decedent's estate or other
successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item
of the property that is the subject of a cause of action.” (CCP § 377.11.) CCP
§ 377.33 provides that “[t]he court in which an action is commenced or
continued under this article may make any order concerning parties that is
appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice in the case, including
appointment of the decedent's successor in interest as a special administrator
or guardian ad litem.”    
 
Pursuant
to CCP § 377.32, a person who seeks to commence such an action as the
decedent’s successor in interest must file an affidavit or declaration
providing the following: (1) decedent’s name, (2) date and place of decedent’s
death, (3) language stating “[n]o proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent's estate,” (4) a final order showing
distribution of decedent’s cause of action to successor if decedent’s estate
was administered, (5) language stating “[t]he affiant or declarant is the
decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in
the action or proceeding” or “[t]he affiant or declarant is authorized to act
on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11
of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent's
interest in the action or proceeding,” (6) language stating “[n]o other person
has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted
for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”, (7) language stating “[t]he
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct,” and
(8) a certified copy of decedent’s death certificate. 
 
Discussion
 
Here, Rigoberto
Vidauri, Sr. (“Senior”) seeks to serve as Rigoberto Vidauri, Jr. (“Junior”)’s
successor in interest in this action following Junior’s death. (Memorandum of
Points and Authorities p. 3:5-9.) In support of this motion, Senior has filed a
declaration that meets all the requirements of CCP § 377.32. Accordingly, Senior’s
motion is GRANTED.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Rigoberto Vidauri, Sr.’s
motion to be appointed as Rigoberto Vidauri, Jr.’s successor in interest is GRANTED.  
 
Moving party to give notice. Court to sign
proposed Order.
 