 Case Number:  22STCV19531    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  B             
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



GAYANE AVDALYAN, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
  
            vs.
 
 

YOUNG
   MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF THE FOOTHILLS,

                        Defendants.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 22STCV19531
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT YOUNG MEN‘S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF THE
   FOOTHILLS‘S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  NOVEMBER 7, 2024
TIME:  8:30
   A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: JUNE 15, 2022
TRIAL
  DATE: JANUARY 21, 2025



 
I.      
BACKGROUND  
            On June 15, 2022, Plaintiffs Gayane
Avdalyan (“Gayane”), Kamo Avdalyan (“Kamo”), Khachatur Avdalyan (“Khachatur”),
and Anjella Stepanyan (“Anjella”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
in the instant action against Defendant Young Men’s Christian Association of
the Foothills (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10 alleging three causes of action:
(1) negligence; (2) wrongful death; and (3) negligent infliction of emotional
distress. Plaintiffs allege that, on or about April 6, 2022, Decedent Geghetsik
Avdalyan (“Decedent”) drowned at a Young Men’s Christian Association (“YMCA”)
facility owned by Defendant. Plaintiff's further allege that Decedent’s death
was caused by Defendant’s negligent ownership, maintenance, and operation of
the subject pool, in addition to Defendant’s negligent hiring, supervising, and
retainment of lifeguards.
            On April 24, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion for summary judgment on Plaintiffs’ complaint.
            On June 5, 2024, the matter was
assigned to the Honorable Judge Moskowitz in Department B of Van Nuys
Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.
            On October 24, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition.
            On October 31, 2024, Defendant filed
their reply.
 
II.      
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
            Defendant moves for summary judgment
on Plaintiffs’ complaint. Defendant alleges that Plaintiffs’ claims are barred
by Decedent’s waiver agreement and assumption of risk. (See Motion p.
6:19-20.)
 
III.      
LEGAL
STANDARDS 
            In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, the Court must apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has met his or
her initial burden; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)
            A moving defendant may satisfy the
initial burden to show that one or more elements cannot be established by
“presenting evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's
cause of action or by relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses to show that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, evidence to establish that element.” (Schmidt v. Citibank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the defendant to merely
point out the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant must present evidence… showing that
plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Ibid.)
            Unless and until a defendant meets
that burden, the plaintiff has no burden to present controverting evidence. (Consumer
Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468 [“There is no
obligation on the opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit
unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing
every element . . . necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”].) If a
defendant fails to meet that burden, summary judgment must be denied, even if
the plaintiff fails to file an opposition and fails to proffer any evidence.
On
the other hand, if the defendant “has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth
the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)     
 
IV.      
DISCUSSION 
Evidentiary
Objections
Defendant’s
October 31, 2024, evidentiary objections to portions of James McNamara’s and
Gerald Dworkin’s declarations are sustained as to No. 1 and overruled as to
Nos. 2 and 3.
 
Defendant’s
Burden
            Defendant meets their initial
burden.  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
claims are barred by Decedent’s waiver agreement and the assumption of risk
doctrine.
            The primary assumption of risk
doctrine was developed in recognition that some activities are inherently
dangerous such that the defendant has no duty to protect the plaintiff from
those inherent dangers.  (Nalwa v. Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012) 55
Cal.4th 1148, 1154; Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 308.) 
“The primary assumption of risk doctrine rests on a straightforward policy
foundation: the need to avoid chilling vigorous participation in or sponsorship
of recreational activities by imposing a tort duty to eliminate or reduce the
risks of harm inherent in those activities.”  (Nalwa, at p.
1156.)  “It operates on the premise that imposing such a legal duty ‘would
work a basic alteration—or cause abandonment’ of the activity.”  (Ibid.
(quoting Kahn v. East Side Union High School Dist. (2003) 31 Cal.4th
990, 1003).)  “Where the doctrine applies to a recreational activity,
operators, instructors and participants in the activity owe other participants
only the duty not to act so as to increase the risk of injury over that
inherent in the activity.”  (Ibid. at 1154 (emphasis in
original).)  “When the doctrine applies, the plaintiff’s assumption of the
risk acts as a complete bar to liability.”  (Moser v. Ratinoff
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1211, 1219.)  “Determining whether the primary
assumption of risk doctrine applies is a legal question to be decided by the
court.”  (Ibid. at 1217.) 
            “[T]he
primary assumption of risk doctrine is not limited to activities classified as
sports, but applies as well to other recreational activities ‘involving an
inherent risk of injury to voluntary participants . . . where the risk cannot
be eliminated without altering the fundamental nature of the activity.’” 
(Nalwa, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 1156 (quoting Beninati v.
Black Rock City, LLC (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 650, 658).)  “Judges
deciding inherent risk questions under Knight may consider not only
their own or common experience with the recreational activity involved but may
also consult case law, other published materials, and documentary evidence
introduced by the parties on a motion for summary judgment.”  (Ibid.
at 1158.) 
            The primary assumption of risk
doctrine applies to Decedent’s swimming. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot
provide evidence suggesting that Defendant increased the risk of swimming over
its already inherent dangers. (Kahn, supra, 31 Cal. 4th at 1154.)
Instead, Defendant sets forth facts suggesting that they took all reasonable
steps to mitigate the inherent dangers of swimming. It is undisputed that
Kerilynn Eroh (“Eroh”) was a lifeguard on duty at the time of the underlying
incident. (Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement of Facts
“PR-DSSF” Nos. 10 and 15.) It is undisputed that Eroh held the required
certifications to be a lifeguard. (Ibid.) Further, it is
undisputed that, at the time of the incident, Eroh had at least seven years of
experience lifeguarding at the subject YMCA. (Ibid. at No. 11.) It is
undisputed that, when Decedent began to drown, Decedent was in the shallow end
of the pool (approximately three and ½ feet deep.) (Ibid. at No. 12.)
Finally, both parties agree that Decedent was given CPR and oxygen after being
removed from the pool. (Ibid. at No. 17.)
            Defendant sets forth evidence that
they took reasonable steps as to not increase swimming’s inherent risk.
Additionally, Defendant argues that their membership waiver, which Decedent
signed, bars Plaintiffs’ claims. “In the recreational context, while a waiver
of liability and an assumption of risk can serve as a bar to liability based on
negligence, it cannot serve as a bar to liability based on gross negligence.” (Brown
v. El Dorado Union High School Dist. (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 1003, 1024.)
Once again, here, Defendants set forth facts which fail to suggest any
engagement in gross negligence. Additionally, it’s undisputed that Decedent
signed the membership agreement and waiver of liability when they first became
a member of YMCA in 2015. (PR-DSSF No. 1; Exh. E [membership agreement].) The
waiver states, in plain and conspicuous terms, that signatories “ASSUME
FULL REPONSIBILITY FOR AND RISK OF BODILY INJURY, DEATH OR PROPERTY DAMAGE to
the undersigned or such children due to negligence of releasee or otherwise
while in, about or upon the premises of the YMCA and/or while using the premises
or any facilities or equipment thereon or participating in any program
affiliated with the YMCA.” (PR-DSSF
No. 3; Exh. E [membership agreement].) Therefore, absent gross negligence,
Defendant has provided evidence that Decedent assumed full responsibility for
and risk of bodily injury, death, or property damage.
 
Plaintiffs’
Burden
            The burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show a triable
issue of fact as to Defendant’s gross negligence or conduct increasing the risk
of dangers inherent in swimming.
            Plaintiffs claim that Defendant knew
Decedent was a “high-risk swimmer.” (PR-DSSF No. 5.) It's undisputed that the
YMCA’s Lifeguard and Procedures Manual require lifeguards to survey for
high-risk swimmers. (Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Facts “P-SSF” No. 7;
Exh. C [manual] p. 6.) Plaintiffs also allege that Eroh was unqualified and had
not received proper training. (P-SSF Nos. 19-20; Exh. H [lifeguard training documents,
2021-2022].) Eroh had received verbal warnings for
missing mandatory trainings prior to decedent drowning. (Ibid. at 19.) Facility-specific
lifeguard training sessions may have only occurred two to three times a year. (Ibid.
at No. 20; Exh. H.) Kristina Garcia, the aquatics department head at the
time of Decedent’s drowning, stated that the subject lifeguarding program was
“too relaxed” and there was no disciplinary action for lifeguards who missed
trainings. (P-SSF No. 25; Exh. C [Garcia deposition].) It is undisputed that
Eroh was engaged in conversation while Decedent entered a state of distress. (P-SSF
No. 29; Exh. A [Gayane deposition].) Decedent was cyanotic when they were
pulled from the pool, indicating several minutes of hypoxia prior to being
removed from the water. (P-SSF No. 42; Exh. F [Los Angeles Police Department
bodycam footage].) Additionally, Kristina Garcia attempted to employ the
automated external defibrillator (“AED”), but the device failed because Eroh
and YMCA employee Annie Azizian failed to “stand clear” or go “hands off.”
(P-SSF No. 47; Exh. J [Azizian deposition].) 
Finally,
Plaintiffs provide evidence that YMCA had notice of its lifeguard training
deficiencies. A YMCA employee, Colin Jacobs, drowned at Defendant’s Crescenta
Valley location in 2020. (P-SSF No. 50; Exh. J [Azizian deposition].) Like
Decedent’s drowning, only one lifeguard was on duty and CPR was delayed. (Ibid.)
Despite this, Defendant did not make improvements in their training. (Ibid. at
No. 52; Exh. H [lifeguard training documents 2021-2022].) 
“The
issue we must determine here is whether, with all facts and inferences
construed in plaintiffs’ favor, the conduct shown by plaintiffs’ evidence could
be found to constitute gross negligence. If so, then it is a question of fact
for the jury . . . As [the California Supreme Court] has noted, whether conduct
constitutes gross negligence is generally a question of fact, depending on the
nature of the act and the surrounding circumstances shown by the evidence. (City
of Santa Barbara v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 767, 781. [reasoning
that whether the evidence showed lack of care sufficient to constitute gross
negligence was a triable issue of fact in that case].)” (Jimenez v. 24 Hour
Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 546, 555.)
Here,
Plaintiffs provided specific facts showing a triable issue of material fact as
to whether Defendant was grossly negligent. Accordingly, Plaintiffs meet their
burden.
 
V.      
CONCLUSION
            A triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether Defendant was grossly negligent in their training or
response to Decedent’s drowning. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
Dated: November
 5, 2024                               __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon. Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court
            