 Case Number:  22STCV00828    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On January 7, 2022, Plaintiffs Marisela Irepan and
Jesus Espinoza, a minor, filed this action against Defendants Irma Leticia
Sanchez and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort. 
On July 7, 2023, the Court dismissed the action
without prejudice under Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (b)(3).  The Court served the order on Plaintiffs’ counsel the same day. 
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to
vacate the dismissal.  The motion was set
for hearing on November 20, 2024. 
No trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUEST 
Plaintiffs ask the Court to set aside the dismissal
under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides in part: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
          Plaintiffs asserts that the Court dismissed the case as the
result of Plaintiffs’ counsel’s inadvertence and excusable neglect.  However, Plaintiffs filed their motion more
than six months after the dismissal.  The
Court therefore denies the motion.  (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion of Plaintiffs Marisela Irepan and Jesus Espinoza, a
minor, to vacate the Court’s July 7, 2023 order dismissing their case. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.