 Case Number:  23STCV22637    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  September 19, 2023, Plaintiffs Miyoshi Umeki Dorsey (“Dorsey”) and Stephanie  Rouse (“Rouse”) filed this action against Defendants Jun Chen (“Defendant”) and  Does 1-25 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  On  March 28, 2024, Defendant filed an answer.  On  August 23, 2024, Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company (“Blue Hill”) filed a motion  for leave to intervene.  The motion was  set for hearing on October 2, 2024.  The  Court continued the hearing to November 20, 2024.  No opposition has been filed.  Trial  is scheduled for March 18, 2025.  PROPOSED INTERVENOR’S  REQUEST  Blue  Hill asks the Court for leave to intervene on behalf of Defendant, Blue Hill’s  insured.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 387 provides in part:  “(c) A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to  intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include  a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and  set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.  “(d) (1) The court shall, upon timely application,  permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the  following conditions is satisfied:  “(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right  to intervene.  “(B) The person seeking intervention claims an  interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the  action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may  impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that  person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing  parties.  “(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a  nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest  in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an  interest against both.  “(e) If leave to intervene is granted by the court,  the intervenor shall do both of the following:  “(1) Separately file the complaint in intervention,  answer in intervention, or both.  “(2) Serve a copy of the order, or notice of the  court’s decision or order, granting leave to intervene and the pleadings in  intervention as follows:  “(A) A party to the action or proceeding who has not  yet appeared shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant  to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part  2.  “(B) A party who has appeared in the action or  proceeding, whether represented by an attorney or not represented by an  attorney, shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant to  Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2,  or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title  14 of Part 2.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 387, subds. (c), (d), (e).)DISCUSSION Blue  Hill asserts that Defendant has stopped responding to his counsel and  to Blue Hill. As Defendant’s insurer,  Blue Hill may be obligated to pay any judgment against Defendant, giving Blue  Hill the right to intervene to protect its own interests.  Blue  Hill has not, however, submitted a proposed answer-in-intervention.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)  The Court therefore denies the motion without  prejudice.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES without prejudice Blue Hill Specialty Insurance Company’s motion  for leave to intervene.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.