  Case Number:  24STCV10576    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  34 James Magdaleno v.
Richard Gerwe, et al. (24STCV10576)
 
Defendant Richard Gerwe’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED, in part, as to Plaintiff’s fourth, fifth,
seventh, and eighth causes of action; and SUSTAINED, in part, as to Plaintiff’s
twelfth, and thirteenth causes of action. The court will inquire at the hearing
whether leave to amend should be granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff James Magdaleno (“Plaintiff”) alleges as
follows: 
 
The property located at 1906 S. Marvin Ave., Los
Angeles, CA 90016 consists of a single-family residence and a garage. Defendant
Richard Gerwe (“Defendant”) converted the garage into an ADU for human
residence. The Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety notified Defendant
that the unit was illegally constructed and converted. Nevertheless, Defendant
entered into a lease agreement for the unit with Plaintiff on March 1, 2021.
Defendant received $1,500.00 to $1,550.00[1] per
month from Plaintiff as rent for the unit.
 
Since April 2021, the unit was substantially uninhabitable
due to multiple issues with the structure. Plaintiff verbally complained
regarding the habitability issues to Defendant from April 2021 until February
4, 2024. Defendant failed to cure the issues. 
 
On February 4, 2024, the unit sustained severe water
damage, which resulted in Plaintiff vacating the unit and damage to his
personal property. Plaintiff was not provided with any alternative
accommodations by Defendant. 
 
On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff contacted the Los
Angeles Department of Public Health and Safety to inquire about his rights
under the lease agreement with Defendant. Plaintiff was then informed that the unit
was an illegal dwelling unit without a certificate of occupancy. As such,
Plaintiff requested an inspection on the unit that was carried out on March 12,
2024 revealing multiple code violations. 
 
At the time Plaintiff leased the unit from
Defendant, Defendant had verbally represented that the unit was legal and in
compliance with California law. Defendant also failed to register the unit with
the City of Los Angeles Housing Department or under the Rent Stabilization
Ordinance. 
 
On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to retrieve
his belongings and discovered that Defendant had ordered to change the locks of
the unit. Defendant also failed to provide Plaintiff with any notice terminating
his tenancy. Subsequently, Plaintiff’s belongings remain inside the unit
without Plaintiff’s consent. 
 
On April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Complaint
asserting the following causes of action against Defendant and Does 1-50:
 
1.              
Tortious Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability;
2.         Contractual Breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability; 
3.         Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment;
4.         Violation
of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance § 151.04 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code
– Illegal Collection of Rent; 
5.         Violation of the Rent Stabilization Ordinance § 151.04 of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code – Excessive Collection of Rent; 
6.         Unfair
and Deceptive Business Practices Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200;
7.         Fraud;
8.         Negligent
Misrepresentation; 
9.         Constructive
Eviction; 
10.       Illegal Eviction – Violation of Civil Code 789.3; 
11.       Tenant Harassment – Los Angeles Municipal Code § 45.33;
12.       Conversion;
and  
13.       Trespass
to Chattels.
 
On May 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) asserting the same causes of action. 
 
On July 2, 2024, Defendant
filed this Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC. On September 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer.[2] On September
17, 2024, Defendant filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
            “The party against whom a complaint
or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided
in section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of” various grounds
listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.)
 
            When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
            Where a demurrer is sustained, leave
to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However,
“[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good
cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245). 
 
Discussion[3]
 
            Defendant demurs, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (e), to the fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth, twelfth, and
thirteenth causes of action in Plaintiff’s FAC, on the basis that they each
fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendant also demurs,
per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f), to the twelfth and
thirteenth causes of action on the basis that they are uncertain. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action (Violation of the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance § 151.04 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code – Illegal
Collection of Rent) 
 
            Los
Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”) section 151.04 states that “[i]t shall be
unlawful for any landlord to demand, accept or retain more than the maximum
adjusted rent permitted pursuant to this chapter or regulation or orders
adopted pursuant to this chapter.”
 
            LAMC
section 151.05(A) provides that a landlord of a rental unit subject to LARSO
must register the unit with the City of Los Angeles and serve the tenant with a
statement of registration before demanding or accepting rent from a
tenant: 
 
 On or
after July, 1979, no landlord shall demand or accept rent for a rental unit
without first procuring and serving on the tenant or displaying in a
conspicuous place a valid written registration statement from the Department or
its designee. On or after April 30, 1983, no landlord shall demand or accept
rent for a rental unit without first serving a copy of a valid registration or
annual registration renewal statement on the tenant of that rental unit. . .
. 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant wrongfully rented the unit since Defendant failed to register
the unit with the City of Los Angeles knowing of the unit’s illegal
construction. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Plaintiff alleges that Los Angeles Department of
Building and Safety put Defendant on notice as to the unit’s illegality before
Plaintiff’s lease began. (Id., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
subsequently and intentionally concealed the unit’s illegality from Plaintiff
and misrepresented the unit’s permit status for purposes of obtaining rent
money from Plaintiff. (Id., ¶¶ 15, 25, 30.) Additionally, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant did not procure, and the City of Los Angles did not
issue a statement of registration or certificate of occupancy before or during
Plaintiff’s tenancy. (Id., ¶ 36.)  
 
            Defendant
contends that Plaintiff is not entitled to a return of the rent under this
provision. Or put it another way, it appears that Defendant’s argument centers
on Plaintiff’s inability to collect damages. However, even if the court agrees
that a tenant is not permitted to seek restitution of past rent when service of
the LAMC ordinance has not been completed, the FAC seeks more than just rents
paid. In fact, it seeks a declaration that Plaintiff is entitled to relocation
fees, attorney fees, etc. (FAC, [Prayer for Relief] at p. 27.)¶  
 
            For
demurrer purposes, these allegations are sufficient to support Plaintiff’s
cause of action for violation of LAMC section 151.04 for improper collection of
rent where a violation of LAMC section 151.05 exists. 
 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Fifth Cause of Action (Violation of the Rent
Stabilization Ordinance § 151.04 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code – Excessive
Collection of Rent) 
 
            Defendant
makes the same arguments mentioned above for the fifth cause of action. The FAC
alleges that Defendant was prohibited by LAMC section 151.04 from collecting
any rent payments from Plaintiff’s tenancy in the unit. (FAC, ¶¶ 85-86.) Plaintiff
contends that since Defendant was not entitled to any rent payments from
Plaintiff, any money given to Defendant from Plaintiff as rent for the unit was
in excess and thus in violation of LAMC section 151.04. (Ibid.) What the
remedy is for this violation is alleged in the Prayer for Relief.
 
            For
demurrer purposes, these allegations are sufficient to support Plaintiff’s
cause of action for violation of LAMC section 151.04 for excessive collection
of rent where a violation of LAMC section 151.05 exists. 
 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Seventh Cause of Action (Fraud)
 
            “The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town
Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be
alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant represented both in writing and orally that the unit was
legal, in compliance with California law, and that the unit had a valid Certificate
of Occupancy to induce Plaintiff into executing the lease agreement. (FAC, ¶¶ 106-107.) Plaintiff alleges that the
Los Angeles Department of Building and Safety put Defendant on notice as to the
unit’s illegality before Plaintiff’s lease began. (Id., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
also alleges that Defendant failed to register the unit with the City of Los
Angeles knowing of the unit’s illegal construction. (Id., ¶ 26.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had knowledge of their obligation to comply
with the requirements of Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance (“LARSO”) and
LAMC section 1151.00. (Id., ¶ 30.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that Plaintiff was unaware of the falsity of Defendant’s
representations, relied on them to remain in the unit, and tendered rent
payments to Defendant. (Id., ¶ 110.) Plaintiff alleges that it was not
until February 2024, when Plaintiff contacted the Los Angeles Department of
Public Health and Safety, that Plaintiff discovered the unit’s illegality. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges that as a result of Defendant’s false representations,
Plaintiff suffered damages in an amount according to proof, but no less than
$400,000. (Id., ¶ 111.)
 
            Thus,
Plaintiff stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for fraud by
providing support for each element required. 
 
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Eighth Cause of Action (Negligent
Misrepresentation)
 
The elements of a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation include
“[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, and with intent to induce another’s
reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of the truth and justifiable
reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to whom it was directed; and
resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp
Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks
omitted.)
 
“California courts have recognized a
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty to
communicate accurate information, in two circumstances. The first situation
arises where providing false information poses a risk of and results in
physical harm to person or property. The second situation arises where information
is conveyed in a commercial setting for a business purpose.” (Friedman v.
Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.) 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges the same facts used in support of her seventh cause of action for fraud
to support a claim for negligent misrepresentation. Additionally, Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant owed a duty to communicate accurate information during
the course of Defendant’s business as Plaintiff’s landlord. (FAC, ¶ 115.) 
 
            As
such, Plaintiff stated facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation by alleging Defendant’s duty to communicate
accurate information and conscious failure to do so which caused Plaintiff’s
reliance and damages. 
 
The Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Twelfth
Cause of Action (Conversion)
 
            “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or
right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a
wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee v.
Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.) 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that once Plaintiff moved into the unit, Plaintiff also brought in all
of his possessions. (FAC, ¶ 149.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
intentionally and substantially interfered with Plaintiff’s personal property
by changing the unit’s locks, preventing Plaintiff from retrieving his
property, and entering into the unit to discard many of his belongings without
Plaintiff’s consent. (Id., ¶¶ 150-152.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant also failed to provide Plaintiff with any notice terminating his tenancy.
(Id., ¶ 32.) As a result, Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff was
harmed by Defendant’s action and suffered damages in an amount to be proven at trial
but no less than $50,000. (Id., ¶ 154.)
 
            Defendant
argues that a cause of action for conversion requires a Plaintiff to describe
the property affected in the complaint with sufficient clarity to permit
identification. (Hawley v. Kocher (1898) 123 Cal. 77, 55; Dem., 9:20-24.)
Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s did not identify the personal property
allegedly converted by Defendant with enough certainty to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff’s conversion claim is also uncertain as it cannot be ascertained what
constitutes Plaintiff’s “personal property” in paragraphs 149 to 151 of
Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s interpretation of Hawley does
not apply here since Plaintiff alleges conversion of all his belongings that remained
in the unit prior to Defendant illegally evicting him. (Opp., 20:8-11.) Plaintiff
explains that the Supreme Court in Hawley sustained a demurrer upon the
ground that there was not a sufficient description of the property sought to be
recovered and that there was no averment as to where the property was at the
time of the commencement of the suit that a lump description of the property
would suffice. (Opp., 20:12-18.) Plaintiff argues that since all of Plaintiff’s
disputed personal property is located within the unit, a lump description is
appropriate according to Hawley. 
 
            The
court finds that Plaintiff’s use of a lump description of his allegedly
converted property as “personal property” is insufficient to meet the required
description in Hawley. The Court in Hawley did not establish that
a lump description of the location of the property in controversy is sufficient
to adequately describe the property at issue. “[I]t cannot even be claimed
that a lump description of personal property situated in a certain building, or
at a certain place, if such a description could be held to be good,
applies here” (Hawley v. Kocher, supra, 123 Cal. 77, 83 [italics
added].)                                                           
 
            Here,
Plaintiff provides a lump description of the property allegedly converted by
referencing it as “personal property” located within the unit. As such,
Plaintiff fails to identify with particularity the property in dispute as
required by the cause of action. 
 
            The
Demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
Thirteenth Cause of Action
(Trespass to Chattels)
 
            “[T]respass to chattels ‘lies where
an intentional interference with the possession of personal property has
proximately caused injury.’” (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30 Cal.4th
1342, 1350-51 (quoting Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek (1996) 46
Cal.App.4th 1559, 1566).) “A trespass to a chattel may be committed by
intentionally dispossessing another of the chattel, or using or intermeddling
with a chattel in the possession of another.” (Jamgotchian v. Slender
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1401.)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges the same facts used in support of the twelfth cause of action for
conversion to support a claim for trespass to chattels. Again, the property at
issue is insufficiently described in the FAC.
 
            The
Demurrer is SUSTAINED.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Richard Gerwe’s Demurrer to First Amended
Complaint is OVERRULED in part as to Plaintiff’s fourth, fifth, seventh, and
eighth causes of action; and SUSTAINED in part with as to Plaintiff’s twelfth
and thirteenth causes of action. 


