  Case Number:  24TRCV01112    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka Thursday, October 10, 2024
Department M      Calendar No. 5  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Eastland
Forrester, Inc. v. National Tour Integrated Resources, Inc., et al.
24TRCV01112

Andretti Autosport Holding Company, Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint  

 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
            Andretti Autosport Holding Company,
Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint is overruled. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on April
3, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff contracted with
Defendant National Tour Integrated Resources, Inc. Pursuant to the contract, Plaintiff
agreed to manufacture and install a custom-built structure for the benefit of
Defendant Andretti Autosport Holding Company, Inc. Plaintiff has not been fully
paid pursuant to the agreement. Plaintiff alleges the following causes of
action: 1. Possession of Personal Property; 2. Conversion; 3. Trespass to
Personal Property; 4. Breach of Contract. 
 
            Meet
and Confer 

            Defendant set forth an adequate meet
and confer declaration in compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.  (Declaration, Ashley R. Fickel, ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises
only questions of law. (Schmidt v. Foundation Health (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the
sufficiency of the complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the
properly pleaded factual allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred
from those expressly pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
The Court may not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe
(1994) 7 Cal.App.4th 634, 638.)  Because
a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the plaintiff must show
that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish every element of each
cause of action.  (Rakestraw v.
California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the
demurrer.  (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig
v. County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
            Defendant demurs to the first through third causes of
action of the Complaint on the grounds that the causes of action fail to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. CCP § 430.10(e).
 
            First Cause of Action for
Possession of Personal Property
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the first
cause of action is overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to state a
cause of action.
 
            Plaintiff alleges that, pursuant to
paragraph 4.3 of the agreement, Plaintiff is entitled to possession of the
structure based on the existence of a security interest. Paragraph 4.3 states:
“Until the purchase price and all other charges payable to Company have been
received in full, Company retains and Client grants to Company a security
interest in the product(s) delivered to Client and any proceeds therefrom. Once
payment has been received, Company will release security interest in the
product(s).” (Complaint, Ex. A, ¶ 4.3).
 
            “A security interest becomes
enforceable against the debtor when three conditions are met: (1) the debtor
has signed a security agreement containing a description of the collateral and,
when the security interest is in crops, a description of the land concerned;
(2) value has been given; and (3) the debtor has rights in the collateral.” New
West Fruit Corp. v. Coastal Berry Corp. (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 92, 97. Here,
Plaintiff has adequately alleged all elements to state a claim for possession
based on an enforceable security interest. (Complaint, ¶¶ 6-17). 
 
            Demurring Defendant argues that it
is not a contracting party and thus any claim including one based on a security
interest should be enforced solely against the co-Defendant National Tour
Integrated Resources. 
 
            Cal. U. Com. Code, § 9203 states:
            “(b) Except as otherwise provided in
subdivisions (c) to (i), inclusive, a security interest is enforceable against
the debtor and third parties with respect to the collateral only if each
of the following conditions is satisfied:
(1) Value has been given.
(2) The debtor has rights in the collateral or the
power to transfer rights in the collateral to a secured party.
(3) One of the following conditions is met:
(A) The debtor has signed a security agreement that
provides a description of the collateral and, if the security interest covers
timber to be cut, a description of the land concerned.
(B) The collateral is not a certificated security and
is in the possession of the secured party under Section 9313 pursuant to the
debtor's security agreement.
(C) The collateral is a certificated security in
registered form and the security certificate has been delivered to the secured
party under Section 8301 pursuant to the debtor's security agreement.
(D) The collateral is controllable accounts,
controllable electronic records, controllable payment intangibles, deposit
accounts, electronic documents, electronic money, investment property, or
letter-of-credit rights and the secured party has control under Section 7106,
9104, 9105.1, 9106, 9107, or 9107.1 pursuant to the debtor's security
agreement.
(E) The collateral is chattel paper and the secured
party has possession and control under Section 9314.1 pursuant to the debtor's
security agreement.
(c) Subdivision (b) is subject to Section 4210 on the
security interest of a collecting bank, Section 5118 on the security interest
of a letter-of-credit issuer or nominated person, Section 9110 on a security
interest arising under Division 2 (commencing with Section 2101) or Division 10
(commencing with Section 10101), and Section 9206 on security interests in
investment property.
(d) A person becomes bound as debtor by a security
agreement entered into by another person if, by operation of law other than
this division or by contract, either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(1) The security agreement becomes effective to create
a security interest in the person's property.
(2) The person becomes generally obligated for the
obligations of the other person, including the obligation secured under the
security agreement, and acquires or succeeds to all or substantially all of the
assets of the other person.
(e) If a new debtor becomes bound as debtor by a
security agreement entered into by another person, both of the following apply:
(1) The agreement satisfies paragraph (3) of
subdivision (b) with respect to existing or after-acquired property of the new
debtor to the extent the property is described in the agreement.
(2) Another agreement is not necessary to make a
security interest in the property enforceable.
(f) The attachment of a security interest in
collateral gives the secured party the rights to proceeds provided by Section
9315 and is also attachment of a security interest in a supporting obligation
for the collateral.
(g) The attachment of a security interest in a right
to payment or performance secured by a security interest or other lien on
personal or real property is also attachment of a security interest in the
security interest, mortgage, or other lien.
(h) The attachment of a security interest in a
securities account is also attachment of a security interest in the security
entitlements carried in the securities account.
(i) The attachment of a security interest in a
commodity account is also attachment of a security interest in the commodity
contracts carried in the commodity account.” Id. (emphasis added).
 
Here, Plaintiff has satisfactorily alleged the
requirements of Cal. U. Com. Code § 9203(b). Whether any of the exceptions
apply is an issue of fact that cannot be adjudicated with a demurrer. 
 
Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state a
cause of action. Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is
overruled. 

Second Cause of Action for Conversion
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the second
cause of action is overruled. Plaintiff states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
 
            Conversion is the wrongful exercise
of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim
are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2)
the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights;
and (3) damages....” Hodges v. County of Placer (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th
537, 551. Money cannot be the subject of a cause of action for conversion
unless there is a specific, identifiable sum involved. PCO, Inc. v.
Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.
 
            Here, pursuant to the facts and
authorities stated above in connection with the first cause of action,
Plaintiff has alleged facts demonstrating its right to possession of the
property and that, in light of Plaintiff’s security interest, Defendant’s withholding
of the property is wrongful. Thus, Plaintiff has stated sufficient facts to
state a cause of action for Conversion.
 
            Therefore, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is overruled.
 
Third Cause of Action for Trespass to Personal
Property
 
            Defendant’s demurrer to the third
cause of action is overruled.  Plaintiff
states facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
 
            “[T]he tort of trespass to chattels
allows recovery for interferences with possession of personal property‘not
sufficiently important to be classed as conversion, and so to compel the
defendant to pay the full value of the thing with which he has interfered. Though
not amounting to conversion, the defendant's interference must, to be
actionable, have caused some injury to the chattel or to the plaintiff's rights
in it. Under California law, trespass to chattels lies where an intentional
interference with the possession of personal property has proximately
caused injury.” Jamgotchian v. Slender (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1384,
1400–1401 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            The demurrer is overruled based on
the same facts and authorities as already outlined in the ruling to the
demurrer to the first and second causes of action. Plaintiff states sufficient
facts to state a cause of action.
 
            Thus, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is overruled. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to file and
serve an Answer within 10 days of this date.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.