  Case Number:  22AHCV00123    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



XUEYUN ZOU, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
YAO GUO
   aka VANESSA YAO GUO, aka VANESSA GUO, aka GUO BAOZHI, aka YUKI GUO,
  et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00123
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF DL TRUCKING INC. AND CROSS-DEFENDANT DONGHONG
   DENG’S MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA; PLAINTIFF DL TRUCKING INC. AND CROSS-DEFENDANT
   DONGHONG DENG’S MOTION FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT,
   GOSDOM INC. AND COUNSEL OF RECORD PURSUANT TO CCP § 128.7 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
March 27,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
MOTION
TO QUASH
On March 4, 2022, plaintiffs Xueyun Zou
(“Zou”) and DL Trucking, Inc. (“DL Trucking”) filed this action against
defendants Yao Guo (“Guo”), individually and as trustee of the Guo Protection
Trust, and Gosdom, Inc. (“Gosdom”). In 2019, Guo allegedly portrayed herself as
a movie producer of the films “Wally’s Wonderland” and “Fast & Furious 9”
and fraudulently induced Plaintiff, who is 80-years old, into “investing”
$400,000 in the production of those movies. These investments were memorialized
in a Loan & Security Agreement and a Secured Promissory Note. 
On August 29, 2023, DL Trucking filed
the First Amended Complaint. The FAC omitted Zou as a plaintiff after the
Honorable Colin P. Leis sustained Guo and Gosdom’s demurrers to all of Zou’s
claims on the grounds that DL Trucking – not Zou – was a party to the Loan
& Security Agreement and the Secured Promissory Note. DL Trucking alleges
that it has received $30,000 from Guo, but is still owed over $400,000 and 1%
of the net revenues related to Wally’s Wonderland. (FAC, ¶ 19.)
On October 18, 2023, Gosdom filed a
cross-complaint (“Cross-Complaint”) against Zou’s children, Keqing Deng (“K.
Deng”) and Donghong Deng aka Jennifer Deng (“D. Deng”). Gosdom claims that Guo
was “duped into making investment and loans” to nonparties Remington Chase and
Kevin Robl, who held themselves out to be “elite” film financers but were
allegedly running a Ponzi scheme. Gosdom claims that it paid $110,000 to DL
Trucking and alleges that D. Deng and K. Deng misappropriated $80,000. Gosdom
claims that D. Deng portrayed herself as an officer of DL Trucking and
instructed Gosdom to make payments to D. Deng’s brother, K. Deng, for tax
purposes. 
On December 5, 2023, the clerk, at Gosdom’s
request, entered default against K. Deng. 
On January 31, 2024, the Court granted a
motion to quash Gosdom’s deposition subpoena to East West Bank, which sought
all documents relating to K. Deng’s bank accounts from January 2019 to the
present, including copies of all cancelled checks written to D. Deng or DL
Trucking (the “First Subpoena”). The motion was filed by DL Trucking and D. Deng
(collectively, “Moving Parties”). In granting the motion to quash, the Court concluded
that the First Subpoena was overbroad and that only transactions between K.
Deng, on one hand, and Gosdom, D. Deng, or DL Trucking, on the other, from May
2020 to the present would be relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. This conclusion was reached after a lengthy
discussion of other procedural deficiencies, including Moving Parties’ claim
that the First Subpoena should be quashed because Gosdom failed to give notice
to K. Deng of the First Subpoena as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
1985.3 by serving him at an address that both Zou and D. Deng declare is not (and
has never been) K. Deng’s home (the “San Dimas Address”). 
On February 7, 2024, Moving Parties
issued a revised subpoena to East West Bank (“Revised Subpoena”) seeking
documents relating to K. Deng’s addresses on file with East West Bank for two
accounts, as well as documents, including copies of checks, deposit records,
and wire transfer records, relating to money transferred between K. Deng, D.
Deng, Moving Parties, Zou, Gosdom, Guo, and from May 2020 to the present.
Gosdom also seeks any and all documents regarding direct deposits made in May and
September 2020, January through March 2021, and July through September 2021.
(Motion, Ex. A.) Notice of the subpoena was given to K. Deng by mail to the San
Dimas Address. 
On March 1, 2024, Moving Parties filed
the instant motion to quash on substantially the same grounds that the Revised
Subpoena was not served properly on K. Deng and is overbroad. Moving Parties
alternatively contend that the Revised Subpoena should be modified to only
allow production of documents showing deposits or transfers made by only Gosdom
into K. Deng’s account from May 2020 to September 2021 (as opposed to
transactions made by Moving Parties, K. Deng, or Zou). 
In opposition, Gosdom argues that K.
Deng did not need to be served because no notice or paper, other than an
amended pleading, need to be served upon any defaulted party. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 1010; 1985.3(b)(1) [notice to be given “[t]o the consumer personally, or at
his or her last known address, or in accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with
Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 3, or, if he or she is a party, to his or her
attorney of record”].) Moving Parties do not address this argument in their
reply brief. However, the Court independently notes that Plaintiff’s proof of
service of summons states that K. Deng was served by substituted service at the
San Dimas Address. Thus, there is some circular logic involved in Gosdom’s
position, which would allow a plaintiff to avoid legislative safeguards to
protect a consumer’s right to privacy by naming an individual in a lawsuit, serving
them at a defective address, and securing a default to subpoena their bank
records. Nevertheless, the Court notes that the range of documents sought by
Gosdom has been substantially narrowed such that any invasion to K. Deng’s
right to privacy is minimal relative to Gosdom’s need for information to defend
against this action and prosecute its cross-complaint. Furthermore, the parties
have entered into a stipulated protective order which would limit the
dissemination of any records produced which are designated as confidential. 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is
DENIED. The Court designates K. Deng’s records produced in response to the
Revised Subpoena as Confidential under the terms of the parties’ Stipulated
Protective Order signed on January 30, 2024. This designation does not
eliminate the parties’ independent duties to file motions to seal in compliance
with CRC 2.550 and 2.551 where applicable. 
The parties’ requests for sanctions are
also DENIED. 
II.         
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 128.7
As stated above, on October 18, 2023,
Gosdom filed its Cross-Complaint against Zou’s children, K. Deng and D. Deng. On
February 14, 2024, D. Deng filed this motion for sanctions requesting $6,300 in
reasonable attorney’s fees, along with filing fees, and an order striking the
cross-complaint and dismissing the action. 
Code Civil Procedure section 128.7(b)
provides that by signing and filing a pleading, an attorney “is certifying that
to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an
inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the following conditions are
met: (1) [i]t is not being presented primarily for an improper purpose, such as
to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of
litigation[;] (2) [t]he claims, defenses, and other legal contentions therein are
warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of new law[;]
(3) [t]he allegations and other factual contentions have evidentiary support
or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have evidentiary support after
a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or discovery[;] (4) [t]he
denials of factual contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if
specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a lack of information or
belief.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7(b).) Section 128.7 authorizes the court to
impose appropriate sanctions upon attorneys or parties that have violated
subsection (b). (Id., § 128.7(c).) 
A claim can be factually frivolous or
legally frivolous. (See Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428,
440.) “A claim is factually frivolous if it is ‘not well grounded in fact’ and
it is legally frivolous if it is ‘not warranted by existing law or a good faith
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.’” (Id.)
“In either case, to obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party’s
conduct in asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable.” (Id.) “A
claim is objectively unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney would agree that
[it] is totally and completely without merit.’” (Id.)  Furthermore, “the fact that a plaintiff fails
to provide a sufficient showing to overcome a demurrer or to survive summary
judgment is not, in itself, enough to warrant the imposition of sanctions.” (Peake,
supra, 227 Cal.App.4th at 448.) 
Here, D. Deng argues that the
Cross-Complaint is frivolous because it asserts causes of action for unjust
enrichment, conversion, indemnity, and contribution. D. Deng argues that Gosdom
lacks standing to assert any claim for unjust enrichment or conversion and that
she and K. Deng cannot be liable for contribution or indemnity relating to DL
Trucking’s claims against Gosdom because Gosdom allegedly paid D. Deng and K.
Deng as agents of DL Trucking. This argument ignores Gosdom’s allegations that
D. Deng fraudulently misrepresented her authority to act on behalf of DL
Trucking and subsequently misappropriated the money Gosdom paid her.
(Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 20-21.) To the extent that D. Deng claims that Gosdom has not
suffered any damages out of this misappropriation or even that Gosdom never
made any payments to her or K. Deng, this is an issue of fact. Therefore, the
Court fails to see how the Cross-Complaint is so objectively unreasonable as to
merit sanctions. The Court further notes that even if Gosdom’s claims were
frivolous, sanctions are not mandatory and should be made with restraint. (Id.)
In light of the foregoing, D. Deng’s motion for sanctions is DENIED. 
The Court next addresses Gosdom’s
request for sanctions. 
Code Civil Procedure section 128.7
provides that “[i]f warranted, the court may award to the party prevailing on
the motion the reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in presenting
or opposing the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7(c)(1).) Attorney’s fees may
be warranted when the sanctions motion is frivolous, unfounded, filed for an
improper purpose, or otherwise unreasonable. (See Musaelian v. Adams
(2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1251, 1257-58.) 
D. Deng’s motion rightfully raises
questions about Gosdom’s standing to assert claims for unjust enrichment and
conversion. Therefore, the Court cannot conclude that the sanctions motion was
objectively unreasonable. Furthermore, although the sanctions motion relies on
an obtuse interpretation of the Cross-Complaint, the Court does not have
sufficient evidence to conclude at this time that it was brought primarily for
an improper purpose.  Accordingly,
Gosdom’s request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Dated
this 27th
day of March, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.