  Case Number:  23STCV16662    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  37 Tentative Minute Order
 
Defendant Grand Hustle, LLC demurred to
Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) on similar grounds as Defendant
Roc Nation, LLC. However, Plaintiff did not oppose Grand Hustle’s demurrer.
Instead, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Reconsideration of the December 2, 2024
Order sustained the demurrer to the SAC without leave to amend and dismissing
Roc Nation as a Defendant.
 
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration on the basis
that Plaintiff found new evidence, showing an implied contract.
 
First, Plaintiff’s counsel attests that a “new
document was found and discovered recently” but fails to specify what specific
document was found. The party making the application shall state by affidavit
what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or
decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are
claimed to be shown.” (CCP § 1008(a).) 
 
Second, Plaintiff fails to state why the
document was not found earlier and why the breach of contract claim was
abandoned in subsequent pleadings. A party seeking reconsideration of a prior
order based on “new or different facts, circumstances or law” must provide a
satisfactory explanation for failing to present the information at the first
hearing; i.e., a showing of reasonable diligence.  (Garcia v.
Hejmadi (1997) 58 CA4th 674, 690; see also Even Zohar Const. &
Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 830,
833 [finding that Section 1008 imposes the special requirement of having to not
only show new or different facts, circumstances, or law, but also to “show
diligence with a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or
different information earlier…”].)  The burden under Section 1008 “is
comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly
discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could
not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New
York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.)
 
The fact that Plaintiff produces various emails
amongst various entities referencing requests for accounting and royalties but
Plaintiff fails to show how those documents show there was an implied in fact
contract between Plaintiff and Defendants. Moreover, no implied in fact contract is
alleged in the pleadings and Plaintiff fails to explain why he did not plead
breach of an implied-in-fact contract when he amended his pleadings. The new
evidence does not address the deficiencies in Plaintiff’s SAC nor did Plaintiff
request leave to amend the SAC to allege breach of an implied-in-fact contract.
 
The court denies Plaintiff’s Motion for
Reconsideration due to Plaintiff’s lack of diligence. The court sustains Grand
Hustles’ unopposed demurrer to the SAC without leave to amend and dismisses the
action.