 Case Number:  22STCV12236    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  28  Having considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.BACKGROUND On April 11, 2022, Plaintiffs Destiny Thomas (“Thomas”) and Jayveon Keys (“Keys”) filed this action against Defendants Eric Daniel (“Daniel”) and Miguel Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”) for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. On October 9, 2023, the Court dismissed the action without prejudice. On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate the dismissal to be heard on April 24, 2024.PARTY’S REQUEST Plaintiff asks the Court to vacate the dismissal.LEGAL STANDARD “Section 473(b) provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief. [Citation.]” (Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) The discretionary provision grants relief based upon a party or legal representative’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The discretionary provision states in part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” The mandatory provision states in part: “Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” “The purpose of this mandatory relief provision is to alleviate the hardship on parties who lose their day in court due to an inexcusable failure to act by their attorneys. [Citation.]” (Rodriguez v. Brill (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 723.)DISCUSSION Plaintiffs’ counsel has submitted a declaration stating that counsel inadvertently failed to appear for the trial date due to a mistaken failure to calendar the date. Because the dismissal was due to attorney’s mistake, Plaintiffs have complied with the requirements for relief. The Court grants the motion.CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS the motion of Plaintiffs Destiny Thomas and Jayveon Keys to vacate the dismissal.  The Court vacates the dismissal. The Court sets a OSC Re: Status of Service of the Complaint for May 24, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. Moving parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.