  Case Number:  19STCV41626    Hearing Date:   April 24, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 20, 2019, Plaintiff Dan Corey (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Steve Bubalo
Construction Co., Carl West, and Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On
February 13, 2020, Defendants Steve Bubalo Construction Co. and Carl West (“Defendants”)
filed an answer. 
On
January 31, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to a
neurosurgery examination and an orthopedic examination of his right hand, to be
heard on April 24, 2024.  On April 12,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
(The Court exercises its discretion to consider Plaintiff’s late-filed
opposition.)  On April 17, 2024,
Defendants filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 25, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court to order Plaintiff to submit to a neurosurgery examination and an
orthopedic examination. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 

Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210) . . . , the party shall obtain leave of court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical . . . examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
  “(d) An order
granting a physical . . . examination shall specify the person or persons who
may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).) 

DISCUSSION 
Defendants
assert that Plaintiff’s January 5, 2024 supplemental discovery responses “indicated
that Plaintiff is alleging new post-operative symptoms of right hand/finger
numbness, loss of strength of the right hand, and no use of and inability to
open the fourth and fifth fingers of his right/dominant hand.”  (Motion p. 2.)  In addition, Defendants state, Plaintiff for
the first time identified Banner Health as Plaintiff’s medical provider.  According to Defendants, they wish to conduct
a neurosurgery evaluation and an orthopedic evaluation “to determine the nature
and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries to his right hand and whether it is related
to Plaintiff’s second fusion surgery on February 14, 2023” or to an unrelated
orthopedic injury.  (Motion pp. 2-3.) 
Plaintiff
previously participated in independent medical examinations with Defendant’s
expert Cary D. Alberstone, M.D., a board certified in neurosurgeon, on November
10, 2020 and March 15, 2022.  Defendants
state that these evaluations “were related to Plaintiff’s injury to the spine
and unrelated to Plaintiff’s right hand.” 
(Motion p. 4.)  Defendants argue
that an additional  neurosurgery
examination by Dr. Alberstone and an orthopedic evaluation by Defendants’
retained orthopedic expert, Nicholas E. Rose, M.D., FACS, “would provide new information
that could not be obtained in the prior IMEs based on Plaintiff’s new injury to
the right hand, Dr. Rose’s expertise in orthopedics, hand injuries and medical
records.”  (Motion p. 3.) 
          In response, Plaintiff argues that while Defendants’ stated
intention is “to determine the nature and extent of Plaintiff’s injuries to his
right hand and whether it is related to Plaintiff’s second fusion surgery on
February 14, 2023,” Defendants describe the scope of the examinations as including “background history, which
includes medical and medication history, family medical and psychiatric
history, surgical history, marital history, educational background, history and
character of current emotional complaints, history and character of previous
psychological complaints, medical and medication history, and social,
occupational and developmental history.” 
(Motion p. 2.)  Plaintiff contends
that the broad scope of the requested examinations refutes Defendants’ claim of
good cause. 
          Plaintiff also argues that (1) Defendants have not specified the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examinations, (2) Defendants have not listed the diagnostic
tests and procedures that their examining doctors will use, and (3) Defendants’
meet and confer efforts were inadequate. 
          Plaintiff does not, however, argue that (1)
Defendants have already obtained enough information about Plaintiff’s right
hand to enable them to defend a claim for damage to the hand or (2) Defendants should
have sought this information earlier. 
For example, Plaintiff does not dispute Defendants’ assertion that it
was not until Defendants received
Plaintiff’s January 5, 2024 supplemental discovery responses that they became
aware that “Plaintiff is alleging new post-operative symptoms of right
hand/finger numbness, loss of strength of the right hand, and no use of and
inability to open the fourth and fifth fingers of his right/dominant
hand.”  (Motion p. 2.)  Similarly, Plaintiff does not dispute Defendants’
assertion that the previous physical examinations involved Plaintiff’s spine,
not his hand. 
          Therefore, the Court continues the motion to a date to be
provided at the April 24, 2024 hearing.  The Court grants Defendants leave to file
supplemental papers at least ten days before the continued hearing addressing
the following issues: 
1.    Do Defendants agree that the doctors conducting the neurosurgery
and orthopedic evaluations will not inquire into Plaintiff’s family medical and psychiatric history, marital
history, educational background, history and character of current emotional
complaints, or history and character of previous psychological complaints? 
2.    Specific information about the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination. 
3.    A list of the diagnostic tests and procedures that
the examining doctors will use at the examinations. 
4.    Whether Defendants’ counsel has met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel about both requested examinations. 
Plaintiff
may file responsive papers no later than five days before the continued
hearing.  If the parties resolve the
matter before the continued hearing, they may take the matter off calendar. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court CONTINUES the hearing to a date to be
provided at the April 24, 2024 hearing. 
The parties may submit supplemental papers as set forth above. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.