  Case Number:  23VECV03063    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ROSA MARIA VARGAS, an
  individual, 
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION
  AUTHORITY, a Government Entity, CURTIS SIMON, an individual; and DOES 1 through
  20, Inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  CASE NO.: 23VECV03063
 
ORDER
  SUSTAINING DEFENDANT HARPREET CURRY’S DEMURRER WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AND
  GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND



 
I.        INTRODUCTION
This case
arises out of injuries Plaintiff Rosa Maria Vargas (“Plaintiff”) sustained
while exiting a bus operated by Defendant Curtis Simon (“Simon”), an employee
of Defendant Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority dba Metro
(“LACMTA”). Plaintiff alleges she was exiting the bus on March 26, 2022, when
Simon negligently deployed the wheelchair ramp. Plaintiff further alleges the wheelchair ramp
trapped her foot as it was lowered, causing Plaintiff to fall and sustain
injuries. 
This Court granted Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to Amend on July 16, 2024. Plaintiff filed her First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on August 1, 2024. In the FAC, Plaintiff added new Defendant
Harpreet Curry (“Curry”), LACMTA’s “managing agent and Manager of
Transportation Operations,” whom Plaintiff alleges was aware of Simon’s disciplinary
record and whom nonetheless allowed Simon to continue working in his capacity
as a bus driver for LACMTA. (FAC, ¶¶ 45-53.)
Curry now demurrers to
Plaintiff’s entire FAC. Curry, Simon, and LACMTA (collectively, “Defendants”) also
move to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations. 
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On July 14,
2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging the following causes of action:
(1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Entrustment; (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention; and (4) Dangerous Condition of Public Property. 
On September
21, 2023, this Court dismissed Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property.
On September
27, 2023, Defendant LACMTA filed its Answer. 
On October 6,
2023, Defendant LACMTA filed its Amended Answer.
On March 18,
2024, Simon filed his Answer.  
On May 21,
2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to
Plaintiff’s request for production of documents (set one), Plaintiff’s form
interrogatories (set one), and LACMTA’s PMQ deposition and ordered Defendant’s
counsel to pay $7,530.10 in discovery sanctions.
On June 5,
2024, this Court denied Simon’s Motion for Relief and granted Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel and ordered Defendant’s counsel to pay $1,310.00 in discovery
sanctions.
On July 16,
2024, this Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Amend and denied Plaintiff’s
Motion for Terminating, Issue, Evidentiary, and/or Monetary Sanctions against
LACMTA. 
On August 1,
2024, Plaintiff filed her FAC, alleging (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent
Entrustment; and (3) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention.
On August 28,
2024, Curry filed the instant Demurrer.
On Augus 29,
2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to Strike. 
On September
11, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Opposition to the Demurrer (“Opposition
Demurrer”) and her Opposition to the Motion to Strike (“Opposition Motion”). 
On September 5,
2024, this Court took Plaintiff’s second Motion for Terminating, Issue,
Evidentiary, and/or Monetary Sanctions against LACMTA under submission.
On September
17, 2024, Curry filed his Reply to the Opposition Demurrer (“Reply Demurrer”)
and Defendants filed their Reply to the Opposition Motion (“Reply Motion”).
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
A.       Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to test
the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading
(complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (See Code Civ. Proc. §§
422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)[1] It
is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the
complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (See Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th
at 994.) 
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint as true and
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.” (Mitchell v.
California Dept. of Pub. Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007, citation
omitted.) “[T]he facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer may be brought if insufficient facts are
stated to support the cause of action asserted. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10(e).)  
“A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a complaint
as a matter of law.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) “[T]he court gives the complaint a reasonable
interpretation, and treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded.” (Id.) In testing the sufficiency of the
complaint, the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence
or other extrinsic matters. (See SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (See
Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court
to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso
v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862
[disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos.
(1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court
record].) Accordingly, “[w]hether the plaintiff will be able to prove the
pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer.” (Stevens v.
Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 605, 609-10.) 
A demurrer can only be sustained when
it disposes of an entire cause of action. (See Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The
burden is on the complainant to show the Court a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Id.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility that the
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70
Cal.2d 240, 245).  
B.      Motion
to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are
that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been
drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See id. at § 436.) The grounds
for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of
judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice,
fraud, or oppression. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 3294(a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (See Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person
to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (See
id.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of
a material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of
property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (See id.) Conclusory allegations,
devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that
parties acted with oppression, fraud or malice. (See Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) 
To succeed on a motion to strike
punitive damages allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that
the alleged behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not
be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (See Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.) The mere allegation
an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive
damages. (See Grieves v.
Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App. 3d 159, 166.) 
IV.     MEET AND CONFER
Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a), emphasis
added.) A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of
the meet and confer process. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)
          Curry’s counsel Jeffrey Rector
(“Rector”) filed a declaration attesting to the parties’ meet and confer efforts. (See
Declaration of Jeffrey Rector filed August 28, 2024 (“Rector Decl.”), ¶ 3.)
Rector declared “I emailed a draft of this demurrer to counsel for Plaintiff…counsel
for Plaintiff Nina Benchoen, Esq. [sic] replied to my email and stated she did
not have time to speak, but ‘if you believe that you need to file the demurrer
and motion to strike, that is your prerogative.’  In my assessment, further efforts to meet and
confer regarding the instant demurrer would be futile, as the disputes herein
are purely legal (as opposed to factual deficiencies that might be cured by
further amendment).  Therefore, it is in
the interests of the parties and judicial economy to resolve these disputes as
quickly as possible.” (Rector Decl., ¶ 3.) 
          A
single email is generally insufficient to satisfy Curry’s meet and confer
requirements and avoid this Court’s intervention. The Court is especially
frustrated with Rector’s lack of meet and confer efforts when it considers his
firm’s consistent failure to comply with its meet and confer obligations, as
seen in prior motions in this action. However, because of the recurring communications
breakdowns between counsel in this case and that Mr. Bencohen’s response disappointingly
thumbed his nose at Curry’s counsel’s efforts, the Court will nonetheless
proceed with addressing the merits of Curry’s Demurrer in the interest of judicial
efficiency. 
V.       ANALYSIS  
A.       The Court Sustains Curry’s Demurrer
Without Leave to Amend
“California
case law recognizes the theory that an employer can be liable to a third person
for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.” (Doe
v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054 (“Doe”).) “Negligence
liability will be imposed on an employer if it ‘knew or should have known that
hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular
harm materializes.’” (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
1133, 1139.)
Plaintiff’s
FAC added both punitive damages allegations and Curry as a Defendant. The only
cause of action alleged against Curry is the third cause of action for
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision. (See FAC, ¶¶ 37-53.)
Curry argues Plaintiff’s
third cause of action fails to state a cause of action against him because only
an employer can be liable to a third person for negligent hiring, supervision,
or retention, and Curry was Simon’s supervisor, not employer. (See Demurrer,
pp. 3-4.) Curry cites Doe in support of his argument. (See Demurrer,
pg. 3.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues “for all intents and purposes, Harpreet Curry is
LACTMA because he is a ‘managing agent’…Accordingly, he is Defendant Simon’s
employer.” (Opposition Demurrer, pg. 3.) Plaintiff further argues Doe didn’t
address whether a managing agent could be held liable for negligent hiring but did
address the difference between an employee and agent, finding an agent acts
in the place of the principal and can bring the principal into “legal relations
with third persons.” (Id. (citations omitted).) 
The Court
finds Plaintiff has failed to state a cause of action of negligent hiring,
retention, or supervision against Curry. Confusingly, Plaintiff is trying to
both allege Curry and LACMTA are one in the same and also that Curry is
individually liable to Plaintiff for the purposes of Government Code §
825(b)(further discussed below). Plaintiff cannot do both. Curry, even when
labeled a “managing agent,” is not LACMTA. Other than Plaintiff’s “managing
agent” reference, Plaintiff does not allege Curry was Simon’s employer, nor
could Plaintiff credibly do so—on the face of Plaintiff’s FAC, Curry is also
an employee of LACMTA.[2] 
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Doe is unpersuasive. In Doe, the court found
the plaintiff had alleged sufficient facts to conclude the defendant employee
who committed torts against third parties was the agent of defendant employer
for the purposes of negligent hiring and supervision. (See Doe, 50
Cal.App.4th at 1047.) Here, Plaintiff is not alleging Curry is individually
liable to Plaintiff outside of Curry’s role as a supervisor (or managing agent).
Curry’s individually tortious actions could be imputed to LACMTA, as Doe
suggests, but that does not make Curry and LACMTA one in the same and does
not change the fact that Plaintiff has not alleged Curry committed individual
tortious action.  
Because
Plaintiff cannot allege Curry is Simon’s employer, Plaintiff cannot maintain
her third cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision.
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS Curry’s Demurrer WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
B.      Motion to Strike
Defendants seek to strike Plaintiff’s
punitive damages allegations. (See Motion, pg. 2.)[3]
Defendants argue (1) LACMTA is immune from punitive damages because it is a
public entity pursuant to Government Code § 818; (2) Curry cannot be held
liable to Plaintiff (as discussed in Curry’s Demurrer) and so LACMTA “cannot be
held responsible for punitive damages as the result of any act or omission of
Defendant CURRY”; and (3) the prayer for punitive damages is general and not
limited to LACMTA, and no allegations would support punitive damages against
Simon. (Motion, pp. 3-5.) 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues “LACMTA
is authorized to pay punitive damages for the acts or omissions of its agents
acting within the course and scope of their duties under Government Code
section 825(b). Plaintiff pleads facts sufficient to allege that Harpreet Curry…knew
Defendant Curtis Simon caused three (3) prior incidents…[and] consciously chose
to merely impose short suspensions instead of properly disciplining and/or
terminating Simon.” (Opposition Motion, pg. 1.) Plaintiff further argues she
does not allege Simon is liable for punitive damages. (See id.)
The Court finds it appropriate
to strike Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations. First, as Defendants note, public
entities like LACMTA are generally immune from punitive damages. (See Gov.
Code § 818; see also City of Newport v. Fact Concerts, Inc. (1981) 453 U.S.
247, 258-271.) Second, the Court agrees Gov. Code § 825(b) allows a public
entity to pay punitive damages awarded against its employees. (See Gov.
Code 825(b); see Runyon v. Superior Court (Franco) (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d
878, 881-882.) However, as discussed in the Court’s Demurrer analysis,
Plaintiff does not allege Curry is individually liable to Plaintiff. The
allegations against Curry Plaintiff refers to in opposition are in the context
of Plaintiff’s negligent hiring cause of action only; this Court already
sustained Curry’s Demurrer to these allegations. Again, Plaintiff is trying to
have it both ways—Plaintiff wants Curry and LACMTA to be viewed as one in the
same for negligent hiring purposes but as separate and distinct for punitive damages
purposes, without actually alleging Curry committed any individually tortious
action. The Court declines to make such a finding. 
Because Plaintiff cannot
maintain a claim for punitive damages against LACMTA or Curry, and because
Plaintiff is not alleging punitive damages against Simon, there are no other
allegations from which punitive damages could stem. Accordingly, the Court
GRANTS Defendants’ Motion as to Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND.
VII.     CONCLUSION
Based on
the foregoing analysis, the Court SUSTAINS Curry’s Demurrer WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND.
The Court also GRANTS Defendants’
Motion to Strike as to Plaintiff’s punitive damages allegations WITHOUT LEAVE
TO AMEND.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED: ­­­­September 24, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


