  Case Number:  23VECV00218    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV00218 ADR v KAIO
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Cross-Defendants ADR Design, Inc. and Gabriel
Ebaiov’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the second, third, and fourth causes of action and is OVERRULED as
to the fifth cause of action.  Leave to
amend is not to add new causes of action but to address the deficiencies set
forth in this decision.
Cross-Defendants ADR Design, Inc.
and Gabriel Ebaiov’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Introduction 
Cross-Defendants ADR Design, Inc.
(ADR) and Gabriel Ebaiov (Ebaiov) (collectively, Cross-Defendants) demurred to
Cross-Complainant Kaio Construction Group, Inc.’s (Cross-Complainant)
Cross-Complaint.  The demurrer placed
into issue the second cause of action (COA) for intentional misrepresentation,
the third COA for negligent misrepresentation, the fourth COA for unfair
business practices, and the fifth cause of action for recovery on contractors’
bond.
Additionally, Cross-Defendants
moved to strike the attorneys’ fees request from the Cross-Complaint, the
punitive damages allegations in the Cross-Complaint, and the claim for damages
for the fourth COA for unfair business practices. 
Procedural
The demurrer and motion to strike
were not signed by counsel for Cross-Defendants. The failure of counsel for
Cross-Defendants to sign the demurrer and motion to strike is in violation of
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7(a). Cross-Complainant did not move to
strike either the demurrer or motion to strike on the grounds that such motions
are unsigned. The Court therefore considered the merits of the demurrer and
motion to strike, but reminds counsel that this is a procedural error.
Discussion
Second and Third Causes of Action
– Intentional Misrepresentation and Negligent Misrepresentation 
To state a cause of action for
intentional misrepresentation, a party must allege: (1) a misrepresentation;
(2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) actual and
justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Chapman v. Skype Inc. (2013)
220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-31.) A negligent misrepresentation cause of action
requires a showing of the same elements except no knowledge of falsity is
required but rather there must be “a misrepresentation of fact by a person who
has no reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.” (Id. at p. 231.)
Allegations of fraud must be alleged with particularity which “necessitates
pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.” (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d
59, 73.) 
Cross-Defendants argued that the
intentional misrepresentation COA and negligent misrepresentation COA are
insufficient because such causes of action are not alleged with the required
particularity. The Court finds such argument persuasive. While Cross-Complainant
alleges a series of alleged misrepresentations by Cross-Defendant Ebaiov, the
Cross-Complaint does not set forth such alleged misrepresentations with the
required specificity. (Cross-Complaint pars. 33-58.) The Cross-Complaint does
not articulate how, where, and by what means the purported fraudulent
misrepresentations were tendered. Moreover, the Cross-Complaint only pleads the
element of justifiable reliance in a conclusory manner. (Cross-Complaint, pars.
43, 54.) Cross-Complainant was required to plead such causes of action with
specificity. (Chapman v. Skype Inc., supra, 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231.) The
Court finds the second and third causes of action to be too conclusory. 
The Demurrer to the Second and
Third causes of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
Fourth Cause of Action—Unfair
Business Practices 
To set forth a claim for a
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”),
Cross-Complainant must establish that Cross-Defendants were engaged in an
“unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive,
untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof.
Code sec. 17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is not an
all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air
Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.) A cross-complainant
alleging unfair business practices “must state with reasonable particularity
the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.) 
Cross-Defendants argued that
Cross-Complainant has failed to allege its unfair business practices cause of
action with the required specificity. A violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200 occurs if a business practice is unlawful, unfair, or
deceptive. (Byars v. SCME Mortgage Bankers, Inc. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1134,
1147.) Given that Cross-Complainant alleges unfair business practices,
Cross-Complainant was required to allege that Cross-Defendants’ conduct
“threatens an incipient violation of an anti-trust law, or violates the policy
or spirit of one of those laws because its effects are comparable to or the
same as a violation of the law, or otherwise significantly threatens or harms
competition.” (Ibid.) 
The Court finds that
Cross-Complainant has not stated a sufficient cause of action for unfair
business practices. (Cross-Complaint, pars. 59-79.) There are no factual allegations
that the conduct of Cross-Defendants threatens an incipient violation of an
anti-trust law or violates the policy or spirit of one of those laws.
Cross-Complainant has not pleaded the fourth cause of action with the required
specificity. 
The demurrer to the Fourth cause
of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Fifth Cause of Action—Recovery on
Contractors’ Bond 
Cross-Defendants argued that the
fifth cause of action for recovery on contractors’ bond fails because the
agreement at issue does not require Cross-Defendants to perform contracting
services. The Court does not find Cross-Defendants’ contention to be persuasive.
Here, the Cross-Complaint alleges that Cross-Defendant ADR was a contractor and
retained Cross-Complainant pursuant to a subcontracting agreement to do
concrete and demolition work on a property. (Cross-Complaint, paras. 1, 5,
13-15.) Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants failed to pay monies
owed to Cross-Complainant for the work on the property. (Cross-Complainant,
paras. 83-85.) A contractor’s bond is for the benefit of “[a] person damaged as
a result of a willful and deliberate violation . . . by the licensee, or by the
fraud of the licensee in the execution or performance of a construction
contract.” (Bus. & Prof. Code sec. 7071.5(c).) A subcontractor may pursue a
claim against a general contractor for recovery on a bond. (Nelson Supply Co.
v. Surety Co. of Pacific (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 490, 491-92.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
Motion to Strike 
Cross-Defendants argued to strike
the request for attorneys’ fees in the Cross-Complaint. The Court notes that
the Cross-Complaint does not indicate whether attorneys’ fees are allowed by
statute or agreement of the parties. Cross-Complainant seeks attorneys’ fees
pursuant to the second, third, and fourth causes of action which, as indicated
above, are insufficiently alleged. 
The Court therefore finds it
appropriate to strike the request for attorneys’ fees. 
Cross-Defendants also moved to
strike punitive damages allegations from the Cross-Complaint. Cross-Defendants
argued that the Cross-Complaint fails to plead the necessary facts for any
punitive damages claim and fails to plead the necessary facts to support
punitive damages against a corporation. The Court finds such argument
persuasive. Based upon its review of the Cross-Complaint, the Court finds that
the Cross-Complaint does not state sufficient facts showing malice, fraud, or
oppression to warrant the imposition of punitive damages. (Civ. Code sec.
3294.) Additionally, the sole basis for punitive damages is the insufficiently
alleged second and fourth causes of action. 
The Court therefore finds it
proper to strike punitive damages allegations from the Cross-Complaint. 
Lastly, Cross-Defendants argued
that damages are not available for the unfair business practices claim.
(Cross-Complaint, par. 79.) The opposition brief does not contest such
argument. Where a cause of action for unfair business practices is alleged, monetary
damages are not available as a remedy. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1148.) “[R]emedies are limited to injunctive
relief and restitution.” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1133.) As such, the Court finds it proper to strike
damages from the fourth cause of action. 

The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.