 Case Number:  24STCV08986    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ANDY NICKERSON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ERIC ICENOGLE, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV08986
  Hearing Date:  October 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to transfer venue 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff Andy
Nickerson filed this action against Defendant Eric Icenogle. Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint on May 7, 2024, asserting causes of
action for (1) violation of the Unfair Competition Law and (2) violation of the
Consumer Legal Remedies Act. The FAC alleges that Plaintiff purchased a Ford
Bronco from Defendant based on Defendant’s false representations about the
characteristics and quality of the vehicle. 

            On September 5, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant motion to transfer venue to Tuolumne County. Plaintiff filed
his opposition on September 18, 2024. Defendant filed his reply on September
24, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“[T]he superior court in the county where
the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper court for the trial of the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395(a).) However,
“in an action arising from an offer or provision of goods . . . intended
primarily for personal, family or household use, . . . or an action arising
from a transaction consummated as a proximate result of either an unsolicited
telephone call made by a seller engaged in the business of consummating
transactions of that kind or a telephone call or electronic transmission made
by the buyer or lessee in response to a solicitation by the seller, the
superior court in the county where the buyer or lessee in fact signed the
contract, where the buyer or lessee resided at the time the contract was
entered into, or where the buyer or lessee resides at the commencement of the
action is the proper court for the trial of the action.” (Id., §
395(b).)
“The general rule is that venue is proper
only in the county of the defendant's residence.” (Williams v. Superior
Court (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 101, 108.) “Thus, the right of a plaintiff to
have an action tried in a county other than that of the defendant's residence
is exceptional. If the plaintiff would claim such right he must bring
himself within the exception.” (Id. at p. 109.) “[A]ny ambiguities in
the complaint must be construed against the plaintiff towards the end that the
defendant will not be deprived of the right to a trial in the county of his or
her residence.” (Ibid.)
The facts demonstrating proper venue must
be stated in a complaint verified by the plaintiff or the plaintiff’s attorney,
or in a declaration attached to the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 396a(a).) Upon
motion, “the court shall, if it appears that the action or proceeding was not
commenced in the proper court, order the action or proceeding transferred to
the proper court.” (Id., § 396b(a).)  
DISCUSSION
Defendant argues that Tuolumne County is
the proper venue because that is where Defendant resides. (See Icenogle Decl. ¶
4.) However, this is “an action arising from an offer or provision of goods . .
. intended primarily for personal, family or household use.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 395(b).) Although Plaintiff
does not explicitly allege that the Bronco was for personal use, he alleges a
violation of CLRA, which only applies to the sale of goods for personal,
family, or household use. (See Civ. Code, § 1761(a), (d).) Under section
395(b), venue is proper where the buyer resides at the time of the action.
Plaintiff, the buyer, resided in Los Angeles County at the time of the action.
(Compl. ¶ 13; Nickerson Decl. ¶ 3.)
            Defendant argues that because the
complaint is unverified and Plaintiff did not attach a declaration to the
complaint, the Court cannot consider Plaintiff’s declaration filed in support
of his opposition to this motion. While the affidavit should be filed with the
complaint, “the court may, on terms that are just, permit the affidavit to be
filed after the filing of the complaint, and a copy of the affidavit shall be
served on the defendant and the time to answer or otherwise plead shall date
from that service.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 396a(a).) Thus, the Court may consider
Plaintiff’s late declaration. Plaintiff avers under oath that he resides in Los
Angeles (Nickerson Decl. ¶ 3), and there is no evidence to the contrary. The
Court finds that Plaintiff resides in Los Angeles County.      
Defendant also argues that section 395(b)
does not apply because Defendant’s alleged advert on eBay does not constitute
“solicitation.” (See Compl. ¶ 5.) However, section 395(b) applies “in an action
arising from an offer or provision of goods . . . intended primarily for
personal, family or household use,” regardless of whether solicitation is
involved. The statute uses the word “or” to denote that solicitation is but one
way of triggering the exception. (See Kray Cabling Co. v. County of Contra
Costa (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1588, 1593 [“The use of this disjunctive
reflects a legislative intent that either event, standing alone, may trigger
the statute”].) Thus, section 395(b) applies even if this case does not involve
solicitation. 
This conclusion is supported by Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, the case Defendant cites. The
court in Fontaine stated that section 395(b) “authoriz[es] venue in the
county where a consumer plaintiff resides at the commencement of his or her
action arising from a consumer transaction as specified in the statute.” (Id.
at p. 839.) In that case, the plaintiff’s action arose “from a loan that he
obtained primarily for personal, family or household use, which is a consumer
transaction specified in section 395, subdivision (b).” (Ibid.) The
court did not additionally require the plaintiff to demonstrate solicitation.      
Here, Plaintiff similarly alleges a “consumer
transaction as specified in statute.” (See Fontaine, supra, 175
Cal.App.4th at p. 839.) Specifically, the action arises from “an offer or
provision of goods . . . intended primarily for personal, family or household
use.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 395(b).) Thus, like in Fontaine, section
395(b) is triggered regardless of any solicitation. Because section 395(b)
permits venue in the plaintiff’s county of residence at the time of the action,
Los Angeles County is the proper venue.
Defendant cites Gallin v. Superior
Court (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 541, 543, where the court held that “the venue
provision of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act (Civ. Code, § 1750 et seq.) does
not override the general rule a defendant is entitled to have an action tried
in the county of his or her residence.” However, Plaintiff is not relying on
the venue provision in CLRA. Rather, Plaintiff relies on the exception in Code
of Civil Procedure section 395(b) for actions arising from the sale of personal
goods. The court in Gallin did not analyze the exception under section
395(b), much less preclude its application in CLRA actions. (See People v.
Anderson (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1259, 1275 [“A court's opinion is not
authority for a proposition not considered in it”].) Thus, the exception in
section 395(b) applies notwithstanding Gallin.     
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to transfer is
DENIED.
 