  Case Number:  23STCV03486    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
HALEY CHAPMAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
MARRIOT INTERNATIONAL,
  INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV03486
  Hearing Date:  October 2, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to strike
  supplemental expert designation  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On February 16, 2023, Plaintiff
Haley Chapman, individually and as successor-in-interest to Noelle Glotfelty
(Decedent), filed this action against various Defendants for (1) wrongful
death, (2) survival cause of action, and (3) negligence. The complaint stems
from the death of Decedent, who committed suicide inside a Marriott hotel room.
Plaintiff is Decedent’s daughter.  
            On July 29, 2024, Defendants Marriott
International, Inc.; Agoura Hills HHG Hotel Development, LP; and Huntington
Pacific Hotels, LLC served their expert designations. Defendants made the
following pertinent designations: (1) Dr. Marvin Pietruszka “will testify as to
issues concerning cause of death, time of death;” (2) Dr. Lawrence Mayer “will
testify to the manner of decedent’s death and all medical and chemical issues
relating thereto;” and (3) Dr. Michael Fishbein “will testify as to issues
concerning the time of death and pathology as they relate to plaintiff’s claim
in this action.” (Maxwell Decl., Ex. B.) 
            At the same time, Plaintiff served
her expert disclosure, designating the following pertinent witnesses on the
issue of “causation:” (1) Dr. Mace Beckson; (2) Dr. Francisco Diaz; and (3) Dr.
Othon Mena. (Heffernan Decl., Ex. A.)  
            On August 20, 2024, Defendants
served a second expert designation designating Dr. James High. Dr. High’s role
was stated as follows: “James High, M.D., is a board certified psychiatrist. He
has agreed to testify at trial and will be sufficiently familiar with the facts
of this case to submit to a meaningful deposition regarding his opinions, which
will include causation.” (Maxwell Decl., Ex. C.) Defendants designated Dr. High
in response to Plaintiff’s designation of Dr. Beckson. Plaintiff contends that
the designation of Dr. High is improper because Defendants have already
designated three experts on the issue of causation.  
            On September 5, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to strike Defendant’s supplemental expert designation.
Defendants filed a late opposition on September 23, 2024.  
LEGAL STANDARD
            “Within 20 days after the exchange
described in Section 2034.260, any party who engaged in the exchange may submit
a supplemental expert witness list containing the name and address of any
experts who will express an opinion on a subject to be covered by an expert
designated by an adverse party to the exchange, if the party supplementing an
expert witness list has not previously retained an expert to testify on that
subject.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.280(a).) 
            “A party may submit a supplemental
expert witness list within 20 days after the exchange, but only ‘if the party
supplementing the expert witness list has not previously retained an expert to
testify on that subject.’” (Basham v. Babcock (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
1717, 1723.) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff argues that the
designation of Dr. High as an expert on causation is improper because a
supplemental expert designation is only permitted if Defendants “ha[d] not
previously retained an expert to testify on that subject.” (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.280(a).) Plaintiff contends that Defendants had already
designated Drs. Pietruszka, Mayer, and Fishbein on the issue of causation. 
            However, Defendants did not
initially designate an expert on psychiatry. Drs. Pietruszka, Mayer, and
Fishbein were designated as experts on time of death, manner of death, and
pathology. (Maxwell Decl., Ex. B.) Thus, Defendants were entitled to designate
Dr. High in response to Plaintiff’s designation of psychiatrist Dr. Beckson.
The Code expressly allows this, permitting the supplemental designation of an
expert “on a subject to be covered by an expert designated by an adverse party
to the exchange.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.280(a).) “[T]he Legislature
contemplated that when a party designates an expert, it is possible the other
side might want to designate a rebuttal expert on the same topic.” (Du-All
Safety, LLC v. Superior Court (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 485, 498.) 
            Plaintiff cites to Fairfax v.
Lords (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1019, 1021, where the court held that “[w]hen
it comes to issues that both sides anticipate will be disputed at trial, a
party cannot merely ‘reserve its right’ to designate experts in the initial
exchange, wait to see what experts are designated by the opposition, and then
name its experts only as purported ‘rebuttal’ witnesses.” However, the court in
Du-All distinguished Fairfax because in Fairfax, the
defendant designated no witnesses during the initial exchange with the express
intent of serving a rebuttal witness list only after receiving the plaintiff’s
designations. (Du-All, supra, 34 Cal.App.5th at p. 500.) This “wait and
see” approach constituted improper gamesmanship which defeated the purpose of a
simultaneous exchange and prejudiced the plaintiff. (Id. at p. 501.) 
            There is no indication of such
gamesmanship in this case. Defendants properly designated their experts in the
initial exchange. They simply did not anticipate the need for an expert on
psychiatry and thus served a supplemental designation. The Code specifically
permits this. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.280(a); Du-All, supra, 34
Cal.App.5th at p. 498.) The law does not require a party to initially designate
“every expert witness it anticipates using to rebut the experts the other side
might designate as an expert.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff articulates no
prejudice as a result of the supplemental designation. 
            Lastly, Plaintiff argues that Dr.
High’s testimony should be excluded as cumulative under Evidence Code section
723 because Defendants already have experts on the subject matter of causation.
First, this is a motion to strike an expert designation, not a motion in
limine. The admissibility of Dr. High’s testimony is not currently at
issue. Second, Dr. High’s testimony will not be cumulative because Defendants
have not designated any prior experts on the subject matter of psychiatry. If
each party were allowed only one expert on the overall subject of causation,
then Plaintiff herself would have designated cumulative witnesses. (See
Heffernan Decl., Ex. A [designating three experts on causation].)    
            In sum, Defendants properly
submitted a supplemental witness list designating Dr. High on the issue of
psychiatry, a topic not previously covered in their initial exchange. The Court
finds no gamesmanship or prejudice in Defendants designating a rebuttal
witness, which is expressly permitted by the Code. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion to strike is
DENIED.
 