 Case Number:  22STCV31158    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS COMPLAINT 
Hearing Date: 7/3/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV31158 TIMOTHY CONNOLLY
vs SP PLUS CORPORATION 
Moving Party: Defendants Calmart Sub I, LLC
(erroneously sued as Brookfield Properties)
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS
COMPLAINT IS
GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
 
A cross-complaint against any of
the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the
cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the
initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days
of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.¿(CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)¿Any other cross-complaint may be
filed at any time before the court has set a trial date.¿(CCP §428.50(b).)
 
If a party fails to file a
cross-complaint within the time limits described above, he or she must obtain
permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.¿(CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).) The proposed
cross-complaint is mandatory when it arises out of the same transaction as
plaintiff’s claim. The court must grant leave to file the mandatory
cross-complaint absent bad faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50, Silver Organizations,
Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) Leave to file a permissive
cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice. (CCP
§428.50(c).) Judicial policy generally supports the resolution of all disputed
matters between parties, leave to amend or leave to cross-complain is typically
granted liberally. (See Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402,
412.) The Court may, however, deny such leave if there is demonstrated
prejudice to the opposing party, such as trial delays, loss of critical
evidence, or increased preparation costs. (Id.)¿ “Cross complaints for comparative
equitable indemnity would appear virtually always transactionally related to
the main action.” (Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American
Develop. Co. (1991) 230 CA3d 30, 38.)
 
California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324 requires a copy of the proposed cross complaint to be attached to the
motion.
 
Discussion
On September 26, 2022,
Plaintiff filed a Complaint, alleging causes of action for General Negligence
and Premises Liability against SP Plus Corporation, California Mart, LLC,
California Market, Rytec, LLC, and Victor Enriquez. Plaintiff alleges that while
entering the premises, one of the speed gates lowered and struck him.
On August 2, 2023,
Plaintiff filed an Amendment to the Complaint, identifying one of the DOE
Defendants as Calmart Sub I, LLC (Calmart). Defendants Calmart’s parent company
and Rytec allegedly entered into an agreement in 2018 for the installation of
the garage gates involved in the incident. This agreement contained an
indemnity provision. On December 28, 2023, Calmart requested indemnity from
Rytec and on April 8, 2024, Rytec denied Calmart’s request. Calmart now moves
the Court for leave to file a cross-complaint against Rytec for indemnity and
declaratory relief.
Calmart has met all the
requirements for leave, as a cross-complaint is mandatory when it arises out of
the same transaction as Plaintiff’s claim. “Cross complaints for comparative
equitable indemnity would appear virtually always transactionally related to
the main action.” (Time for Living, Inc. v. Guy Hatfield Homes/All American
Develop. Co. (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 30, 38.) No opposition was filed
alleging prejudice. A copy of the proposed cross-complaint is also attached to
the motion. (Ex. A.) Thus, the present motion is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.