  Case Number:  20STCV23221    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 7/3/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV23221 ANGELINA YU vs
COACH MAX CORP 
Moving Party: Defendant Commerce Casino 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS GRANTED

Background
On June 18, 2020,
Defendant filed the present complaint against Coach Max Corp and Commerce
Casino Club. Defendant Coach Max Corp operates bus services that transport
clients for Defendant Commerce Casino Club (“Defendant” or “Commerce").
Plaintiff Angelina Yu alleges that she was injured on January 23, 2019, when
Defendant Coach Max Corp’s bus stopped suddenly, causing Plaintiff to be
“bumped” out of her seat.
Plaintiff’s original
complaint asserted a cause of action for general negligence against Coach Max
and Commerce. The only factual allegation was that Defendants “negligently
owned, operated, entrusted, and maintained their motor vehicle in such a
negligent manner that caused the vehicle to stop suddenly.”
On August 25, 2020,
Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed Commerce without prejudice. On March 20, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a Doe Amendment to the complaint naming Commerce as Doe 10. On
August 8, 2023, the Court heard Commerce’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s Doe
amendment and issued a minute order sustaining the demurrer with leave to
amend. The Court reasoned that although “Plaintiff’s counsel had submitted a
declaration detailing the new facts that purportedly give rise to Commerce’s
liability and a defense to the statute of limitations, these facts do not
appear on the face of the complaint, and the Court cannot consider extrinsic
facts when ruling on a demurrer.”
On August 28, 2023,
Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint ("FAC") against
Defendants Coach Max and Commerce, alleging causes of action for general
negligence and negligence under California Civil Code 2100 and California
Vehicle Code 23500 against Commerce.
On November 2, 2023,
the Court heard Commerce’s second demurrer to the Doe amendment and the FAC.
The Court overruled the demurrer and in reaching that decision, the Court
compared the allegations in the original complaint and the FAC and concluded
that Plaintiff alleges facts supporting the theory that Commerce acted in a
different legal capacity than Plaintiff had previously understood and, as such,
Plaintiff could, at least for demurrer purposes in which allegations are deemed
true, relate back the naming of Commerce to the original filing. 
Defendant Commerce now moves the Court for
summary judgment, arguing that it was neither a joint venturer with nor a
principal to Defendant Coach Max and, thus, Plaintiff’s new allegations of
legal capacity are without merit. 
Accordingly, Commerce contends that Plaintiff’s allegations against
Commerce  cannot relate back, and, thus,
the applicable statute of limitations has run.
Judicial Notice and Evidentiary Ruling
The Court GRANTS
Defendant Commerce’s requests for judicial notice (California Evidence Code §
452 and 453.) The Court overrules Plaintiff’s Objections Nos. 3-5, 7-11. The
Parties did not make any objections to evidence that were material to the
Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).)  
Legal Standard
In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
              “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her
burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown
that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established,
or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).) If the moving party
fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied.
(See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) Even if the moving
party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion
by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
To meet this burden of
showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only
“that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It
is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must
also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to
support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at p. 855.) 
        “Once
the defendant … has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot
do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
The court must
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor
may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
Discussion
Joint
Venture
A
joint venture is "an undertaking by two or more persons jointly to carry
out a single business enterprise for profit." (Weiner v. Fleischman
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 476, 482.) Under California case law, there are three basic
elements of a joint venture: the members must have joint control over the
venture (even though they may delegate it), they must share the profits of the
undertaking, and the members must each have an ownership interest in the
enterprise. Where a joint venture is established, the parties to the venture
are vicariously liable for the torts of the other in furtherance of the
venture. (Cochrum v. Costa Victoria Healthcare, LLC (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 1034, 1053.) Furthermore, "[w]hether a joint venture actually
exists depends on the intention of the parties[.]" (Unruh-Haxton v.
Regents of University of California (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 343, 370.)
               Defendant
introduced the declaration of Nedy Warren, Chief Administrative Officer, Vice
President, and Corporate Secretary of Commerce Casino regarding the issue of
whether Commerce was in a joint venture with Coach Max. Warren declared that
Commerce Casino does not share in the profits of Coach Max. Coach Max does not
share in the profits of Commerce Casino. Coach Max and Commerce Casino are
separate entities with separate ownership. Neither entity has ownership in the other.
(Warren Decl. ¶¶ 13-15.) Furthermore, there is no joint control, as Warren
declares that Commerce Casino is not involved in the hiring and selection of
Coach Max drivers, training of drivers, supervision or management of drivers,
maintenance of the shuttle bus, or involvement in the safety program and
policies. (Warren Decl. ¶¶ 8-12.) The agreement between Jumbo Worldwide, Coach
Max’s alleged predecessor, and Commerce states, "The Agreement is not
intended to create a relationship of agency, partnership, joint venture,
employment, or otherwise." (Warren Decl. ¶ 11.) The intentions of the
parties pursuant to the agreement are clear: it was not to create a joint
venture. Defendant has met its initial burden.
               In
its opposition, Plaintiff did not make any legal argument for the existence of
a joint venture. The Court is unsure if Plaintiff even opposes this particular
argument. In any event, the Court examined Plaintiff’s separate statement and
supporting evidence and notes that Plaintiff points to allegations in the
complaint as undisputed material facts. However, a party cannot simply rely on
allegations in the pleadings. (Snyder v. U.S. Fidelity & Guar. Co.
(1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 561, 565.) Second, the majority of Plaintiff’s undisputed
material facts attempt to show that Coach Max did not inherit the agreement
between Commerce Casino and Jumbo Worldwide. Even assuming that the parties did
not have a contract in place, it has no bearing on whether the Parties shared
profits, one of the requirements for a joint. Defendant has introduced Warren’s
declaration stating that Commerce Casino and Coach Max did not share profits.
Plaintiff did not present any evidence to the contrary.  Thus, Commerce met its initial burden to
establish that it was not in a joint venture with Coach Max.
               Plaintiff
tried to negate Warren’s declaration by arguing that Nedy Warren joined
Commerce Casino in 2018 and does not have personal knowledge about Commerce.
The Court is not persuaded for several reasons. First, Plaintiff just points to
Warren’s deposition as supporting evidence without specifying the page and
paragraph number of the deposition. It is not the Court’s responsibility to
scour through the record. Second, the opposing party must show that some
"material fact" is in controversy. It is not enough simply to raise
some issue as to the credibility of the moving party's declarations. Summary
judgment may not be denied on grounds of credibility or for want of
cross-examination of witnesses furnishing affidavits or declarations in support
of the summary judgment. (CCP § 437c(e).) Third, even assuming that Nedy Warren
joined Commerce Casino in 2018, the incident occurred in 2019. Plaintiff’s
argument does not cast doubt on Warren’s declaration if the defendants are
joint venturers at the time of the incident.
Thus,
Plaintiff hasfailed to raise a triable issue of fact regarding a joint venture.
Agency
A corporation can be vicariously liable for the torts of
its agents. (Secci v. United Independant Taxi Drivers, Inc. (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 846, 855.) “ ‘Whether a person performing work for another is an
agent or an independent contractor depends primarily upon whether the one for
whom the work is done has the legal right to control the activities of the
alleged agent.’ [citation omitted.] ‘Actual agency typically arises by express
agreement. [Citations.].... [¶] ‘Agency is the relationship which results from
the manifestation of consent by one person to another that the other shall act
on his behalf and subject to his control, and consent by the other so to act.’
[Citation.] ‘The principal must in some manner indicate that the agent is to
act for him, and the agent must act or agree to act on his behalf and subject
to his control.’ [Citation.] Thus, the ‘formation of an agency relationship is
a bilateral matter. Words or conduct by both principal and agent are necessary
to create the relationship ....’ [Citation.] [citation omitted.] ‘In the
absence of the essential characteristic of the right of control, there is no
true agency....’ [Citations.] [¶] ‘The fact that parties had a preexisting
relationship is not sufficient to make one party the agent for the other....
[Citation.] An agency is proved by evidence that the person for whom the work
was performed had the right to control the activities of the alleged agent.” (Id.)
Nedy
Warren declared that Commerce has no right to control Coach Max’s employees.
Commerce is not involved in the hiring and selection of drivers for Coach Max,
training of drivers, supervision or management of any of the drivers,
maintenance of the shuttle bus, or involvement in the safety program and
policies. (Warren Decl. ¶¶ 8-12.) Furthermore, the agreement between Coach Max
and Commerce states that the relationship between Coach Max and Commerce is
that of an independent contractor only and that neither Coach Max nor its
employees shall be considered agents or employees of Commerce for any purpose
and shall not be entitled to any benefits afforded by Commerce to its
employees. (Exhibit "A" attached to the Declaration of Nedy Warren at
¶ 11.)
Plaintiff
did not raise any legal argument for the existence of an agency relationship
between the parties. Plaintiff’s essential argument in the opposition is that
Coach Max did not inherit the contract between Jumbo Worldwide and Commerce
Casino; however, Plaintiff did not show why that is important and how it
relates to the issue of agency. Even assuming Plaintiff's argument to be true
and no agreement exists between the parties, Plaintiff still did not introduce
any material fact showing that Commerce exercised control over Coach Max’s
employees beyond driving to the pick-up zones on a schedule for the casino and
collecting and giving player cards. (Hunter Decl. ¶¶ 6-7, 12.) Plaintiff
provided no legal argument as to why this is not characteristic of an
independent contractor relationship where the hirer sets the time, location,
and general nature of the service, such as a gardener coming to the hirer’s
residence to do landscaping every week. Furthermore, Plaintiff, in the
opposition, stated that she raised several triable issues of fact, but
Plaintiff failed to articulate how these facts are relevant to the issues at
hand. It is not the Court’s responsibility to create arguments on a party’s
behalf.
Relation Back Doctrine
As to the issue
of the relation-back doctrine for Defendant’s affirmative defense of statute of
limitations, the Court previously heard the issue on a demurrer where the facts
alleged by Plaintiff in the complaint, such as joint venture and agency relationship,
are assumed to be true. Specifically, the court in its 11/2/23 minute order
compared the FAC and the original complaint and points out that allegations
such as Commerce and Coach Max were joint venturers in promoting the gambling
business when liberally construed show the relationship between Commerce and
Coach Max went beyond transportation services to and from Commerce’s casino. However,
in a motion for summary judgment, the standards are different and in the
foregoing analysis, Defendant has met its initial burden in showing that no agency
or joint venture relationships exist. Plaintiff did not address Defendant’s
relation-back argument at all in the opposition. Such failure can be construed
as a presumption that Plaintiff has no meritorious argument(s).” (See Southern
California Gas Co. v. Flannery (2016), 5 Cal. App. 5th 476, 483, fn.7 (lack
of opposition waives arguments); Sexton v. Superior Court (1997), 58
Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.) Furthermore, in the foregoing analysis, the Court
has determined that Plaintiff did not raise a triable issue of fact as to these
joint venture and agency relationships. In essence, Plaintiff failed to raise
an opposition to Defendant's argument that Plaintiff should not be allowed to
relate back to the original filing and failed to provide evidence showing that
the parties' relationship extended beyond transportation services to and from
Commerce’s casino. Wihtout relation back, Commerce was brought into this
litigation after the statute of limitations had run.  Thus, the motion for summary judgment is
granted
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 