  Case Number:  22STCV36899    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
PHUONG LE THAI, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
DIANA LEE, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV36899
  Hearing Date: September 11, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion for summary judgment
  or adjudication




 


 



BACKGROUND
            This quiet title action was
initiated in November 22, 2022. On December 28, 2022, Plaintiffs Phuong Le Thai
and Edward Lee filed the operative Second Amended Complaint against Defendants
Diana Lee, William Truong, and all persons claiming interest in the subject
property located in El Monte (the Property). The SAC asserts causes of action
for declaratory relief, quiet title, fraud, conversion, elder abuse, accounting,
relief from voidable transaction, and conspiracy.  
            According to the SAC, Plaintiff
Phuong Le Thai (Phuong) wished to purchase the Property but failed to qualify
for a loan. (SAC ¶ 11.) Around July or August 2017, Phuong proposed that her
daughter, Defendant Diana Lee (Diana) purchase the Property in her name and
hold legal title without assuming any obligations such as down payment,
maintenance expenses, property taxes, and loan payments. (Id., ¶ 12.)
Diana allegedly agreed to this arrangement and promised to convey title to
Phuong once Phuong had paid all expenses related to the maintenance and
preservation of the Property for a period of time sufficient to demonstrate her
credit worthiness. (Id., ¶ 13.) Diana obtained title to the Property on
September 14, 2017. (Id., ¶ 15.) The down payment was made using loans
and gifts belonging to Phuong. (Ibid.) In June 2021, after Phuong had
possessed the Property and paid the associated expenses for several years,
Phuong demanded that Diana convey title to the Property to her in accordance
with their agreement, but Diana refused. (Id., ¶¶ 16-17.) 
Phuong was married to John Shing Lee (John
Lee or Decedent), who died in September 2022. Decedent’s son, Plaintiff Edward
Lee, pursues this action as Decedent’s successor-in-interest. The FAC alleges
that Diana stole the following property: (1) Decedent’s portion of proceeds
from the sale of Plaintiffs’ other residences in Nevada and California; (2)
Decedent’s cash; (3) proceeds from Decedent’s life insurance policy; (4) and a
2006 Honda Pilot. (SAC ¶¶ 18-37.) Defendant William Truong, Diana’s husband,
allegedly participated in the fraud and conversion.
On June 25, 2024, Defendants filed the
instant motion for summary judgment or adjudication in the alternative.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on August 28, 2024. Defendants filed their
reply on September 6, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party
opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.” (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,
Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiffs’
Objections

Plaintiffs’ objections nos.
     1-2 are overruled.

Defendants’
Objections

Defendants’ objections no. 1-2
     are overruled. 

DISCUSSION
I.
Quiet Title by Adverse Possession (Third COA)
            “To establish adverse possession,
the claimant must prove: (1) possession under claim of right or color of title;
(2) actual, open, and notorious occupation of the premises constituting
reasonable notice to the true owner; (3) possession which is adverse and
hostile to the true owner; (4) continuous possession for at least five years;
and (5) payment of all taxes assessed against the property during the five-year
period.” (Main Street Plaza v. Cartwright & Main, LLC (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 1044, 1054.) 
            a. Adversity 
            “The rule is settled that title by
adverse possession cannot be acquired where the occupant has entered into
possession by permission or consent of the owner.” (Janes v. Le Deit
(1964) 228 Cal.App.2d 474, 488-89.) Defendants argue that Phuong’s possession
of the Property was not adverse because Diana voluntarily allowed Phuong to
reside at the Property, either through the oral agreement (as alleged by
Plaintiffs) or as a personal favor (as claimed by Defendants). (See SAC ¶¶
12-17; Def.’s Stmnt. of Undisputed Facts (UF) 11-13.) 
            Plaintiffs do not dispute that
Phuong resided at the Property with Diana’s consent. In fact, Plaintiffs allege
that Diana “acknowledged that Plaintiff Phuong would be taking sole possession
of the Property.” (SAC ¶ 14.) Phuong also testified that Diana bought the house
but allowed the family to stay there rather than live there herself. (Fok
Decl., Ex. 10 (Phuong Depo. Vol. I) 51:6-7.) 
Nonetheless, Plaintiffs argue that the
possession was adverse because Phuong and Diana have opposing claims of
ownership and title. However, the present dispute over ownership of the
Property does not alter the fact that Phuong “entered into possession by
permission or consent of the owner.” (See Janes, supra, 228 Cal.App.2d at
pp. 488-89.) It is undisputed that at the time Phuong obtained possession of
the Property, Diana was the owner of title and consented to Phuong residing at
the Property. Therefore, Phuong’s possession of the Property was not adverse as
a matter of law.  
            b. Payment of Taxes for Five
Years
            For adverse possession based on a
claim of right, the claimant must prove timely payment of “all state, county,
or municipal taxes that have been levied and assessed upon the land for the
period of five years during which the land has been occupied and claimed.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 325(b).) “The taxes a claimant must pay are those levied and
assessed during the period of possession.” (Smith v. Byer (1960) 179
Cal.App.2d 118, 121, emphasis added.) This means that “all taxes levied and
assessed during the period of possession must be paid even though more than
five years is required.” (Id. at p. 120.) 
            Here, Phuong did not occupy the
Property until its purchase in September 2017 at the earliest. (See SAC ¶ 15.)
However, taxes are assessed on January 1 of each year. (Rev. & Tax. Code, §
2192.) Thus, the taxes for 2017 would have been assessed on January 1, 2017,
before Phuong came into possession. Accordingly, even if Phuong paid taxes in
2017, those could not have been taxes that were both “levied and
assessed during the period of possession.” (See Smith, supra, 179
Cal.App.2d at p. 121.) For Phuong to satisfy the requirement to pay taxes
levied and assessed for a five-year period, she would have had to pay the taxes
for the five years after 2017, i.e., 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, and 2022. (Ibid.)
            Defendants argue that Phuong did not
pay the taxes for 2022 because they were paid by Diana. (UF 19-20.) Diana avers
in her sworn declaration that she paid the 2022 taxes on November 29, 2022 by
personal check. (D. Lee Decl. ¶ 23.) Diana also attaches the receipt as proof
of payment. (Id., Ex. B.) On the other hand, Phuong avers that she made
two payments in November 2022, claiming that her Exhibit C proves it. (Phuong
Decl. ¶ 20.) However, Exhibit C consists merely of two checks. (Plntf.’s Ex.
C.) Payment of taxes for purposes of adverse possession “shall be established
by certified records of the county tax collector.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 325.)
Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to provide “substantial responsive evidence”
that they paid the 2022 taxes. (See Sangster, supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at
p. 163 [“substantial responsive evidence” required to raise triable issue on
summary judgment].) 
            Plaintiffs also do not dispute
Defendants’ statement of fact that “Diana paid the property tax payment for the
assessed year of 2022 on November 29, 2022 by a personal check.” (See UF 20.)
Plaintiff’s response is that they have “[i]nsufficient information to dispute
or not dispute whether Diana paid.” (Plntf.’s Resp. to UF 20.) This effectively
leaves the fact undisputed. Because it is undisputed that Diana made the 2022
tax payment, and Plaintiffs have no substantial responsive evidence suggesting
otherwise, Defendants have established as a matter of law that Plaintiffs did
not pay taxes on the Property for five consecutive years. The adverse
possession claim fails for this independent reason.   
            The motion for summary adjudication
is GRANTED as to the third cause of action.
II.
Edward Lee’s Standing (Sixth, Eighth, Tenth, and Eleventh through Fourteenth
COAs)
            “Every action must be prosecuted in
the name of the real party in interest, except as otherwise provided by
statute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 367.) “A cause of action that survives the death
of the person entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the
decedent’s successor in interest, subject to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
7000) of Part 1 of Division 7 of the Probate Code, and an action may be
commenced by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the
decedent’s successor in interest.” (Id., § 377.30.) “The person who
seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending action or
proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under this article, shall
execute and file an affidavit or a declaration” containing certain information.
(Id., § 377.32(a).)  
            Defendants assert that the causes of
action on behalf of Decedent John Lee fail as a matter of law because Plaintiff
Edward Lee has not sufficiently established himself as Decedent’s
successor-in-interest. Defendants repeat arguments that the Court has previously
rejected in ruling on Defendants’ demurrer. Specifically, Defendants argue that
because “beneficiary” is mentioned in the definition of
“successor-in-interest,” Decedent’s beneficiaries—i.e., his children
including Diana—must be joined in the action. However, as the Court stated
previously, a “successor in interest” is defined as “the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to
a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject
of a cause of action.” (See Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Thus, Decedent’s other
beneficiaries are not indispensable parties. Edward Lee may sue as an “other
successor in interest.” 
Defendants argue that Edward Lee is not an
“other successor in interest” because Decedent did not sign any document
assigning any interest in his assets to Edward Lee. (UF 25.) Defendants cite no
authority suggesting that this is a requirement for Edward Lee to serve as a
successor-in-interest. The requirements for serving as a successor-in-interest
are set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32. Defendants do not
contend that Edward Lee has failed to satisfy any of those requirements. Thus,
Defendants have failed to show that Edward Lee lacks standing to pursue the
claims as successor-in-interest.
The motion for summary adjudication is
DENIED as to the sixth, eighth, tenth, and eleventh through fourteenth causes
of action.  
III.
Payment for Cemetery Plots (Sixth COA) 
            Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action
for fraudulent concealment is partially based on the fact that Diana overpaid
for two cemetery plots even though Phuong had instructed her to buy cheaper
plots. (See SAC ¶¶ 38-39, 73(h).) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs suffered
no damages from this because Diana paid for the plots out of her own pocket.
(UF 21-22.) As evidence, Defendants attach bank records showing the payments
from Diana’s account, as well as Phuong’s responses to Requests for Admission
and deposition testimony. (D. Lee Decl., Ex. C; Fok Decl., Ex. 5, 6, 8.) In
particular, Phuong admitted in RFA No. 49 that she “never paid any funds
towards the purchase of the two cemetery plots as alleged in [the] FIRST
AMENDED COMPLAINT.” (Fok Decl., Ex. 5, 6.) Phuong also testified that after
Diana purchased the plots, Diana demanded that Phuong repay her, but Phuong
refused because she believed that the money Diana used was stolen from
Decedent. (Id., Ex. 8 at 106:14-19, 109:4-7.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that there
are damages because the money was stolen from Phuong. Plaintiffs also argue
that financial loss was not the only damage because Diana’s purchase of the
wrong plots also caused emotional distress. Given the specific evidence that
Diana paid for the plots, Phuong’s speculation that Diana purchased the plots
with money stolen from Phuong or Decedent is insufficient to raise a triable
issue. (See Phuong Decl. ¶ 27; Fok Decl., Ex. 8 at 109:4-7.) Phuong’s bare
declaration that the wrong location of the plots “caused [her] anguish and
emotional distress” is also insufficient to raise a factual dispute. (See
Phuong Decl. ¶ 28.)
The motion for summary adjudication is
GRANTED as to the damages claim related to the purchase of the cemetery
plots.              
IV.
Claims Based on Purported Oral Agreement (First, Second, and Fourth through
Ninth COAs)
            a. Statute of Frauds
            Certain contracts, including “[a]n agreement for the leasing for a longer
period than one year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest
therein,” are “invalid, unless they, or some note or memorandum thereof, are in
writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or by the party’s agent.”
(Civ. Code, § 1624(a).) 
            The
alleged contract between Phuong and Diana concerns the sale or interest in real
property. Because the contract is indisputably oral, Defendants argue that it
is barred by the statute of frauds. However, it is well-established that
partial performance or detrimental reliance takes a contract out of the statue
of frauds. (See Secrest v. Security National Mortgage Loan Trust 2002-2
(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 544, 555; Garcia v. World Savings, FSB (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 1031, 1040, fn. 10.) The SAC alleges that in reliance on Diana’s
promise to reconvey the Property, Phuong paid “all expenses for its maintenance
and preservation, including the payment of the funds necessary to maintain,
repair and insure it, as well as to pay the taxes imposed thereon and the
installments on the purchase money loan secured by the Property, for more than
five years.” (SAC ¶ 16.)
Defendants argue
that the estoppel exception does not apply because the mere making of
improvements is insufficient. However, the SAC does not allege that Phuong only
made improvements. (See SAC ¶¶ 12-17.) Furthermore, the cited cases do not
support Defendants’ position. Defendants cite to Shive v. Barrow (1948)
88 Cal.App.2d 838 and Palmer v. Phillips (1954) 123 Cal.App.2d 291,
which held that quasi-specific performance of an oral agreement to devise
property under a will is unavailable where the value of services performed by
the plaintiff in reliance on the oral promise is readily calculable and
therefore the plaintiff has a remedy at law. The present case does not involve
a devise of property or a will. Furthermore, Plaintiffs do not have an adequate
remedy at law for loss of the Property. (See Civ. Code, § 3387.) 
Thus, Defendants
have failed to show that the alleged contract falls under the statute of
frauds. Summary adjudication cannot be granted on this basis.      
b.
Existence of an Agreement
Defendants argue
that no evidence of the agreement exists, citing the lack of written
documentation. However, as discussed above, the oral nature of the contract
does not invalidate the claim at this stage. 
Defendants also
point out that Phuong admitted in deposition that Diana owns the Property, that
Diana bought the Property and allowed the family to stay there, and that
Phuong’s relocation to the Property was only temporary. (Fok Decl., Ex. 10
(Phuong Depo. Vol. I) 16:12-17, 47:14-16, 51:6-22; Ex. 11 (Phuong Depo. Vol.
II) 115:10-116:7.) However, none of this constitutes an admission that no
contract was formed. Even crediting the prior testimony as true, it is still
possible that Diana agreed to transfer title to Phuong once Phuong demonstrated
her creditworthiness. 
Lastly,
Defendants argue that they have rebutted Plaintiffs’ allegations that Phuong
paid for the Property with evidence that Diana paid for the Property. (See UF
10.) Diana avers in her declaration that she paid the down payment using
$174,000 of her personal funds and $300,000 gifted by her uncle (Phuong’s
brother), Thomas Thai. (D. Lee Decl. ¶ 14.) However, Thomas Thai denies that
the $300,000 was a gift to Diana, averring instead that the money was a loan to
Phuong. (T. Thai Decl. ¶¶ 5-7.) Thomas Thai avers that Phuong has repaid him
the $300,000. (Id., ¶ 8.) This conflicting testimony creates a factual
dispute. 
In sum,
Defendants have not established as a matter of law that no agreement exists.
Therefore, this is not a basis for summary adjudication. 
c.
Indispensable Parties
A party is indispensable if “(1) in his
absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those already parties or (2)
he claims an interest relating to the subject of the action and is so situated
that the disposition of the action in his absence may (i) as a practical matter
impair or impede his ability to protect that interest or (ii) leave any of the
persons already parties subject to a substantial risk of incurring double,
multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason of his claimed interest.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 389(a).) If such a person cannot be made a party, “the
court shall determine whether in equity and good conscience the action should
proceed among the parties before it, or should be dismissed without prejudice,
the absent person being thus regarded as indispensable.” (Id., §
389(b).)  
Here, a Deed of Trust has been recorded
against the Property, evidencing a secured mortgage lien of $252,980 in favor
of Stearns Lending, LLC (Stearns) as lender, Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems, Inc. (MERS) as beneficiary, and First American Title Company (FATC) as
trustee. (UF 8.) Defendants argue that as a result, Stearns, MERS, and FATC are
indispensable parties. 
However, the absence of these parties does
not affect the current dispute over ownership that is between Phuong and Diana.
Complete relief is possible as between the named parties despite the absence of
Stearns, MERS, and FATC. Stearns, MERS, and FATC have not asserted an interest
in the matter, and Defendants have not sufficiently established that their
interests would be impeded or that their absence creates a substantial risk of
inconsistent obligations. Thus, Stearns, MERS, and FATC are not indispensable
parties, and their absence is not a basis for summary adjudication. 
However, because Defendants are concerned
about the interests of Stearns, MERS, and FATC, Defendants are ordered to
provide notice of this action to them. That way, Stearns, MERS, and FATC will
have the opportunity to intervene in the action if they wish to assert their
interests.   
The motion for summary adjudication is
DENIED as to the first, second, and fourth through ninth causes of action.
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment is DENIED. Defendant’s alternative motion for summary adjudication is
GRANTED in part as set forth above. 
            Defendants are ordered to serve
notice of the action to Stearns, MERS, and FATC.   
 
 