  Case Number:  20TRCV00092    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


The
  Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SCOTT
  DAIN, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20TRCV00092




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MARTIN
  RAMIREZ, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June
5, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Scott Dain
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Enforce Judgment Creditor’s Levy
            The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
            The Court shall hear argument.
BACKGROUND
            On January 23, 2020, Scott Dain
filed a complaint against Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta Meat Market, Inc. for
(1) breach of written and oral contracts, (2) fraud and deceit, and (3) common
counts.  Plaintiff alleges that he and
defendants entered into a written contract (a “Standard Promissory Note”)
wherein plaintiff agreed to loan defendants $70,600.  Plaintiff further alleges that defendants
breached the contract by failing to repay the loan. 
On June 15, 2020, plaintiff filed
an amendment to complaint designating Ismael Ramirez, defendant Martin
Ramirez’s son, as Doe 2. 
On July 29, 2020, a default was
entered against Ismael Ramirez.
On September 18, 2020, the court
granted defendant’s motion to set aside default.  
On May 11, 2021, plaintiff
dismissed defendant Ismael Ramirez without prejudice. 
On June 18, 2021, defaults were
entered against Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta Meat Market, Inc. 
On August 17, 2021, the court
denied Ismael Ramirez’s motion for attorney’s fees. 
On November 15, 2021, a default
judgment was entered against Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta Meat Market for
$84,449.12.
On October 4, 2023, the court
denied defendant Martin Ramirez’s motion to tax costs.
Plaintiff filed this Motion to
Enforce Judgment Creditor Lien on March 20, 2024.  It was served by mail on March 20, 2024 on Judgment
Debtors Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta Meat Market, Inc.  There is no evidence that it was served on any
other person or entity, and in particular there was no service on the person or
entity upon which the levy would be performed, non-parties Sandra Alfaro, El
Chorizo Meat Market or El Carnicero Meat Market.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP §697.510 states, in part:  “(a) A judgment lien on personal property
described in Section 697.530 is created by filing a notice of judgment lien in
the office of the Secretary of State pursuant to this article. A judgment lien
may be created under this article only if the judgment is a money judgment that
was first entered in this state after June 30, 1983. Except as provided in
subdivision (b) of Section 697.540, a judgment lien may not be created under
this article if the money judgment is payable in installments unless all of the
installments under the judgment have become due and payable at the time the
notice of judgment lien is filed.
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (c), (e), or (g), the judgment lien
continues for five years from the date of filing.”
            Plaintiff filed a Notice of Judgment
Lien with the Secretary of State on December 15, 2021. (Exhibit F.)  It reflects the judgment in the amount of
$84,449.12.
            CCP §697.520 states:  “A judgment lien on personal property may be
created pursuant to this article as an alternative or in addition to a lien
created by levy under a writ of execution pursuant to Chapter 3 (commencing
with Section 699.010) or by use of an enforcement procedure provided by Chapter
6 (commencing with Section 708.010).” 
Under the Law Revision Commission Comment:  “Section 697.520 makes clear that the lien
procedure under this article may be used in connection with other enforcement
procedures (such as levy of execution or examination proceedings) or may be
used alone as a means of establishing a priority over other creditors as to
certain property. See the Comment to this article.”
            Under CCP §697.530, “(a) A judgment
lien on personal property is a lien on all interests in the following personal
property that are subject to enforcement of the money judgment against the
judgment debtor pursuant to Article 1 (commencing with Section 695.010) of
Chapter 1 at the time when the lien is created if the personal property is, at
that time, any of the following:
(1) Accounts receivable, and the
judgment debtor is located in this state.
(2) Tangible chattel paper, as
defined in paragraph (79) of subdivision (a) of Section 9102 of the Commercial
Code, and the judgment debtor is located in this state.
(3) Equipment, located within this
state.
(4) Farm products, located within
this state.
(5) Inventory, located within this
state.
(6) Negotiable documents of title,
located within this state.
(b) If any interest in personal
property on which a judgment lien could be created under subdivision (a) is
acquired after the judgment lien was created, the judgment lien attaches to the
interest at the time it is acquired.
(c) To the extent provided by
Section 697.620, a judgment lien on personal property continues on the proceeds
received upon the sale, collection, or other disposition of the property
subject to the judgment lien.”
            Under CCP §697.550:  “The notice of judgment lien on personal
property shall be executed under oath by the judgment creditor’s attorney if
the judgment creditor has an attorney of record or, if the judgment creditor
does not have an attorney of record, by the judgment creditor and shall contain
the following information:
(a) The name and mailing address of
the judgment creditor.
(b) The name and last known mailing
address of the judgment debtor.
(c) A statement that: “All property
subject to enforcement of a money judgment against the judgment debtor to which
a judgment lien on personal property may attach under Section 697.530 of the
Code of Civil Procedure is subject to this judgment lien.”
(d) The title of the court where
the judgment is entered and the cause and number of the action.
(e) The date of entry of the
judgment and of any subsequent renewals and where entered in the records of the
court.
(f) The amount required to satisfy
the judgment at the date of the notice.
(g) The date of the notice.”
            CCP §697.600(a) states:  “A judgment lien on personal property has
priority over any other judgment lien thereafter created on the property.”
 
CCP §697.610 states:  “[A] judgment lien on personal property
continues notwithstanding the sale, exchange, or other disposition of the
property, unless the person receiving the property is one of the following:  
(a) A buyer in ordinary course of
business (as defined in Section 1201 of the Commercial Code) who, under Section
9320 of the Commercial Code, would take free of a security interest created by
the seller.
(b) A lessee in ordinary course of
business (as defined in paragraph (15) of subdivision (a) of Section 10103 of
the Commercial Code) who, under Section 9321 of the Commercial Code, would take
free of a security interest created by the lessor.
(c) A holder to whom a negotiable
document of title has been duly negotiated within the meaning of Section 7501
of the Commercial Code.
(d) A purchaser of chattel paper
who, under Section 9330 of the Commercial Code, would have priority over
another security interest in the chattel paper.”
            CCP §697.710 states, “A levy on
property under a writ of execution creates an execution lien on the property
from the time of levy until the expiration of two years after the date of
issuance of the writ unless the judgment is sooner satisfied.”
            CCP §697.740 states:  Except as provided in Sections 9617 and 9622
of the Commercial Code and in Section 701.630, if personal property subject to
an execution lien is not in the custody of a levying officer and the property
is transferred or encumbered, the property remains subject to the lien after
the transfer or encumbrance except where the transfer or encumbrance is made to
one of the following persons:
(a) A person who acquires an
interest in the property under the law of this state for reasonably equivalent
value without knowledge of the lien. For purposes of this subdivision, value is
given for a transfer or encumbrance if, in exchange for the transfer or
encumbrance, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or
satisfied.
(b) A buyer in ordinary course of
business (as defined in Section 1201 of the Commercial Code) who, under Section
9320 of the Commercial Code, would take free of a security interest created by
the seller or encumbrancer. . . .”
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant
to CCP §§697.610, 697.510(b), and 697.530(b), plaintiff and judgment creditor
Scott Dain requests an order enforcing judgment creditor’s “Keeper Levy” under
the judgment entered on November 15, 2021 against Martin Ramirez aka Martin
Ramirez Troche and La Fiesta Meat Market, Inc. 
            Plaintiff
recorded his Notice of Judgment Lien on  December 15, 2021, creating a judgment lien on
the property of the business and individual debtor, thereby perfecting a lien
on all personal property belonging to judgment debtors.  Plaintiff asserts that over the years, he has
engaged in extensive efforts to collect the judgment, including two types of
property liens and four distinct levies but that each attempt was futile.  As further background, in April 2022, a
Keeper Levy was served, the LA County Sheriff secured various property at La
Fiesta, judgment debtor Ramirez requested a payoff amount, Ramirez offered an
immediate payment of $60,000 and a negotiated payment for the remainder,
payment was made, and judgment debtors’ property was unloaded and returned to
the store.  Plaintiff contends that the
payment was made in bad faith because Ramirez filed Ch. 11 bankruptcy the
following month and his bankruptcy attorney demanded the recovery of
payment.  The bankruptcy was dismissed is
May 2023.
At issue
in this motion, plaintiff explains that in November 2023, a second Keeper Levy
was issued for La Fiesta’s primary location in Lawndale.  Following attempted service of the levy, the
Sheriff determined that a “new” business had replaced La Fiesta at the same
location and refused to levy on the property. 
See writ return dated November 21, 2023 stating “Cont. Sandra at loc.
New owner under El Chorizo Meat Market. 
See attached sellers permit.”  The
Seller’s Permit is dated October 1, 2023, and identifies “El Chorizo Meat
Market and Premium Sazon Meats, Inc.” at 15020 Hawthorne Blvd., Suite H,
Lawndale.  Plaintiff argues that the
Sheriff should have executed the levy as the judgment lien had been
perfected.  Plaintiff asserts that an
individual Sandra Alfaro had recently begun operating judgment debtor’s
business and had filed a fictitious business name statement for “El Chorizo
Meat Market” and “El Carnicero Meat Market” on October 10, 2023.  
            Plaintiff
contends that the “new” business operated by Alfaro offers identical services,
in the same location, with the same facilities and equipment owned by La
Fiesta.  Further, plaintiff asserts,
Alfaro’s relationship with the judgment debtors is extensive, spanning more
than a decade.  Plaintiff further
contends that Ramirez is indirectly involved with various businesses owned by
Alfaro, and thus any purported business acquisition was not an arm’s length
transaction.  Rather, plaintiff argues,
Alfaro is an insider with direct and pecuniary interest in the property and
assets owned by judgment debtors.  See
Anthony Duffy decl.
            Plaintiff
also argues that the business acquisition “has all the hallmarks of a
fraudulent transfer pursuant to Civil Code 3439.04.”
            The
Court rules as follows:  The Court finds
that defendants and judgment debtors Martin Ramirez and La Fiesta’s personal
property is subject to the judgment lien. 
Further, plaintiff/judgment creditor has perfected a judgment lien.
            As
explained by plaintiff, the Sheriff’s office/levying officer attempted to
execute the levy but then refused to do so as the business personal property
was held and in possession of a third parties.
            The
Court desires argument regarding the following issues:
(1)   May the
Court allow a levy against non-parties who have not been given notice of this
Motion?
(2)  Insofar
as the claim of Judgment Creditor is that the transfer of assets to the third parties
constitutes a fraudulent concealment under CC § 3439 et seq. must an action be
commenced before the Court may grant a remedy under CC § 3439.07?