 Case Number:  23TRCV04100    Hearing Date:   June 5, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
ANDREA
  COVINGTON, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04100




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HIGHRIDGE
  APARTMENTS, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 5, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants Highridge
Apartments and Essex Property Trust, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
(1)  
Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories (as to plaintiff Andrea Covington)
(2)  
Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories (as to plaintiff Shomari Wilson)
(3)  
Motion to Compel Responses to and
Compliance with Request for Production of Documents (Set One) (as to plaintiff
Covington)
(4)  
Motion to Compel Response to and
Compliance with Request for Production of Documents (Set One) (as to plaintiff
Wilson)
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to respond
without objections to defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set One) within twenty days.

Plaintiffs are ordered (1) to serve
on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’ Demand for
Identification and Production of Records, Documents, and Other Tangible Items (Set
One) and (2) to produce all documents and things in plaintiffs’ possession,
custody, or control, which are responsive to defendants’ demand, within twenty
days.
BACKGROUND
On December 7, 2023, plaintiffs
Andrea Covington and Shomari Wilson filed a complaint against Highridge
Apartments and Essex Property Trust, Inc. (1) breach of habitability, (2)
negligence, (3) IIED, (4) NIED, (5) harassment, (6) retaliation.  Plaintiffs allege that on October 6, 2021,
plaintiffs signed a lease with defendants for the rental of an apartment at
28120 Peacock Ridge Drive, #9-304, Rancho Palos Verdes.  Complaint, ¶10.  On March 29, 2024, plaintiffs’ apartment
sustained water damage, which caused the ceiling in the apartment to
collapse.  Id., ¶11.  Plaintiffs were advised by management to
immediately vacate the property, pay their rent in a timely manner, and that
they would be able to return to their apartment within ten days.  Id., ¶13. 
Plaintiffs vacated their apartment on April 8, 2023 and were not allowed
to return until April 30, 2023.  Id., ¶14.  Plaintiffs were not assisted in finding
temporary accommodations and told to go through their renter’s insurance
company.  Id., ¶16.  Plaintiffs had two operating businesses in
the apartment but were unable to operate either.  Id., ¶21. 

LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
DISCUSSION
            Defendants request that the Court
compel plaintiffs to respond without objections to defendants’ initial form
interrogatories and demand for production of documents.
Defendants explain that on January
30, 2024, they served form interrogatories and demand for identification and
production of records, documents, and other tangible items on plaintiffs.  Responses were due by March 5, 2024.  No responses were served.  On March 18, 2024, defense counsel sent a
meet and confer email to plaintiffs’ counsel requesting responses but did not
receive a response.  On May 2, 2024,
defense counsel sent another meet and confer letter asking for responses within
five days.  Defense counsel’s office also
attempted to call plaintiffs’ counsel but was unable to reach anyone and the
voicemail was full.  To date, defense
counsel has not received responses or production of documents.
The Court finds that defendants
properly served discovery requests and plaintiffs failed to respond.  
The motions are GRANTED.
ORDER
The motions are GRANTED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to respond without
objections to defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set One) within twenty days. 
Plaintiffs are ordered (1) to serve
on defendants a verified response without objections to defendants’ Demand for
Identification and Production of Records, Documents, and Other Tangible Items (Set
One) and (2) to produce all documents and things in plaintiffs’ possession,
custody, or control, which are responsive to defendants’ demand, within twenty
days.  
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of ruling.