  Case Number:  21STCV28216    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Defendants and Cross-Complainants Javier Gonzalez and Maria Gonzalez’s Motion
for Order for Issuance of Writ of Possession Pursuant to Judgment and Rental
Damages.
BACKGROUND
In this case, MARIO GONZALEZ (“Plaintiff”) brought
claims related to the residence at 1975 East 110th Street in Los
Angeles (“Property”) against JAVIER GONZALEZ, MARIA GONZALEZ and CARLOS
HERNANDEZ (“Defendants”), who also brought claims against Plaintiff. Following
trial, the Court entered Judgment providing that, inter alia, Defendants
had six months to pay Plaintiff $160,000, title for the Property remains with
Defendants, and Plaintiff could continue to reside in the Property for six
months and would vacate the Property after receipt of the $160,000 payment. 
JAVIER GONZALEZ and MARIA GONZALEZ (“Gonzalez Defendants”)
filed a motion requesting an order for issuance of writ of possession against Plaintiff
and for an order for Plaintiff to pay rental damages. Plaintiff has not filed
an opposition.  
LEGAL STANDARD
Judgments for real property possession are enforceable
via writs of possession issued by the clerk of court based on the Judgment.
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 712.010-716.030; Highland Springs Conf. & Training
Ctr. v. City of Banning (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 416, 426. Code of Civil
Procedure section 187 “grants every court the power and authority to carry its
jurisdiction into effect” such as amending a judgment. Ibid.
ANALYSIS
The Gonzalez Defendants argue that the Court has the
power to enter orders to enforce a judgment. Further, they state that the
Judgment trial provides that Plaintiff will vacate the property upon receipt of
$160,000, but he refuses to vacate and is holding over. The Gonzalez Defendants
note that based on the uncontradicted testimony at trial, the daily monthly
rental value of the Property is $55 per day and request damages for the period
from 5/1/24 until Plaintiff vacates the Property.  
Here, the Judgment shows intent for Plaintiff to
vacate the Property promptly after receipt of payment commencing six months
after the entry of the Judgment. Plaintiff filed an Acknowledgment of
Satisfaction of Judgment on 5/3/24, which provides that Defendants fully
satisfied the Judgment and are thus fully released. Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition or otherwise indicated that he has moved out. Given these
circumstances, an order clarifying that the Judgment now supports a writ of
possession from the Clerk, and an award of rental damages for holding over
starting from 5/1/24, is an authorized method for carrying into effect the
Court’s jurisdiction.
CONCLUSION
Therefore, the Court grants the motion. The Gonzalez
Defendants shall prepare a proposed order for the Court to sign. 
 