 Case Number:  23STCV23291    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Fernando A.
Silva Quintana’s Motions to Compel Defendant Guardian Eagle Security, Inc.’s
Responses to (1) Requests for Production of Documents and (2) Special
Interrogatories
Plaintiff Fernando A. Silva
Quintana moves to compel defendant Guardian Eagle Security, Inc. (Guardian) to
respond to requests for production of documents, set one, and special
interrogatories, set one.  When the responding party fails to serve a
timely response to interrogatories or requests for production, the requesting
party may move for an order compelling responses.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(b) [interrogatories];
2031.300(b) [request for production].)  Failing
to serve a timely response results in waiving any objections.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).)
On
February 1, 2024, plaintiff served his requests for production of documents,
set one and special interrogatories, set one, on Guardian.  (Sirmabekian Decls., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)  Plaintiff agreed to extend Guardian’s
deadline to respond to April 6.  (Id.,
¶ 6, Ex. B.)  Guardian had not served any
responses as of May 17, when plaintiff filed these motions.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  Guardian failed to serve timely responses to plaintiff’s requests for production
and special interrogatories.  Plaintiff
is therefore entitled to an order compelling verified responses without
objections.
Sanctions       
In
each motion, plaintiff moves for monetary sanctions against Guardian and its
counsel, G. Emmett Raitt, Jr.  Failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to monetary
sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Guardian failed to respond to plaintiff’s
requests for production of documents, set one, and special interrogatories, set
one.  Guardian did not act with
substantial justification.  Sanctions are
just under the circumstances.  
Plaintiff, however, did not reasonably incur $3,600
in expenses for the motion on requests for production or $4,200 for the motion
on special interrogatories.  Each motion
includes one hour of attorney fees at $600 hourly anticipated for drafting a
reply plus one hour to prepare for and attend the hearing.  (Sirmabekian Decls., ¶ 11.)  Guardian did not oppose the motions.  Plaintiff did not file reply briefs.  Moreover, drafting these simple motions did
not reasonably require four and five hours of attorney fees, respectively.  The court finds plaintiff reasonably incurred
a total of 3.5 hours of attorney fees at $600 hourly for each motion.


Disposition  toy
Plaintiff Fernando
A. Silva Quintana’s motion to compel
responses to requests for production is granted.  Defendant Guardian Eagle Security, Inc. is
ordered to serve verified
responses to plaintiff’s requests for production of documents, set one, without
objections within 30 days.  Defendant
Guardian Eagle Security, Inc. is further ordered to produce all
responsive documents concurrently with the written responses.  Defendant Guardian Eagle Security, Inc. and
its counsel G. Emmett Raitt, Jr. are ordered to pay plaintiff $2,100 in sanctions
within 30 days.  
Plaintiff Fernando
A. Silva Quintana’s motion to compel
responses to special interrogatories is granted.  Defendant Guardian Eagle Security, Inc. is
ordered to serve verified
responses to plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set one, without objections
within 30 days.  Defendant Guardian Eagle
Security, Inc. and its counsel G. Emmett Raitt, Jr. are ordered to pay plaintiff $2,100 in sanctions
within 30 days.  
Defendant Guardian Eagle Security, Inc.
and its counsel of record G. Emmett
Raitt, Jr. are jointly and severally liable for all sanctions.
 