 Case Number:  BC529122    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  52 Judgment
Creditor Eric Zimmerman’s Motion for Turnover Order and for Order of Assignment

Judgment creditor Eric Zimmerman moves for an order assigning
judgment debtor Ryan Johnson’s rights to payments by non-party Jamaica Mistaika
Productions LLC (Jamaica).  Code of Civil
Procedure section 708.510(a) provides that “the court may order the judgment
debtor to assign to the judgment creditor… all or part of a right to payment
due or to become due, whether or not the right is conditioned on future
developments.” 
Zimmerman shows good cause for an order assigning Johnson’s
right to payment from Jamaica.  Zimmerman
obtained a judgment of $74,528.75 against Johnson in 2015.  (Sperling Decl., Ex. A.)  In January 2024, Zimmerman and Johnson
stipulated that, including accrued interest, Johnson owed $134,022.31 on the
judgment.  (Id., Ex. B, ¶ 2.)  They further stipulated that Johnson was
“entitled to payment from Jamaica Mistaika Productions LLC regarding
[Johnson’s] work on the motion picture ‘Chum’ ” (id., ¶ 3) and that
Johnson assigned his right to payment of $55,000 (id., ¶¶ 4 & A).  The stipulation provides that Zimmerman would
accept $55,000 as full satisfaction of the judgment only if he received it by
January 31, 2024.  (Id., ¶¶ C
& D.)  
Pursuant to that stipulation, the court issued an
assignment order.  Zimmerman personally served
the order on Jamaica on January 18, 2024. 
(Sperling Decl., ¶ 4, Exs. C & D.) 
Zimmerman did not receive any payment from Jamaica or anyone else on
behalf of Johnson.  (Id., ¶¶ 5, 7.)  The judgment therefore remains
unsatisfied.  The court will issue an
order assigning to judgment creditor Zimmerman any right to payments due to
judgment debtor Johnson from non-party Jamaica Mistaika Productions LLC.
Disposition
Judgment creditor Eric Zimmerman’s motion for an
assignment order is granted.  
Judgment debtor Ryan Johnson’s rights to payments
from non-party Jamaica Mistaika Productions LLC are hereby assigned to judgment creditor Eric Zimmerman until the
judgment is fully satisfied.