 Case Number:  22STCV30559    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
13, 2023                   TRIAL DATE: 
March 18, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Maryam Shahbazi v. City of Beverly Hills, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV30559
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant
City of Beverly Hills
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Maryam
Shahbazi
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On September 19, 2022, Plaintiff, Maryam Shahbazi, filed a
form complaint against Defendant, City of Beverly Hills, for injuries arising
from a trip and fall because of an uneven sidewalk.  Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”) on October 18, 2022. 
Defendant filed its Answer to the FAC on November 3, 2022. 
            
            On September
15, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to continue the trial date and to set all
related discovery and motion cut-off dates to the new trial date.  This is the first request for a trial
continuance.
 
            Plaintiff filed
an opposition.  Defendant replied.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD FOR MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subdivision (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of
justice are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
Deadlines for Summary
Judgment Motion 
            Code of
Civil Procedure, section 437c requires a Motion for Summary Judgment be made
any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action.¿ The motion shall be heard no later than 30 days before trial, unless
the Court, for good cause, orders otherwise.¿ Parties must serve notice of the
motion and all supporting papers at least 75 days before the time appointed for
hearing.¿¿¿ 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant argues
good cause exists to continue the trial date because the earliest available
hearing date for its summary judgment motion is after the current trial
date.  The hearing date for the summary
judgment motion is March 26, 2024.  Trial
is currently set for March 18, 2024. 
Defendant further argues a trial continuance is necessary because essential
discovery is not yet completed.  For
example, Plaintiff and Defendant’s Persons Most Qualified have not been deposed.
 
            Plaintiff
contends the motion should be denied because Defendant has procrastinated in
completing discovery.  In support,
Plaintiff points to the fact that Defendant propounded discovery and issued
subpoenas in January of 2023.  
 
            Defendant
argues any delay in completing discovery is attributable to Plaintiff.  In support, Defendant states the subpoenas
had to be re-issued after learning that Plaintiff’s date of birth, as listed in
her Claim for Damages, did not match the date of birth Plaintiff gave to her
medical providers.  Defendant has yet to
receive all subpoenaed medical records.  Plaintiff
also concedes her deposition has not taken place and does not mention she has
yet to take any depositions.  
 
            Defendant
is entitled to have its motion for summary judgment heard.  On this basis alone, the Court will continue
the trial to accommodate the current hearing date.  Plaintiff does not argue she will be
prejudiced by a trial continuance.  With
respect to discovery, the Court will continue discovery to the new trial date.  This case has been at issue for just over a
year.    Based on the foregoing, the Court finds good
cause exists to continue the trial date and all related dates.   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The Final Status Conference scheduled for March
4, 2024 is CONTINUED to September 5, 2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 27 of
Spring Street Courthouse.  The Non-Jury
Trial scheduled for March 18, 2024 is CONTINUED to September 19, 2024 at 8:30
AM in Department 27 of Spring Street Courthouse.  All discovery cut-off dates, all pretrial
deadlines including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates are set to the
new trial date of September 19, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 13,
2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 