 Case Number:  21STCV38524    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling   Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27     HEARING DATE:     October  13, 2023                   TRIAL DATE:   Vacated                                                             CASE:                                Letisia Torres, et al. v. Margaret Juarez, M.D., et al.   CASE NO.:                 21STCV38524                          APPLICATION  FOR DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT      MOVING PARTY:               Defendant  AHMC San Gabriel Valley Medical Center LP    RESPONDING PARTY:     No  opposition      I.          BACKGROUND               On October 19, 2021, Plaintiffs, Letisia Torres, individually  and as Guardian ad Litem for minor, Darlene Ramirez, and Cesar Ramirez,  initiated this medical malpractice action against Defendants, Margaret Juarez,  M.D., San Gabriel Women’s Health, Inc., and AHMC San Gabriel Valley Medical  Center LP (“Settling Defendant”).  Plaintiffs  allege negligence for a failure to timely deliver Ms. Torres’ twins, Darlene  and Jayleen, resulting in significant injuries to Darlene and ultimately the  death of Jayleen.                           On July 18,  2023, Settling Defendant filed a Notice of Settlement.                 On July 27,  2023, Settling Defendant filed this Application for Determination of Good Faith  Settlement.                 The  application is unopposed.   II.        LEGAL STANDARDS               “Any party to an action in which it is alleged that two  or more parties are joint tortfeasors or coobligors on a contract shall be  entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith settlement entered into by  the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or  coobligors ….”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., § 877.6.)¿ Good faith settlements further  two sometimes competing policies: (1) the equitable sharing of costs among the  parties at fault, and (2) the encouragement of settlements.¿ (Erreca’s v.  Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1487.)¿¿                The Court must consider several factors including “a  rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the settlor’s  proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of  settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should  pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.”¿ (Tech-Bilt,  Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt).)¿¿“Other  relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy  limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or  tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.” ¿(Id.)¿¿¿                The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good  faith is¿ required to “be made on the basis of information available at the  time of settlement.”¿ (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p.  499.) ¿“[A] court not only looks at the alleged tortfeasor’s potential  liability to the plaintiff, but it must also consider the culpability of the  tortfeasor vis-à-vis other parties alleged to be responsible for the same  injury.” ¿(TSI Seismic Tenant Space, Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 149  Cal.App.4th 159, 166.)¿ “Potential liability for indemnity to a nonsettling  defendant is an important consideration for the trial court in determining  whether to approve a settlement by an alleged tortfeasor.”¿ (Id.)¿¿                In City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court  (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, the court provided the following guidance  regarding a motion for a good faith settlement determination:¿¿    “If the good faith settlement is contested,  section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable ground rule for the  hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good faith on the  contesting party. Once there is a showing made by the settlor of the  settlement, the burden of proof on the issue of good faith shifts to the  nonsettlor who asserts that the settlement was not made in good faith. If  contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases  could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate  the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.”    III.      DISCUSSION   A.  Procedural  Requirements               The  notice, application, and proposed order must be served by certified mail,  return receipt requested, or by personal service.  If the nonsettling  parties do not file a motion challenging the settlement within 25 days of  mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of  personal service, the court may approve the settlement.¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §  877.6, subd. (a)(2).)¿¿ Here, Defendants served this Application by certified mail  on July 27, 2023—more than 25 days before this hearing.  The Application  is uncontested.  Settling Defendant has  satisfied the procedural requirements.    B.   Good Faith Determination               Plaintiffs  have agreed to settle their claims against Settling Defendant.¿ Under the terms  of the agreement, Settling Defendant agrees to pay Plaintiffs the sum of  $9,975,000.¿    IV.       CONCLUSION               Based on  the foregoing, the Court concludes the settlement between Plaintiffs Letisia  Torres, individually and as Guardian ad Litem for minor, Darlene Ramirez, and  Cesar Ramirez,  and Defendant AHMC San  Gabriel Valley Medical Center LP was made in good faith.¿ The unopposed  Application for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.          Moving party to give notice.        Dated:   October 13,  2023                                         ___________________________________                                                                                     Kerry  Bensinger                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court               Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an  email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on  the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at  www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative  and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless  appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a  submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others  might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive  emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and  there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,  adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.   Tentative Ruling Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27  HEARING DATE:     October
13, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  Vacated                                                           CASE:                         Letisia Torres, et
al. v. Margaret Juarez, M.D., et al. CASE NO.:                 21STCV38524 



















 PETITION
TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE      

 MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Letisia Torres RESPONDING PARTY:      N/A              Claimant, Darlene
Ramirez, a minor, by and through her parent and Guardian Ad Litem, Petitioner, Letisia Torres, agreed to settle her claims
against Defendants, Margaret Juarez, M.D., and San Gabriel Valley Medical
Center.  Dr. Juarez agrees to pay
$890,000 and San Gabriel Valley Medical Center agrees to pay $9,475,000, for a total
sum of $10,365,000.  If approved, $723,749.58 will be used for medical
expenses, $82,139.62 will be used for attorney’s fees, and $82,139.62 will be
used for other expenses, leaving a balance of $7,944,850.02 for Claimant.              The
Petition was reviewed on September 12, 2023. 
The Court found the proposed settlement and requested attorney’s fees to
be fair and reasonable. Because Claimant requested $2,940,950,39 of the
settlement proceeds to be transferred into a proposed special needs trust (SNT),
the Court referred the matter to the Court’s Probate Department for review of
the proposed SNT prior to approval of the compromise.               Court
approval is required for all settlements involving a claim of a person with a
disability. (Probate Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code Civ. Proc. § 372.)              The Probate Department has reviewed
the Petition.  The proposed trust instrument
meets the requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 7.903(c) and Los
Angeles Superior Court rule 4.116(b).  Petitioner
also submits two additional requests for relief.  The Court rules as follows. 1.      Petitioner requests authority for
trustee to take fees on an interim periodic basis.  This request is granted.2.      Petitioner requests authority for
trustee to invest in proprietary funds, mutual funds, and bonds with maturity
dates greater than five years to provide for diversification and a higher rate
of investment return.  This request is
granted.             Findings             Pursuant to Probate Code section
3604(b), the Court makes the following findings: ·        
The SNT
beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the individual’s
ability to provide for her own care or custody and constitutes a substantial
handicap;·        
The SNT
beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not be met without the
trust; ·        
The money
to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably
necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.             Trustee
and Bond                        The
proposed initial trustee is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.  Normally, a bond is required of a trustee
unless the trustee is a corporate fiduciary. 
(California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section
2320.)  Here, the proposed trustee meets
that requirement.  Therefore, a bond is
not required.             Proposed
Order             The
Court notes the following defects in the proposed order, filed August 7, 2023. ·        
Item 8b(3)
has been checked but not completed.·        
The
proposed order does not provide for court jurisdiction over the trust.  ·        
The
proposed order properly requires first trust accounting in one year and sets 14
month calendar date.  However, Petitioner
must include the actual 14 month calendar date at paragraph 11 of Attachment
8a(2).  Additionally, Petitioner must
include the actual OSC date at paragraph 9 of Attachment 8a(2).              Based on the foregoing, the hearing
for this Petition is CONTINUED to November 9,
2023 at 1:30 PM to allow Petitioner to file an amended proposed order consistent
with this order.  The amended proposed
order is to be filed no later than 5 court days before the hearing.              Per
California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, the Court finds that Claimant’s
appearance at the hearing is not necessary but Petitioner is required to
appear.             Dated:   October 13,
2023                               ___________________________________                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court             Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.   































































































































  