 Case Number:  21STCV40508    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
13, 2023                   TRIAL DATE: 
December 7, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Ramon Caino v. Ikerr Mendez, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV40508
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendants
Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, Rasier-CA, LLC, Ikerr Mendez, and Yang
Wang
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Ramon
Caino
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a motor vehicle negligence action.  Plaintiff, Ramon Caino, filed a complaint
against Defendants, Ikerr Mendez (“Mendez”), Yang Wang (“Wang”), and Uber
Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC, and Rasier-CA, LLC (“Uber Defendants”), for
injuries arising from a December 19, 2019 motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff was a passenger in a vehicle driven
by Wang when Wang’s vehicle collided with Mendez’s vehicle.  Wang was driving in the course and scope of
his employment with Uber Defendants at the time of the incident. 
 
            Relevant
Procedural Background
 
            On May 18,
2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Alberto Cintura Nino and Ontoniel
Rodriguez Saucedo (LASC Case No. 21STCV18653) for a May 25, 2019 motor vehicle
collision.  This case is currently in
arbitration.
 
            On September
19, 2023, Uber Defendants filed this motion to continue the trial.  Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Uber Defendants filed a reply.  This is the second request for a trial
continuance.
 
            On October
5, 2023, Uber Defendants and Plaintiff filed a Stipulation for Partial Stay as
to Uber Defendants.  The Court granted
the stipulation on the same day. 
 
            On October
6, 2023, Mendez and Wang each filed a Joinder to Uber Defendants’ motion.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD FOR MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332, subdivision (b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as
soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332, subdivision (c), the Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The Court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of
justice are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd. (d).) 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
            Uber
Defendants argue good cause exists to continue the trial date for at least six
months because Plaintiff is claiming identical and combined damages from an
earlier car accident.  The earlier
accident is the subject of the complaint Plaintiff filed on May 18, 2021 in
Case No. 21STCV18653 (the “May 19 Action”). 
Uber Defendants further argue it is in the interests of justice to
continue the trial in this action until the May 19 Accident is resolved to
prevent a potential double recovery by Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff does
not oppose a short continuance but instead opposes any continuance sought until
after the May 2019 Action is resolved. 
In support, Plaintiff points to the fact that arbitration has not been
set in the May 2019 Action.  Further, Plaintiff
argues that although the injuries arising from the May 2019 Action are similar
to the injuries suffered in this action, they are not identical.
 
            Given the
lack of clarity regarding the status of the May 2019 Action, the Court is not
inclined to continue the trial at this time. 
But a continuance may be appropriate. 
To provide the parties time to learn more about the status of the May
2019 Action, the Court will continue this hearing to November 14, 2023.  If the parties learn anything else about the
status of May 2019 Action prior to the November 14, 2023 hearing, the parties
are to file a status report no later than three court days before the hearing.      
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is CONTINUED to November 14, 2023 at 1:30 PM in
Department 27 of Spring Street Courthouse. 

 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   October 13,
2023                                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 