 Case Number:  23STCV15278    Hearing Date:   October 13, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October
13, 2023                               TRIAL
DATE:  December 27, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Tomas Jesus Martinez v. Target Corporation
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV15278
 





















 
MOTION
TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Target Corporation
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff, Tomas Jesus Martinez, filed a
complaint against Defendant, Target Corporation, for injuries arising from a slip
and fall on Defendant’s premises. 
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on July 5,
2023.  Plaintiff seeks punitive damages
and attorney’s fees.
 
On August 25, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to strike punitive
damages and attorney’s fees from the FAC. 
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR MOTION TO STRIKE  
            Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).)¿ On a
motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a
court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)¿ 
            “The
grounds for a motion to strike are limited to matters appearing on the face of
the challenged pleading or matters which must or may be judicially noticed. (§
437, subd. (a); Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.).” (Garcia v. Sterling (1985)
176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20.) 
A
failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the
motion.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.54,
subd. (c).)
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Defendant seeks to strike punitive damages and
attorney’s fees from the FAC.  The Court
addresses each in turn.
 
1. Punitive damages
 
“In
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).)  “An employer shall not be liable
for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(b).)  
 
Defendant argues the Court should strike the request
for punitive damages from the FAC because there are no allegations to show that
Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice within the meaning of Civil
Code section 3294.  The Court agrees.  The FAC is devoid of any allegations rising
to the level of oppression, fraud, or malice.  Nor are there allegations that Defendant’s
officer, director, or managing agent had advanced knowledge of, authorized, or
ratified any act of oppression fraud, or malice. The FAC is deficient.
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike punitive
damages is granted.
 
            2.
Attorney’s Fees
 
“Except as attorney’s fees are specifically
provided for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties;
but parties to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as
hereinafter provided.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1021.)  Attorney’s fees are allowable
costs under Code of Civil Procedure section 1032 when authorized by contract,
statute, or law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5,
subd. (a)(10).)  
 
Defendant next seeks to strike attorney’s fees
from the FAC because there are no allegations identifying any statute to
support an award of attorney’s fees.  Nor
are there any allegations regarding a contract or breach of contract.  The Court agrees.  There are no allegations showing a statutory or
contractual basis for an award of attorney’s fees in this matter.
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike attorney’s
fees is granted. 
 
            IV.        CONCLUSION

            
The unopposed motion to strike punitive damages and
attorney’s fees from the First Amended Complaint is granted.  Leave to amend is denied.
 
Plaintiff is to file and serve a Second Amended Complaint consistent
with this order within 20 days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant is to file and serve a responsive pleading to the Second
Amended Complaint within 30 days of service of the amended pleading.
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
Dated:   October 13,
2023                                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 