

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February
6, 2023, Plaintiff Amber Lorraine Reyes (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendant Adriana Natale Weber (“Defendant”) for defamation. 
 
On March
8, 2023, Defendant filed an answer to the complaint. 
 
On
December 26, 2023, Defendant filed and served the instant unopposed motion for
judgment on the pleadings and asserts that Plaintiff’s complaint for defamation
fails to state a claim against Defendant. According to the proof of service,
Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings was served on Plaintiff—who is
representing herself in pro per—by electronic service. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Defendant contends
that the complaint fails to state a cause of action for defamation, fails to
allege a defamatory statement, and fails to identify to whom a defamatory
statement was made. Additionally, Defendant asserts that the complaint is vague
and conclusory. Defendant requests that the motion be granted without leave to
amend.   
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None as of
February 26, 2024.  
 
REPLY
 
            None as of
February 26, 2024.
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings 
A.               
Meet and Confer Requirement 
            Before
filing a statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings, a moving party's
counsel must meet and confer, in person, by telephone, or by videoconference
with counsel for the party who filed the pleading subject to the judgment on
the pleadings motion “for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the claims to be raised in the motion for judgment on the
pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a).) “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to grant or deny the
motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (CCP § 439(a)(4).) 
            Defendant’s counsel, Tye G. Trostad
(“Trostad”), declares that he was engaged by Defendant on December 14, 2023 to
represent her interests on a limited scope basis in this action. (Trostad
Decl., ¶ 2.) On December 18, 2023, Trostad attempted to contact Plaintiff via
email and phone to meet and confer. (Trostad Decl., ¶3.) Plaintiff has failed to respond to
Trostad’s email or calls. (Trostad Decl., ¶3.) 
            The Court finds that
the meet and confer requirement has not been met. The Court, however, will
assess the merits of the motion for judgment on the pleadings. The Court reminds
the parties of the need to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure. 
B.        Legal Standard 
A defendant’s motion for judgment on
the pleadings may be made after the time to demur has expired and an answer has
been filed. (CCP § 438(f)(2).) A motion by a defendant may be made on the
grounds that (1) the court “lacks jurisdiction of the subject of one or more of
the causes of action alleged” or (2) the complaint or cross-complaint “does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”
(CCP § 438(c).) 
 “A motion for judgment on the
pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer, and hence attacks only
defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be
judicially noticed.” Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th
995, 999. “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a general
demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of
action.” Wise v. Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.  
 Like a general demurrer,
“ordinarily, a [motion for judgment on the pleadings] does not lie as to a
portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of action is properly
pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior
Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452. In considering a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, courts consider whether properly pled factual
allegations—assumed to be true and liberally construed—are sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. Stone Street Capital, LLC v. Cal. State
Lottery Com’n (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 109, 116. A complaint cannot allege
mere legal conclusions and must plead facts. Berger v. California Ins.
Guarantee Assn. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 989, 1006. 
1.         Defamation
Cause of Action   

 
            A cause of
action for defamation must “allege either the specific words or the substance
of statements.” Lipman v. Brisbane Elementary School District (1961) 55
Cal.2d 224, 235. “Libel is a form of defamation effected in writing.” John
Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312. “The elements of a
defamation claim are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4)
unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special damage.”
Ibid. “The defamatory statement must specifically refer to, or be of and
concerning, the plaintiff.” Ibid. A defamation claim requires an
intentional communication “to a third person, either orally or in writing, [of]
a false, unprivileged statement.” Reed v. Gallagher (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
841, 855. 
 
            Plaintiff alleges the following in
her complaint:
 
“I Amber Lorraine Reyes am suing you Adriana Natale Weber
for damages in the sum of $25,000. I feel that this sum is appropriate in
equivalence to my pain and suffering, moving and relocation fees . . . Not just
those things, but I have also suffered extreme side effects of stress that all
of this has caused me. I also refute the statement that you made in your letter
stating that I am a prostitute. You made a letter that was full of lies to get
me evicted out of this property. The burden of proof is on you. I am
respectfully asking this court to please grant my side the $25,000 I’m asking
for to make my move possible and safely without incident, I have also not fully
recovered financially from the damages of COVID-19 I’m a bit behind and am in
no position to move signed Amber Reyes.” 
 
(Complaint, p. 2: 1-8.)
            
            The Court finds that the allegations
of the complaint are insufficient to state a cause of action for defamation
against Defendant. Plaintiff has failed to allege that the purported letter
claiming that Plaintiff was a prostitute was made intentionally and published
to a third person. Plaintiff has also not alleged the specific words in the
allegedly defamatory letter or the substance of such statements. The fact that
Defendant made a letter—without any allegation that the letter was published to
someone other than Plaintiff—does not allow Plaintiff to state a cause of
action for defamation. Plaintiff also does not specifically allege that the statement
concerning her being a prostitute is a false statement. Plaintiff merely
alleges that Defendant “made a letter that was full of lies.” (Complaint, p.
2:4-5.) Plaintiff’s allegations are much too conclusory and vague as she has
not identified what statement is defamatory. 
 
            Thus, the Court finds that the
complaint does not state a cause of action for defamation. As will be explained
below, however, the Court finds that Defendant improperly served Plaintiff with
the motion via electronic service. 
 
 
 
2.          Improper Service of the Motion    
 
            “Electronic service means service of
a document, on a person, by either electronic transmission or electronic
notification. Electronic service may be performed directly by a person,
including a party, by a person’s agent, including the person’s attorney, or
through an electronic filing service provider, and by a court.” (CCP §
1010.6(a)(1)(A).) “If a document is required to be served by certified or
registered mail, electronic service of the document is not authorized.” (CCP §
1010.6(a)(2).) “An unrepresented party may consent to receive electronic
service.” (CCP § 1010.6(c)(2).) Express consent to electronic service is given
by either: (1) serving a notice on all parties and filing the notice with the
court; or (2) manifesting affirmative consent through electronic means with the
court’s electronic filing service provider, and concurrently providing the
party’s electronic address with that consent for the purpose of receiving
electronic service. (CCP § 1010.6(c)(3)(i)-(ii).) “The act of electronic filing
shall not be construed as express consent.” (CCP § 1010.6(c)(3)(ii).) 
 
            Here, the proof of service shows
that Plaintiff was served with the motion by electronic service pursuant to CCP
§ 1010.6. Plaintiff is representing herself in pro per. After reviewing
the court file, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not expressly consented to
receive electronic service. Thus, electronic service of the motion was improper
under CCP § 1010.6. As such, the Court cannot grant the motion. 
 
            The Court therefore CONTINUES the
hearing on Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings in order for
Defendant to effectuate proper service of the motion. 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            In sum, the hearing on Defendant’s motion for judgment on
the pleadings is CONTINUED to APRIL 11, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 25 of
the Spring Street Courthouse for Defendant to serve Plaintiff with the instant
motion through an authorized means.  
 
Defendant is ordered to file proper proof of service of the Motion, as well
as proof of service of the continued hearing date upon the Plaintiff, at least
10 court days prior to the continued hearing date.  Failure to do so may result in the Motion
being placed off calendar or denied.

 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 