  Case Number:  22STCV33054    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Summary Adjudication
 
Moving Party: Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Mayo Hills, LLC
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The Motion for
Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. 
 
Summary
adjudication is GRANTED in favor of Mayo Hills, LLC and against Arturo Landeros
on the second cause of action for express indemnity in Mayo Hills, LLC’s
Cross-Complaint against Arturo Landeros. 
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On
October 10, 2022, Fracisco Javier Perez, Miguel Betancourt, Jose Norberto
Molina, and Francisco Javier Trujillo (“Plaintiffs”) filed their Complaint against
Arturo Landeros and Javid Somekh on causes of action of negligence and
constructive eviction. 
 
        On
November 14, 2022, Arturo Landeros, in propria persona, filed an Answer
to the Complaint. 
 
        On
November 28, 2022, by request of Plaintiffs, the Clerk’s Office dismissed
without prejudice Javid Somekh from the Complaint. 
 
        On
November 30, 2022, Plaintiffs amended their Complaint to substitute Doe 1 with
Mayo Hills, LLC. 
 
        On
January 20, 2023, Mayo Hills, LLC filed: (1) Cross-Complaint against Arturo
Landeros; and (2) Answer to Complaint. 
 
        On
February 14, 2023, Arturo Landeros, in propria persona, filed: (1) Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiffs; (2) Cross-Complaint against Mayo Hills, LLC; and (3) Answer
to Mayo Hills, LLC’s Cross-Complaint against Arturo Landeros. 
 
        On
March 20, 2023, Mayo Hills, LLC filed its Answer to Arturo Landeros’s
Cross-Complaint against Mayo Hills, LLC. 
 
        On
October 30, 2023, Mayo Hills, LLC filed its Motion for Summary Judgment (“MSJ”)
regarding the Complaint. 
 
        On
October 30, 2023, Mayo Hills, LLC filed its Amended Motion for Summary Judgment
(“Amended MSJ”) regarding the Complaint. In support of its Amended MSJ, Mayo
Hills, LLC concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Aman Lal; (2) Separate
Statement; and (3) Proposed Order. The Amended MSJ is currently scheduled to be
heard on February 8, 2024. 
 
        On
November 2, 2023, Mayo Hills, LLC filed its Motion for Summary Adjudication
(“MSA”) on issues involved in Mayo Hills, LLC’s Cross-Complaint against Arturo
Landeros. In support of its MSA, Mayo Hills, LLC concurrently filed: (1)
Declaration of Aman Lal; (2) Separate Statement; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
        On
November 3, 2023, Mayo Hills, LLC filed its Notice of Errata regarding the MSA.

 
        No
oppositions or other responses have been filed regarding the MSA. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard       
 
“A party may
move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that
the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding. The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since
the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom
the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that
the court, with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. That is because of the general principle that a party who seeks
a court’s action in his favor bears the burden of persuasion thereon. There is
a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment standards in Aguilar
to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues. Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a fact
finder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder,
supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no
discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation omitted.) 
 
II.       Discussion
 
Mayo Hills,
LLC moves the Court for summary adjudication on the following items: 
 
(1)       that Arturo Landeros owes a contractual duty
to defendant Mayo Hills, LLC from the date of its tender of defense; and 
 
(2)       that Mayo Hills, LLC is entitled to judgment
on the cause of action for express indemnity set forth within the Mayo Hills,
LLC Cross-Complaint against Arturo Landeros because of Arturo Landeros’s
failure to defend and indemnify Mayo Hills, LLC as required by the contract
between them.
 
(MSA, pp. 2:1–10, 7:2–5.)
 
        The
relevant contractual provisions are the following:
 
“8.7  Indemnity.   Except for Lessor's gross negligence or
willful misconduct, Lessee shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless the
Premises, Lessor and its agents, Lessor's master or ground lessor, partners and
Lenders, from and against any and all claims, loss of rents and/or damages,
liens, judgments, penalties, attorneys' and consultants' fees, expenses and/or
liabilities arising out of, involving, or in connection with, the use and/or
occupancy of the Premises by Lessee. If any action or proceeding is brought
against Lessor by reason of any of the foregoing matters, Lessee shall upon
notice defend the same at Lessee's expense by counsel reasonably satisfactory
to Lessor and Lessor shall cooperate with Lessee in such defense. Lessor need
not have first paid any such claim in order to be defended or indemnified. 
 
“8.8  Exemption of Lessor and its Agents from
Liability.  Notwithstanding the
negligence or breach of this Lease by Lessor or its agents, neither Lessor nor
its agents shall be liable under any circumstances for: (i) injury or damage to
the person or goods, wares, merchandise or other property of Lessee, Lessee's
employees, contractors, invitees, customers, or any other person in or about
the Premises, whether such damage or injury is caused by or results from fire,
steam, electricity, gas, water or rain, indoor air quality, the presence of
mold or from the breakage, leakage, obstruction or other defects of pipes, fire
sprinklers, wires, appliances, plumbing, HVAC or lighting fixtures, or from any
other cause, whether the said injury or damage results from conditions arising
upon the Premises or upon other portions of the Building, or from other sources
or places, (ii) any damages arising from any act or neglect of any other tenant
of Lessor or from the failure of Lessor or its agents to enforce the provisions
of any other lease in the Project, or (iii) injury to Lessee's business or for
any loss of Income or profit therefrom. Instead, it is intended that Lessee’s
sole recourse in the event of such damages or injury be to file a claim on the
Insurance policy(ies) that Lessee is required to maintain pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 8.”
 
(Decl. Lal, Exh. A.1, p. 8 [actual page 16 of
100].)
 
        Arturo
Landeros, who is litigating this matter in propria persona, has not
opposed or otherwise responded to the MSA. Similarly, Plaintiffs have not
opposed or otherwise responded to the MSA. Thus, it appears that no party is contesting
Mayo Hills, LLC’s arguments in the MSA. 
 
        Upon
considering the evidence submitted, the Court determines that Mayo Hills, LLC
has met its initial burden on summary judgment to show that there are no
triable issues of material fact. Arturo Landeros has not met his subsequent
burden. Therefore, summary adjudication is appropriate here. 
 
 
III.     Conclusion 
 
The Motion
for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED. 
 
Summary adjudication
is GRANTED in favor of Mayo Hills, LLC and against Arturo Landeros on the
second cause of action for express indemnity in Mayo Hills, LLC’s
Cross-Complaint against Arturo Landeros. 
 
 
 