  Case Number:  22STLC01715    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  26   
Hutchins
v. 3rd Heaven Trucking, LLC, et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES
TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES AND REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION; 
AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
(CCP §§ 2030.300, 2031.300, 2031.310)
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
 
Plaintiff Victor Hutchins’ (1) Motion for Order
Compelling Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Sanctions; and (2) Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Requests
for Production, Set One, and Request for Sanctions, are DENIED. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Victor
Hutchins (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action Defendants 3rd Heaven Trucking,
LLC and Jonathan Young (“Defendant Young”) on March 21, 2022. Defendants filed
an Answer and Cross-Complaint on May 6, 2022. 
 
On July 12,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant (1) Motion for Order Compelling Responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Sanctions; and (2) Motion for
Order Compelling Responses to Requests for Production, Set One, and Request for
Sanctions. No oppositions have been filed to date.
 
Discussion
 
Whether deliberately
or unintentionally, Plaintiff’s Motions do not make clear whether they seek
initial or further responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One, and the
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, from Defendant Young. Although
titled as, and brought pursuant to the statutes, for initial responses, the
supporting declarations indicate these should be motions to compel further
responses. Specifically, the meet and confer letter attached to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration states that Defendant Young served initial responses to
the written discovery, and then demands supplemental responses. (Motion, Sands
Decl., Exh. B.) 
 
Also, the statues
under which Plaintiff moves allow a propounding party to bring a motion to
compel initial responses if the party to whom the discovery was directed fails
to serve a timely response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b); §
2031.300, subd. (b).) Yet the Motions do not indicate that Defendant Young
failed to serve a timely response. Instead, the Motions are brought on the
grounds that Defendant Young failed to provide supplemental, code-compliant
responses. No authority is cited for the proposition that failure to serve
supplemental, code-compliant responses is grounds for an order compelling
initial responses. Therefore, if brought as motions to compel initial
responses, the Motions are denied. 
 
If brought as
motions to compel further responses, the Motions are not noticed properly nor
supported with adequate authority. Nor does Plaintiff comply with the following
procedural requirements. Notice of the motion to compel further must be
given “within 45 days of service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing,” otherwise, the propounding party
waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (c); § 2031.310, subd. (d).) The Motions do not specifically indicate
when Defendant Young’s discovery responses to the discovery requests were
served. However, they were served before February 7, 2024. (Motions, Sands
Decl., ¶¶1-5 and Exh. B.) The instant Motions were filed more than 45 days
later, on July 12, 2024. Therefore, the Motions are not timely as motions to
compel further responses and the Court has no authority to grant them. 
 
Finally, Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.1345 requires that all motions involving further discovery responses
include a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a
statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) Alternatively, “the court may allow
the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each
response in dispute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(3).) The Motions
are not accompanied by separate statements. 
 
Based on these
defects, the Court cannot order Defendant Young to serve further responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One, or Request for Production of Documents, Set One.

 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Christopher Hutchin’s (1) Motion for Order
Compelling Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Sanctions; and (2) Motion for Order Compelling Responses to Requests for
Production, Set One, and Request for Sanctions, are DENIED. 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 