 Case Number:  24STCV17372    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  14 #10Case Background
This is an action for breach of contract, breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, tortious interference with
contract, undue influence, and declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges that Decedent
Norma Jackson, Plaintiff’s mother, agreed to procure a life insurance policy
naming Plaintiff as the sole beneficiary in exchange for Plaintiff’s caregiving
services. Plaintiff’s siblings obtained Decedent’s credentials and used them to
change the beneficiary designation on Decedent’s insurance policy.
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiff Christina Jackson filed her
Complaint against Defendants Christopher Jackson, David Jackson, and The
Savings Bank Mutual Life Insurance Company of Massachusetts.
On October 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed this application for
Jo-Ellen Levy to be admitted pro hac vice.
On November 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint.
Instant Pleading
Jo-Ellen Levy applies for permission to appear pro hac
vice on behalf of Plaintiff.
Decision
The application is
GRANTED. Counsel Levy has complied with California Rules of Court Rule 9.40.
Discussion
Levy attests to her
residence address and office address, which are in Florida and Pennsylvania
respectively. (Levy Decl., ¶ 2.) She attests to all the courts she has been
admitted to (with dates of admission) and that she is in good standing with the
State Bar of Pennsylvania and not currently suspended or disbarred from
practice in any court. (Id., ¶¶3-5.) Levy submits the name and address
of the active California State Bar member with whom the applicant is
associated. (Id., ¶8.) She also testifies that she has not appeared pro
hac vice in California in the preceding two years. (Id. at ¶ 7.)
Further, the requisite fee was sent to the State Bar of California, and the
Notice of Hearing and the instant application were served on all interested
parties and on the State Bar of California. (Kantor Decl., ¶7; Proof of Service.)
Conclusion
The application is
GRANTED. Counsel Levy has complied with California Rules of Court Rule 9.40.