  Case Number:  24SMCV00271    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


August 7, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV00271




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Habibi Café, Jan Fathi, and Saad Fathi




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff City of Los Angeles



 
MOTION
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff City of Los Angeles (“City”) filed suit
alleging one cause of action for Common Count – Money Due on Unpaid Balance,
against Defendants 921-929 Broxton Ave, LLC (“Broxton”); Habibi Café (“Habibi”);
Jan Fathi; and Saad Fathi (“Defendants”). 

 
Defendants Habibi; Jan Fathi; and Saad Fathi (“Moving Defendants”) demur
to the Complaint on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivision (e).[1]  City opposes the demurrer.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
2.     FAILURE
TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
“A common count is not a
specific cause of action . . . rather, it is a simplified form of pleading
normally used to aver the existence of various forms of monetary indebtedness,
including that arising from an alleged duty to make restitution under an
assumpsit theory.”  (Avidor v.
Sutter's Place, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1454.) 
 
To prevail on a claim for
money had and received, the plaintiff must prove (1) defendant received money
that was intended to be used for the benefit of plaintiff; (2) the money was
not used for the benefit of plaintiff; and (3) the defendant has not given the
money to plaintiff.  (CACI No. 370.)
 
City seeks $66,022.59 in costs
incurred in connection with administrative nuisance abatement proceedings (Case
No. DIR-2021-1463-RV) and its appeal (Council File No. 21-1282) to mitigate the
public nuisance caused by Defendant Habibi, the tenant at Broxton’s property.  
 
City contends the amount is
reimbursable pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code section 12.27.1(C)(2),
which requires “the property owner, business operator or person in control” to
pay the City’s costs, should a nuisance be declared, and pursuant to Los
Angeles Administrative Code section 5.181(c), which states “[p]ersons indebted
to the City of Los Angeles for delinquent accounts or obligations owing to the
City . . . shall be liable for the underlying obligation and all costs incurred
by the City to effectuate collection of those items . . . .”  (Complaint ¶ 8.)  City further alleges the balance remains
unpaid.  (Complaint ¶¶ 8, 19.)
 
Moving Defendants contend that
City fails to state a cause of action because (1) the Complaint lacks specific
facts about the costs incurred; (2) some of the costs were likely incurred in
connection with prior nuisance investigations, for which the statute of
limitations has passed; and (3) the Complaint does not adequately allege
liability as to the two individual defendants.
 
As for the first argument, as
outlined above, the City has sufficiently alleged “ultimate facts” as to all
requisite elements for a common count for money had and received.[2]  There is no heightened pleading requirement
to allege a common count.
 
Moving Defendants’ second
argument—that some of the costs may predate the three-year statute of
limitations—is premised upon the Declaration of Martin S. Wolf and exhibits
attached thereto.  But the Court may not
consider extrinsic evidence when ruling on a demurrer.  (See, e.g., Childs v. State of
California (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 155, 163 [“It is an elementary rule that
the sole function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the challenged
pleading.  It cannot, properly, be
addressed to or based upon evidence or other extrinsic matters”].)   Nothing on the face of the Complaint itself
suggests that any portion of the costs were incurred as part of prior nuisance
investigations that precede the applicable statute of limitations.  Thus, the second argument raises a factual
dispute to be resolved at later stages of the litigation.
 
Regarding the third argument,
Moving Defendants contend that the Complaint does not adequately allege personal
involvement of the individual defendants to hold them personally liable for
Habibi’s debt.  As City points out in
Opposition, City alleges the individual defendants are liable for the City’s
costs as “the property owner, business operator or person in control” of the
nuisance pursuant to Los Angeles Municipal Code section 12.27.1(C)(2).  Specifically, the Complaint alleges each
individual defendant is a “business operator” or “person in control” as
follows:
 
4. Operator Defendant JAN FATHI is and at all
times mentioned was an individual residing in Carlsbad, California. She is and
at all times mentioned was the Chief Executive Officer and Secretary of HABIBI
CAFE. She has also identified herself to the CITY as one of the owners and
operators of Habibi Cafe. As such, at all times mentioned, she operated and
controlled Habibi Cafe at 923 South Broxton Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90024. 
 
5. Operator Defendant SAAD FATHI is and at all
times mentioned was an individual residing in Carlsbad, California. He is and
at all times mentioned was Habibi Cafe’s owner and operator, having represented
to the CITY that he is its “owner,” “President,” “CEO,” and “GM” (or general
manager). Habibi Cafe employees also identified him as its owner to the Los
Angeles Police Department (“LAPD”). He had access to the business’s
surveillance video footage of the nuisance activities occurring there.
Moreover, LAPD has cited him for the business’s nuisance activities. He further
advertised for Habibi Cafe, often posting pictures of himself with other
celebrities at Habibi Cafe on its Instagram account/feed. As such, at all times
mentioned, he operated and controlled Habibi Cafe at 923 South Broxton Avenue,
Los Angeles, CA 90024.
 
(Complaint
¶¶ 4-5.)
 
            Therefore, City has adequately
alleged the individual defendants are liable for the City’s costs as business
operators and/or persons in control of Habibi.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Moving Defendants’ Demurrer
to the Complaint in its entirety.  
 
Moving Defendants shall file and serve an Answer to the Complaint on
or before August 28, 2024.   
 
Further, on the Court’s own motion, the Court continues the Case Management
Conference to October 30, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All parties shall comply with California
Rules of Court, rules 3.722, et seq., regarding Initial and Further Case
Management Conferences.  In particular, all
parties shall adhere to the duty to meet and confer (Rule 3.724) and to the requirement
to prepare and file Case Management Statements (Rule 3.725).  
 
Although Plaintiff is not the moving party, the Court orders Plaintiff
to provide notice of the Court’s orders, and to file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.  
 
 
DATED:  August 7, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


