  Case Number:  24STCV01167    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   September
10, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Mark
Cislo v. Banc of California, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV01167

 
PETITION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Banc of California and Pacific Western Bank
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Mark Cislo
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order compelling arbitration and staying this matter pending arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      This
matter is STAYED pending arbitration.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff Mark Cislo (Plaintiff) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Banc of California and Pacific Western Bank
(Defendants) with three causes of action for: (1) Discrimination Based on Age
(Gov. Code § 12940(a)); (2) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy;
and (3) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing.
 
According to the Complaint, Defendants discriminated against
Plaintiff due to his age and wrongfully terminated him because of it.
 
On April 5, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Petition to
Compel Arbitration. On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On July 1,
2024, Defendants filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Compel Arbitration
 
Under
California law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to
CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of
the parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿
 
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . .
.”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel,
Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿
 
“[A] party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.
[Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to
reach a final determination.”¿¿(Giuliano,
supra, at p. 1284.)¿¿
 
However, when an arbitration agreement states that the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) governs enforcement, the FAA governs a motion to compel
arbitration. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman
Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345-346 (Victrola 89).) “A written provision … to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising … or … to submit to arbitration an existing controversy … shall
be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” [9 U.S.C. § 2 (emphasis added)] A party to an
arbitration agreement may seek a court order compelling the parties to
arbitrate a dispute covered by the agreement. (9 U.S.C. § 4.)
 
Here, the Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims (MAA)
provides for “any arbitration” to be governed by the FAA. (Kortz Decl., Exhibit
A, p. 2.) It does not state that the FAA “governs enforcement” and there is no
other clause that indicates the parties agreed to enforce the MAA via the FAA.
Accordingly, the court will apply California law in its analysis.
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
 
The court grants Defendants’ request
for judicial notice as to Exhibits A and B. (Evid. Code § 452(h);
See Kalnoki v. First American
Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the
court only takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the
existence, content and authenticity of public records and other specified
documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual
matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez
v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿¿ 
 
Evidentiary
Objections
 
This court is unaware of any legal
authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion,
except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)) or
a special motion to strike. (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019)
6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.)  As such, this court respectfully declines to
rule on any of these objections.  This court is well aware of the rules of
evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the
proposed evidence.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement¿ 
¿ 
In determining the enforceability of an arbitration
agreement, the court considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1)
whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the parties, and (2)
whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 

Agreement
     Between Parties:¿ 

 
The moving party can meet its initial burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement by attaching a copy of the agreement to
this motion bearing the signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet its
initial burden by attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement
purporting to bear the¿respondent's signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving
party can meet its initial burden by setting forth the agreement’s provisions
in the motion. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)¿¿ 
 
Here, Defendants met their initial burden because they
attached a copy of the MAA with Plaintiff’s physical signature to the Petition.
(Kortz Decl., Exhibit A.) 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) The evidence must be
sufficient to create a factual dispute to shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature. (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere).)¿ 
 
Here,
Plaintiff does not challenge his signature on the MAA. Instead, Plaintiff
challenges Defendants’ ability to enforce the MAA as a non-signatory.
 
a.     
Standing
– Non-Signatory to MAA
Defendants contend that Banc can properly compel Plaintiff
to arbitration because it is the rightful successor to Plaintiff’s former
employer who is a signatory to the Agreement.[1]
Plaintiff argues that Defendants lack standing because he had no further
employment with them after the merger.
 
“Nonsignatory defendants may enforce arbitration agreements
‘where there is sufficient identity of parties.’  [Citation.]”  (Marenco v. DirecTV LLC (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 1409, 1417 (Marenco).) 
Such a relationship exists where after a merger, “the disappearing corporation
[] no longer exists” and “the surviving corporation [] succeeded to all rights
and liabilities of the disappearing corporation.”  (Id. at p. 1419.) In Marenco,
the Court found that “Marenco acknowledged the existence of an employment
relationship with the entity that survived the merger” because he sued it for
violating the terms of his employment. (Marenco,
supra, at p. 1419.) The Marenco
Court also found “there is no doubt that the [arbitration] agreement formed one
of the terms of Marenco’s employment.” (Ibid.)
The Court concluded: “Marenco
offers no persuasive authority to refute the general contract law principle
that his continued employment provided implied consent to maintaining the
existing terms of employment, including the arbitration agreement.” (Id. at p. 1420.)
 
This
court is bound by the Marenco. Thus,
here, as in Marenco, since Defendant Banc
is the surviving corporation that succeeded to all the debts and liabilities of
the signatory, by suing Defendant Banc, Plaintiff impliedly “acknowledged the
existence of the employment relationship,” including the MAA, with Defendant
Banc by suing it for employment violations. Indeed, the MAA explicitly covers
claims Plaintiff may have with “all successors” of the Company. (Kortz Decl.,
Exhibit A, p. 1.) 
 
Therefore,
Defendants have standing to enforce the MAA.
 
Accordingly,
Defendants have established that an agreement to arbitrate exists.
 
2.     
The Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue:
Defendants
contend that the MAA covers the subject dispute because Plaintiff filed an
employment action that is not otherwise excluded by the MAA. Plaintiff did not
directly oppose this argument.
 
“[T]he decision as to whether a contractual arbitration
clause covers a particular dispute rests substantially on whether the clause in
question is ‘broad’ or ‘narrow.’” (Bono
v. David (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1067.) “‘A “broad” clause includes
those using language such as “any claim arising from or related to this
agreement”‘ [Citation] or ‘arising in connection with the [a]greement’
[Citation.]” (Rice v. Downs (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186 [italics omitted].) “But clauses requiring arbitration
of a claim, dispute, or controversy ‘arising from’ or ‘arising out of’ an
agreement, i.e., excluding language such as ‘relating to this agreement’ or ‘in
connection with this agreement,’ are ‘generally considered to be more limited
in scope than would be, for example, a clause agreeing to arbitrate “‘any
controversy … arising out of or relating to this agreement[.]’” [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 186-87 [italics omitted].)
“Several Ninth Circuit cases have held that agreements requiring arbitration of
‘any dispute,’ ‘controversy,’ or ‘claim’ ‘arising under’ or ‘arising out of’
the agreement are intended to encompass only disputes relating to the
interpretation and performance of the agreement.” (Id. at p. 187.) 
 
Here,
the MAA applies to the instant dispute. The MAA covers “all claims or causes of
action” including “claims for breach of any contract or covenant; tort claims;
disputes with respect to compensation and benefits; claims for discrimination
or harassment (including, but not limited to, . . . age, . . .); claims for
retaliation; claims for violation of public policy; and claims for violation of
any federal, state, or other law, statute, regulation or ordinance including,
but not limited to, all claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, . . . the
California Labor Code, . . . and all similar federal and state statutes or
local ordinances.” (Kortz Decl., Exhibit A, p.1.) Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendants concern his employment with them and are not otherwise carved out.
 
Therefore,
the MAA applies to the subject dispute.
 
Defenses to Arbitration
 
Plaintiff
contends that the court should not enforce the MAA because it has significant
procedural unconscionability and is substantively unconscionable without the
ability to sever the unconscionable terms. Defendants argue the MAA is not so
procedurally unconscionable to render it unenforceable, it meets the Armendariz factors, and is capable of
severance.
 
Under California law and the FAA, an arbitration agreement
may be invalid based upon grounds applicable to any contract, including
unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.) Once it is determined that a valid
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the opposing party to “prove
by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Catalina Restaurant Group Inc.
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review denied (Nov. 13, 2019)).¿¿ 
 
Unconscionability¿ 
¿ 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated that when determining whether
an arbitration agreement was unconscionable, there is both a procedural and a
substantive element. (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).¿¿¿ 
 

Procedural
     Unconscionability¿ 

¿ 
Defendants
contend there is no procedural unconscionability because there is no “surprise”
or “unduly oppressive” aspects in the MAA and its “take-it-or-leave-it” basis
alone is insufficient to render it unenforceable. Plaintiff argues substantial
procedural unconscionability because the MAA does not attach the JAMS rules and
it was a contract of adhesion.
¿ 
Courts determine
whether an agreement is procedurally unconscionable by looking at surprise and
oppression. Oppression is an “inequality of bargaining power, when one party
has no real power to negotiate or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the
allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th
74, 84 (Carmona).) Examples of
contracts that are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which
is a “standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of
superior bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the
opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113). “The circumstances relevant to
establishing oppression include, but are not limited to (1) the amount of time
the party is given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type
of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length
of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged
provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the
party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
126-27 (OTO).)¿ 
¿ 
“When arbitration
is a condition of employment, there is inherently economic pressure on the
employee to accept arbitration. This alone is a fairly low level of procedural
unconscionability.” (Cisneros Alvarez
v. Altamed Health Services Corporation
(2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 572, 591). Here, the only evidence Plaintiff offers for
procedural unconscionability is that California United Bank would not continue
his employment after they acquired 1st Enterprise Bank in 2014 unless he signed
the MAA. (Cislo Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) This, alone, is not enough to find more than
minimal procedural unconscionability.
 
The California Supreme Court has explicitly held that failure to attach
arbitration rules is only significant when a party alleges those unattached
rules are substantively unconscionable. (Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) Mere failure to attach the
applicable rules does not establish procedural unconscionability. (Ibid.) This is because where the failure to attach JAMS
rules to an agreement “… has nothing to do … with the rules themselves …” such failure does not
establish procedural unconscionability. (Baltazar,
supra, at p. 1246, discussed in Lange v. Monster Energy Company (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 436, 447 (Lange).) Here, Plaintiff did
not argue or provide evidence that the JAMS rules are substantively
unconscionable.
 
Accordingly,
there is minimal procedural unconscionability.
 

Substantive
     Unconscionability¿ 

 
Plaintiff contends
the MAA is substantively unconscionable because it illegally bans
representative actions. Plaintiff further contends that the MAA cannot be
salvaged by severing the prohibited terms. Defendants argue the MAA meets the Armendariz factors (which Plaintiff did
not address) and is severable as needed. 
¿ 
“Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and
to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.” (Carmona, supra,
at p. 85). There are five minimum substantive requirements to an enforceable
arbitration agreement: (1) neutral arbitrators, (2) more than minimal
discovery, (3) written award sufficient for judicial review, (4) all types of
relief otherwise available in court, and (5) no unreasonable costs or fees as a
condition of access. (Armendariz, supra, at p.102.) When there is little
procedural unconscionability, a party opposing arbitration must show
substantial substantive unconscionability. (Id. at 114.)¿ 
 
Here, the MAA is not substantially unconscionable. To start,
Plaintiff’s argument that the MAA prohibits class actions is not persuasive because
Plaintiff is not bringing such a claim. (See generally, Complaint.) Next, the
MAA satisfies the Armendariz factors.
First, it provides that the arbitrator “shall be neutral” and “will have
experience in arbitrating employment disputes” and “will be selected by the
mutual agreement of the parties” or a strike list if the parties cannot agree
on an arbitrator. (Kortz Decl., Exhibit A, p. 2.) The MAA provides for “written
discovery and depositions as provided in California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1283.05.” (Ibid.) It also
provides for a written award “that includes the essential findings and
conclusions upon which the decision is based.” (Ibid.) The arbitrator has “authority to grant any party all
remedies otherwise available by law.” (Ibid.)
Finally, the Company shall pay for the fees charged by the arbitrator and JAMS
“to the extent such costs would not otherwise be incurred in a court
proceeding.” (Ibid.) 
 
Accordingly, there is no substantive unconscionability.
 
The court therefore GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion to Compel Arbitration is
GRANTED;
2.This matter is STAYED pending
arbitration. OSC re: status of arbitration on November 6, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              September 10, 2024                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


