 Case Number:  BC706555    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   September
10, 2024                                        
 
CASE NAME:           Jason
Frank Law PLC v. Michael J. Avenatti
 
CASE NO.:                BC706555

 
MOTION
TO AMEND JUDGMENT TO ADD AVENATTI & ASSOCIATES, APC AS ADDITIONAL JUDGMENT
DEBTOR
 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff
Jason Frank Law PLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Michael J. Avenatti
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order amending the judgment to add Avenatti & Associates, APC as an
additional judgment debtor to the judgment entered in this action on November
20, 2018.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Amend Judgment is GRANTED;
2.      Plaintiff
to provide a proposed Amended Judgment within 14 days of this order.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On May 16, 2018, Plaintiff Jason Frank Law PLC (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Michael J. Avenatti (Defendant) for breach
of contract. In 2018, Plaintiff obtained over $5 million judgment against
defendant and has spent the remaining time attempting to enforce the judgment.
 
On August 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to
amend the judgment to add Avenatti & Associates, APC as an additional
judgment debtor. 
 
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff moved ex parte to advance the hearing date from December to September
2024. The court GRANTED Plaintiff’s ex
parte application.
 
On August 28, 2024, Defendant filed a “preliminary”
opposition. 
 
On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Motion to Amend
Judgment 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 187¿ 
¿ 
“When jurisdiction is, by the
Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be
not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this Code.” 
¿ 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 187.) This section empowers the court to
“use all the means necessary” to carry its jurisdiction into effect.¿ The court
therefore has authority in certain circumstances to amend a judgment against a
corporation (or other entity) to add as a judgment debtor the entity's nonparty
“alter ego” who controlled the underlying litigation.¿ In effect, “amending a
judgment to add an alter ego does not add a new defendant but instead inserts
the correct name of the real defendant.” (Misik
v. D’Arco (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1072-1073 [complaint only named LLC,
which was totally controlled by individual].)¿ It is not necessary that alter
ego doctrine be alleged or proved in the underlying lawsuit. (Id. at
1074-1075; Danko v. O’Reilly (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 732, 741.)¿ 
 
Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
The court grants Plaintiff’s amended and supplemental request
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452(c), (h); See¿Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing Solutions, LLC (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes judicial notice of the
foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of
public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice
of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App.
5th 389, 400.)¿¿
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Plaintiff seeks to add Avenatti & Associates, APC (AA) as
an additional judgment debtor to the judgment entered in this matter on
November 20, 2018. Plaintiff contends that they recently identified assets
Defendant purchased using AA that will be disposed, that AA is really an alter
ego for Defendant, and that no “innocent owners” will be harmed by adding AA as
a judgment debtor. Defendant filed a limited opposition indicating there was
insufficient time to prepare a robust opposition, that Plaintiff’s delay in
adding AA is in bad faith, and that service of the order advancing the hearing
date of this motion was defective.[1]
Plaintiff replies that Mr. Avenatti cannot represent AA because he is no longer
a licensed attorney and that the other arguments raised in the preliminary
opposition are disingenuous. 
 
Reverse Veil Piercing
 
The legal separation between a corporation and the
individual members may be disregarded “when [a corporation or LLC] is used [by
one or more individuals] to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a statute, or
accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose.” (Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 221 (Curci). There are two necessary
conditions to invoke the alter ego doctrine: “First, there must be such a unity
of interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that
the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in
reality exist. Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in
question are treated as those of the corporation alone.” (Ibid. [citing Sonora Diamond
Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.]) 
 
In reverse veil piercing, a party “seeks to satisfy the debt
of an individual through the assets of an entity of which the individual is an
insider.” (Blizzard Energy, Inc. v.
Schaefers (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 832, 840 (Blizzard); Curci, supra,
at p. 221.) “Outside reverse veil piercing arises when the request for piercing
comes from a third party outside the targeted business entity.” (Curci, supra, at p. 221.) Before
applying reverse veil piercing, “the availability of
alternative, adequate remedies must be considered by the trial court.” (Blizzard, supra, at p. 847.) 
 
i.                   
Unity of Interest and Ownership
Relevant factors to this analysis include: “commingling of
funds and other assets, failure to segregate funds of the separate entities,
and the unauthorized diversion of corporate funds or assets to other than
corporate uses, the treatment by an individual of the assets of the corporation
as his own, the disregard of legal formalities and the failure to maintain
arm’s length relationships among related entities.” (Blizzard, supra, at p. 849. [internal citations and bracketing
omitted.]) 
 
Here, there is evidence of a unity of interest and ownership
such that the separate personalities of Mr. Avenatti and AA do not exist. First,
Mr. Avenatti owns 100% of the shares of AA. (Frank Decl., Exhibits G & H.) Second,
Plaintiff provided evidence that AA spent corporate funds for non-corporate
uses. (See, e.g., Frank Decl., Exhibits J & K [child support to Ms.
Carlin], Exhibits L & M [remodeling Mr. Avenatti’s home], Exhibits N &
P [rent for houses and apartments], Exhibits P & Q [personal care], and
Exhibits R & S [hobbies].) This evidence also supports Mr. Avenatti’s use
of AA’s corporate assets as his own. Third, Plaintiff provided evidence that AA
did not follow corporate formalities or maintain arm’s length relationships
between Mr. Avenatti’s related entities. (Frank Decl., Exhibits I, EE; Storie
Decl. Exhibit B.)
 
Accordingly, there is unity of interest and ownership
between AA and Mr. Avenatti.
 
ii.                 
Inequitable Result
Plaintiff has demonstrated that an inequitable result will
follow should the court deny this motion because Mr. Avenatti has consistently
evaded paying the judgment and the property at issue now is set to be
abandoned. Additionally, Plaintiff provided evidence that it agreed with Ms.
Storie, who has a claim to AA, that they will not pursue any debt collection
from her personally.
 
Therefore, the court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to amend
the judgment.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Motion to Amend Judgment is
GRANTED;
2.Plaintiff to provide a proposed
Amended Judgment within 14 days of this order.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              September 10, 2024                __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


