  Case Number:  22CHCV00095    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  F51 MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHCV00095    Motion Filed: 11/7/23                                                                               JURY TRIAL: 7/15/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Steven Sheridan; and The  Valley Club House of Los Angeles, California, Inc., a California non-profit  corporation (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Edwin Tolmas, in pro per  (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: An  order granting summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication in  favor of Defendants and against Plaintiff.   TENTATIVE RULING: The unopposed motion is granted.   Defendants are reminded that  “in a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion, no opening or responding  memorandum may exceed 20 pages.” (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113(d).) Here,  Defendants’ motion exceeds the California Rules of Court’s page limit by 20  pages. Failure to comply with these requirements in the future may result in  papers being rejected, matters being placed off calendar, matters being  continued so documents can be resubmitted in compliance with these  requirements, documents not being considered and/or the imposition of  sanctions.   BACKGROUND    This action  arises out of Plaintiff’s allegations that on 2/15/20, Defendants wrongfully  terminated his membership in The Valley Club, a non-profit corporation that  provides a hall for recovering alcoholics to hold meetings and socialize. (Compl.  ¶ 8.) On 2/14/22, Plaintiff filed his complaint, alleging the following causes  of action in the caption: (1) Wrongful Termination of Organization Membership;  (2) Wrongful Termination of Corporation Board of Director Membership; (3)  Intentional Infliction of Mental Distress; (4) Negligent Infliction of Mental  and Emotional Distress; (5) Defamation of Character; (6) Reinstatement to Board  of Directors; (7) Membership; and (8) Demand for Corporate Financial Accounting  and Audit. The causes of action stated in the body of the complaint are as  follows: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Negligent Termination of Organization  Membership; (3) Mental and Physical Distress; (4) Intentional Termination of  Plaintiff Member of Board of Directors; (5) Reinstatement as Trustee to Board  of Directors; and (6) Failure of Audit by Board of Directors. On 4/8/22,  Defendants filed their joint answer. On 4/23/23, Plaintiff dismissed his third  cause of action.    On 11/7/23,  Defendants filed the instant motion for summary judgment. No opposition has  been filed to date. On 2/27/24, Defendants filed a Notice of Plaintiff’s  Non-Opposition to the instant motion.   ANALYSIS   The function of a motion for summary judgment or  adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot  show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of  summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield  Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,  subdivision (c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the  evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’  and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable  issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment  as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7  Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary  judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits  or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact  within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento  (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 65, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima  (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381–382.)    As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant  moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by  presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519–1520.)     Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts  to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts  exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable  issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial  responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.) Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.  Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)    A.     Breach of  Contract   Plaintiff’s first cause of action alleges a Breach of  Contract. To state this cause of action, a plaintiff must be able to establish  “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for  nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the  plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,  821.) Here, Plaintiff alleges in his complaint that he was a dues-paying member  of The Valley Club until Defendants “wrongful, improperly and intentionally and  without legal cause or justification, terminated the plaintiff’s membership.” (Compl.  ¶ 8.) Defendants  argue that Plaintiff cannot establish the existence of any contract entered  into between the parties, nor Defendants’ breach thereof, or any resulting  damages to Plaintiff. In support of their arguments, Defendants proffer  Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses, wherein Plaintiff states that the  agreement was oral in nature and involved a “dues for membership and attendance  at the Valley Club” transaction, without any additional contractual terms. (UMF  Nos. 3–5.) “A major hurdle in this case is the absence of any writing or  witnesses to the contract formation referenced in the Complaint or in any of  the versions of discovery responses from Plaintiff.” (MSJ 16:2–3.)   Defendants  further argue that the termination of Plaintiff’s membership arose out of  Plaintiff’s conduct in violating his fiduciary duty, as trustee to the Board of  Directors, to safeguard the Club’s confidential financial information. (UMF No.  53.) Defendants therefore contend that their termination of Plaintiff’s  membership was thus justified under the circumstances. Moreover, “even if  Plaintiff had adequately described the terms and conditions of the purported  agreement existing between the Valley Club and him, he suffered no monetary,  social, or recovery injury, harm or damage from termination of the Valley Club  membership and role as trustee.” (MSJ 20:13–16.)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden  to present facts to negate each of the necessary elements of a Breach of  Contract cause of action. As Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant motion,  he has failed to offer any  responsive evidence to show a triable issue of material fact as to this cause  of action. Accordingly, the motion is granted as to Plaintiff’s first cause of  action.   B.     Negligent Termination of Organization Membership   Plaintiff’s second cause of action alleges a Negligent Termination of  Organization Membership. As Defendants observe, “Plaintiff has not  offered any authority, legislative or judicial, creating or establishing a  cause of action or claim for ‘negligent termination of membership in an  organization,’ non-profit or otherwise.” (Id. at 31:25–28.) To state a claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements  of (1) “the existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and  (3) “proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific,  LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)   Here, Defendants maintain that “termination of Plaintiff s  Club membership and role as trustee was a justified exercise of management’s  and the Board’s duties to the Valley Club,” and that “no improper act or  misconduct was carried out by Defendants, the Valley Club, its management, or  Board.” (MSJ 36:7–8, 36:12–13.) “Ending Plaintiffs [sic] Club membership and  trustee role were … necessary and appropriate exercises of management’s and the  Board’s duty and authority to protect and advance the goals and purpose of the  Valley Club, for the benefit of the Club’s members.” (Id. at 33:15–18,  citing Talega Maintenance Corp. v. Standard Pacific Corp. (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th  722, 732 (“… board decisions are not subject to review by administrative  mandate and because, though meetings of the board of directors were authorized  by statute, ‘the actual procedures are left to the private organizations.’”).)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden  to present facts to establish a defense to Plaintiff’s Negligent  Termination of Organization Membership cause of action. Again, as  Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant motion, he has failed to offer any responsive evidence to show a  triable issue of material fact as to this cause of action. Accordingly, the  motion is granted as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action.   C.    Intentional Termination of Plaintiff Member of Board of Directors   Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action alleges Intentional Termination of  Plaintiff Member of Board of Directors. Here, as a preliminary matter,  Defendants contend that “while Plaintiff was a member of the Board of Directors  for a brief period in 2015-2016, he resigned over disagreements with the other  members of the Board.” (MSJ 37:28–38:1, citing Decl. of James R. White ¶ 3.)   Defendants further argue that “Club membership is contingent  on being sober for 30 days, and Plaintiff admitted to his medical attendants in  March 2020 that he regularly consumed alcohol. Also, to fill a role on the  Board of Directors, the member must have been sober for at least 1 year.  Plaintiff cannot satisfy either of those conditions.” (MSJ 40:12–16; UMF Nos.  73–75.) Defendants base this argument on Plaintiff’s medical records, produced  in discovery, which cite to his regular alcohol consumption. (UMF Nos. 73–75.)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden  to present facts to establish a defense to Plaintiff’s Intentional  Termination of Plaintiff Member of Board of Directors cause of action.  Again, as Plaintiff has failed to oppose the instant motion, he has failed to offer any responsive  evidence to show a triable issue of material fact as to this cause of action.  Accordingly, the motion is granted as to Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action.   D.    Reinstatement as Trustee to Board of Directors   Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action seeks Reinstatement as Trustee to  Board of Directors. As Defendants observe, this cause of action “does not state  a claim or cause of action against Defendants,” as it is “a request for  relief rather than a claim or cause of action.” (MSJ 41:18, 41:25–26.) The  Court agrees, and again notes Plaintiff’s failure to oppose the instant motion.  Accordingly, the motion is granted  as to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action.   E.     Failure of Audit by Board of Directors   Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action alleges Failure of Audit by Board  of Directors. Here, Defendants argue that the Club’s bylaws do not require  audits, and furthermore, that “Plaintiff has no standing to bring an  action to compel an audit on behalf of the Valley Club and its members” because  “Plaintiff is not and was not a managing officer.” (MSJ 42:27–28, 43:10.)   In  support of their arguments, Defendants proffer a copy of the Club’s bylaws, as  well as defendant Steven Sheridan’s sworn declaration attesting that “there has  never been a motion passed to conduct an independent audit of the financial  books and records.” (Ex. F to Sep. Stmt.; Decl. of Steven Sheridan ¶ 19.)   Based  on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have met their initial burden  to present facts to establish a defense to Plaintiff’s Failure of  Audit by Board of Directors cause of action. Again, as Plaintiff has  failed to oppose the instant motion, he  has failed to offer any responsive evidence to show a triable issue of material  fact as to this cause of action. Accordingly, the motion is granted as to  Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action.     Based on the foregoing, the Court finds  that Defendants are entitled to summary judgment.   CONCLUSION    The unopposed motion is granted. Defendant to file proposed  judgement within 10 days.  