  Case Number:  23STCV30265    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   May
16, 2024                                      
 
CASE NAME:           Margarita
Soto v. BVCV Operating Company LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV30265

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
BVCV Operating Company LLC dba Monte Vista Healthcare Center
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Margarita Soto
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order compelling arbitration and an Order staying the matter pending
arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
court ORDERS this action STAYED pending arbitration.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff Margarita Soto (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant BVCV Operating Company, LLC (Defendant)
with seven causes of action for: (1) Disability Discrimination in Violation of
FEHA, (2) Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of FEHA,
(3) Failure to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process in Violation of FEHA,
(4) Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, (5) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA, and (6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy.
 
Plaintiff alleges that she began working for Defendant as in
June 2023 as a LVN Night Nurse. (Compl. ¶ 17.) On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff
experienced a work injury wherein she fell on a chair, resulting in extreme
pain to her neck and back. (Id. at ¶
18.) Because of her injuries, she was required to wear a back brace for
support, and her doctor advised against certain physical activities. (Id. at ¶¶ 19-20.) Her doctor recommended
a leave of absence for one week and modified duties upon returning to work. (Id. at ¶ 21.) Plaintiff provided her
doctor’s note to Defendant’s Director of Nursing, who refused to consider any
work modifications. (Id. at ¶ 21.)
After returning from her previously scheduled leave unrelated to her injury
that was scheduled between September 11 and September 27, Plaintiff learned
from the Director of Nursing that she had been terminated effective October 3,
2023. (Id. at ¶¶ 22-24.)
 
On February 6, 2024, Defendant brought the instant motion to
compel arbitration. On May 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On May 8,
2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Under California
law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to CCP
§1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of the
parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that, “[o]n
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿ 
 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . . .”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“[A] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary
proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a final
determination.”¿¿(Giuliano, supra, at
p. 1284.)¿¿ 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff objects to various portions of the Declaration of
Lisa Radogna. These objections are overruled in their entirety. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendant contends there is a valid written arbitration
agreement because Plaintiff signed the Acknowledgement of Policies, Rules and
Agreement for At-Will Employment and Arbitration (Acknowledgment) when she
began her employment. Plaintiff argues the agreement is unenforceable because
it is unconscionable.
 
Existence of
Arbitration Agreement 
 
In determining
the enforceability of an arbitration agreement, the court considers “two
‘gateway issues’ of arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the
dispute at issue.”¿ (Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961 (Omar).)¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
1.      Agreement
Between Parties: 
 
The moving party
can meet its initial burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement by attaching a copy of the Agreement to this motion bearing the
signature of the opposing party. (See Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 541-543 [“The party
seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the petition a
copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the¿respondent's
signature.”].) Alternatively, the moving party can meet its initial burden by
setting forth the agreement’s provisions in the motion. (See Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  
 
Here, Defendants met their initial burden because they
attached a copy of the Acknowledgement with Plaintiff’s physical signature.
(Declaration of Lisa Radogna (Radogna Decl.) ¶ 4, Exhibit A.)  The Acknowledgment sets forth the relevant terms of the
arbitration agreement and incorporates by reference the arbitration provision
found within the Employee Handbook. (Id.
at ¶ 6, Exhibit B at pp. 10-11.) Collectively, these documents comprise of the
arbitration agreement between the parties. 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden
and the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal. App. 5th 158,165 (Gamboa).) The evidence must be
sufficient to create a factual dispute to shift the burden back to the
arbitration proponent who retains the ultimate burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the authenticity of the signature. (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere).) 
 
Plaintiff does not challenge her signature on the Acknowledgment.
 
Therefore, the Defendant has established that the
Arbitration Agreement exists.   
 
2.      The Agreement Covers the Dispute at Issue: 
 
Applicability of the
Arbitration Agreement to Subject Dispute 
 
Defendant contends the arbitration agreement covers the
subject dispute because Plaintiff filed an employment action that is not
otherwise excluded by the agreement.  (Motion at pg. 5.) Plaintiff did not directly
oppose this argument.
Here,
the arbitration agreement applies to the instant dispute. First, the Acknowledgment
states it covers “any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating
to [Plaintiff’s] employment relationship with [Defendant]. . . .” (Radogna Decl.
¶ 4, Exhibit A.) Second, the arbitration provision within the Employee Handbook
states: “if any disputes between employer and employee cannot be
resolved, then [Defendant] will require that such disputes be resolved in
binding arbitration.” (Radogna Decl. ¶ 6, Exhibit B
at pg. 10.)  There is no dispute
that Plaintiff’s claim concerns her employment with Defendant
and is not otherwise carved out.  
Therefore, the arbitration agreement applies to the subject
dispute. 
 
Defenses to
Arbitration 
 
Plaintiff argues that the court should not compel
arbitration because the arbitration agreement is procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
Once it is
determined that a valid arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to “prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the
petition.” (Lacayo v. Catalina Restaurant
Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257, review denied (Nov. 13, 2019)).¿ 
 
Unconscionability 
 
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated that when determining whether
an arbitration agreement was unconscionable, there is both a procedural and a
substantive element. (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).¿¿ “The party resisting arbitration
bears the burden of proving unconscionability.”   (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
247.)
 
a.       Procedural
Unconscionability 
 
“Procedural unconscionability pertains to the
making of the agreement; it focuses on the oppression that arises from unequal
bargaining power and the surprise to the weaker party that results from hidden
terms or the lack of informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 771,
795.) Oppression is an “inequality of
bargaining power, when one party has no real power to negotiate or a meaningful
choice. Surprise occurs when the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden.”
(Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash,
Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).)
Arbitration clauses are often
found in adhesion contracts (standardized contracts drafted by a party of
superior bargaining power and presented to the weaker party on a
take-it-or-leave-it basis).  (See, e.g., Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at 113-114.)
 
Plaintiff argues the agreement is procedurally
unconscionable for the following reasons. First, she contends that it is a
contract of adhesion because she was not provided an opportunity to negotiate
the terms of the arbitration agreement and believed that she had to sign the
agreement to be hired. (Opposition at pg. 3.) Second, she argues that the
actual arbitration provisions were scattered throughout the Employee Handbook,
which contributed to surprise. (Ibid.)
Third, Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration provision within the Employee
Handbook is misleading because it misconstrues the benefits of arbitration and
the employer’s obligations. (Id. at
pg. 4.) In this regard, Plaintiff reasons the language found within the
arbitration provision is misleading because it suggests that arbitration will
be a cost-saving benefit for the employee, but the reality is that the employer
is the true beneficiary of these cost-savings. (Ibid.) Fourth, Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration agreement
fails to identify or incorporate the relevant arbitration rules. (Id. at pg. 5, relying on Trivedi v. Curexo Technology Corp. (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 387, 393.) 
 
These arguments are insufficient to show that
there is a large degree of procedural unconscionability. The mere fact an
adhesion contract is involved does not per
se render the arbitration provision unenforceable because such
contracts are “an inevitable fact of life for all citizens—businessman and
consumer alike.” (Graham v. Scissor-Tail,
Inc.¿(1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817.) In terms of any indication of oppression,
Plaintiff merely relies on her own declaration, and it is noted that it lacks
sufficient detail to show that Plaintiff was actually pressured by one of
Defendant’s representatives or prohibited from asking questions. (See
Declaration of Margarita Soto at ¶ 2.) 
 
With regard to Plaintiff’s claim of surprise, this is also unpersuasive
because, upon review of the arbitration agreement, the terms are legible and
not purposefully hidden. (See OTO, L.L.C.
v. KHO (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 128.) Moreover, as to the contention that the
arbitration agreement is misleading, Plaintiff has failed to cite to any legal
authority to support this as a basis of procedural unconscionability. The cost
saving remarks found within the arbitration agreement are not instances of
oppression or surprise because they do not take advantage of a weaker party.  Lastly, the failure to include the arbitration
rules is not dispositive. While the lack of arbitration rules can be considered
oppressive (see Samaniego v. Empire Today
LLC (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1146), Defenant has not artfully hidden
the reference to such rules. (Baltazar v.
Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) As stated in the
arbitration agreement, either ADR or JAMS would be utilized for their
arbitration services. With this information, Plaintiff would have been able to
find the relevant rules. 
Therefore, the
agreement is minimally procedurally
unconscionable.¿ 
 
b.      Substantive
Unconscionability 
 
“Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of
an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh
or one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p.
85). There are five minimum substantive requirements to an enforceable
arbitration agreement: (1) neutral arbitrators, (2) more than minimal
discovery, (3) written award sufficient for judicial review, (4) all types of
relief otherwise available in court, and (5) no unreasonable costs or fees as a
condition of access. (Armendariz, supra,
at p.102.) When there is little procedural unconscionability, a party opposing
arbitration must show substantial substantive unconscionability. (Id. at 114.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff contends that the arbitration agreement is substantively
unconscionable for the following reasons. First, Plaintiff again references the
misleading statements regarding the cost-savings associated with arbitration.
(Opposition at pp. 5-6.) Second, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
agreement is one-sided because it limits her ability to pursue a representative
PAGA action or class action. (Id. at
pp. 6-7.) Third, Plaintiff contends that the arbitration provision improperly limits
her administrative remedies because requires damage claims arising from rights
afforded by statute to be compelled into arbitration. (Id. at pg. 7.) Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the severance
provision within the arbitration agreement is one-sided. (Id. at pg. 8.)  
 
In consideration of these arguments, the Court finds that
the arbitration agreement is not substantively unconscionable. First, the
cost-saving remarks are not indicative that the agreement is one-sided. Second,
Plaintiff’s reference to limits imposed on representative actions by the
arbitration agreement is a red herring argument because Plaintiff does not
assert any such claims. Moreover, the FAA preempts the rule prohibiting
representative actions in arbitration agreements. (Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S. Ct. 1906, 1922.)

 
Third,
Plaintiff’s assertion that the arbitration agreement limits her ability to
recovery through administrative remedies is illogical and misinterprets the
arbitration agreement. As stated in the arbitration agreement, employees are
permitted to submit administrative claims, but if they seek to pursue such
claims of damages based upon statutory rights, they must be resolved through
arbitration. (Rodogna Decl. ¶ 6, Exhibit B at pg. 10.) This has no bearing on
Plaintiff’s ability to exhaust her administrative remedies.  Similarly, it is illogical to conclude that
the severance provision is one-sided because it is a well-established concept
within contract drafting. 
 
Thus, the arbitration agreement lacks substantive
unconscionability.  Accordingly, Plaintiff has
failed to meet her burden of establishing that the arbitration agreement is
unconscionable. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
court ORDERS this action STAYED pending arbitration.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              May 16, 2024              __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 