

 
            Plaintiffs Morad Ben Neman and
Lancaster Eagle, LLC sued Defendants Payam Bahari, Freydoon “Fred” Bahari
Moghadam, Haim Bahari, Tal Bahari, 114 Grand Cypress, LLC, Cavalini, Inc., and
Caster Modelo, LLC, on December 16, 2022, and filed their operative second
amended complaint (“SAC”) on February 9, 2024. The SAC asserts causes of action
for breach of a joint venture agreement, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and
abetting the same, and fraudulent conveyances. Plaintiffs allege they entered a
joint real estate investment venture with Defendants, then Defendants exploited
the venture’s investment leads and directly invested for their own gain in
properties discovered by Plaintiffs for the venture. 
 
Defendant
Caster Modelo, LLC (“Caster Modelo”) cross-complained against Plaintiffs and
against Vivoli Saccuzo, LLP on April 19, 2024, and filed its operative first
amended cross-complaint (“FAXC”) on May 3, 2024. The FAXC asserts causes of
action for an accounting, breach of contract, conversion, declaratory relief,
and receipt of stolen property. Caster Modelo alleges that it and
Plaintiff/Cross-defendant Lancaster Eagle entered a written tenancy-in-common
agreement (“TIC”) related to a property located in Lancaster (“Property”). The
parties expressly disclaimed any joint venture arrangement in the TIC. When the
parties sought to sell the Property, Lancaster Eagle first threatened to
scuttle the deal unless it received more than 50% compensation from the sale,
then it stole collectively-owned funds from the TIC. 
 
On
June 5, 2024, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants Morad Ben
Neman and Lancaster Eagle, LLC specially moved to strike Caster Modelo’s second
cause of action for breach of contract, third cause of action for conversion,
and fifth cause of action for receipt of stolen property, under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16, California’s “anti-SLAPP” law. On July 17, 2024, Caster
Modelo filed its opposition. On July 23, 2024, Plaintiffs replied. On July 30,
2024, the court denied this special motion to strike.
 
            Then, on August 12, 2024, Cross-Defendant
Vivoli Saccuzzo, LLP (Vivoli Saccuzzo) specially moved to strike Cross-Complainant
Caster Modelo’s third cause of action for conversion and fifth cause of action
for violation of Penal Code section 496, under Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16.[1]
Cross-Complainant Caster Modelo opposed the anti-SLAPP motion.
 
            The special motion to strike
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is denied.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“A cause of action against a person
arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of
petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special
motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has
established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) The purpose of the statute
is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid exercise of a
litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (a); Sylmar Air
Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th
1049, 1055-1056.)
 
Courts employ a two-step process to
evaluate special motions to strike strategic lawsuits against public
participation (SLAPP). (Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61.)  First, the defendant must show that the
challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity, such as an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech. (Ibid.) “The moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all
allegations of protected activity, and the claims supported by them.” (Baral
v. Schmitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396.) In the second step, it “
‘is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable
probability of success on the merits.’ ” (Equilon,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.
61.) In determining whether the plaintiff has carried this burden, the
trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)
 
“Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is
not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the
plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should
analyze each claim for relief—each act or set of acts supplying a basis for
relief, of which there may be several in a single pleaded cause of action—to
determine whether the acts are protected and, if so, whether the claim they
give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion.” (Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.) 
 
Discussion
 
I.              
Arising
from Protected Activity
 
As outlined above, in the first step
of the analysis, Defendants must demonstrate that Plaintiff’s claims arise from
one of four categories of protected activity. An “ ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (e).)
 
“As our Supreme Court has
recognized, ‘the “arising from” requirement is not always easily met.’
[Citation.] ‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity
took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of
the anti-SLAPP statute. [Citation.] Moreover, that a cause of action arguably
may have been “triggered” by protected activity does not entail that it is one
arising from such.’ [Citation.] ‘A claim arises from protected activity when
that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim. [Citations.]  Critically, “the defendant’s act underlying
the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of
the right of petition or free speech.” [Citations.]’ [Citation.] ‘[I]n ruling
on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged
claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently
form the basis for liability.’ [Citation.] Put another way, courts should first
identify ‘the allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the
foundation for the claims,’ and then determine whether that conduct itself
constitutes protected activity. [Citations.]” (Callanan v. Grizzly Designs,
LLC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 517, 526 (Callanan) [citing Park, supra,
2 Cal.5th at pp. 1062-1063].) 
 
Here, Cross-Defendant Vivoli
Saccuzzo moves to specially strike the third cause of action for conversion and
fifth cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496 on the grounds
that these claims arise from protected activity. Specifically, Cross-Defendant challenges
Paragraph 25 of the FAXC which states:
 
“Nevertheless, on or about August 1,
2023, Lancaster Eagle unilaterally and surreptitiously issued a $25,000 check
from the Bank Account to Cross-Defendant Vivoli Saccuzzo, which check was
deposited by Vivoli Saccuzzo, despite the fact that it knew it was not entitled
to do so. 
 
Caster Modelo is informed and
believes, and thereupon alleges, that this money has never been returned or
deposited back into the Bank Account by Vivoli Saccuzzo.” (FAXC ¶ 25.)
 
Cross-Defendant
argues that these claims arise from protected activity because the allegedly
converted funds were used by attorneys for “litigation-related speech and
activity.” (Mot., 4: 20-21.) 
 
It is well
established that funding the services of an attorney to prosecute or defend a
lawsuit is an act in furtherance of petitioning activity that is protected
under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048,
1056; Greco v. Greco (2016) 2
Cal.App.5th 810, 821.) Such a proposition makes sense in the arena of civil
litigation, where there is no right to counsel, and the ability to retain
private counsel for litigation can affect its course and outcome. As a result,
the funding of litigation has been found to be petitioning activity when the
money spent was to ensure a party could commence and maintain a legal action.

            Here, Cross-Defendant’s evidence
shows that the $25,000 was “accidentally” taken from the Bank Account owned
jointly by Lancaster Eagle and Caster Modelo to pay Vivoli Saccuzzo for litigation
purposes that were considered to be Lancaster Eagle’s sole legal “financial
obligation.” (Vivoli Decl., Ex. 1 [Neman Decl., ¶ 5]; FAXC ¶¶
24-25.)[2]

 
            However,
critical for the purposes of the first prong analysis is a determination of the
elements of liability. “[C]onduct is not automatically protected merely because
it is related to pending litigation; the conduct must arise from the
litigation.” (Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp. (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th
1388, 1400 (Optional I).) “ ‘If the core injury-producing conduct upon
which the plaintiff's claim is premised does not rest on protected speech or
petitioning activity, collateral or incidental allusions to protected activity
will not trigger application of the anti-SLAPP statute.’ ” (Area 51
Productions, Inc. v. City of Alameda (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 581, 594; see
also Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394 [“Allegations of
protected activity that merely provide context, without supporting a claim for
recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute”].) 
 
            In
doing so, the court must consider the elements of the claim to determine
whether the petitioning activity is essential or incidental to the claim. 
 
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion are the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the
property at the time of the conversion; the defendant's conversion by a
wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and damages.” (Oakdale
Village Group v. Fong (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 539, 543-544.) Conversion is a
strict liability tort. (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 144, fn. 38.) Therefore, the “wrongful act” element of a
conversion claim does not require proof the defendant knew or intended to
receive property belonging to another, or otherwise received the subject
property in bad faith. (Oakdale Village Group v. Fong, supra, at p. 544
[“questions of good faith, lack of knowledge and motive are ordinarily
immaterial”]; Henderson v. Security Nat. Bank (1977) 72 Cal.App.3d 764,
770-771.)


In
considering “the elements of the [conversion] claim and what actions by [Cross-Defendant Vivoli Saccuzzo] supply
those elements and consequently form the basis for liability” (Park v. Board
of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063), it
is clear that the Cross-Defendant’s “conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights” is based on his receipt of “$25,000” belonging
to the Cross-Complainant Caster Modelo. Facts concerning the reason why Vivoli
Saccuzzo received these funds are unnecessary
to state a conversion claim against Vivoli Saccuzzo. (Park v. Board of Trustees of
California State University, supra, at p. 1068 [“Plaintiff could have
omitted allegations regarding [alleged protected activity] and still state the
same claims”].)
 
Simply put,
Cross-Defendant Vivoli
Saccuzzo was sued
for receiving compensation for its services; it was not sued for performing
those services. The filing and prosecution of the litigation is not the wrong
complained of here; instead, it was that the funds used were the property of Caster
Modelo. Receiving
payment for the provision of litigation-related services is not the same
as funding litigation for purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute. (Cf. Graham-Sult
v. Clainos (9th Cir. 2014) 756 F.3d 724, 737 [“Generally, taking possession
of personal property is not a protected activity, because it is conduct, not a
written or oral statement”].) The conversion cause of action arises, not from
the fact that Vivoli
Saccuzzo received
fees, but from the fact Vivoli Saccuzzo was compensated with money from an
improper source. Put another way, the core-injury producing conduct was the
unprotected taking of money from accounts that belonged to the Caster Modelo,
not the protected use to which the money may have been put.
 
Because the
conversion cause of action only requires proof that Vivoli Saccuzzo received
the disputed money, but not proof of the circumstances occasioning that
receipt, the cause of action does not “arise from” protected activity within
the meaning of section 425.16. (Park, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 1068 [“
‘Plaintiff could have omitted allegations regarding [alleged protected
activity] and still state the same claims’ ”].)
 
Similarly,
the cause of action for receiving stolen property is based on Penal Code
section 496, which provides for civil liability when a violation of subdivision
(a) is found to have occurred. (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (c); see generally Switzer
v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.) The elements of a violation of
Penal Code section 496, subdivision (a) “are simply that (i) property was
stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the
property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had
possession of the stolen property.” (Switzer v. Wood, supra, 35
Cal.App.5th at p. 126.)


The same underlying
allegations form the basis for both the conversion claim and the alleged Penal Code
section 496 violation. Although there is a knowledge element to the receipt of
stolen property cause of action, Vivoli Saccuzzo makes no specific argument that any
protected activity is an essential element to this cause of action. Therefore, the cause of action for receiving
stolen property does not arise from protected activity, either.
 
Cross-Defendant
Vivoli Saccuzzo has not met its burden of showing that
Cross-Complainant’s claims arise from protected activity. Thus, the first prong
of the anti-SLAPP motion to strike has not been satisfied. 
 
Conclusion
 
The special motion to
strike pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is denied. 


