 Case Number:  22STCV08773    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash or Limit Subpoena 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
Background
On
March 10, 2022, Plaintiff Ilias Farfouris (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in
this action asserting causes of action for dental malpractice, medical
battery/lack of informed consent, and negligent misrepresentation against
Defendants Encino Dental Smile, Faraz Farahnik (collectively, “Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 20.
On
or about February 20, 2024, Defendants issued a subpoena to Bristlecone, Inc.,
seeking testimony and the production of documents (the “Subpoena”).  (Masserat Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.)  The Subpoena seeks testimony on three topics:
(1) Plaintiff’s employment and job duties; (2) the termination of Plaintiff’s
employment; and (3) variable compensation provided to Plaintiff, including eligibility
for compensation payments and performance evaluations throughout the duration
of Plaintiff’s employment.  The Subpoena
seeks the production if four categories of documents: (1) Plaintiff’s “[c]omplete
personnel file”; (2) all payroll records pertaining to Plaintiff; (3) all
records, communications, and documents regarding the termination of Plaintiff’s
employment; and (4) all records, communications, and documents detailing the variable
compensation provided to Plaintiff, including elibility for compensation
payments and performance evaluations throughout the duration of Plaintiff’s
employment.
On April 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed this motion to quash or limit the Subpoena.  Defendants filed their opposition on April
29, and Plaintiff filed a reply on May 3.
 
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), states:  
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  
 
The California Constitution recognizes that
all people have “inalienable rights,” including “pursuing and obtaining safety,
happiness, and privacy.”  (Cal. Const.,
art. 1, § 1.)
For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might
reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement.  (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)  Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the
subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible
evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)
 
Discussion
Defendants seek to obtain, by the Subpoena,
documents and testimony regarding Plaintiff’s employment, employment
performance, termination, and compensation. 
Plaintiff seeks to quash or limit the Subpoena, arguing that it is
overly broad in scope and violates Plaintiff’s right to privacy.  Defendants argue that the Subpoena is
properly focused and seeks highly relevant information, particularly given that
Plaintiff is seeking to recover (among other damages) lost earnings.
Plaintiff does not object to the Subpoena
as it relates to his payroll records. 
Right to Privacy
California’s Constitutional right to privacy
protects against the unwarranted, compelled disclosure of various private or
sensitive information regarding one’s personal life.¿ (Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This includes employment records.¿¿(El
Dorado Savings & Loan Assn. v. Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d
342, 345; Board of Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516,
526; see also John B. v. Super. Ct. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198
(medical records); Valley Bank of Nevada v. Super. Ct. (1975) 15 Cal.3d
652, 656 (financial records).) “The public interest in preserving confidential,
personnel information generally outweighs a private litigant's interest in
obtaining that information.”¿ (Life Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court
(2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 652, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)
In Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, Hill v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th
1, and other cases, the California Supreme Court has established “a framework
for evaluating potential invasions of privacy.” (Williams, supra, 3
Cal.5th at p. 552.) First, a party asserting a privacy right must establish “a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.” (Id., citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-37.) In
response, the party seeking the information may raise “whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves,” and “the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Id.,
citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 37-40.) The court must then
“balance these competing considerations.” (Ibid.) The party seeking the
information need not, however, establish a “compelling interest” unless the
disclosure would be “an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal
autonomy.” (Id. at p. 556.)
Under
the Williams and Hill framework, Plaintiff here must first
establish a legally protected privacy interest and a reasonable expectation of
privacy. Plaintiff has mostly done so.  Except
for deposition topic 1 (“Position of employment and job duties” of Plaintiff),
the employment records covered by the Subpoena are protected by the right to
privacy, and Plaintiff has an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
these records.  
Next, the Subpoena appears on its face to be a
serious intrusion into Plaintiff’s right to privacy. The circumstances relating
to Plaintiff’s employment, including performance reviews and the events
surrounding his termination, for example, are private, personal, and sensitive.
At this point, under Williams and Hill,
Defendants must identify the “legitimate and important countervailing
interests” that disclosure would serve. For example, the party seeking the
discovery may attempt to show that the information sought through a subpoena is
“directly relevant” to the claims or defenses in dispute and is “essential to
the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Lantz v. Super. Ct. (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 1839, 1854.) 
Defendants have made this showing, at least in
part.  Plaintiff claims that the Defendants’
alleged malpractice caused her injuries that caused him to lose his job (or
contributed to the loss of his job) and otherwise have had a negative effect,
and will in the future have a negative effect, on his earnings and earning
capacity.  Some information about Plaintiff’s
compensation, as well as the circumstances surrounding Plaintiff’s termination,
is directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.
Plaintiff has not identified any feasible
alternatives that would serve the same interests and diminish the loss of
privacy.  The only alternative suggested
by Plaintiff is to limit the subpoena, but if the subpoena were limited as
requested, it would not be adequate to serve the legitimate interest of
Defendant in obtaining information regarding whether (and, if so, to what
extent) Plaintiff’s claimed injuries caused (or substantially contributed to)
the loss of his employment and other lost earning.
Finally,
under the framework set out in Hill and reaffirmed in Williams,
the Court must balance the “competing considerations” of the serious intrusion
into Plaintiff’s privacy and Defendants’ legitimate need for the
information.  This balancing of competing
considerations is necessarily a difficult and delicate task, and it is
particularly challenging here as the Court does not know what the subpoenaed records
and testimony will reveal. Nonetheless, the Court must and will conduct the
balancing based on the information before it in the record. 
On balance, and after considering all of the
evidence in the record and the arguments of both sides, the Court finds that
Defendants’ legitimate interest in obtaining some, but not all, of the records
requested in the subpoena outweighs Plaintiff’s substantial privacy
interest.  Accordingly, the Court will
GRANT the motion in part and narrow the subpoena as follows:
Document Requests
Category 1. 
This request is stricken.  The
request for Plaintiff’s “[c]omplete personnel file” is overly broad and extends
far beyond the information that Defendants have a legitimate interest in
obtaining.  Some information in Plaintiff’s
personnel file may well be responsive to the other document categories, and
that responsive information must be produced, but not the complete file.
Category 2. 
Plaintiff does not object to this category.
Categories 3 and 4. 
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled. 
Defendants’ legitimate interest in obtaining information regarding Plaintiff’s
compensation and the circumstances surrounding the termination of Plaintiff’s
employment outweighs Plaintiff’s substantial privacy interest in this
information.
Deposition Topics
Topic 1.  Plaintiff’s
objections are overruled.  Plaintiff does
not have a substantial privacy interest in this information.
Topics 2 and 3. 
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled. 
Defendants’ legitimate interest in obtaining information regarding Plaintiff’s
compensation and the circumstances surrounding the termination of Plaintiff’s
employment outweighs Plaintiff’s substantial privacy interest in this
information.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s motion to
quash or limit the Subpoena.
 
The Court MODIFIES the Subpoena as follows:
the Court STRIKES Document Request Category 1 from the Subpoena.
 
With that modification, the Court DENIES
the remainder of Plaintiff’s motion to quash or limit the Subpoena.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.