 Case Number:  21STCV24597    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Reopen Discovery filed by Defendant County of
Los Angeles.
 
Tentative
 
The motion to reopen discovery for limited purposes is
granted.
 
BACKGROUND
On July 2, 2021, Plaintiff Bradley Dodds (“Plaintiff”)
filed suit against County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”), Santiago Javier
Vazquez, and DOES 1 through 10, asserting a cause of action for Motor Vehicle
Negligence. 
 
On February 6, 2024, the matter was scheduled for
trial.  Based on the stipulation of the
parties, the trial was continued to July 29, 2024.
 
On March 26, 2024,
Defendant filed this motion to reopen discovery. No opposition has been filed.
LEGAL STANDARD 
“On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been
set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and the reasons for the
discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the
discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the
discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was not heard
earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the
discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or
otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
The meet and confer requirement is satisfied.  (Mallory Decl. ¶ 9; Exh. A.) 
Defendant moves to reopen discovery limited to the discovery
already propounded on Plaintiff in accordance with the new July 29, 2024 trial
date. (Motion, 2:20-21.)
In order to reopen discovery, the Court must consider the four factors to
determine if discovery should be reopened to allow Plaintiff’s discovery motion
to be heard and possible deposition to proceed. 
The necessity and the reasons for
the discovery.¿
Defendant seeks to proceed with
discovery regarding Plaintiff’s substantial injuries. (Motion, 3:4-7.)
The diligence or lack of
diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery
motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the
discovery motion was not heard earlier.¿
Defendant contends that it
propounded discovery timely, which has gone unanswered. (Id., 3:19-21.)
Any likelihood that permitting
the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will prevent the case from going
to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or
result in prejudice to any other party.¿ 
Defendant contends trial is set
for July 29, 2024, and that the discovery has already been propounded. (Id.,
3:24-26.)
The length of time that has
elapsed between any date previously set, and the date presently set, for the
trial of the action. 
Trial was previously set for February
6, 2024, but trial was continued. 
The Court finds
that Defendants have shown good cause for the Court reopen discovery for the
limited purpose of obtaining responses to the already propounded discovery.
Therefore, in consideration
of the above, the motion is GRANTED.

CONCLUSION 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion
to reopen discovery
for the limited purpose of obtaining responses to already propounded discovery.
Moving Party to provide notice.