 Case Number:  22STCV09370    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set One)
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part.
Background
Jacquith
Embray (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action on March 16, 2022,
asserting one cause of action for professional negligence against Pedram
Sooferi, D.D.S., Sean Sooferian, D.D.S., and Does 1 through 50, based on events
occurring during a visit to Defendants’ dental office on March 18, 2021.  The named defendants filed their answers on
September 7 and 19, 2023.
 On
September 7, 2023, Defendant Sean Sooferian, D.D.S. (“Defendant”) served
Special Interrogatories (Set One) on Plaintiff. 
(Foxwell Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. A.) 
Plaintiff served objection-only responses on October 9.  (Id., ¶ 5 & Exh. B.)  After extensive correspondence and other
communication between counsel, Plaintiff served supplemental responses on
February 15, 2024.  (Id., ¶¶ 6-14
& Exhs. C-I.)  Defendant contends
that these responses were still not code complaint and followed up with
Plaintiff.  (Id., ¶¶14-15 &
Exhs. J-K.)  
On
February 29, 2024, the Court conducted an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”)
regarding this dispute.  The Court
ordered the parties to meet and confer further and continued the IDC to March
21.
The
parties met and conferred by telephone after the IDC.  (Id., ¶ 16 & Exhs. L-M.)  Plaintiff supplemented three of the six
interrogatory responses at issue on March 13. 
(Id., ¶ 17.)  Counsel met
and conferred further, but Plaintiff did not provide any further
responses.  (Id., ¶¶ 17-18 &
Exh. N.)
On March
21, 2024, the Court was prepared to continue the IDC, but Plaintiff’s counsel
did not appear.  The Court determined that
the IDC requirement was satisfied and the issues not resolved.
On March
27, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel further responses to the
special interrogatories.  Defendant also
seeks sanctions.  No opposition was
filed. 
Legal Standard
“On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the
propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id.,
subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
Discussion
Defendant seeks an order compelling Plaintiff to provide
further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One), Nos. 5, 13, and
14.  Defendant also seeks sanctions.
Defendant has satisfied all procedural requirements and has
filed this motion in a timely manner.
Interrogatory No. 5
This interrogatory asks Plaintiff to describe what information,
instruction, or warning (if any) Defendant failed to provide to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff asserts various objections and then
states (subject to his objections), “Yes.”
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled. 
Plaintiff’s response is not a complete and straightforward
response that includes all information known or reasonably available to
Plaintiff, as required by the Civil Discovery Act.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.)
The motion to compel a further response to this interrogatory
is granted.
Interrogatory No. 13
This interrogatory asks Plaintiff whether he has received any
information from anyone that Defendant was negligent and, if so, to provide the
names, addresses, and substance of the information provided.  Plaintiff asserts various objections and then
states (subject to his objections), “Yes.”
Plaintiff’s privacy objection is overruled.
Plaintiff’s objection based on work product is sustained in
part.  On its face, this interrogatory
seeks information about either a non-designated consultant (in which case the
information is subject to work product protection) or seeks an early disclosure
of Plaintiff’s experts (in which case the request is premature).
The motion is granted in part. 
Plaintiff must respond based on information (if any) that he obtained on
his own or otherwise separate and apart from his attorney’s protected work
product.
Interrogatory No. 14.
This interrogatory asks Plaintiff to identify his special
damages.  Plaintiff asserts various
objections and then refers Defendant to his responses to Form Interrogatories
Nos. 6.4 and 6.6.
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.  Plaintiff’s reference to other interrogatory
responses is not a proper response.
The motion to compel a further response to this interrogatory
is granted.
Sanctions
The request for sanctions is denied.
The applicable provision of the Civil Discovery Act authorizes
sanctions in connection with a motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories only when a party or attorney “unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)  Here, Plaintiff did not oppose the motion.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS in part the motion to compel Plaintiff to
provide further responses.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve verified, code-compliant,
written responses, without objection, to Special Interrogatories Nos. 5 and 14,
within 15 days of notice. 
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to serve verified, code-compliant,
written responses, to Special Interrogatories No. 13, as limited by this order,
and subject to a work product objection, within 15 days of notice. 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s request for sanctions.
Moving party to give notice.