  Case Number:  21STCV41132    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  47 DERMOT DAMIAN GIVENS vs FORMOSA GARDENS HOA,
Case No. 21STCV41132
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE (MIL)
Plaintiff’s MIL # 1 and #2:  seeking to allow admission of evidence that
tends to show that Defendants Alexsei Fulford and Kevin Khuat embezzled funds
from Defendant Formosa Gardens HOA by endorsing checks made out to the HOA and
depositing them in her personal checking account. 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED, without prejudice to establishing basis for offering the
evidence at trial.  
Evidence Code § 1101 provides that a “evidence of a person’s character or
trait of his character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of
reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is
inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a specified occasion.”  (Evidence Code § 1101(a).)  Under subdivision (b), however, evidence that
a person committed a crime, civil wrong or other act may be admitted if it is
relevant to prove motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge,
identity, absence of misstate or accident or some other fact other than his or
her disposition to commit such an act. 
Further, section 1101 does not affect the admissibility of evidence to
attack the credibility of a witness.  (Id.,
subdivision (c).)  
It has been held that evidence of bad acts may be admitted to attack
credibility if they involve conduct reflecting moral depravity, but the
admission is subject to the Court’s assessment of whether the evidence should
be admitted based on § 352 considerations. 
(People v. Wheeler (1992) 4 Cal.4th 284, 295; People v.
Feaster (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1093-1994.)  
Here, Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate that the alleged embezzlement
is probative of any claim, defense or issue in this action.  While such an act may be one of moral
turpitude that is admissible to attack credibility, the Court lacks sufficient
information to weight the probative value of the alleged misconduct against the
likelihood of undue prejudice to Defendants or any of the other considerations
that must be considered under Evidence Code § 352.  
Accordingly, the Court denies the motion without prejudice to a further
offer of proof at trial.  That said,
Plaintiff may not offer evidence about the alleged embezzlement in the jury’s
presence before making an offer a proof and securing a ruling of admissibility
from the Court.
Plaintiff’s MIL # 3:  seeking to exclude evidence and argument that
Defendant Formosa Gardens HOA had bylaws that complied with the Davis-Sterling
Act, on the ground that they were adopted before the Act was enacted.  
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED, on the grounds stated. 
The Court will determine the relevance and admissibility of any such
evidence when it is presented at trial.  
Contrary to Defendants’ opposition, the validity of Defendants’
CC&Rs was not mooted by the Court’s ruling on Plaintiff’s standing to seek
declaratory relief.  As noted below in
connection with Defendants’ Motion in Limine No. 1, Plaintiff’s tort claims
rest at least in part on allegations that Defendants misrepresented their
status as duly elected HOA members and imposed assessments on Plaintiff that
were not proper under the CC&Rs.  To
the extent that Defendants’ compliance with the Davis-Sterling Act is at issue
at the trial of Plaintiff’s remaining claims, the Court will rule on
evidentiary objections at the time evidence is offered at trial.
Plaintiff’s MIL #4: 
seeking to exclude evidence and argument to the effect that Defendant
HOA has legal standing based on compliance with the Davis-Sterling Act based on
the failure to produce such evidence in discovery. 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED. 
In general, a party who has responded to formal
written discovery has no affirmative duty to supplement its responses when new
information comes into its possession.  (Biles
v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1318–1319, 1328.)  “[A]bsent unusual circumstances, such as
repeated and egregious discovery abuses,” courts will not impose an evidentiary
sanction for a failure to disclose unless there has been a “willful” failure to
disclose.  (Id., at p. 1327.)  Here, there has been no proof of any
discovery requests that sought the information to be excluded nor any showing that
Defendants’ discovery responses were willfully false or incomplete.  (Id., at p. 1323-1324.)  Further, the Court has not been presented
with any written responses to Plaintiff’s discovery that would reveal whether Defendants
asserted any objections to the discovery at issue.  If Defendants advanced a series of objections
to the discovery that were never challenged via a motion to compel further
responses, this would undermine Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants willfully
withheld any documents or information. 
Certainly, Plaintiff has not pointed to any violation of a court order
directing Defendants to provide further documents in response to Plaintiff’s
discovery.  On this record, the Court
cannot find that Plaintiff has demonstrated a willful failure to produce
documents.  
Plaintiff’s MIL #5:  seeking to
exclude evidence and argument by Defendants that Plaintiff was not the source
of the funds paid to cover the assessment on Unit B. 
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.  Both parties are entitled to offer evidence
on this issue.
Plaintiff’s Second MIL #3 (filed on
12/31/24):  seeking to exclude testimony from Joanne Lee,
escrow agent, regarding how the buyer and seller decided to pay the HOA
assessment and the source of funds, unless she has personal knowledge of the
information. 
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED.  As with any witness, Ms. Lee must establish
that she has personal knowledge of the matters to which she seeks to
testify.  
Plaintiff’s Second MIL #4 (filed on
12/31/24):  seeking to exclude testimony about a
court-ordered election based on Exhibits 4 and 105, which are not Court
orders.  
TENTATIVE RULING:  The Court
cannot rule on this motion without examining the exhibits referenced.  
Defendants’ MIL # 1:  seeking to exclude any evidence about claims
related to Unit A and any issues already resolved through summary adjudication.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
GRANTED IN PART as there appear to be no claims related to Unit A and DENIED
IN PART as to “any issues already resolved through summary adjudication.”
Defendants contend Plaintiff should be precluded from offering any
evidence or making any arguments about their alleged breaches of the CC&Rs
and/or violations of the Davis-Stirling Act because of the Court’s ruling on
their motion for summary adjudication. 
Not so.  The only issue that was
resolved in Defendants’ favor was whether Plaintiff has standing to pursue a
series of declaratory relief actions seeking to establish that Defendants
breached the CC&Rs governing the operation of the HOA and the Davis-Sterling
Act, Civil Code §§ 5200, et seq. (First Amended Complaint (FAC), First
through Seventh and Eleventh Causes of Action.) 
Standing to pursue declaratory relief requires a showing of a live
controversy that needs to be resolved.  (Environmental
Defense Project of Sierra County v. County of Sierra (2008) 158 Cal. App.
4th 877, 884.) “The purpose of declaratory relief is ‘to set controversies at
rest before they lead to repudiation of obligations, invasion of rights or
commission of wrongs.’ [Citation] It ‘is to be used in the interests of preventive
justice, to declare rights rather than execute them.’  [Citation] To this end, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1060, which authorizes actions for declaratory relief,
provides in pertinent part: ‘Any person interested under a written instrument
... or who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to
another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property ... may, in cases of
actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective
parties, bring an original action ... in the superior court for a declaration
of his or her rights ... including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.”  (Id., at p. 884 [Emphasis in
original].) The existence of an actual controversy is a “jurisdictional
requirement to the grant of declaratory relief” and lacking such a controversy,
the Court has no discretion to grant declaratory relief. (Id., at p.
885.)     
“The ‘actual controversy’ language in Code of Civil Procedure section
1060 encompasses a probable future controversy relating to the legal rights and
duties of the parties. [Citation] For a probable future controversy to
constitute an ‘actual controversy,’ however, the probable future controversy
must be ripe. [Citation] A ‘controversy is “ripe” when it has reached, but has
not passed, the point that the facts have sufficiently congealed to permit an
intelligent and useful decision to be made.’ [Citation].”  (Id., at p. 885.)  Where “an actual controversy did exist but,
by the passage of time or a change in circumstances, ceased to exist,” the case
is said to be moot.  (Parkford Owners
for a Better Community v. County of Placer (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 714, 722.)
“The pivotal question in determining if a case is moot is therefore whether the
court can grant the plaintiff any effectual relief.” (Wilson & Wilson v.
City Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1574.)  If the case is moot because of changed
circumstances, the Court lacks power to grant any declaratory relief.  (Committee for Sound Water & Land Dev.
v. City of Seaside (2022) 79 Cal. App. 5th 389, 405-406.)  
In granting a partial summary adjudication to Defendants in this case,
the Court determined that Plaintiff no longer had standing to secure a judicial
determination about Defendants’ breach or the CC&Rs or violation of the
Act, because he is no longer an owner of any unit on the premises.  But this ruling has no impact on Plaintiff’s
surviving claims for fraud, conversion, and interference with contract.  These causes of action are grounded on
allegations that Plaintiff was defrauded by the individual Defendants into
paying $15,894 in past due assessments which were not actually owed based on
their false representations that they were the rightfully elected Board of
Directors and on their false assertions that there were legitimate assessments
on Plaintiff’s unit that were past due and had to be paid to close escrow. (FAC
¶¶ 132-140.)  Plaintiff has standing to
assert these tort claims because he alleges that he lost money because of
Defendants’ misrepresentations about their authority under the governing
documents and the legitimacy of the assessment they sought to collect.  His current status as a past owner does not
affect his right to seek the monetary relief in his prayer.  
Defendants’ MIL # 2:  seeking to exclude Plaintiff’s exhibits 16,
28, 29, 30, 31, and 34 because they were not produced in discovery.    
TENTATIVE RULING: 
DENIED, without prejudice.
In
general, a party who has responded to formal written discovery has no
affirmative duty to supplement its responses when new information comes into
its possession.  (Biles v. Exxon Mobil
Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1318–1319, 1328.)  “[A]bsent unusual circumstances, such as
repeated and egregious discovery abuses,” courts will not impose an evidentiary
sanction for a failure to disclose unless there has been a “willful” failure to
disclose.  (Id., at p. 1327.)  Here, there has been no showing that any of
Plaintiff’s discovery responses were willfully false or incomplete.  (Id., at p. 1323-1324.)  In fact, Plaintiff asserts that he discovered
the documents recently after the trial was continued.  Further, the Court has not been presented
with any written responses to Defendants’ discovery that would reveal whether
Plaintiff asserted any objections to the document requests at issue.  If Plaintiffs advanced a series of objections
to the document requests that were never challenged via a motion to compel
further responses, this would undermine Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff
willfully withheld the new exhibits. 
Certainly, Defendants have not pointed to any violation of a court order
directing Plaintiff to provide further documents in response to Defendants’
discovery.  On this record, the Court
cannot find that Defendants have demonstrated a willful failure to produce
documents.  
 
Defendants’ Application to Bifurcate
Punitive Damages Pursuant to Civil Code Section 3295(d)
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED 
The Court will bifurcate the trial with the first phase addressing
liability, compensatory damages, and whether Plaintiff has established the
right to seek punitive damages against any defendant.  Evidence of Defendants’ financial condition
will be excluded from the first phase of trial to the extent that it is
relevant solely to a potential award of punitive damages.  The second phase of trial on the amount of
punitive damages, if any, will follow immediately after the first in the event
that the jury finds any defendant acted with fraud, malice or oppression under
Civil Code § 3294 such that punitive damages are warranted.
 