 Case Number:  BC646512    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
            All parties
move this court jointly for an order continuing the trial date for 90 days.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is DENIED.
 
Discussion
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1332(a) provides that trial dates are to be treated as
firm. However, Rule 3.1332(c) provides that, although continuances are “disfavored,”
requests should be considered on an individual basis. That subsection also
includes a non-exhaustive list of possible grounds for a continuance.
 
            The parties
offer three grounds for this motion: (1) the need to take additional
depositions, (2) the need for experts to review certain data, and (3) the need
for mediation. None of these reasons is sufficient to justify the continuance
of this case.
 
            On the
first point, counsel does not clearly identify to the court which depositions
they need to take, and why those depositions have not already occurred. The
notice of motion refers to “3 limited depositions” and the Declaration of
Suzanne M. Henry mentions “a few limited fact depositions.” But nowhere is
there an actual list of the witnesses, a description of their expected
testimony, or an explanation for why the depositions haven’t been taken yet. 
 
            On the
second point, while counsel indicates that Defense only produced the data for
expert review on December 8, 2023, the reason given for that date is the need
for Defense’s expert to review the data before Defense produced it. (Motion p.
4:20-25). No explanation is offered for why it took Defense’s expert so long to
do this. But a month is surely enough time for Plaintiff’s expert to review
this data. Expert discovery is routinely completed in the final month before trial,
and counsel have offered no reason that that can’t happen here. If counsel’s concern
is the briefing schedule on the motions in limine, the court would entertain a
stipulation to alter that schedule.
 
            On the
third point, a general desire to mediate cannot be the basis for continuing a
case like this one. The case will be almost exactly seven years old on its
trial date. It has already been mistried once, and even that was 18 months ago.
If the parties truly wanted to settle the case, they could and should have done
so by now.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because the
parties have failed to identify sufficient grounds to justify a continuance in
this case, the motion is DENIED.
            