  Case Number:  23STCV04669    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  14 (1)        Demurrer
 
            Defendant Manhattan
Loft now demurs to the eighth cause of action in the complaint on the grounds
that the facts alleged are insufficient to support that cause of action and are
uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend. Plaintiff is
directed to combine the allegations of the fifth and eighth causes of action
into a single claim for “negligence.” Defendant Manhattan Loft is to file an
Answer within 10 days of being served with the amended complaint.
 
Discussion
 
            This matter
first came on for hearing on October 23, 2023. It was continued to the instant
date to give Defendant a chance to file a reply. Per Code of Civil Procedure § 1005,
Defendant Manhattan Loft’s Reply was due to be filed on December 5, 2023. No
reply was filed that date. Therefore, the only papers considered by the court
are the demurrer and the opposition.
 
            The
opposition correctly points out that Defendant Manhattan Loft has improperly
cited an unpublished trial court decision, identified as Laguerre. See Budrow
v. Dave & Buster’s of California, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 875,
884-885. This court has not reviewed that case and does not rely upon it in
reaching the decision here.
 
            Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action is for negligence, and her eighth cause of action is for “negligence
per se.” But “negligence per se” is not a cause of action; it is an evidentiary
doctrine that courts may apply in negligence cases. See Evidence Code
§ 669. When parties attempt to plead “negligence per se” separately from
ordinary negligence, the proper approach is to combine the two into a single
cause of action. See Turner v. Seterus, Inc. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
516, 534.
 
            Therefore,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend. Plaintiff is
directed to combine the allegations of the fifth and eighth causes of action
into a single claim for “negligence.” Defendant Manhattan Loft is to file an
Answer within 10 days of being served with the amended complaint.
 
(2)        Motion to
Strike Complaint
 
            Defendant
now moves this court for an order striking paragraph 6 from the Prayer in the Complaint.

 
Decision
 
The motion is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
Manhattan Loft has failed to meet its burden to support the motion. The motion
asks the court to strike a request for restitution. The supporting memorandum
contains a single paragraph which offers no real discussion of the issue and
cites only to the Laguerre case, which this court cannot consider.
 

            This
matter first came on for hearing on October 23, 2023. It was continued to the instant
date to give Defendant a chance to file a reply. Per Code of Civil Procedure § 1005,
Defendant Manhattan Loft’s Reply was due to be filed on December 5, 2023. No
reply was filed that date. Therefore, the only papers considered by the court
are the motion to strike and the opposition.