  Case Number:  KC069796    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Pomona  Valley Hospital Medical Center v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., et al. Pomona Valley Hospital’s Motion for Pre-judgment Interest  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for prejudgment interest. The  Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to prejudgment interest, that the  applicable prejudgment interest rate is 10%, and that the date of accrual is December  28, 2022.  Plaintiff shall submit a proposed Judgment within 10 calendar days  of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a medical service provider payment dispute. On November  14, 2017, Plaintiff Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (Plaintiff) filed  this action against Defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (Kaiser), Kaiser  Permanente Insurance Company, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente  Medical Group, Southern California Permanente Medical Group, and Does 1 through  100, alleging causes of action for declaratory relief and unlawful business  practices. On March 27, 2019, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended  Complaint, alleging causes of action for breach of written contract and quantum  meruit.  On January 31, 2023, a jury trial for Phase I concerning the  reasonable value of services Plaintiff provided to Kaiser was conducted. The  jury found that the reasonable value of the services provided was $105,887,963.00.  After deducting $39,796,251.00 for payments Kaiser previously made, the jury  awarded Plaintiff a total of $66,091,712.00.  On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant trial brief for  prejudgment interest. On November 1, 2023, Kaiser opposed the motion.[1] On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD (a) A  person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being made  certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in the person upon a particular day, is  entitled also to recover interest thereon from that day, except when the debtor is prevented by law, or by  the act of the creditor from paying the debt. This section is applicable to  recovery of damages and interest from any debtor, including the state or any  county, city, city and county, municipal corporation, public district, public  agency, or any political subdivision of the state.  (b) Every person who is entitled under any judgment  to receive damages based upon a cause of action in contract where the claim was  unliquidated, may also recover interest thereon from a date prior to the entry  of judgment as the court may, in its discretion, fix, but in no event earlier  than the date the action was filed.  (Civ. Code § 3287, subds.  (a), (b).)  PRELIMINARY ISSUES             The Court notes Kaiser’s  argument that Plaintiff’s trial brief is procedurally defective on the grounds  that it is not accompanied by a written notice. (Opp., p. 2 fn. 1.) While the  Court agrees it is really a motion and not a trial brief, the Court finds  Plaintiff gave adequate notice to Kaiser as evidenced by the caption page of  Plaintiff’s moving papers identifying the date, time, and location for the  hearing on this matter. The Court agrees that a more formal notice beyond just  the caption page would be preferable, and Plaintiff did file such a written  notice on November 7, 2023, but the Court nevertheless does not find the notice  originally given to be insufficient. Additionally, Kaiser timely opposed the  motion, so there does not appear to be any prejudice to Kaiser. The Court  exercises its discretion to still consider Plaintiff’s motion, (Cal. Rules of  Court, 3.1300, subd. (d); Juarez v. Wash Depot Holdings, Inc. (2018) 24  Cal.App.5th 1197, 1202), but nevertheless admonishes Plaintiff to comply with  the requirements of the California Rules of Court and Code of Civil Procedure  going forward.              The Court also notes that Plaintiff submitted a  supplemental declaration with its reply papers. Generally, new evidence is not  permitted on reply unless it fills in gaps in the evidence created by the  opposing party’s opposition and is not raising new substantive issues for the  first time; otherwise, a further hearing would be required to permit the  opposing party to respond. (Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522,  1537-1538.) Thus, to the extent the new evidence submitted does not respond to  issues raised in the opposition, the Court declines to consider it.  OBJECTIONS             The Court OVERRULES  the parties’ evidentiary objections, as the Court does not rely on the objected  to evidence in reaching its decision herein.    REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE             The Court GRANTS  Kaiser’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (a).) However, the Court takes judicial notice only  as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records and other  specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth of the  factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta  (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)  DISCUSSION Whether Plaintiff is Entitled to  Prejudgment Interest "There is no authoritative list of criteria for courts  to consider, and ‘[f]ew cases have discussed the standards by which a trial  court's exercise of discretion under section 3287, subdivision (b) are to be  judged.’ [Citation.]” (Hewlett-Packard Co. v. Oracle Corp.  (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 506, 577; see also North Oakland Medical Clinic v.  Rogers (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 824, 829 [“Under subdivision (b) the court has  discretion to decide whether prejudgment interest should be awarded on an  unliquidated contractual claim. It is up to the judge to determine the date  from which interest runs, but in no event may the court fix a date earlier than  the filing of the action.”) Some factors that have been considered include  improper delay, whether the damages were highly contested and uncertain, the  effect of the defendant’s partial performance under the contract, and whether  the jury was aware of the delay and considered the delay when determining the  amount to award. (Hewlett-Packard Co., supra, 65 Cal.App.5th at p. 577.)  Plaintiff contends there is evidence of improper  delay, as this action has been pending for six years, caused by Kaiser seeking  and obtaining multiple trial continuances, plus the impact of the COVID-19  pandemic. Plaintiff argues Kaiser has had the ability to invest or use the money  that belongs to Plaintiff elsewhere during this time period to Kaiser’s benefit  and Plaintiff’s detriment.  In opposition, Kaiser contends Plaintiff has no right  to prejudgment interest because its claims were unliquidated and therefore has  no right to prejudgment interest under Civil Code section 3287, subdivision  (a). Kaiser further contends Plaintiff’s request for discretionary prejudgment  interest under Civil Code section 3298, subdivision (b) should be denied  because: (1) Plaintiff has not provided the date or dates it is asking the  Court to fix from which prejudgment interest will accrue, this issue was not  presented to the jury, the jury did not allocate any specific amount to any  specific claim, and subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 3287 does not permit  interest to accrue from before the action was filed; and (2) Plaintiff  contributed to the delays by changing the scope of this action with its First  Amended Complaint seventeen months into the lawsuit, damages were highly  contested and uncertain, Kaiser partially performed, and the jury was aware of  the delay in payment and Plaintiff used it to justify its requested award.  The Court finds Plaintiff is entitled to prejudgment  interest. First, the Court finds the sheer length of time that has lapsed  between the filing of the lawsuit and now to weigh in Plaintiff’s favor. Six  years is a long time to wait to get paid.[2] Even if Plaintiff modified the scope of this action with its First Amended  Complaint seventeen months into this lawsuit or otherwise modified its claims later  on, there is no indication this was done intentionally to delay or otherwise  improperly protract the resolution of this action. Plaintiff has also shown,  and Kaiser has not disputed, that Kaiser requested all of the trial  continuances that were granted in this action.  Second, Kaiser’s arguments regarding subdivision (a)  of Civil Code section 3287 are irrelevant since Plaintiff clearly brought this  motion under subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 3287, which gives the Court  the discretion to award prejudgment interest based on a cause of action in  contract where the claim was unliquidated. (Civ. Code § 3287, subd. (b).)  Third, while the Court agrees that Plaintiff did not  provide the dates for each of the underlying payment claims for purposes of  determining the prejudgment interest date, that is not absolutely necessary for  the Court to determine whether Plaintiff is entitled to prejudgment interest at  this time. The Court also agrees with Plaintiff that this is a rather  disingenuous argument to make since Kaiser requested the trial be bifurcated  into two phases to first allow a determination of the reasonable value of services  provided and then determine the other issues.  Fourth, the Court also agrees with Plaintiff that  Kaiser merely disputing the reasonable value of Plaintiff’s damages does not  necessarily make the amounts at issue highly contested. Any defendant can and  understandably is going to dispute the value of the plaintiff’s claimed damages.  However, the Court finds Kaiser’s arguments about seven days of trial testimony  with a wide variation in the evidence regarding the reasonable value of  services to weigh in favor of the issues being highly contested. (Opp., 8:7-16.)  Fifth, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that partial  performance by itself is insufficient, as any payment constitutes partial  performance. The Court recognizes that the jury credited Kaiser’s prior payment  of $39,796,251.00 to its determination of the reasonable value of Plaintiff’s  services and reduced the reasonable value owed to Plaintiff by approximately  40%, which is not an insignificant amount. However, the Court does not find  this factor sufficient to deny Plaintiff prejudgment interest.  Sixth, while it does appear the jury was aware of the  delay (Opp., 9:3-21), there is no indication that the delay was factored into  the jury’s determination of the reasonable value of Plaintiff’s services to  Kaiser. In Hewlett-Packard, to which Kaiser cites in support of its  arguments here, there was evidence that the jury in that case had factored the  delay into its damage award. (Hewlett-Packard, supra, 65 Cal.App.5th at  p. 578 fn. 19.)  Based on the consideration of the foregoing, and balancing  the concerns of fairness and just compensation, the Court finds Plaintiff is entitled  to prejudgment interest.  Applicable Interest Rate “If a complete claim, or portion thereof, that is  neither contested nor denied, is not reimbursed by delivery to the claimant's  address of record within the respective 30 or 45 working days after receipt,  the plan shall pay the greater of fifteen dollars ($15) per year or interest at  the rate of 15 percent per annum beginning with the  first calendar day after the 30- or 45-working-day period. A health care  service plan shall automatically include the fifteen dollars ($15) per year or  interest due in the payment made to the claimant, without requiring a request  therefor.” (Health & Safety Code § 1371.35, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff contends the applicable rate for  prejudgment interest is 15% per subdivision (b) of section 1371.35 of the  Health and Safety Code. Kaiser contends this rate is inapplicable because that  code section applies to the claims adjudication process, and not in the context  of litigation over the fair market value of claims. The Court agrees with Kaiser.  The jury’s verdict was based on a claim of quantum  meruit and not a claim for violation of Health and Safety Code section 1371.35.  The Court is not bound by the regulatory provisions of such section in deciding  the rate for prejudgment interest. (See Cohen v. Health Net of California,  Inc. (2005) 129 Cal. App. 4th 841, 860 n. 4 [Court concluded that “Health and  Safety Code section 1371.35 is of purely regulatory import and the DMHC has  exclusive power to enforce its requirements.”]) Plaintiff has not cited any case  law supporting its contention that the Knox-Keene Act, particularly section  1371.35, applies to prejudgment interest in litigation.  The Court adopts the reasoning and rationale applied  with respect to Cal. Code Regs., tit. 18, § 1300.71(a)(3)(B). As the Court of Appeal stated in Children's Hospital Central California v. Blue Cross of California (2014) 226 Cal. App. 4th 1260:  “In the final statement of reasons for California  Code of Regulations, title 28, section 1300.71, the DMHC explained that the  intent was to establish a methodology for determining the reasonable value of  health care services by noncontracted providers but that the criteria specified  do not dictate a specific payment rate. Rather, the payor is required to  calculate the appropriate reimbursement based on statistically credible  information that takes the Gould factors into consideration. If a payor  fulfills its claims payment obligation using these criteria, the DMHC will  consider the payor compliant with Health and Safety Code sections 1371 and  1371.35, i.e., the reimbursement of the claim will be deemed timely. ‘However,  the definition is not a substitute for traditional forums for contract dispute  resolution. If a provider disputes the payor's calculation of the fair and  reasonable value of the health care services he has rendered, the provider is  free to seek resolution of that dispute in a court of law or through any other  available civil remedy.’”  (Id., at p. 1273.) Bell v. Blue Cross of California (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 211 does not support Plaintiff’s  contention. The Court of Appeal in Bell held that the Knox-Keene Act “left  the physicians free to pursue alternate theories to recover the reasonable  value of their services. Furthermore, the physicians’ claim under the UCL did  not infringe on the Department of Managed Health Care’s jurisdiction, and there  was no bar to the physicians’ common law quantum meruit claim.” (Id., at  p. 212.) The Court went on to state: “Although the department has jurisdiction  over the subject matter of Health & Saf. Code, § 1371.4, as well as the  rest of the act, its jurisdiction is not exclusive, and there is nothing in §  1371.4 or in the act generally to preclude a private action under the UCL or at  common law on a quantum meruit theory.” (Id., at p. 212; see also Id., at pp. 216-217.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court declines to apply the prejudgment  interest rate of 15% per Health and Safety Code section 1371.35, subdivision  (b).  The Court will apply the prejudgment interest rate of 10% set  forth in Civil Code section 3289 to this action for quantum meruit. The Court  finds this action to be considered an action on the contract. “[F]or most  purposes, an action to recover the reasonable value of services is considered  an action on the contract.” (George v. Double-D Foods, Inc. (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d  36, 47.)  Date of Accrual for Prejudgment  Interest Plaintiff contends the date of accrual for prejudgment interest is  the date Kaiser underpaid Plaintiff’s claims. Kaiser argues against any award  of prejudgment interest but alternatively argues that the accrual date should  be the date of the jury verdict. The Court disagrees with both.  Civil Code section 3287, subdivision (b), clearly states that the  earliest date the Court can set for determination of prejudgment interest  thereunder is the date the action was filed. (Civ. Code § 3287, subd. (b).) Although  Plaintiff does not provide the dates for when its claims against Kaiser first  accrued, the Court infers that some of the claims necessarily accrued before  Plaintiff filed this action. Thus, the earliest date the Court can set for  accrual here is November 14, 2017.  The Court notes, however, that Plaintiff contends that the claims  submitted to the jury had dates ranging from October 2017 through March 2020.  (Tooch Decl., ¶ 8.) Since the case was decided on claims presented after the  action was filed, the Court declines to set the accrual date as the date the  action was filed. In balancing the interests of fairness and full compensation,  the Court sets the accrual date as December 28, 2022, the date the parties  settled upon the list of claims to be included in the Phase 1 trial. (Kaiser’s  Opp. p. 7:9-10; Schlesinger Decl., ¶ 7m Ex. E.) The Court notes that Plaintiff  does not dispute the accuracy of this date in its Reply. Accordingly, the Court  finds that the appropriate date of accrual for prejudgment interest is December  28, 2022.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for prejudgment interest. The  Court finds that Plaintiff is entitled to prejudgment interest, that the  applicable prejudgment interest rate is 10%, and that the date of accrual is December  28, 2022.  Plaintiff shall submit a proposed Judgment within 10 calendar days  of this order.     