 Case Number:  23NWCV02359    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  C LEDEZMA v. CARRILLO
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02359 
HEARING:  05/16/24
 
#6
 
     I.       
Defendant SANDRA CARRILLO’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED.
 
    II.       
Defendant SANDRA CARRILLO’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is MOOT in part and DENIED in part.  
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action was filed by Plaintiff CYNTHIA LEDEZMA
(“Plaintiff”) on July 28, 2023. Plaintiff’s Form Complaint asserts causes of
action for (1) Premises Liability; (2) General Negligence; and (3) Wrongful
Eviction. 
 
Defendant SANDRA CARRILLO (“Defendant”) demurs to the third
cause of action under CCP §430.10(a) and (e), arguing that this claim is barred
by res judicata. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim for wrongful/retaliatory
eviction could have/should have been raised in an earlier filed and litigated
unlawful detainer action. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claim for wrongful/retaliatory
eviction has never been litigated and decided on the merits, and res judicata
does not apply. 
 
The Court has reviewed the judicially noticeable documents
filed in conjunction with the instant Demurrer. An Unlawful Detainer Judgment
in favor of Defendant CARILLO was entered on April 3, 2023. (RJN Ex. C.) 
 
The doctrine of res judicata applies when the issues decided
in the prior adjudication are identical with those presented in the later
action; there was a final judgment on the merits in the prior action; and the
party against whom the plea is raised was a party in privity with a party in the
prior adjudication. (Citizens for Open Access to Sand and Tide, Inc. v.
Seadrift Ass’n (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1065.) “Res judicata describes
the preclusive effect of a final judgment on the merits. Res judicata, or claim
preclusion, prevents relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit
between the same parties or parties in privity with them. Collateral estoppel,
or issue preclusion, precludes relitigation of issues argued and decided in
prior proceedings. Under the doctrine of res judicata, if plaintiff prevails in
an action, the cause is merged into the judgment and may not be asserted in a
subsequent lawsuit; a judgment for the defendant serves as a bar to further
litigation of the same cause of action. [¶] A clear and predictable res
judicata doctrine promotes judicial economy. Under this doctrine, all claims
based on the same cause of action must be decided in a single suit; if not
brought initially, they may not be raised at a later date. Res judicata
precludes piecemeal litigation by splitting a single cause of action or
relitigation of the same cause of action in a different legal theory or for
different relief.” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888,
897.) 
 
Applicable here— the doctrine of collateral estoppel, also
known as “[i]ssue preclusion, prevents relitigation of issues argued and
decided in prior proceedings. The threshold requirements for issue preclusion
are: (1) the issue is identical to that decided in the former proceeding, (2) the
issue was actually litigated in the former proceeding, (3) the issue was
necessarily decided in the former proceeding, (4) the decision in the former
proceeding is final and on the merits, and (5) preclusion is sought against a
person who was a party or in privity with a party to the former proceeding.” (Castillo
v. City of Los Angeles (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 477, 481.) 
 
A judgment in an unlawful detainer action has a collateral estoppel
effect in a subsequent action only as to those issues litigated and determined
in the prior action. The party asserting the collateral estoppel has the burden
to prove from the record of the prior action that the issue was actually
litigated and determined. (Landeros v. Pankey (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th
1167, 1171.) 
 
With respect to the issue of possession, Plaintiff is bound
by the unlawful detainer Judgment. Indeed, her claim to the right of possession
of the Subject Premises has been adjudicated in the unlawful detainer action.
“An unlawful detainer action is a summary proceeding ordinarily limited to
resolution of the question of possession. Accordingly, it is true that any
judgment arising therefrom is generally given limited res judicata effect.”
(emphasis added.) (Malkoskie v. Option One Mortgage Corp. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 968, 973.) “Because an unlawful detainer action is a summary
procedure involving only claims bearing directly upon the right of immediate
possession, a judgment in unlawful detainer has very limited res judicata
effect. Legal and equitable claims—such as questions of title and
affirmative defenses—are not conclusively established unless they were fully
and fairly litigated in an adversary hearing.” (emphasis added.) (Pelletier
v. Alameda Yacht Harbor (1986) 188 Cal.App.3d 1551, 1557.) 
 
Based on the record before it, this Court cannot conclude
that the issue of wrongful or retaliatory eviction was actually or necessarily
decided by the UD court. Here, although Plaintiff pled retaliation as an
affirmative defense in her Answer to the UD Complaint (see RJN, Ex. B.), the
Judgment did not include a statement of decision or findings of fact or
conclusions of law. (see RJN, Ex. C.) The record from the UD case does not
conclusively establish whether the issue of retaliatory eviction was actually litigated
and necessarily decided, and thus precluded given the limited scope of UD
proceedings. 
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED.  
 
Motion to Strike 
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is “irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to strike any pleading or
part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
 
The Motion to Strike the Third Cause of Action is rendered
MOOT by the Court’s ruling above. 
 
The Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is DENIED. “A tenant
who is wrongfully evicted by his landlord before expiration of the lease term
may maintain a wrongful eviction action for tort damages and punitive damages,
if appropriate. [Citations.]” (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 298.)  Here, Plaintiff
alleges that in August 2022, she slipped on some guavas that had fallen from
Defendant’s tree onto the driveway, resulting in injury.  Plaintiff notified Defendant of the incident
in November 2022.  In December 2022,
Plaintiff and her children contracted COVID-19 and Plaintiff missed work.  When Plaintiff needed more time to pay rent
in January 2023, Defendant refused, even though Defendant did not have a
problem with such requests before.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant’s refusal to accept a late payment in January 2023 was malicious
and/or oppressive, and was motivated by a desire to punish Plaintiff for
reporting the slip and fall. These allegations are sufficient to warrant a
claim for punitive damages at this stage in the litigation. 