 Case Number:  21NWCV00400    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  C THE WINDMILL CO., INC. v.
SEDRAK 
CASE
NO.:  21NWCV00400
HEARING:  05/16/24
 
ADD ON
 
Defendant
ACE ESCROW, INC.’s Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is DENIED. CCP §877.6.
 
Opposing
Party to give notice.
 
Procedural
History 
 
This
action for breach of contract was filed by Plaintiff THE WINDMILL CO., INC.
(“Windmill”) on June 21, 2021 against Defendants FAYEZ SEDRAK and O&C
HILLSIDE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT COMPANY (collectively the “O&C Defendants”). 
 
On
August 13, 2021, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Sedrak and O&C filed a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Windmill. 
 
On
February 6, 2023, Windmill filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
The FAC asserts the following causes of action against both Defendants Sedrak
and O&C: (1) Breach of Contract – Specific Performance; (2) Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and (3) Declaratory Relief. 
 
On
February 9, 2023, Windmill filed an amendment to the FAC naming Defendant ACE
ESCROW, INC. (“Ace”) as DOE 1, thereby asserting the same causes of action
against Sedrak, O&C, and Ace.  
 
The
FAC alleges the following relevant facts: “On 01/03/2020, P-WINDMILL entered
into a ‘Sale of Business’ agreement with D-HILLSIDE, regarding selling the
PREMISES to Plaintiff. [¶] P-WINDMILL and D-HILLSIDE agreed upon a sales price
of $1,590,000.00. P-WINDMILL deposited $30,000.00 into Ace Escrow, as a good
faith deposit.” (FAC ¶¶8-9.) “As a direct failure on part of the Defendants to
perform his portion of duties during the escrow process, Plaintiff suffered
financial damages amounting to $222,506.60…. [¶] On 05/25/2021, Plaintiff sent
Defendants a Demand Letter requesting Defendants to either (1) pay financial
damages to the Plaintiff for a total sum of $222,506.60, plus any other
applicable costs/fees and attorney fees, or (2) specifically perform according
to the terms and conditions of the original Purchase Agreement and Escrow
Instruments dated 01/03/2021 and sell the PREMISES to the Plaintiff….
Defendants responded… by stating that Defendants will allow Plaintiff to
request their deposit back from Ace Escrow, and forgo other losses…. Therefore,
Plaintiff have no other choice but to bring this lawsuit to recover damages.”
(FAC ¶¶22-23.) 
 
On
March 20, 2023, Defendant Ace requested Order Discharging Stakeholder from
Liability, which was DENIED without prejudice on June 7, 2023 for failure to
comply with procedural requirements. 
 
On
April 3, 2023, Ace filed a Notice of Related Case, seeking to relate this
action to a later-filed unlimited civil action pending in the Orange County
Superior Court (Sedrak v. Ace Escrow, Inc., Case No.
30-2022-01250632-CU-CO-WJC). The request to relate the cases was DENIED on
April 14, 2023. 
 
On
May 9, 2024, Ace filed an Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial to Hear its
Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement, which was DENIED.
Alternatively, the Court specially set Ace’s Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement for hearing on shortened time, to be heard on Thursday, May
16, 2024. (See 05/10/24, M.O.) This Motion is before the Court at this time. 
 
To
date, Ace has not been named as a cross-defendant to Sedrak and O&C’s
Cross-Complaint. There are no claims in the Cross-Complaint asserted against
Ace in this action. 
 
To
date, Ace has not filed a complaint/action in interpleader with respect to the
$30,000.00 that it continues to hold in escrow for the benefit of Windmill on
the one hand, and Sedrak and O&C on the other hand. 
 
Trial
is scheduled to begin next week—on Monday, May 20, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept.
SE-F. 
 
Merits
 
On
April 29, 2024, Windmill and Ace entered into a Settlement Agreement whereby
Plaintiff agrees to dismiss, with prejudice, Ace from Windmill’s FAC, in
exchange for a waiver of fees and costs. Additionally, Ace has agreed to
continue to hold the $30,000.00 deposit in escrow and only release these funds
upon stipulation by the “escrow parties” or by court order. (“Settlement
Agreement”) (See Motion 6:10-17.) Defendant Ace now moves for determination of
a good faith settlement between Plaintiff Windmill and Defendant Ace pursuant
to CCP § 877.6(a)(2). 
 
The
express terms of the Settlement Agreement are as follows: 
 
“The parties hereby enter into this Settlement
whereby Defendant Ace Escrow, Inc. agrees to waive all of the costs and
attorney’s fees it has incurred in this Action, and it agrees to release the
$30,000.00 deposit being held in escrow to Plaintiff contingent upon its
receipt of a signed stipulation of the escrow parties per the escrow
instructions, or of an order of the court. In exchange, Plaintiff agrees to
dismiss the Action as against Ace Escrow with prejudice within 10 days of this
Agreement being fully executed by the Parties.” (Wilcox Decl., ¶4., Ex. A.) 
 
In
Opposition, Sedrak and O&C (collectively “O&C Defendants”) argue that
Windmill and Ace entered into a sham settlement meant to “confiscate” Sedrak
and O&C’s claims for contribution and indemnity against Ace in the
unrelated and currently pending Orange County action. The O&C Defendants
further argue that the express terms of the Settlement Agreement permits the
distribution of $30,000.00 escrow funds to Windmill immediately, and then
Windmill will dismiss Ace within 10 days, which would unfairly deprive the
O&C Defendants of their property. The O&C Defendants maintain that no
good faith settlement can be had between Windmill and Ace because a finding of
good faith would “make an end-run around and pre-judge the Orange County
Case.”  (Opp. 5:20.) 
 
In
determining the good faith of a settlement, the Court must balance the public
policy favoring settlements with that favoring equitable sharing of costs among
tortfeasors. To do so, the settlement must be within the reasonable range of
the settling tortfeasor’s share of liability for the Plaintiff’s injuries,
taking into consideration the facts and circumstances of the particular case. (Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.) The Tech-Bilt
court set forth the factors to be considered by the court in making the
determination, such as: (1) the rough approximation of claimant’s total
recovery and the settling parties’ proportional liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among claimants; (4)
recognition that a settling party should pay less in settlement than he would
if he were liable after trial; (5) the settling party’s financial condition;
(6) insurance policy limits of settling respondents; and (7) existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interest of
non-settling parties. Furthermore, the practical considerations require that
the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at the time of the
settlement. (Id.) In sum, “a defendant’s settlement future must not be
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability be.” (Id.)
Thus, as long as settlement is not so far “out of the ballpark” in relation to
these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of CCP
§877.6, the settlement shall be determined as being made in good faith. (Id.
499-500.) 
 
While
a non-settling party bears the ultimate burden of showing that a settlement was
not in good faith, the moving party must make a sufficient showing of all Tech-Bilt
factors, either in the original moving papers, or in counter-declarations
filed after opposition has been filed. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior
Court (1987) 92 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262.) 
 
A
finding of good faith under CCP §877.6 bars only claims of “equitable
comparative, contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (CCP §877.6(c).) When an “injured
party settles with one of the parties alleged to have caused its damages and
the settlement is confirmed to be in good faith ‘other joint tortfeasors… are
barred from bringing equitable indemnity or contribution actions against the
settling tortfeasor.’” (Gackstetter v. Frawley (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th
1257, 1271.) The bar applies to claims for total as well as partial indemnity,
and includes “claims not labeled as indemnity claims, but that in reality are
‘disguised’ indemnity claims. [Citation.]” (Ibid.) “If the claims
between the joint tortfeasors are identical to those made by the plaintiffs or
if the damages sought by the joint tortfeasors are those that the court would
consider in determining the proportionate liability of the settling tortfeasor,
then the claims are indemnity claims regardless of whether one or more of the
claims are couched in affirmative language. A claim by a joint tortfeasor
seeking neither indemnity nor contribution and which the trial court would not
contemplate in determining the proportionate liability of a settling tortfeasor
is not a claim for indemnity and hence survives a good faith settlement under
section 877.6. If a claim is in fact one of indemnity, then it is barred
pursuant to section 877.6.” (Cal-Jones Props. v. Evans Pac. Corp. (1989)
216 Cal.App.3d 324, 328.) 
 
It
is undisputed that all parties have been apprised the Settlement Terms. 
 
Upon
review of judicially noticeable documents, this Court notes that there are no
pending causes of action for Indemnity or Contribution by the O&C
Defendants in the Orange County Action against Ace. The operative Second
Amended Complaint in the Orange County Action asserts claims for: Breach of
Contract; Negligence; and Breach of Fiduciary Duties arising out of the Escrow
Agreement. (See Jaroscak Decl., ¶3, Ex.C.) 
However, in Opposition to this Motion, and in their operative Second
Amended Complaint in the Orange County Action, the O&C Defendants
specifically admit and allege that they are seeking indemnity and contribution
against Ace in the Orange County action: 
 
“By this Complaint, Plaintiff
O&C Hillside seeks implied and equitable indemnity, and contribution,
against Defendant ACE Escrow for all claims, causes of action, damages, good
faith settlement, and other injuries which Buyer Windmill seeks to collect
against O&C Hillside and Mr. Sedrak by reason of Defendant ACE Escrow’
joint obligations with them and the claims Buyer Windmill has made against
O&C Hillside and Mr. Sedrak in the LA Superior Court case. Plaintiff
O&C Hillside seeks contribution for any damages, claims, good faith
settlement, or judgment which Plaintiff O&C Hillside might incur by reason
of Buyer Windmill’s claims against O&C Hillside and Mr. Sedrak. Defendant
ACE Escrow is obligated to pay for damages, indemnify, and contribute to any of
O&C Hillside’s damages because Defendant ACE Escrow’s breached its contract
with Plaintiff O&C Hillside, violated its fiduciary duties, and was
negligent….” (Jaroscak Decl., Ex. C., SAC ¶21.) 
 
Here,
the O&C Defendants’ claims in the Orange County action against Ace arise
out of Ace’s allegedly improper handling of the sale of the Subject Property to
Windmill. 
 
Ace
argues that its settlement agreement with Windmill is identical to the terms of
the Escrow Instructions, signed by all parties, which states that Ace can release
the deposited funds to Windmill only if O&C Hillside and Sedrak agree in
writing and instruct Ace to release the funds, or the Court orders the release
of the deposited funds.  Ace appears to
argue that because the settlement agreement mirrors the language in escrow
instructions, which the O&C Hillside Defendants already agreed to, then the
O&C Hillside Defendants will suffer no prejudice if the settlement
agreement is approved by the Court.  The
Court disagrees.  The Settlement Agreement
also provides:
 
“If
the settlement agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant is determined to be in
good faith, Ace Escrow, Inc., is forever discharged from claims for liability
for contribution or partial or comparative indemnity from any remaining
tortfeasors in this action or any future action.” (Wilcox Decl., ¶4., Ex. A.) 
 
This
language is consistent with CCP § 877.6, subd. (c), which provides:
 
“A
determination by the court that the settlement was made in good faith shall bar
any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from any further claims against the
settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or
comparative fault.”
 
By
approving the good faith settlement between Defendant Ace Escrow and Plaintiff,
the Court would prejudice the rights of the O&C Hillside Defendants in the
pending Orange County case.  
 
This
Court finds that the Settlement Agreement between Windmill and Ace fails to
meet the standards of a good faith settlement. Under the proposed Settlement
Agreement, Ace stands to pay Plaintiff $0 in return for a dismissal from this
action, and a release from liability against any claims for indemnity and
contribution asserted against it. The mere return of the $30,000.00 held in
escrow for the benefit of Windmill and the O&C Defendants is
disproportionate to Ace’s purported liability as alleged by the O&C
Defendants in the Orange County Action. 
 
Moreover,
there is insufficient evidence provided of the rough approximation of Windmill’s
total recovery and Ace’s proportional liability, as opposed to the O&C
Defendants proportional liability.  
 
The
motion for good faith determination of settlement is DENIED. The legal
standards and requirements of CCP §877.6 and of Tech-Bilt v. Woodward-Clyde
& Assoc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 are not all met. 
 
 