 Case Number:  22STCV02241    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  C GONZALES v. PIH
HEALTH HOSPITAL – WHITTIER 
CASE NO.:  22STCV02241
HEARING:  05/16/24
 
#4
 
    
I.       
Defendant BARLOW RESPIRATORY HOSPITAL’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
    II.       
Defendant BARLOW RESPIRATORY HOSPITAL’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint is DENIED.  
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This action for elder abuse was filed on January 19, 2022, by Plaintiff
WANDA M. GONZALES, individually and as representative of the Estate of Daniel
Gonzales. 
 
On September 25, 2024, the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) was
filed. 
 
Plaintiff’s TAC asserts the following causes of action:
 
(1)
Professional Negligence; 
(2)
Violation of Elder and Dependent Adult Civil
Protection Act; and 
(3)
Wrongful Death
 
Defendant BARLOW RESPIRATORY HOSPITAL (“Barlow”) specially and generally
demurs to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for elder abuse. 
 
Uncertainty 
 
Barlow argues that
the second cause of action is
fatally uncertain. This argument lacks merit because “[a] special demurrer for
uncertainty is not intended to reach the failure to incorporate sufficient
facts in the pleading but is directed at the uncertainty existing in the
allegations actually made.” (Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d
143, 145-146.) Moreover, demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and will only
be sustained where the pleading is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond, i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury
v. Maly’s of Calif. Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Ibid.) Here, it is clear from Barlow’s other arguments
that they understand what the TAC at least attempts to allege, and there is no
true uncertainty. The Demurrer is not sustained on the basis of uncertainty. 
 
Second Cause of Action –
Elder Abuse 
 
A cause of action
under the Elder Abuse Act must be alleged with particularity.    (See Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.)  
Acts that constitute mere professional negligence do not constitute
elder abuse.  “In order to obtain the
remedies available in section 15657, a plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and
convincing evidence that defendant is guilty of something more than negligence;
he or she must show reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct. The
latter three categories involve "intentional," "willful,"
or "conscious" wrongdoing of a "despicable" or
"injurious" nature. ‘Recklessness’ refers to a subjective state of
culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a
‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that an injury will
occur. Recklessness, unlike negligence, involves more than ‘inadvertence,
incompetence, unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions’ but rather
rises to the level of a ‘conscious choice of a course of action… with knowledge
of the serious danger to others involved in it. [Citations Omitted.]” (Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 31-32.)  
“To recover the enhanced remedies available under the Elder Abuse Act
from a health care provider, a plaintiff must prove more than simple or even
gross negligence in the provider's care or custody of the elder.”  (See Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise
Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th
396, 405.)  “‘[T]he legislature intended
the Elder Abuse Act to sanction only egregious acts of misconduct distinct from
professional negligence….” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 784.) 
 
In summary, to
plead a cause of action for elder abuse under the Act based on neglect, a
plaintiff must allege facts establishing that the defendant: “(1) had
responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,”
“(2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to
provide for his or her own basic needs”; and “(3) denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain…or with conscious
disregard for the high probability of such injury….” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley, LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405-407.) A
plaintiff must also allege facts demonstrating that the neglect caused the
elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain, or mental suffering
such that the causal link between the neglect and injury is specifically
alleged. (Id at 407.) 
 
Section
15610.63(a)(1) defines neglect in relevant part as follows: “The negligent
failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or dependent adult
to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position
would exercise.” Subsection (b) provides specific examples of neglect, and
states in relevant part: “Neglect includes… (3) [f]failure to protect from
health and safety hazards.” 
 
To state an elder
abuse claim against an entity, a plaintiff must allege facts showing that an
officer, director, or managing agent of defendant was involved in the abuse,
authorized the abuse, ratified the abuse or hired the person who did the abuse
with advance knowledge of the persons unfitness and hired him with a conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others. (Welf. & Inst. Code
§15657(c); Cal. Civ. Code §3294.) “[T]he Act does not apply unless the
defendant health care provider had a substantial caretaking or custodial
relationship, involving ongoing responsibility for one or more basic needs,
with the elder patient.” (Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63
Cal.4th 148, 152.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that Barlow withheld care with
conscious disregard that withholding such would likely result in skin
breakdown. (TAC ¶¶34 and 61.) Plaintiff alleges the following: “DANIEL was
admitted to PIH as an inpatient on or about June 8, 2020 for various medical
issues that arose as a result of his eventual diagnosis of Covid-19, including
but not limited to pneumonia due to severe acute respiratory syndrome
corona-virus; acute respiratory failure; adult respiratory distress syndrome;
bacterial pneumonia; deep venous thrombosis and GI bleeding. DANIEL was placed
under the care of PIH and its employees.” (TAC ¶16.) “On or about July 20,
2020, DANIEL was discharged and transferred from PIH to BARLOW. Upon admission
to BARLOW, he was diagnosed with a stage III sacral decubitus ulcer wound
(‘Pressure Ulcer’). At no point during his residency at PIH, was a bed sore
diagnosed, identified, addressed or treated. In fact, PIH repeatedly documented
DANIEL’s skin as dry and intact. However, at some point a bed sore had formed,
and had gone undetected and ignored to the point where it ultimately developed
to stage III by the time DANIEL was discharged.” (Id. ¶17.) “During his stay at
Barlow, from on or about July 20, 2020, until his discharge, on or about March
23, 2021, the Pressure Ulcer had advanced to Stage IV.” (Id. ¶22.) “While
DANIEL was a patient at Barlow, Barlow failed to properly care for his bedsores
such that the Stage III Pressure Ulcer documented when it first began to care
for him advanced to a Stage IV Pressure Ulcer. DANIEL’s condition deteriorated
significantly during this time. [¶] By March 19, 2021, DANIEL was essentially
bedridden, very weak, and with respect to his bedsores, it was reported that he
had developed paraplegia. [¶] While DANIEL was a patient at Barlow, Barlow
failed to property and adequately monitor his blood oxygen levels which led to
instances of severe hypoxemia, and collapsed lung.” (Id. ¶¶25-27.) 
 
On demurrer, the
Court is bound to accept Plaintiff’s allegations and construe the allegations
‘liberally in favor of the pleader.’ (Ferrick v. Santa Clara University
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1341.) The arguments raised by Barlow raise
factual determinations improperly resolved at this stage in the litigation. 
 
The demurrer to
the second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
A motion to strike lies either when (1) there is “irrelevant, false or
improper matter inserted in any pleading”; or (2) to strike any pleading or
part thereof “not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule or order of court.” (CCP §436.)
 
The Court cannot make factual determinations in response to a Motion to
Strike.  (See Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp.
Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) The Court must accept the factual
allegations set forth in the TAC as true at this stage in the litigation. 
 
The motion to strike punitive
damages and attorney’s fees is DENIED. Plaintiffs adequately allege that Barlow
engaged in malicious and/or despicable conduct under the cause of action for dependent/adult
abuse sufficient to warrant such remedies. 
 
 