 Case Number:  23NWCV01493    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  C TORRES v.
MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01493
HEARING:  05/16/24
 
#10
 
Defendant FLETCHER JONES MOTOR CARS, INC.’s Motion for
Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
This “lemon law” action was filed by Plaintiffs ARMANDO
TORRES and MA XOCHITL TORRES (collectively “Plaintiffs”) on May 15, 2023.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant FLETCHER
JONES MOTOR CARS, INC. (“Fletcher Jones”)  negligently repaired Plaintiffs’ 2019 Mercedes
Benz E-Class Vehicle. (See Complaint §§14 and 26-29.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint asserts the following causes of action: 


(1)
Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express
Warranty (against Defendant Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC only); and 
(2)
Negligent Repair (against Fletcher Jones only)
 
Fletcher Jones moves for summary judgment, arguing that “FJMC cannot be
held liable for negligence as it did not owe any tort duty to plaintiffs, nor
did plaintiffs suffer any tort damages as a result of FJMC’s conduct.” (Motion
3:15-17.)  
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues: (1) Defendant failed to meet its
initial burden; (2) Defendant’s Motion is premised on a misunderstanding of the
law; and (3) The economic loss rule is inapplicable. 
 
This cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule. Consequently,
Fletcher Jones’ arguments based on other grounds for granting the Motion will
not be addressed. 
 
Plaintiffs rely  on the case North
American Chemical Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764 to argue that
the economic loss rule is inapplicable. In that case, the defendant packed and
shipped various chemicals on behalf of the plaintiff. (Id. at 769.) The
chemicals became contaminated while in defendant’s possession, rendering them
unusable by the customer, who then sued plaintiff. (Id. at 770-771.) The
plaintiff then settled with the customer and in turn sued the defendant for
breach of contract and negligence. (Id. at 771-772.) The Court of Appeal
concluded that the defendant had a duty of reasonable care in performing on a
contract which authorized a tort claim for negligent performance of contract. (Id.
773-788.) However, since North American Chemical was decided, the
California Supreme Court has narrowed the exceptions to the economic loss rule. (See Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552.) “The benefits of broad compensation must be balanced
against the burdens on commercial stability. Courts should be careful to apply
tort remedies only when the conduct in question is so clear in its deviation
from socially useful business practices that the effect of enforcing such tort
duties will be… to aid rather than discourage commerce. [Citation Omitted.]” (Id.
at 554.) 
 
“The [economic loss]
rule itself is deceptively easy to state: In general, there is no recovery in
tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm
unaccompanied by physical or property damage… In [a] recurring set of circumstances,
the rule functions to bar claims in negligence for pure economic losses in
deference to a contract between litigating parties.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2022) 15 Cal.5th 905, 922.) The economic loss rule provides
that “where a purchaser’s expectations in a sale are frustrated because the
product he bought is not working properly, his [or her] remedy is said to be
in contract alone, for he [or she] has suffered only economic losses.”  (Robinson Helicopter Company v. Dana
Corporation (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.) 
“Tort damages have been permitted in contract cases where a breach of
duty directly causes physical injury; for breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing in insurance contracts; for wrongful discharge in violation of
fundamental public policy; or where the contract was fraudulently induced…. in
each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort liability is either
completely independent of the contract or arises from conduct which is both
intentional and intended to harm.”  (Robinson, supra, 34
Cal.4th at 989–990.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allegations and discovery responses establish that they have not
suffered any tort damages. (See MP Evidence Exs. B and C, Interrogatory
14.)  “[W]here a purchaser’s expectations
in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not working properly,
his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has suffered only ‘economic
losses.’ [Citation.]” (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp.
(2004) 34 Cal.4th 979m 988.)  
 
Negligent
performance of a contract does not create a tort claim. The repair work done by
the dealer here was done in accordance with Plaintiffs’ warranty contract.
Plaintiffs’ remedy for work done poorly (and in the absence of some physical
injury) is a claim for breach of the contract—not the tort claim of negligent
performance. 
 
Summary
judgment in favor of Defendant Fletcher Jones is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections 
 
Plaintiffs’ Objections to the Declaration of
Warren S. Fujimoto, Ex. A—Plaintiffs’ own Complaint. Nos. 1-6 are OVERRULED. 
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections 
 
Nos. 1-5. OVERRULED. 