 Case Number:  22NWCV01236    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  C TIAN v. LIU
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01236 
HEARING:  05/16/24
 
#1
 
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to Set Aside Arbitration
Order is OFF-CALENDAR. This Court lacks jurisdiction to rule on this
Application based on the September 12, 2023 Order staying this matter pending
arbitration.  
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
Jurisdiction 
 
Before reaching the
merits of this Application, the Court must first address the threshold issue of
jurisdiction. The Court notes that neither party moves to lift the arbitration
stay so that this Application may be heard. 
 
This wrongful
termination action was filed by Plaintiff YANFEI TIAN (“Plaintiff”) on November
7, 2022. On September 12, 2023, this Court GRANTED Defendants Weee! Inc., Liu,
and Yan’s unopposed petition to compel arbitration, and this matter was ordered
STAYED pending arbitration. 
 
Consequently, there
is a jurisdictional issue as to whether this Court may now reconsider/set aside
it’s September 12, 2023 Order compelling arbitration. 
 
When a court grants
a petition to arbitrate and stays the underlying action, “the action at law
sits in the twilight zone of abatement with the trial court retaining merely
vestigial jurisdiction over matters submitted to arbitration. During that time,
under its ‘vestigial’ jurisdiction, a court may: appoint arbitrators if the
method selected by the parties fails (§1281.6); grant a provisional remedy ‘but
only upon the ground that the award to which an applicant may be entitled may be
rendered ineffectual without provisional relief (§1281.8, subd. (b)); and
confirm, correct or vacate the arbitration award. (§1285) Absent an agreement
to withdraw the controversy from arbitration, however, no other judicial act is
authorized.” (Titan/Value Equities Group, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 482, 487.) 
 
The Court is not
asked to do any of the three things it is authorized by statute to do while
exercising its vestigial jurisdiction. Therefore, the Court lacks jurisdiction
to grant the requested relief, and the Application is placed OFF-CALENDAR. 
 
 
Improper Ex Parte
Application
 
Plaintiff’s
Application is entitled “Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to Set Aside
Arbitration Order.” This “ex parte application” was filed on April 10, 2024,
and noticed for hearing over a month later on May 16, 2024. Plaintiff’s
Application for ex parte relief is procedurally defective—no Notice of Ex Parte
or Declaration regarding Notice of Ex Parte is attached or lodged with the
Moving Papers in compliance with CRC. 
 
Based on the record
before it, it appears that Plaintiff is attempting to improperly  utilize the ex parte process to jump ahead of
other litigants in order to secure a sooner hearing date. This Application
should have been filed and reserved as a regularly noticed hearing, which
Plaintiff could have moved ex parte to advance (if necessary). 
 
Improper Motion
for Reconsideration
 
Plaintiff’s
Application is entitled an “Ex Parte Application to Set Aside Arbitration
Order.” However, Plaintiff offers no legal or statutory basis for this Court to
grant such relief. (e.g., CCP §§473(b); 473(d); 473.5; equitable relief.)
Rather, Plaintiff’s Application argues that the Motion to Compel Arbitration
should have been denied because the Arbitration Agreement was both procedurally
and substantively unconscionable. As noted above, the Motion to Compel
Arbitration was unopposed. Moreover, this Court’s 09/12/23 Minute Order
reflects that no appearances were made on behalf of Plaintiff. 
 
Although the Motion
and Notice of Motion are silent as to the issue of “reconsideration”—the Court
construes Plaintiff’s Motion as an untimely Motion for Reconsideration of this
Court’s September 12, 2023 Order.  
 
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge,
or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10
days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application
to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.” (emphasis added.) (CCP §1008(a).)  Under CCP §1008, the Court may entertain a
motion for reconsideration based on a showing of new or different facts, law,
or circumstances. (CCP §1008.)  “New or different facts” means facts that the
moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced
earlier (Baldwin v. Home Savings of America (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1192,
1198.) Under CCP §1008, the burden “is comparable to that of a party seeking a
new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be
such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have
discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior
Court (Wall St. Network, Ltd. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.) As a
result, a party seeking reconsideration must provide a satisfactory explanation
for failing to present the information at the first hearing, and motion for
reconsideration is properly denied where it is based on evidence that could
have been presented in connection with the original motion. (Garcia v.
Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 647, 690; Morris v. AGFA Corp. (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460.) 
 
First, any request
for reconsideration would be procedurally defective as untimely. Notice of
Entry of the Order granting arbitration was served on September 13, 2023.
(Jahansouz Decl., Ex. D; Notice of Entry of Order FILED 09/13/23.) The instant
Application was filed about seven months later on April 19, 2024. 
 
Second, Plaintiff
does not address or meet the statutory requirements required to support a
Motion for Reconsideration. Plaintiff does not explain why Plaintiff’s arguments
were not raised, briefed, and addressed prior to or at the September 12, 2023,
hearing.  Plaintiff makes no effort to
explain why no Opposition was filed to the underlying Motion or why
Plaintiff/Plaintiff’s Counsel failed to appear at the hearing. Plaintiff merely
attempts to argue points that should have been raised in Opposition to the Motion,
seventh months after the Motion was argued and adjudicated. 
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to Set Aside Arbitration is OFF-CALENDAR.  
 
Defendants’ CCP
§128.7 Request for Sanctions may be raised by a separately noticed motion
pending conclusion of arbitration.  