 Case Number:  22STCV2209    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  C WALICKI v. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA SPECIALTY CARE, LLC 
CASE
NO.:  22STCV2209
HEARING: 
05/16/24
 
#5
 
Plaintiff
MATTHEW WALICKI’s Motion to Compel Further Responses by Defendant SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA SPECIALTY CARE, LLC to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents (set one) is GRANTED. 
 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
This
action for elder abuse was filed by Plaintiff MATTHEW WALICKI (“Plaintiff”) against
Defendants SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA SPECIALTY CARE, LLC; KINDRED HEALTHCARE
OPERATING, LLC; KINDRED HEALTHCARE, LLC (collectively “Defendants”) on July 8,
2022. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants “failed to effectively develop,
implement, and modify care plans for Mr. Walicki’s individualized care needs.
Further, [Kindred] failed to effectively develop, implement, and modify
adequate infection control.” (Complaint ¶44.) Plaintiff alleges that due to
Kindred’s failure to develop adequate care plans and infection control
procedures, Plaintiff contacted C. Auris during his admission to Kindred which
resulted in his isolation, and then premature discharge to avoid exposing others
to C. Auris. (See Complaint ¶46.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
Complaint asserts the following causes of action: 
 
(1)
Dependent Adult Abuse and Neglect; and 
(2)
Negligence/Negligence Per Se
 
Plaintiff
now moves to compel Kindred’s Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents Nos. 17-40 and 49-59.
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff has submitted meet and confer declarations in
compliance with CCP §2016.040. 
 
“On receipt
of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A state of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.” (CCP §2031.310(a).) 
 
A motion to
compel further responses to a request for production “shall set forth specific
facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection
demand.” (CCP §2031.310(b).) “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery
where specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial
preparation to prevent surprise at trial. (Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v.
Sup. Ct. (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583,588.) Where there is no privilege issue or
claim of attorney work product, the burden to show “good cause” is met simply
by a fact-specific showing of relevance. (Glenfed Development Corp. v. Sup.
Ct. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
 
The
Motion to Compel Further is granted in its entirety. RPD Nos. 17-40 and 49-59
seek policies and procedures effective at Kindred Hospital – La Mirada during
Plaintiff’s admission. As indicated above, Plaintiff alleges that Kindred
failed to implement proper policies and procedures during his hospitalization
at Kindred. Moreover, in Opposition, Kindred does not oppose the substance of
the Motion. Rather, Kindred argues that the documents should only be produced
subject to entry of a protective order to ensure that Plaintiff’s attorney will
not utilize any proffered policies and procedures for any matter unrelated to
this action. 
 
The
Court has reviewed Kindred’s subject responses. Kindred has not justified the
objections asserted herein. Kindred is obligated to
produce whatever responsive documents they have that are presently within their
possession, custody, or control, or state that they do not have any documents
responsive to a given request, within the aforementioned time frame. A
statement of inability to produce the documents must comply with statutory
requirements. (CCP §§2031.220 and 2031.230.)
 
The
Motion to Compel Further Responses as to RPD (set one) is GRANTED. Defendant SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA SPECIALTY CARE, LLC ORDERED to provide further verified
responses and documents, without objections, to RPD (set one) Nos. 17-40 and
49-59 no later than 30 days from the Court’s issuance of this Order.
This date may be extended pursuant to agreement of the parties.  
 
On
its own motion, the Court ORDERS
that a protective order should be entered to govern the disclosure of
implicated documents produced or that are to be produced throughout the course
of discovery. (CCP §2031.060(b).) Therefore, it is ORDERED that documents to be produced by SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
SPECIALTY CARE, LLC in response to the discovery at issue which contain
confidential policies and procedures are “Protected Documents.” The Protected
Documents and the information contained therein shall be treated by all parties
as confidential. Except upon the prior written consent of CALIFORNIA SPECIALTY
CARE, LLC or upon further order of this Court, the Protected Documents or
information contained therein may be shown, disseminated, or disclosed only to:
the parties of this litigation and/or their counsel of record in this case; or
employees of counsel or of associated counsel who assist in the preparation of
this case; or experts and consultants retained by the parties to this
litigation. 
 
Sanctions
 
“[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction…against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (CCP §2031.310(h).) 
 
Given the relatively mixed ruling, sanctions are DENIED. 