  Case Number:  20STCV19934    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Khaled
  J. Al-Sabah,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV19934




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Michael
  Edward Bass and Usman Shaikh,  


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: March 29, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motions to Compel Further Deposition
Testimony of Defendant Michael Edward Bass
Moving Party:  Plaintiff Khaled J. Al-Sabah
Responding Party:  Defendant Michael Edward Bass in pro per
 
T/R:    AL-SABAH’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DEPOSITION
TESTIMONY IS GRANTED. AL-SABAH’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN THE
REDUCED TOTAL AMOUNT OF $3,185.00, PAYABLE WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
            AL-SABAH
TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email
the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers and the opposition. 
 
            BACKGROUND
            On July 15, 2020, plaintiff Khaled J. Al-Sabah filed the
operative first amended complaint against defendants Michael Edward Bass,
Ronald Richards, and Usman Shaikh, asserting causes of action for breach of
fiduciary duty, breach of contract, theft, money had and received, conversion
and accounting. Plaintiff alleges that Bass was to be Plaintiff’s
“representative” in the United States. Plaintiff alleges he wired Bass $2.5
million to hire attorney defendant Shaikh to represent Plaintiff in an
unrelated embezzlement lawsuit. Plaintiff alleges that Bass kept $2 million of
his money.
 
            On
March 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a new action for fraudulent conveyance against
Defendant, case no. 23STCV04590. That action was consolidated with 20STCV19934.

 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to compel further deposition of Defendant. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  
 
            Generally, a person may only be
deposed once. But CCP § 2025.610 allows the court to grant leave to take a
subsequent deposition for good cause shown. (CCP § 2025.610, subd. (a) and
(b).) 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel a
second deposition of Bass due to misconduct during the first deposition, on May
23, 2023, after a Court order compelling the deposition. Plaintiff alleges that
Bass “repeatedly interrupted counsel, gave long, meandering, and non-responsive
answers . . . stopped the deposition on two occasions due to technical
difficulties (including one instance in which he went to his car for 30 minutes
to get his iPad charger), and generally failed to observe deposition protocol.”
(Motion, 3:7-11; see also Sadat Decl., ¶ 2 and Exh. A.) Plaintiff seeks
additional deposition time to examine Bass regarding his transfer of real
property to an entity he controls and nearly 100 pages of text messages between
the parties concerning the subject matter of the lawsuit. (Sabat Decl., ¶ 4.)
In opposition, Bass argues
that Plaintiff has not shown good cause to warrant a subsequent deposition because
he answered Plaintiff’s questions during the initial deposition and no new
facts have been uncovered. 
In the 43 pages of deposition
transcript provided by Plaintiff, the parties interrupted each other at least
17 times. (Sadat Decl., Exh. A.) Bass repeatedly answered yes-or-no questions
with lengthy, irrelevant orations. For example, when asked what he did for work
prior to working for Victorino Noval, Bass stated that he made films, and
embarked on a discussion of all the work he did for Noval, which was not asked,
before counsel interrupted him. Counsel asked if it was fair to say that most
of Bass’s working career is in film production, a yes-or-no question. Bass
answered with a lengthy yet vague statement, stating that this is a “difficult”
question because he has also made a career of teaching people “how to maneuver
with crooked lawyers”; that “what makes him good is probably that [he is] not a
lawyer because [he] can understand common sense”; followed by other evasive
musings. (Id., 42:22 – 45:16.) 
Less than an hour into the
deposition, the transcript records the court reporter utter “oh, my god.”
Counsel’s remark in response provides helpful color: 
Mr. Bass, we’re driving the
court reporter insane . . . I want you to listen to the question and answer it.
I asked you about other documents that you looked at, and you answered the
question, and then you gave a bunch of additional information. So every time
you do that, it's going to make this go longer and longer, and it's also
important that we just try and not speak over one another. But that said,
sometimes when you give an answer that's really long and -- and nonresponsive
to the question that I ask, I'm trying to stop you, and the reason I'm doing
that is just so we can save time and get through this faster. Okay?
(Id., 53:16 - 54:6.) 
            Bass’s
evasive answers during the deposition provide good cause for a subsequent
deposition pursuant to CCP § 2025.610(b).
            They also
constitute misuse of the discovery process under CCP § 2023.010, subd. (f)
(“making an evasive response to discovery”). The Court may impose sanctions for
misuse of the discovery process under CCP § 2023.030. Plaintiff’s counsel
requests sanctions amounting to nine hours of attorney time at $625.00 per
hour, a $60.00 reservation fee and $627.20 paid to the court reporting company
for the subsequent noticed deposition that Bass failed to attend. The fees for
the second deposition are unwarranted because Plaintiff had not yet obtained
the Court’s authorization for a subsequent deposition. Plaintiff was not
required at the time to appear at a second deposition. Moreover, the requested
nine hours of attorney time is excessive, especially because a reply brief was
never submitted. The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in the
reduced total amount of $3,185.00, consisting of five hours of attorney time
plus a $60.00 reservation fee.
            Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced, total amount of $3,185.00.


 