  Case Number:  21PSCP00224    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative
Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s FIFTH Petition to Confirm the Contractual
Arbitration Award is DENIED with prejudice. This case is dismissed
with prejudice. 
 
Background
 
On May 7, 2021, Petitioner Martha I. Dube Rowley (“Petitioner”)
filed a “Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award” (“Petition”) as
against Respondent(s) Abraham Anthony Prattella (“Prattella”) and Built on
Solid Rock Construction (“BOSR”).
 
On June 24, 2021, the court denied the petition without
prejudice. 
 
On October 20, 2021, the court denied the amended petition
without prejudice. 
 
On August 31, 2021, Petitioner filed the instant third
petition to confirm the arbitration award. 
 
On October 31, 2023, Pratella filed a Response to the third
petition. 
 
On May 3, 2023, the court issued the followed minute
regarding the status conference: “Supplemental briefs are allowed but not
required. Briefs are to be filed on or before 06/30/2023.”
 
On September 6, 2023, the court adopted its tentative ruling
as final which denied the petition without prejudice “for the sole
purpose of filing a renewed petition that excludes Pratella.” (See 9/6/23
minute order.) 
 
On November 1, 2023, petitioner re-filed her petition,
making it the fourth petition. 
 
On January 11, 2024, the court conducted its hearing on
Plaintiff’s motion to confirm the arbitration award. The court’s tentative was
to deny the petition with prejudice because Petitioner once again named
Pratella in the petition. The court, however, indicated that it would
strike 8C and 8B4 of the Petition.
On February 7, 2024, the court signed the order confirming
arbitration award and judgment (with Plaintiff as the Petitioner and Built on
Solid Rock Inc., dba Built on Solid Rock Construction as the respondent.) 
 
On February 9, 2024, the court issued the following minute
order: “The matter is not called for hearing. The Court finds Judgment is
entered as to Respondent Built on Solid Rock Inc. DBA Built on Solid Rock
Construction as of February 7, 2024. The Judicial Assistant telephonically
contacts Attorney of Record, Gregory Thomas Annigian. Petitioner's Attorney
requests the matter remain on calendar as to Respondent Abraham Anthony
Pratella. In light of the above and by Order of the Court, the matter is set as
follows: Hearing on Motion to Confirm Arbitration Award as to Respondent
Abraham Anthony Pratella is scheduled for 04/23/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department
O at Pomona Courthouse South.”
 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant FIFTH
petition seeking to confirm the arbitration award solely against the individual
Abraham Anthony Pratella.[1]

 
Discussion
 
The court’s tentative
will be brief as this is the fifth time the court has stated the same
thing: Prattella is not a named party to the arbitration award. As summarized in
the court’s 9/6/23 ruling, “all the facts indicate that Prattella as an
individual does not have an arbitral award against him and thus is erroneously
named as a party.” Based on the court’s analysis, the court “only grant[ed]
leave to file a renewed fourth petition that is to exclude Prattella.” (See
9/6/23 ruling.) In the court’s 1/11/24 tentative ruling, the court stated that:
“despite clear instructions that only the corporate defendant is the
responsible party and that as such only the corporate defendant is to bear any
liability, Petitioner has continued to defy both the arbitrator’s decision and
this court’s rulings.” 
 
Now, not only does Plaintiff
do the same, but goes further by only naming Pratella in this
fifth petition. 
 
Thus, absent an indication otherwise by Defendants during the
hearing, though the petition has been untimely filed, a continuation would not
yield a different ruling. Thus, the court denies the petition with prejudice and
dismisses the case with prejudice. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the court DENIES the petition with
prejudice.
 
 


