 Case Number:  22STCV39875    Hearing Date:   October 8, 2024    Dept:  56  
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSE ROBLES,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV39875
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S
  FEES AND COSTS
 
Date: October 8, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant General Motors LLC (“Defendant”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving, opposition papers and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of the purchase of an
allegedly defective vehicle (the “Vehicle”) manufactured by Defendant.  Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleges: (1) breach of implied warranty of merchantability under the
Song-Beverly Act; and (2) breach of express warranty under the Song-Beverly
Act.  
 
On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for
attorney’s fees and costs (the “Motion”). 
Defendant opposed the Motion and Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Attorney’s
fees are allowed as costs when authorized by contract, statute or law. (Code
Civ. Proc, § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10)(B).) 
 
In a lemon law action, costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees, may
be recovered by a prevailing buyer under the Song-Beverly Act. (See Civ. Code,
§ 1794(d).) Section 1794 provides:
If the buyer prevails in an action under this
section, the buyer shall be allowed by the court to recover as part of the
judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of costs and expenses, including
attorney’s fees based on actual time expended, determined by the court to
have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in connection with the
commencement and prosecution of such action.
 
(Civ. Code, § 1794 [emphasis added].) Thus, the statute includes a
“reasonable attorney’s fees” standard.  
 
The attorney seeking fees bears the burden of proof as to
“reasonableness” of any fee claim. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5(c)(5).) This
burden requires competent evidence as to the nature and value of the services
rendered. (Martino v. Denevi (1986)
182 Cal.App.3d 553, 559.) “Testimony of an attorney as to the number of hours
worked on a particular case is sufficient evidence to support an award of
attorney fees, even in the absence of detailed time records.” (Id.) 

 
In
determining a reasonable attorney’s fee, the trial court begins with the
lodestar, i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate.  (Warren v. Kia Motors America, Inc.
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 24, 36.)  The
lodestar may then be adjusted based on factors specific to the case in order to
fix the fee at the fair market value of the legal services provided.  (Ibid.)  These facts include (1) the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting
them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other
employment by the attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award.  (Ibid.)
Here, Plaintiff moves for an award
of attorney’s fees in the amount of a lodestar of $63,017.50 plus a multiplier
of 25% plus $6,623.39 in costs and expenses. 
  
            A. Entitlement to Attorney’s Fees
Plaintiff
contends that he is the prevailing party in this action because of a second 998
offer in which Defendant ultimately agreed to settle this case on the eve of
trial.  The Court agrees and Defendant
does not dispute this.  Plaintiff is the
prevailing party in this action entitled to a reasonable amount of attorney’s
fees.
 
B. Reasonableness of Fees
 
i.              
Reasonable Hourly Rate
“The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for
similar work.”  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) “The
experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of professional services
rendered in [her] court.” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff seeks to recover attorney’s fees primarily for three different
attorneys who worked on the case over one and a half years. Their hourly rates
are as follows:
(1)
Otis R. Hayes, III,  whose billing rate
is $500 an hour; (2) Elizabeth Quinn, whose billing rate is $500 an hour; and (3)
David Barry (“Barry”), whose billing rate is $675 
For each of the attorneys, attorney Barry attests to their legal
experience and the reasonableness of their rates. (Barry Decl. ¶ ¶ 41-72.)
The Court finds, based on the
submitted evidence of the declaration of Shahian and the Court’s own
experience, that Plaintiff’s requested hourly rates are reasonable for
attorneys with their experience.  The
range of rates charged in this matter by SLP is reasonable for attorneys of
similar experience, in the same area, dealing with the same subject matter.
(See Goglin v BMW of North America (2016) LLC 4 Cal.App.5th 462, 473-74
[approving $575 per hour fee on lemon law action for attorneys in Los Angeles].

Defendant contends that
Plaintiff’s claimed lodestar fees are excessive and should be reduced, and do
not deserve a multiplier.
Reasonable Hours Incurred
 “A trial court assessing attorney fees begins
with a touchstone or lodestar figure, based on the ‘careful compilation of the
time spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney ... involved in
the presentation of the case.”  (Christian
Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.) “The
reasonableness of attorney fees is within the discretion of the trial court, to
be determined from a consideration of such factors as the nature of the
litigation, the complexity of the issues, the experience and expertise of
counsel and the amount of time involved. The court may also consider whether
the amount requested is based upon unnecessary or duplicative work.” (Wilkerson
v. Sullivan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
Plaintiff’
lodestar fee request is based on 113.8 hours spent by his attorneys litigating
this case through this motion. Plaintiff has submitted billing records. (Barry
Decl., Ex. 4.) At the rates identified above, Plaintiffs represent that they are
seeking a lodestar of $63,017.50.
 
 
Next,
Defendant objects to tasks that Defendant argues are billed at excessive
amounts of time. Defendant provides examples of what it considers to be
excessive billing and discusses why it believes that the rates charged by
counsel are excessive. 
The Court disagrees. The Court finds that the rates
sought and the amounts noted are not excessive under the circumstances. 
Having
analyzed the motions and pleadings filed, and having reviewed the billing
statements provided, the Court determines that a reasonable lodestar in this
case is $63,017.50.

C. Multiplier 
While the lodestar reflects the basic fee for comparable legal services
in the community, it may be adjusted based on various factors, including “(1)
the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill displayed
in presenting them; (2) the extent to which the nature of the litigation
precluded other employment by the attorneys; (3) the contingent nature of the
fee award” and (4) the success achieved. (Serrano
v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.)
 
Nonetheless, the court must not consider extraordinary skill and the
other Serrano factors to the extent
these are already included with the lodestar. (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal. 4th 1122, 1138-1139.) “[A] trial
court should award a multiplier for exceptional representation only when the
quality of representation far exceeds the quality of representation that would
have been provided by an attorney of comparable skill and experience billing at
the hourly rate used in the lodestar calculation. Otherwise, the fee award will
result in unfair double counting and be unreasonable.” (Id. at 1139.)
Plaintiff requests a lodestar
multiplier enhancement of .25 on the ground that the settlement results were
excellent, and because counsel undertook representation of Plaintiff on a
contingency basis—if the action failed and Plaintiff did not recover, neither
would his counsel. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion,
Section IV E.) Plaintiff claims that its counsel faced a genuine risk of not
being paid for its services for years (if at all) while advancing thousands in
costs and expenses to prosecute Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant, a large
corporate defendant with the proven track record to engage in prolonged
litigation (while its attorneys get paid regardless of outcome). 
The Court finds that under the circumstances of this case, a lodestar
multiplier is not appropriate. This is a straightforward lemon law
case.  Nothing before the Court indicates that the case presented novel issues
or that the quality of representation far exceeded the quality of
representation that would have been provided by attorneys of comparable skill
and experience billing at the same rates. While Plaintiff argues that counsel
accepted the case only on a contingency basis and there was a delay in payment,
the Court finds that such consideration and risk is already included within the
lodestar amount. That is because the substantial hourly rates allowed for by
the court are hourly rates for lemon law cases done on a contingency basis.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court declines to award a lodestar
multiplier.
 
D. Entitlement and Reasonableness of Costs
 
Allowable costs “shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(2).) Any items not specifically mentioned
by statute “may be allowed or denied in the court's discretion.” (Id.,
subd. (c)(4).)
 
The Beverly-Song Act allows a successful plaintiff to recover both
“costs” and “expenses.” (See Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (d).) Courts have held
that “it is clear the Legislature intended the word ‘expenses' to cover items
not included in the detailed statutory definition of ‘costs.”’ (Jensen v.
BMW of North America, Inc. (“Jensen”) (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
112, 137.) The court in Jensen held that “[t]he legislative
history indicates the Legislature exercised its power to permit the recovery of
expert witness fees by prevailing buyers under the Act … ,” noting that the
legislature included “expenses” in the lemon law act because '“[t]he addition
of awards of “costs and expenses” by the court to the consumer to cover such
out-of-pocket expenses as filing fees, expert witness fees, marshall’s fees,
etc., should open the litigation process to everyone.’ [Citation.]”
Plaintiffs request a total of $6,623.39
in costs and expenses.  Defendant
contends that Plaintiffs’ costs should be taxed and that only $738.13 should be
allowed. 
The Court has reviewed Defendant’s
claims as to the alleged excessiveness of Plaintiff’s claimed costs.  Having considered the work performed and the
conduct of the litigation, the Court finds that the costs claimed are
reasonable and compensable under the law. 

Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion
for attorney fees is GRANTED in part. 
The Court awards $63,017.50 in attorney fees and $6,623.39 in costs to Plaintiff.
 
            
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
        
Dated this 8th day of October 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 