 Case Number:  23STCV09516    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  74 Tovar v.
General Motors, LLC
Plaintiff Mario Tovar’s Motion for
Attorney Fees and Costs
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
motion arises from a Beverly-Song product warranty complaint. 
            Plaintiff
Mario Tovar (Plaintiff) filed suit against defendant General Motors, LLC
(Defendant).  
On
August 14, 2024, Defendant served a California Code of Civil Procedure section
998 Offer to Compromise. 
Plaintiff
accepted and returned it to the Defendant on September 13, 2024.  Plaintiff accepted the offer but opted to
recover attorney’s fees pursuant to Civil code section 1794(d).
Plaintiff
filed this Motion for Attorney Fees. 
            
LEGAL STANDARD 
Attorney’s
fees are allowed as costs when authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code
Civ. Proc, § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10)(B).)  In a lemon law action, costs and
expenses, including attorney’s fees, may be recovered by a prevailing buyer
under the Song-Beverly Act. (See Civ. Code, § 1794(d).) 
Section
1794 provides: “If the buyer prevails in an action under this section, the
buyer shall be allowed by the court to recover as part of the judgment a sum
equal to the aggregate amount of costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees
based on actual time expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably
incurred by the buyer in connection with the commencement and prosecution of
such action.” (Civ. Code, § 1794.) 
Thus,
the statute includes a “reasonable attorney’s fees” standard.  The
attorney bears the burden of proof as to “reasonableness” of any fee claim.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5(c)(5).) This burden requires competent evidence as
to the nature and value of the services rendered. (Martino v. Denevi
(1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 553, 559.) “Testimony of an attorney as to the number of
hours worked on a particular case is sufficient evidence to support an award of
attorney fees, even in the absence of detailed time records.” (Ibid.) 
A
plaintiff’s verified billing invoices are prima facie evidence that the costs,
expenses, and services listed were necessarily incurred. (See Hadley v.
Krepel (1985) 167 Cal.App.3d 677, 682.) “In challenging attorney fees as
excessive because too many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the
challenging party to point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient
argument and citations to the evidence. General arguments that fees claimed are
excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice.” (Lunada Biomedical v.
Nunez (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 459, 488, quoting Premier Med. Mgmt. Sys.,
Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Ass’n (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 550, 564.)
The Court has discretion to reduce fees that result from inefficient or
duplicative use of time. (Horsford v. Bd. of Trustees of California State
Univ. (2005) 132 Cal. App. 4th 359, 395.) 
In
determining a reasonable attorney fee, the trial court begins with the
lodestar, i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the
reasonable hourly rate. (Warren v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2018) 30
Cal.App.5th 24, 36.) The lodestar may then be adjusted based on factors
specific to the case in order to fix the fee at the fair market value of the
legal services provided. (Ibid.) These factors include (1) the novelty
and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting
them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other
employment by the attorneys, and (4) the contingent nature of the fee award. (Ibid.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff’s
counsel, Joshua Valero (Valero), has provided a declaration, including an
hourly rate, a previously approved billing rate, timesheet and memorandum of
costs.  Plaintiff has provided prima
facie evidence of the validity of the attorney’s fees.  Plaintiff requests $23,718.39 in attorney’s
fees for 43.1 hours in litigating the case, an anticipatory 3 hours for this
motion and $668.39 in costs.  Valero’s
hourly rate is $500 per hour. Defendant requests that Valero’s hourly rate be
reduced to $450 but provides no evidence that the hourly rate is
unreasonable.  The Court finds Valero’s
hourly rate reasonable. 
            Valero’s
counsel also requests 43.1 in attorney’s fees. 
Defendant challenges Valero’s hours for (1) Research and Communication
before Case was Filed; (2) Draft and Prepare Complaint; (3) Clerical and
Administrative Tasks; (4) Discovery Requests; (5) Discovery Responses; (5)
Attorney’s Fee motion; and (6) Costs.
            Defendant
alleges that Valero’s time spent researching and communicating with Plaintiff
before the case was filed should be stricken entirely because Valero “performed
no compensable work.”  Defendant provides
no authority for why research in preparation of drafting a complaint is
inappropriate.  The Court declines to
strike fees for preparation before the draft is filed.  
            Defendant
also requests that the Court substantially strike Valero’s time for drafting
and preparing complaint because Defendant alleges it is largely based on
templates.  Plaintiff responds that the
3.1 hours were reasonably spent determining venue, drafting the summons,
preparing the civil case cover sheet and addendum, and contemplating the proper
causes of action.  The Court finds this
justification for 3.1 hours reasonable and declines to strike fees for the
preparation of the Complaint. 
            Defendant
requests that Plaintiff’s request for time spent on Clerical and Administrative
Tasks be stricken in its entirety. 
Valero is the sole shareholder of Valero Law.  (Valero Decl., ¶ 1.)  The Court strikes 1.4 hours for non-legal administrative
tasks.  
            Defendant
requests that the Court strike hours from Plaintiff’s discovery requests and
review of discovery responses.  Plaintiff
provides additional details regarding the tailoring and drafting of discovery
responses and review supporting their timesheets.  Therefore, the Court declines to strike fees
for discovery.
            Defendant
also requests that the Court strikes a majority of the costs demanded for the
fee motion.  Defendant alleges that the
motion should only take an hour. 
Plaintiff provides evidence of several attempts to settle attorney’s
fees without need for motion work. 
(Valero Decl., Ex. “G”; Ex. “I.”) 
The Court does not find the hours requested unreasonable and declines to
strike fees. 
            Finally,
Defendant challenges the costs requested for filing a motion for judgment on
the pleadings.  Defendant alleges that
the motion for judgment on the pleadings was frivolous because it was only
filed due to GM’s “inadvertent error” in timely responding to discovery and was
never heard by the Court.  A frivolous
motion is one that is “totally and completely without merit.”  (Carpenter
v. Jack in the Box Corp. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 454, 469.)  GM does not provide an authority or support
for why the motion was frivolous given its failure to timely respond to
discovery.  The Court declines to strike
costs for the motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fee and awards $23,018.39 in
fees and costs payable within 30 days.
            Plaintiff
to give notice.