  Case Number:  21STCV00960    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


October 30, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21STCV00960




MOTION


Motion to Reopen Discovery 




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Philip K. Anthony, Michael Cobo, Nicole
  Khoshnoud, Deepwater, Inc., and HM&R, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff U.S. Legal Support, Inc.



 
MOTION
Plaintiff U.S.
Legal Support, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed this shareholder derivative action
regarding DecisionQuest, LLC (“DecisionQuest”) against Defendants Philip K.
Anthony (“Anthony”), Michael Cobo, Nicole Khoshnoud, Deepwater, Inc., and
HM&R, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”). 
Through this motion, Defendants seek leave to reopen fact discovery for
the purpose of propounding written discovery on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
ANALYSIS
In determining
whether to re-open discovery, the Court must consider the necessity of and
reasons for the additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by the
party seeking to reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior to
the cutoff, whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from going
forward on the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any past
continuances of the trial date. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)
Defendants rely on
the declaration of their counsel, David P. Crochetiere (“Counsel”).  Counsel fails to address whether Defendants
were diligent in seeking to complete the discovery at issue prior to the cutoff
date.  Counsel states Plaintiff “all but
abandoned its discovery efforts after October 2022 . . . .” and relates the continuances
which have taken place in this matter. (Declaration of David P. Crochetiere, ¶
3.)  Plaintiff’s discovery is irrelevant
to whether Defendants were diligent in seeking discovery.  
Defendants also
rely on the declaration of Brian A. Sun (“Sun”), who is Anthony’s counsel in criminal
proceedings.  Sun states Anthony knew as
of October 26, 2022 the United States Attorney’s Office for the Central
District of California had initiated proceedings to investigate Anthony (Declaration
of Brian A. Sun, ¶ 2), and Sun learned in March 2024 the investigation was
ongoing and had expanded to include potential crimes against DecisionQuest’s
employee stock ownership plan (Id., ¶ 8).  This does not explain Defendants’ delay in
pursuing discovery.  Indeed, Sun concedes
as early as December 2022 he suspected Plaintiff had disclosed confidential
information and referred Defendants for criminal prosecution.  (Id., ¶¶ 3, 6.)  
Defendants,
therefore, had ample opportunity to conduct discovery related to these issues prior
to the discovery cut-off date of June 14, 2024. 
Even assuming Defendants learned new information in March 2024,
Defendants could have propounded discovery before the cut-off date.  
Accordingly, the
Court denies the motion, as it is without evidentiary support.  Defendant is to provide notice of this ruling
and to file proof of service of same.
 