 Case Number:  24STCV18535    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Justin Yovino, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV18535




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Jackie Rose Kruger, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 21, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter 
Demurrer to Complaint 
Moving Party: Defendants Jackie Rose Kruger and The
Law Offices of Jackie Rose Kruger, P.C.
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Justin Yovino, Sarah
Yovino and Justin Yovino, MD PA dba Ideal Face and Body
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel
(or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On July 25, 2024, Plaintiffs Justin
Yovino, Sarah Yovino and Justin Yovino, MD PA dba Ideal Face and Body filed a
complaint against Defendants Jackie Rose Kruger and The Law Offices of Jackie
Rose Kruger, P.C., asserting one cause of action for professional negligence.
Plaintiffs allege Defendants negligently represented them in an employment
lawsuit brought by a former employee.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the complaint on
the ground that it fails to state sufficient facts. For a legal malpractice
cause of action, the plaintiff must plead: (1) the duty of the attorney to use
such skill, prudence and diligence as members of his or her profession commonly
possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) proximate causal
connection between the breach and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or
damage resulting from the attorney’s negligence. (Jocer Enterprises, Inc. v.
Price (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 559, 572.) Here, Plaintiffs allege,
 
Plaintiffs retained
defendants to represent plaintiffs initially in addressing an employee’s
termination and subsequently in defending plaintiffs in the employment matter
filed by the employee.
 
Defendants’ representation of
plaintiffs fell below the applicable standard of care. Among other things,
defendants failed to properly counsel plaintiffs in the proper way to address
the employee’s termination and/or other issues relating to federal and state
laws. As such, rather than a simple resolution of the matter prelitigation,
defendants’ negligent advice and actions led to the employee’s filing a
complaint against plaintiffs, resulting in extensive legal fees, costs and a
settlement of the employee’s claims.
 
As a result of defendants’
actions, plaintiffs sustained damages which include, but are not limited to,
attorneys fees and costs, as well as a settlement of the employee’s claims. The
amount over and above the limited fees that should have been incurred had
defendants not been negligent is a total of $350,000 or according to proof at
the time of trial.
 
(Compl. ¶¶ 4, 5,
6.)
 
These allegations are sufficient to
allege a claim for professional negligence. Defendants are apprised of the
facts alleged against them and this cause of action does not have a heightened
pleading standard. The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 