  Case Number:  21STCV08512    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Nehemia Kong’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
GRANTED.
 
Defendants to provide notice.
 
I.               
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made
by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)   
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant Nehemia
Kong (Defendant) moves for summary judgment against the claims alleged by Plaintiffs
Fermax Inc., Iris A. Lopez, and Leonardo M. Lopez (Defendants) for malicious
prosecution, wrongful use of civil proceedings, unfair competition, and
injunctive relief. Defendant argues that the claim for injunctive relief is not
an independent cause of action, and that the claim brought under Business &
Professions Code § 17200 (California’s Unfair Competition Law or UCL) is barred
by the litigation privilege of Civil Code § 47. (Motion at pp. 2–4.) Defendant
argues that the first and second causes of action, both sounding in malicious prosecution,
fail for lack of proof of Defendant’s malice or lack of probable cause in the
underlying action. (Motion at pp. 4–11.) 
 
Defendant’s
arguments as to the third and fourth causes of action under the UCL and for
injunctive relief are persuasive. “Injunctive
relief is a remedy, not a cause of action.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America,
N.A. (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719, 734.) Thus the fourth cause of action for
injunctive relief is merely a request for a particular type of remedy,
derivative of and dependent on Plaintiffs’ other claims. Nor can the UCL claim,
founded on allegations of filing meretricious ADA lawsuits, proceed against the
litigation privilege of Civil Code § 47: “Filing
civil litigation
is communicative
conduct protected
by the litigation privilege.” (Starr v. Ashbrook (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 999,
1027.) And the litigation privilege, where applicable, bars suits brought under
the UCL. (See People ex rel. Gallegos v. Pacific Lumber Co. (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 950, 962.)[1]
This leaves
Plaintiffs’ first and second causes of action for wrongful use of civil
proceedings and malicious prosecution, which are essentially the same claim for
malicious prosecution. “A
plaintiff must plead and prove three elements to establish the tort of
malicious prosecution: a lawsuit “(1) was commenced by or at the direction of
the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination favorable to the plaintiff;
(2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was initiated with malice.” (Nunez v. Pennisi (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th
861, 872–73.)
 
The
existence of probable cause “is a question of
law decided by the court.”(Maleti v. Wickers (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 181,
218.) 
[T]he probable cause element calls on the
trial court to make an objective determination of the ‘reasonableness’ of the
defendant's conduct, i.e., to determine whether, on the basis of the facts
known to the defendant, the institution of the prior action was legally
tenable. The court determines if a claim is tenable by inquiring whether any
reasonable attorney would have thought the claim tenable. Thus, as the high
court later explained, probable cause to bring an action does not depend upon
it being meritorious, as such, but upon it being arguably tenable, i.e., not so
completely lacking in apparent merit that no reasonable attorney would have
thought the claim tenable. [A litigant will lack probable cause for his action
either if he relies upon facts which he has no reasonable cause to believe to
be true, or if he seeks recovery upon a legal theory which is untenable under
the facts known to him.
(Maleti,
supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at p. 218, internal citations and
quotation marks omitted.) As another court has stated, “probable cause is
established by showing that the claim is legally sufficient and can be
substantiated by competent
evidence.”
(Paiva v. Nichols (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1007, 1019, internal quotation
marks and alterations omitted.)
 
The
present case arises from an underlying lawsuit filed against Plaintiffs in
federal court, Kong v. Lopez. (Murray Decl. Exh. 1.) The Complaint in
that case alleged violations of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and
the Unruh Civil Rights Act (UCRA). After a trial, the jury made three findings:
(1) that the restaurant “present[ed] an architectural barrier by failing to
offer a van-accessible parking space on February 9, 2018,” but also that
Defendant Kong did not “personally encounter the lack of a van-accessible
parking space” on that date, and did not “have personal knowledge of the lack
of the van-accessible parking space” and was not “deterred from visiting or
patronizing the Restaurant” on that date. (Potter Decl. Exh. 2.) Thus the
verdict was against Kong based on the lack of a personal encounter with the
barrier and for lack of personal knowledge of the barrier resulting in
deterrence.
 
Kong
here, now the Defendant, argues that his claims were supported by probable
cause, since he testified that he entered the parking lot and saw the absence
of a suitable space, evidenced by a photograph he took on the date in question.
Defendant argues that he did not have to prove that he was denied access to the
property, but only that he encountered a barrier thereon. (Motion at p. 6.)
Further, Defendant argues that his status as a “tester,” i.e. someone actively
looking for ADA violations with the intention of filing suit against offending
businesses, does not deprive him of standing to bring claims. (Motion at pp.
6–9.)
 
Defendant’s
argument is persuasive. Plaintiff’s testimony that he visited the parking lot
at issue, and was deterred from visiting the premises by the lack of
van-accessible parking, would have established a legally sufficient ADA claim if
believed by the trier of fact. Although Plaintiffs advance the adverse jury
finding as evidence of the absence of probable cause, the adverse finding on
its own is insufficient to support the absence of probable cause:
 
[L]itigants and attorneys who bring a legally
tenable action are not subject to liability for malicious prosecution simply
because a trier of fact disbelieves their version of conflicting evidence and
makes findings adverse to them. . . . [A] 
litigant or attorney who possesses competent evidence to substantiate a
legally cognizable claim for relief does not act tortiously by bringing the
claim, even if also aware of evidence that will weigh against the claim.
Plaintiffs and their attorneys are not required, on penalty of tort liability, to
attempt to predict how a trier of fact will weigh the competing evidence, or to
abandon their claim if they think it likely the evidence will ultimately weigh
against them. They have the right to bring a claim they think unlikely to
succeed, so long as it is arguably meritorious. 
(Plumley
v. Mockett (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1050.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant’s testimony is contradicted by responses to requests for
admission in this case, in which Defendant admitted that he was not denied admittance
to the facility and did not attempt to patronize the facility on February 8,
2018. (Murray Decl. Exh. 3.) The difficulty with this argument is that the
underlying litigation did not address attempted access on February 8, 2018 —
the verdict was addressed to the following day, February 9. (Potter Decl. Exh.
2.) Indeed, the same admissions that Plaintiffs invoke hereinclude a denial
that Plaintiff never attempted to patronize the facility after February 8,
2018, which is in line with the allegations in the underlying action. (Murray
Decl. Exh. 3.) There are thus no triable issues as to whether Defendant’s
claims in the underlying litigation were legally sufficient and supported by
competent evidence, and therefore no triable issues as to the existence of probable
cause. 
 
The same
facts demonstrate the absence of triable issues on the question of malice. 
 
The ‘malice’ element ... relates to the subjective
intent or purpose with which the defendant acted in initiating the prior
action. [Citation.] The motive of the defendant must have been something other
than that of bringing a perceived guilty person to justice or the satisfaction
in a civil action of some personal or financial purpose. [Citation.] The
plaintiff must plead and prove actual ill will or some improper
ulterior motive.” (Downey Venture v. LMI Ins. Co. (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 478, 494, 78 Cal.Rptr.2d 142; Albertson v. Raboff (1956)
46 Cal.2d 375, 383, 295 P.2d 405 [“The malice required in an action for
malicious prosecution is not limited to actual hostility or ill will toward
plaintiff but exists when the proceedings are instituted primarily for an
improper purpose.”].) Malice “may range anywhere from open hostility to
indifference. [Citations.] Malice may also be inferred from the facts
establishing lack of probable cause.
(Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 292.)
 
The sole basis for the finding of malice that Plaintiffs
advance here are the adverse jury determination and the off-topic discovery
from this action. (Opposition at pp. 15–16.) “Merely because the prior action
lacked legal tenability, as measured objectively, without more, would
not logically or reasonably permit the inference that such lack of probable
cause was accompanied by the actor's subjective malicious state of mind.” (Jarrow
Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 743.) 
The motion is therefore GRANTED.
 


