 Case Number:  21STCV33705    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Prada USA Corp.’s Motion for Summary Judgment or
Adjudication is GRANTED as to the second through fourth and sixth through
eleventh causes of action, and the prayer for punitive damages, and DENIED as
to the first and fifth causes of action for racial discrimination and failure
to prevent discrimination.
 
Defendant to provide Notice.
 
A.   
OBJECTIONS
Defendant objects to the
redacted W-2 forms submitted by Plaintiff as exhibits to the declaration of
Dominique Westmoreland. Since these exhibits are not material to the court’s
resolution of the motion, it is unnecessary to rule upon them. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (q).) 
II.            
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it is
contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made
by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant Prada USA,
Corp. (Defendant) moves for summary judgment on all of Plaintiff Lindsey
Sterling’s (Plaintiff) claims asserted in the First Amended Complaint (FAC). Defendant
targets Plaintiff’s claims for race and sex discrimination under FEHA on the
grounds that Plaintiff cannot show circumstances evidencing discrimination, or
overcome Defendant’s showing of a legitimate reason for the elimination of her
position. (Motion at pp. 15–21.) Defendant argues that the same facts support
dismissal of Plaintiff’s claims for retaliation and failure to prevent
discrimination, and further that Plaintiff’s cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress impermissibly targets ordinary personnel
management activity. (Motion at pp. 21–23.) Defendant argues that the seventh
cause of action for breach of contract fails because Plaintiff has acknowledged
that her employment was at-will, and further that she voluntarily resigned.
(Motion at p. 23.) And as to Plaintiff’s claim for defamation, Defendant argues
that the claim is time-barred, and further that no defamatory publication was
made. (Opposition at pp. 24–25.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot prevail
on her intentional misrepresentation claim because Defendant made no
misrepresentation to Plaintiff. (Motion at p. 26.) Defendant finally argues
that Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages is not supported by clear and
convincing evidence. (Motion at pp. 26–27.)
 
Plaintiff
in opposition argues that the present motion is untimely. (Motion at pp. 9–10.)
But Plaintiff calculates the time incorrectly. Code
of Civil Procedure § 437, subd. (a)(2) requires that “[n]otice of the motion
and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the action at
least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing.” And the time for service
by email is extended by an additional “two court days” under Code of Civil
Procedure § 1010.6, subd. (a)(3)(B). Plaintiff’s  calculation of timeliness is counted forward
from the date of service of the motion, rather than backward from the hearing
date as required by Code of Civil Procedure § 12c. Rather than counting 75 days
forward from the October 31 filing date and adding two court days
prospectively, counting backward from the January 16, 2024 hearing date yields
a service date of November 2 (a Thursday), with an additional two court days
yielding a filing date of October 31, upon which the motion was timely filed
and served.
It is rather Plaintiff’s opposition that is
procedurally defective in a number of respects. Plaintiff’s opposition was
served on January 3, 2024, when it was supposed to be filed and served on
January 2, 2024, fourteen days before the hearing date. (Code Civ. Proc. §
437c, subd. (b)(2).) The opposition is 29 pages long, exceeding the 20-page
limit set in CRC Rule 3.1113, subd. (d). And Plaintiff’s separate statement
repeatedly cites evidence that does not support the contention that Plaintiff
advances. The court considers the arguments and evidence submitted in support
of Plaintiff’s opposition in consideration of the relatively  “drastic” nature of the summary judgment
remedy (Carr v. City of Newport Beach (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 1199, 1203),
the limited nature of the evidence presented, and the lack of substance
contained in the opposition beyond page 20.
 
The facts
presented by the parties are these. Plaintiff was hired by Defendant at a Saks
Fifth Avenue location in Beverly Hills in 2013. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
of Undisputed Material Facts (PUMF) No. 1.) In 2015, Plaintiff was promoted to
the manager of the Men’s department in Defendant’s Beverly Center location.
(PUMF No. 4.)
 
Plaintiff
claims that her supervisor, Anna Hall, discriminated against her based on her
race between 2015 and 2017 at the Beverly Center. (PUMF No. 7.) Hall would
assign Plaintiff, an African-American woman, to work with Black customers,
telling her to “go handle your people.” (Westmoreland Decl. Exh. 1 at p. 145.)
Hall micromanaged her in a way that she did not manage her other employee in
the same position as Plaintiff. (Id. at p. 146.) Plaintiff testified
that Hall would talk down to Black customers, point out to Plaintiff that she
had a Black friend, and comment on Plaintiff’s hair. (Id. at pp.
146–147.) Plaintiff claims that Hall asked her if all her children were from
the same father. (PUMF No. 9.) Plaintiff claims she complained of Hall’s
behavior from 2015 through 2017. (PUMF No. 13; Id. at p. 216.) Plaintiff
believes that Hall retaliated against her by not permitting her to leave at a
pre-arranged time on Fridays. (PUMF No 11.)
 
In 2018,
Plaintiff was transferred or promoted to manager of the women’s shoe department
at Defendant’s Rodeo Drive location, and Hall left Defendant’s employ. (PUMF
No. 15, 17.) Plaintiff went on maternity leave, returning on April 16, 2019.
(Motion Exh. G at p. 58.) In 2019, the Rodeo Drive store took on several new
hires: Heidi Leung (Client Relations Manager), Marisa Cirami(Men’s Department
Manager), and Kristin Gerlick (Leather Goods and Accessories Manager). (PUMF
No. 24–26.) Although Plaintiff claims that these other managers made double her
salary, Defendant contends that these managers handled a higher volume of
business, and that manager salary is based on the volume of business the
manager is responsible for and their experience. (PUMF No. 27–29.) 
 
In
February 2020, the directors of the Rodeo store, acting under budget cut
directives from New York executives in response to the rising COVID19 pandemic,
decided to terminate Plaintiff’s position as manager of the women’s shoe
department. (PUMF No. 30–31.) The department had the lowest contribution at the
store, and the position did not exist outside the Rodeo Drive store. (PUMF No.
31.)[1]
Of the 19 employees selected for “headcount reduction” across North America,
nine were male and 16 were not African-American. (PUMF No. 33.) Defendant told
Plaintiff that her position was being eliminated and that her department was
being merged into one department for the entire first floor. (PUMF No. 41.)
Plaintiff was also offered a transfer back to the Beverly Center as manager of
the men’s department. (PUMF No. 42.) Plaintiff contends that her supervisors
told her to lie about the reason for her position’s elimination, and say that
she was leaving to spend more time with her kids. (Westmoreland Decl. Exh. 3 at
p. 434.) Plaintiff declined the transfer, took a severance package, and her
last day of work was March 13, 2020. (PUMF No. 52.)
 
I.               
FEHA CLAIMS
The above facts reveal triable
issues as to Plaintiff’s claim for racial discrimination. To establish a discrimination claim under
FEHA, an employee must prove the following elements: “(1) he was a member of a
protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he sought or was
performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse
employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available
job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Dinslage v. City and County of San Francisco
(2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 368, 378.) If the employer offers evidence of a
legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action, “the plaintiff bears the
burden of proving the employer's proffered reason was pretextual.” (Brundage
v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228, 236.)
 
In order to establish a
prima facie case of retaliation under this section, a plaintiff must show (1)
he or she engaged in a ‘protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the
employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between
the protected activity and the employer's action.
(Moore v. Regents of University of
California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244, internal quotation marks
omitted.)
From the above facts and authority, several conclusions
follow. First, Plaintiff’s claims for discrimination, retaliation, and
harassment arising from her experiences with Hall from 2015 to 2017 are
time-barred. At the time Hall’s alleged misconduct occurred, the limitations
period applicable to FEHA claims was one year. (Former Gov. Code, § 12960,
subd. (d), amended by statute eff. January 1, 2020.) Plaintiff’s claims as to
Hall had lapsed by the time the current three-year limitations period west into
effect. Although Plaintiff argues that the continuing violation doctrine
applies, Plaintiff must show that “defendant engaged in a pattern of reasonably
frequent and similar acts [that] may, in a given case, justify treating the
acts as an indivisible course of conduct actionable in its entirety,
notwithstanding that the conduct occurred partially outside and partially
inside the limitations period.” (Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 1104, 1124, internal quotation marks omitted.) The conduct that
Plaintiff alleges within the limitations period occurred at a different work
site, under different supervision, and was different in character from that
alleged with respect to Hall. It was not a continuing pattern of reasonably
frequent and similar acts. Although Plaintiff contends that Hall wrote her a
negative performance review that impacted her pay and promotion opportunities
at the Rodeo Drive store, Plaintiff presents no evidence to support this claim
other than the performance review itself. (Stirling Decl. Exh. 6.) Moreover,
even if the performance review had contributed to reduced pay within the
limitations period, Plaintiff would only be able to bring claims based on
conduct within the limitations period. (See Carroll v. City and County of
San Francisco (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 805, 815.) Thus Plaintiff may not
maintain claims arising from Hall’s alleged misconduct.
However, triable issues remain as to
Plaintiff’s claim for racial discrimination. First, Defendant has not carried
its burden to establish the absence of triable issues of fact on Plaintiff’s
claims of unequal payment. Defendant advances only the argument that managers
at the Rodeo store are paid based on several factors, including “the volume of
business they are responsible for and their experience.” (Marraffa Decl. ¶
9.)  Yet Defendant appears to acknowledge
that the other managers at the Rodeo store, none of whom were African-American,
were less experienced than Plaintiff, or at least joined Defendant’s team at a
later date than she did. (Marraffa Decl. ¶¶ 6–8.) Although Plaintiff
acknowledged that other managers handled a higher volume of business, she also
testified that they earned almost double what she earned. (Jatana Decl. Exh. A
at pp. 78–80.) This amount, Plaintiff also testified had not changed since her
starting position as an hourly employee at Saks Fifth Avenue. (Jatana Decl.
Exh. 9 at pp. 195–196.) 
Nor does Defendant’s proffered reason
for the elimination of Plaintiff’s position foreclose the existence of triable
issues of fact as to potential discriminatory motive. Plaintiff was the manager
of the women’s shoes department. Although Defendant notes that other
stores had no managers of women’s shoe departments, it does not claim that its
other stores did not sell women’s shoes, or that the Rodeo store ceased to sell
them upon the elimination of Plaintiff’s department. Indeed, what occurred was
less an “elimination” of the shoe department than its merger into the larger
department for leather goods and handbags, overseen by Kristin Gerlick, which
then became one department encompassing the entire first floor of the store.
(PUMF No. 54.) But this “merger” framing remains problematic for Defendant. It
explains why a merger of departments occurred, not why the more-senior, lower-paid
Black employee lost out in favor of a white employee with less seniority and a
bigger salary.
These
same facts, however, do not support Plaintiff’s sex discrimination or
retaliation claims,. Plaintiff’s higher-paid co-managers included women, and
her departmental responsibilities were transferred to a woman. Nor is there any
causal connection between Plaintiff’s engagement in protected activity and the
eventual elimination of her position. The protected activity that Plaintiff
identified in deposition consisted of complaints about Hall, which occurred
long before she left Defendant, and the elimination of her position itself,
which could not have provoked further retaliatory action after it provoked her
departure. 
The
motion is therefore DENIED as to the first and fifth causes of action for
racial discrimination and failure to prevent discrimination, and is GRANTED as
to the second and third causes of action for sex discrimination and
retaliation.
II.  
DEFAMATION
Plaintiff’s defamation claim is also untimely. A defamation
claim has a one-year limitations period. (Code Civ. Proc. § 340, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff’s claim, arising from the false reasons offered to her co-workers for
her termination, accrued by her last day of work on March 13, 2020, and she
filed the Complaint in this action on September 13, 2021, more than one year
later. Even incorporating, as Plaintiff does in opposition, the 180-day COVID
tolling period of the Judicial Council’s Emergency Rule 9, this would extend
the time for filing to September 9, 2021. (Opposition at p. 25.) The motion is
therefore GRANTED as to the eighth cause of action for defamation and
self-defamation.
III.          
INTENTIONAL
INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS
Plaintiff’s claim for intentional infliction of emotional
distress is also defective. In the absence of time-barred claims related to
Hall’s alleged misconduct, the basis for Plaintiff’s claimed emotional distress
is her termination and alleged inequality of pay — i.e. personnel management
activity, which is not outrageous conduct for the purpose of the IIED tort as a
matter of law. (Janken v. GM Hughes
Electronics (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 80.) The motion is therefore GRANTED
as to the sixth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress. 
IV.          
CONSTRUCTIVE
DISCHARGE
Plaintiff’s claim for wrongful
constructive discharge is also unsupported. An employee bringing a claim for
constructive discharge must prove “that the employer either intentionally
created or knowingly permitted working conditions that were so intolerable or
aggravated at the time of the employee's resignation that a reasonable employer
would realize that a reasonable person in the employee's position would be
compelled to resign.” (Simers v. Los Angeles Times Communications, LLC
(2018) 18 Cal.App.5th 1248, 1269.) “[A] poor performance rating or a demotion,
even when accompanied by reduction in pay, does not by itself trigger a constructive discharge.”
(Id. at p. 1270.) Here, although Plaintiff’s position as manager at the
Rodeo location was terminated, she was offered a transfer to the Beverly
Center, and elected to resign. Although Plaintiff cites her experience of PTSD following
her experience with Hall at the Beverly Center, “the proper focus [in a
constructive discharge inquiry] is on the working conditions themselves, not on
the plaintiff's subjective
reaction to those conditions.” (Gibson v. Aro Corp. (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th
1628, 1636.) Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED as to fourth cause of action
for constructive discharge.
V.            
BREACH OF
CONTRACT
The seventh cause of action for breach of contract also
fails. This claim is based on the allegation that Plaintiff had an express
agreement with Defendant that the latter would not terminate Plaintiff except
for good cause. (Complaint ¶ 122.) However, Defendant has presented express
written agreements, in the form of Plaintiff’s employment application and
conditional promise of employment, that expressly state the employment
relationship is at-will. (Stirling Depo. Exhs. 1, 2.) Plaintiff in opposition
cites only to an inapplicable interrogatory response and portions of her
deposition transcript where she describes the circumstances surrounding her
execution of the severance agreement. (Westmoreland Decl. Exh. 2 at pp. 416,
431–434.) The motion is therefore GRANTED as to the fifth cause of action for
breach of contract.
VI.          
NEGLIGENCE
Plaintiff’s ninth cause of action for negligence per se is
also preempted by statute. The exclusivity provision of California’s worker’s
compensation law bars tort causes of action for injuries arising out of and in
the course of employment and confines employee’s remedies to worker’s
compensation benefits. (Jimenez v. Mrs. Gooch's Natural Food Markets, Inc.
(2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 645, 655.) Plaintiff argues that an exception applies to
assault committed against an employee which is ratified by an employer, but
identifies no assault which took place. (Opposition at p. 27.) The motion is
therefore GRANTED as to the ninth cause of action for negligence per se.
VII.       
FRAUD
The eleventh cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation is also infirm. A claim of fraud requires as an element the
knowingly false misrepresentation of a material fact.(See
Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 638.) Plaintiff here alleges that the misrepresentation at issue
was Defendant’s false representation that Plaintiff’s position had been
terminated. (FAC ¶¶ 148–149.) However, this was not a misrepresentation;
Plaintiff’s position actually was terminated. (PUMF No. 34.) Plaintiff in
opposition does not attempt to argue the contrary, and instead advances a new
argument, not included in the pleadings, related to alleged misrepresentations
of how Plaintiff would be compensated. (Opposition at p. 28.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure of
materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National
Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, internal quotation marks and
citations omitted.) Defendant has shown the absence of triable issues as to the
claim that Plaintiff actually alleges, and the motion is GRANTED as to this
claim. 
VIII.      PUNITIVE DAMAGES
Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a
defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code §
3294.) The terms are defined as:
“Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
Punitive damages must ultimately be proven by clear
and convincing evidence, i.e. evidence “so
clear as to leave no substantial doubt and sufficiently strong to command the
unhesitating assent of every reasonable mind.” (Butte Fire Cases (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158.) A plaintiff need not meet this burden at summary
judgment, but “where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear
and convincing evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into
account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to
prevail on a claim for punitive
damages,
it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary
standard.” (Ibid.) 
Here, no triable issues exist as to Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive damages. While triable issues exist as to Plaintiff’s racial
discrimination claim, no triable issues exist as to Plaintiff’s claims for
constructive discharge or intentional infliction of emotional distress. The
decision to eliminate Plaintiff’s position was prompted by the economic impact
of the COVID19 pandemic, and Plaintiff was given an opportunity for transfer.
There are no triable issues as to whether Defendant acted despicably or with
conscious disregard to Plaintiff’s rights.
The motion is therefore GRANTED as to the prayer for
punitive damages. 
 


