 Case Number:  23GDCV00081    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  E  
Case Name: ROBERTO CARLOS ALVAREZ, an individual, v. SUBARU OF
AMERICA, INC., a New Jersey Corporation, and DOES 1-10, inclusive
 
Hearing Date: 10/27/2023 –
2:00pm
Case No:   23GDCV00081
Trial Date: 10/07/2024
 
[DEFENDANT’S
MSJ/MSA] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
 
Defendant, Subaru of America, Inc.
(SOA or Defendant) will and hereby does move the Court, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 473c, for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication of the following issues:
 
(1) Plaintiff ‘s first cause of
action for violation of Song-Beverly Act -- breach of express warranty is
without merit because Plaintiff bought a used vehicle from a non-SOA authorized
dealership, SOA was not involved in the sale of the subject vehicle to
Plaintiff, and SOA did not issue any express warranties at the time of sale; 
 
(2) Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for violation of Song-Beverly Act -- breach of implied warranty is
without merit Plaintiff bought a used vehicle from a non-SOA authorized
dealership, SOA was not involved in the sale of the subject vehicle to Plaintiff,
and any implied warranty that accompanied the sale of the subject vehicle
flowed from the non-SOA selling dealer to Plaintiff; and 
 
(3) Plaintiff’s third cause of
action for violation of Song-Beverly Act section 1793.2 (b) is without merit
because Plaintiff bought a used vehicle from a non-SOA authorized dealership,
SOA was not involved in the sale of the subject vehicle to Plaintiff, and SOA
did not issue any express warranties at the time of sale.
 
For the reasons set out below, the
Court’s tentative is to GRANT the Defendant’s motion as to all causes of action.
 
As
far as the Court is aware, the Plaintiff has failed to file any opposition
papers here. 
 
Nor
has Plaintiff moved to request additional time to oppose the motion. (See
CCP § 437c(h).)
 
Failure
to file an opposition, including affidavits or declarations, not less than 14
days before the hearing on a motion for summary judgment “may constitute a
sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.” (§
437c(b)(3).)
 
PROCEDURAL
 
Moving Party: Defendant, Subaru of America, Inc. (SOA or
Defendant)
 
Responding Party: Plaintiff, Roberto Carlos Alvarez
 
Moving Papers: Notice; Memorandum; Separate Statement;
Sciolla Declaration; Proposed Order; Evidence in Support of MSJ/MSA; Haroutunian
Declaration
 
Opposing Papers: No Opposition Submitted by Plaintiff
 
Reply Papers: No Reply Submitted by Defendant
 
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013,
1013(a)):Ok
 
75/80 Days


Under 437c(2), notice of
the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the
action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing. If the notice is
served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by 5
days if the place of address is within the State of California. If the notice
is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method of
delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice
shall be increased by two court days. (CCP §437c(a)(2).)
 
Here, the moving papers
are timely.
 
BACKGROUND

Plaintiff, Roberto Carlos Alvarez,
filed a Complaint on 01/17/2023 alleging three causes of action: (1) Violation
of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3) Violation of the Song-Beverly Act
Section 1793.2.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on July 8,
2021, Plaintiff purchased a 2020 Subaru WRX. (Compl. ¶8.) Plaintiff alleges
that these causes of action arise out of warranty and repair obligations of
Subaru of America, Inc. in connection with the vehicle Plaintiff purchased and
for which SOA issued a written warranty. (Id.) Plaintiff alleges that
the warranty was not issued by the selling dealership. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that the Subject
Vehicle was delivered to Plaintiff with serious defects and nonconformities to
warranty and developed other serious defects and nonconformities to warranty
including, but not limited to, engine, electrical, emission, and transmission
system defects. (Comply. ¶10.)
 
As to any material facts in dispute,
there is no apparent dispute: The Plaintiff failed to file any papers in
opposition to this motion.
 
Defendant’s
UMF 1 states that Plaintiff bought a used 2020 Subaru WRX from CarMax Auto
Superstores California, LLC on July 8, 2021. (UMF 1.) 
 
UMF
2 states that  CarMax Auto Superstores
California, LLC (“CarMax”) is an independent third-party dealer, not owned by
SOA. SOA has no business relationship with CarMax Auto Superstores California,
LLC. They are separate and independent business entities. (UMF 2.)  
 
UMF
3 states that “SOA is a distributor and warrantor of new Subaru vehicles.  It does not manufacture Subaru vehicles. It
did not make any used vehicle warranties in connection with the sale of the
vehicle to Plaintiff as a used vehicle by CarMax . . . .” (UMF 3.)
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
Code of Civil Procedure § 437c,
subdivision (a) provides that “a party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” The motion shall be
granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to
any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) In determining if the papers show
that there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall
consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to
which objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be
granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence
if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as
to any material fact. (Id.)
 
As to each claim as
framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element,
or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“A defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once
the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
plaintiff or cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials
of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP
§437c(p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial
responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
ANALYSIS


Preliminary Matter
Defendant
relies on Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (Rodriguez)
for the proposition that the Song-Beverly does not apply to sales of used
vehicles with some balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty. Defendant
notes that, although Rodriguez is pending review before the Supreme
Court, it is cited for its persuasive value, and Defendant cited CRC Rule
8.1115(e)(1).
In
Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, the California Supreme Court, in considering
the rule of stare decisis, observed:
 
“Of course, the rule under discussion has no
application where there is more than one appellate court decision, and such
appellate decisions are in conflict. In such a situation, the court exercising
inferior jurisdiction can and must make a choice between the conflicting
decisions.”
 
Auto
Equity Sales, at 456. 
 
First Cause of Action – Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of
Express Warranty


Defendant
argues that Plaintiff ‘s first cause of action for violation of Song-Beverly
Act -- breach of express warranty is without merit because Plaintiff bought a
used vehicle from a non-SOA authorized dealership, SOA was not involved in the
sale of the subject vehicle to Plaintiff, and SOA did not issue any express
warranties at the time of sale.
 
Defendant
also argues that this cause of action is without merit because Song-Beverly
does not apply to sales of used vehicles with some balance remaining on the New
Vehicle Limited Warranty. Or to phrase it differently, Defendant argues that
SOA is not liable for breach of express warranty under Song-Beverly because
Plaintiff’s vehicle is not a “new motor vehicle” under Song-Beverly.
 
Preliminary matters that apply to all causes of action
 
Although
Defendant’s separate statement doesn’t mention whether Plaintiff’s vehicle has
a remaining balance on the new vehicle warranty, Defendant appears to concede
this many times throughout its motion.  For
example, Defendant states, “Like Plaintiff here, the plaintiffs in Rodriguez
bought a used vehicle with a balance remaining on the new vehicle
warranty.” (Def. Mot. p. 2.) Further, Defendant states, “SOA’s New Vehicle
Limited Warranty covers new motor vehicles with defects in materials or
workmanship, and lasts for 36-months or 36,000-miles, whichever comes first.
Here, Plaintiff’s vehicle was purchased from a CarMax, not a Subaru dealer,
with approximately 6,300 miles on the odometer.” (Def. Mot. p. 4.) 
 
Further,
it appears that Defendant is implying that the Plaintiff had remaining protection
on the new vehicle limited warranty when Defendant stated in its motion, “Instead
it [New Vehicle Limited Warranty] transferred to Plaintiff by operation of law
along with title to the vehicle.” (Def. Mot. p.5.)
 
Additionally,
the Court notes that in Defendant’s Separate Statement, Defendant states, “SOA
is a distributor and warrantor of new Subaru vehicles. It does not
manufacture Subaru vehicles. It did not make any used vehicle
warranties in connection with the sale of the vehicle to Plaintiff as a used
vehicle by CarMax Auto Superstores California, LLC.” (UMF 3, Sciolla Decl.
¶3,7, 8; emphasis added.) 
 
Discussion

Defendant argues that SAO is not liable for
breach of express warranty because Plaintiff’s vehicle is not a “new motor
vehicle” under the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Defendant
relies on the Fourth District Court of Appeal’s 2022 decision in Rodriguez
v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209 (rev. granted). 
 
The
Court finds that Defendant has met its burden in establishing that it is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law in light of a consideration of Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112 and Rodriguez,
which are potentially seen as in conflict with each other.  
 
The
Court discusses both decisions and their applicability below.
 
Again,
the Plaintiff failed to file any opposition to this motion, so the Court does
not have the benefit of the Defendant’s view of these cases when formulating
this tentative decision.
 
In Rodriguez,
the court of appeal affirmed the trial court’s granting of summary judgment in
favor of a manufacturer of a truck which plaintiffs had purchased from a used
car dealership, after the manufacturer’s basic warranty had expired, but when a
limited powertrain warranty had not.
 
The
Court framed the issue and its conclusion as follows:
 
The
sole issue in this case is whether the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer's new car warranty” covers sales of previously owned vehicles
with some balance remaining on the manufacturer's express warranty. We conclude
it does not and 
that
the phrase functions instead as a catchall for sales of essentially new
vehicles where the applicable warranty was issued with the
sale. We therefore affirm.
 
(Rodriguez
at 215, italics in original.)
 
The Court considered the plain language
of the statute and concluded that the definition of “new motor vehicle” does
not extend to used vehicles, other than a narrow class of vehicles – demonstrators
and dealer-owned vehicles comprise a narrow category of basically new vehicles
because they have never been previously sold to a consumer and they come with
full express warranties. (Rodriguez at 220.) The conclusion was based on
an analysis of the language and the nature of demonstrator vehicles:
 
Plaintiffs
argue the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car
warranty” describes their truck because it still had a balance remaining on an
express warranty from the manufacturer—the limited powertrain warranty—when
Pacific Auto Center sold it to them. FCA argues the phrase qualifies
dealer-owned cars and demonstrators and thus refers to vehicles that, like
those two types of vehicles, have not been previously sold and are sold with
new or full warranties. FCA argues plaintiffs' interpretation is at odds with
the rest of the Act's definition of “new motor vehicles.” While *220 we
acknowledge that in isolation the phrase “other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” could arguably refer to any car
sold with a manufacturer's warranty still in force, we agree with FCA that
context clearly requires a narrower interpretation. Context is a fundamental
aspect of statutory interpretation, and here it's key to discerning the
phrase's meaning. (Kirzhner, supra, 9 Cal.5th at p. 972, 266 Cal.Rptr.3d
346, 470 P.3d 56 [“We do not consider statutory language in isolation;
instead, we examine the entire statute to construe the words in context”].)
 
To
begin with, the phrase appears in a definition of new motor
vehicles. That fact alone strongly suggests the Legislature did not intend
the phrase to refer to used (i.e., previously sold) vehicles. But,
more importantly, the phrase is preceded by “a dealer-owned vehicle and
demonstrator,” which comprise a specific and narrow class of
vehicles. Though they have not been previously sold to a consumer,
demonstrators and dealer-owned cars are used in the sense that
they will have been driven for various purposes before sale. As such, they will
necessarily have more miles on their odometers than the typical vehicle in a
dealer's new car inventory. What makes these vehicles unique is that even
though they aren't technically new, manufacturers (or their dealer-representatives)
treat them as such upon sale by providing the same type of manufacturer's
warranty that accompany new cars.
 
In
other words, demonstrators and dealer-owned vehicles comprise a narrow category
of basically new vehicles—they have never been previously sold
to a consumer and they come with full express warranties. Given this
context, we think the most natural interpretation of the phrase “other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” is that it, too, refers to
vehicles that have never been previously sold to a consumer and come with full
express warranties.
 
(Rodriguez
at 219-220.)
 
The
Court also addressed whether a buyer who purchases a used car with only a few
miles remaining on the original warranty would be entitled to the same
protection as the original buyer. (Rodriguez at 221.)
 
The
Court further considered the Act as a whole, and other references to used or
previously owned products:
 
Our
examination of the entire Act yields two additional reasons for concluding
the phrase doesn't cover subsequent sales of vehicles with unexpired manufacturer's
warranties. First, the Act defines “express warranty” as any “written
statement arising out of a sale to the consumer of a consumer
good pursuant to which the manufacturer ... undertakes to preserve or maintain
the utility or performance of the consumer good ....” (§ 1791.2, subd. (a)(1),
italics added.) In plaintiffs' case, the limited powertrain warranty did not
“aris[e] out of” the sale, it transferred to plaintiffs by operation of law
along with title to the truck. The warranty arose from the
initial sale to the truck's first buyer.
 
Second,
as part of the Motor Vehicle Warranty Adjustment Programs (§§ 1795.90-1795.93),
the Act requires manufacturers to notify all “consumers” of any warranty
adjustments regarding safety or emissions-related recalls, and defines
“consumer” as “any person to whom the motor vehicle is transferred during
the duration of an express warranty.” (§ 1795.90, subd. (a), italics added.)
This definition of “consumer” indicates the Legislature is aware of the
distinction between warranties that arise out of a sale and those that transfer
to subsequent purchasers as a result of a sale. The lack of reference to
transferred warranties in the definition of “new motor vehicle” suggests the
Legislature made a deliberate choice not to include sales of used vehicles
accompanied by unexpired express warranties.
 
Based
on all of these textual reasons, we conclude the phrase “other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” unambiguously refers to cars that
come with a new or full express warranty. But even if this meaning weren't
readily apparent from the statute, the Act's legislative history would convince
us the phrase refers to vehicles sold with full warranties.
 
(Rodriguez
at 222.)
 
The Court ultimately concluded as follows:
 
Having
examined the statutory provision, its place within the Act as a whole,
and its legislative history, we conclude the phrase “other motor vehicles
sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty” refers to cars sold with a full
warranty, not to previously sold cars accompanied by some balance of the
original warranty. We therefore conclude the trial judge was correct to
conclude plaintiffs' truck does not meet the definition of “new motor vehicle”
and to dismiss their claim against FCA as a result.
 
(Rodriguez
at 225.)
 
Here,
Defendant argues, “[l]ike Plaintiff here, the plaintiffs in Rodriguez
bought a used vehicle with a balance remaining on the new vehicle warranty.”
(Def. Mot. p.2.) Therefore, Defendant argues, Plaintiff’s vehicle is not a “new
motor vehicle” under the Act. 
 
In
Jensen, the Court affirmed in part a judgment on a jury verdict in a
suit for violation of the Song-Beverly Act in favor of a lessor of a vehicle
which was obtained as a vehicle represented as a demonstrator from a
dealership, which vehicle was subject to defendant
manufacturer’s new car warranty, the court of appeal noting that “[t]he
principal issue in BMW’s appeal is whether Jensen’s vehicle is a ‘new motor
vehicle’ within the meaning of section 1793.22, subdivision (e)(2).”  (Jensen, at 119.)
 
The
Court set forth the pertinent language of the section as follows:
 
Section
1793.22, subdivision (e)(2), defines a “new motor vehicle” as “a new motor
vehicle which is used or bought for use primarily for personal, *122 family,
or household purposes. ‘New motor vehicle’ includes the chassis,
chassis cab, and that portion of a motor home devoted to its propulsion, but
does not include any portion designed, used, or maintained primarily for human
habitation, a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor
vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty but does not
include a motorcycle or a motor vehicle which is not registered under the
Vehicle Code because it is to be operated or used exclusively off the highways.
A ‘demonstrator’ is a vehicle assigned by a dealer for the purpose of
demonstrating qualities and characteristics common to vehicles of the same or
similar model and type.” 
 
(Jensen
at 121-122, italics in original.)
 
The
Court considered the plain language of the statute and various canons of
statutory interpretation, and concluded as follows:
 
We
conclude the words of section 1793.22 are reasonably free from
ambiguity and cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer's new
motor vehicle warranty are included within its definition of “new motor
vehicle.” The use of the word “or” in the statute indicates “demonstrator”
and “other motor vehicle” are intended as alternative or separate categories of
“new motor vehicle” if they are “sold with a manufacturer's new car
warranty.” (White v. County of Sacramento (1982) 31 Cal.3d
676, 680, 183 Cal.Rptr. 520, 646 P.2d 191.) 
 
(Jensen,
at 123.)
 
The
Court also rejected various arguments that the trial court’s interpretation of
the Act’s definition of “new motor vehicle” created a conflict with general
definitions in the Vehicle Code and in connection with consumer goods, applying
the more specific definition as the one governing the more general
definitions.  (Jensen, at 126.)  
 
The
Court further reasoned that the interpretation of the definition to include
cars sold with a balance remaining on the new motor vehicle warranty was
consistent with the Act’s purposes, and with reason, practicality, and common
sense:
 
Our
conclusion that section 1793.22 includes cars sold with a balance
remaining on the new motor vehicle warranty is consistent with the Act's
purpose as a remedial measure. (Kwan v. Mercedes–Benz of North America,
Inc. (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 184, 28 Cal.Rptr.2d 371.) It is
also consistent with the Department of Consumer Affairs' regulations which
interpret the Act to protect “any individual to whom the vehicle is transferred
during the duration of a written warranty.” (Cal.Code Regs., tit. 16, § 3396.1,
subd. (g).)
 
Addressing
the final step in statutory construction which applies reason, practicality,
and common sense to the language in question (Halbert's Lumber, Inc. v.
Lucky Stores, Inc., supra, 6 Cal.App.4th at p. 1239, 8 Cal.Rptr.2d
298), BMW argues the Legislature could not have intended to grant
protection to every used car with a balance remaining on the new car warranty
because of the economic impact on consumers. Specifically BMW maintains “[t]he
subsequent owner would have the benefit of all of Song–Beverly's generous
presumptions, without having undertaken the same risks as the purchaser
of  a really new car. Further, while the subsequent (perhaps third
or fourth in the line of owners) will receive the benefit of these
presumptions, the manufacturer will find it tremendously more difficult to
raise defenses under Song–Beverly—such as the defense that the owner used the
vehicle unreasonably—because it will be harder to trace multiple owners and
determine their use or abuse of the vehicle.” BMW contends the increased costs
will result in higher car prices or the shortening of warranties to the
statutory minimum. It argues “[t]hese alternatives would inevitably result in a
manifest decline in trade and commerce in this state, creating great
inconvenience for consumers. It is impossible that the legislature intended
this highly intractable result.”6 
 
We
acknowledge manufacturers such as BMW incur costs in honoring express
warranties to service and repair the cars they sell in this state. We also
presume the decision to offer a warranty of a specified length involves
weighing the benefit of increased sales against the cost of providing service
and repair for the effective duration of the warranty. It may be the equation
factors in the impact of resale during the warranty period. However, as noted
by BMW, manufacturers are free to change the terms of express warranties they
offer. The Act merely reflects the Legislature's intent to make car
manufacturers live up to their express warranties, whatever the duration of
coverage.
 
(Jensen,
at 126-127, footnote 6 omitted.)
 
Because
Plaintiff failed to file an Opposition, there is no dispute as to the facts as
set out in the Defendant’s motion and supporting papers.
 
Again,
the Court has carefully reviewed both Jensen and Rodriguez, as
well as the language of the statutory provision, and the competing treatment in
each decision of the overall provisions in consumer-protection law. 
 
The
Court has also considered the consumer-protection focus of the Jensen
court, and its conclusion that its definition is consistent with the
Song-Beverly Act’s purpose as a remedial measure.  
 
The
facts here are distinguishable from Jensen: The car was not purchased
from a dealer or manufacturer; it was purchased used from CarMax, a third-party
vendor.  Unlike in Jensen, the
undisputed facts demonstrate that plaintiff was not given a new, full warranty
with the purchase.  Instead, the
plaintiff would apparently rely on the balance of a warranty on a car that was
two years old with approximately 6,300 miles on the odometer.
 
In
these circumstances, the Court finds that the facts in this case are closer to Rodriguez,
and that the vehicle here does not fall within the protections of the Act.
 
TENTATIVE RULING FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION


Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment or in the alternative summary adjudication to the
first cause of action is GRANTED. 
 
Second Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Warranty


In
relevant part, Defendant argues:
 
Civil
Code section 1795.5 only imposes liability for breach of the implied warranty
in connection with the sale or lease of a used vehicle on the seller of a used
vehicle, instead of on the original distributor when the car was new.
Specifically, Section 1795.5 only imposes implied warranty liability on “the
distributor or retail seller making express warranties with respect to used
consumer goods (and not the original manufacturer, distributor, or retail
seller making express warranties with respect to such goods when new).” Thus, “only
distributors or sellers of used goods—not manufacturers of new goods—have
implied warranty obligations in the sale of used goods.” (Ruiz Nunez v. FCA US,
LLC (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 385, 399; see also Foulkrod v. Ford Motor Co. (C.D.
Cal. 2019) 2019 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 143252 at *10-12 [“A used vehicle is indeed
covered under the Act with regards to an implied warranty, as long as it was
also accompanied by an express warranty at the time of purchase. The party
responsible for that implied warranty, however, is not the original
manufacturer, but rather the third-party distributor or retailer.” (citations
omitted)]; In re MyFord Touch Consumer Litig. (N.D. Cal. 2018) 291 F.Supp.3d
936, 950 [Section 1795.5 “does not create additional obligations on a
manufacturer vis-à-vis used car purchasers; rather, it simply states that the
retailer or distributor is also subject to whatever obligations already apply
to the manufacturer.”]; Victorino v. FCA US LLC. (S.D. Cal. 2018) 326 F.R.D.
282, 300-01 [Section 1795.5 does not impose implied warranty liability on
manufacturer for used vehicle sales made by its authorized dealerships, even
when the manufacturer’s original new vehicle limited warranty is still in
effect].)
 
The
case of Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, (Kiluk)
illustrates the difference between new and used vehicle warranties. Unlike this
case, MercedesBenz USA, LLC (MBUSA) issued a used vehicle warranty -- a
certified preowned warranty -- in addition to its already existing new vehicle
warranty, in connection with the sale of the vehicle. (Id., at 336-337.)
 
(Def.
Mot. p. 6-7.)
 
Defendant’s
notice of motion as to the second cause of action stated, “Plaintiff’s second
cause of action for violation of Song-Beverly Act -- breach of implied warranty
is without merit Plaintiff bought a used vehicle from a non-SOA authorized
dealership, SOA was not involved in the sale of the subject vehicle to
Plaintiff, and any implied warranty that accompanied the sale of the subject
vehicle flowed from the non-SOA selling dealer to Plaintiff.”
 
Given
the undisputed facts and the Court’s ruling on the motion as to the first cause
of action, it appears to follow that the Court must grant the motion as to the
second cause of action as well.
 
TENTATIVE RULING – Second Cause of action – breach of
implied warranty
 
Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, to the
second cause of action is GRANTED.
 
TENTATIVE RULING THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION


For
reasons similar to the reasons set out regarding the second cause of action, Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, as to
the third cause of action is GRANTED.
 
 
 