 Case Number:  22GDCV00594    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  E Case Name: BZD LABS, LLC, a
California Limited Liability Company, v. HCMM, Corp. dba GLENMED BILLING
SERVICES, Inc., and DOES 1-10
 
Case No: 22GDCV00594
Hearing Date: 10/27/2023 – 10:00am
Trial Date: 03/04/2025
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER]
I.                  
RELIEF REQUESTED


Defendant,
HCMM dba GlenMed Billing Services, Inc. (Defendant or GlenMed), demurs to the
following causes of action in the Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on the
following grounds:
 
1.
The Third Cause of Action for breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing
as it is fatally uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause
of action and is therefore subject to demurrer under California Code of Civil
Procedure sections 430.10(e)&(f).
 
2.
The Fourth Cause of Action for intentional misrepresentation as it is fatally
uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and is
therefore subject to demurrer under California Code of Civil Procedure sections
430.10(e)&(f).
 
3.
The fifth Cause of Action for fraudulent inducement as it is fatally uncertain
and fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and is therefore
subject to demurrer under California Code of Civil Procedure sections
430.10(e)&(f).
 
4.
The sixth Cause of Action for fraudulent concealment as it is fatally uncertain
and fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and is therefore
subject to demurrer under California Code of Civil Procedure sections
430.10(e)&(f).
 
5.
The seventh Cause of Action for negligent misrepresentation as it is fatally
uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and is
therefore subject to demurrer under California Code of Civil Procedure sections
430.10(e)&(f).
 
6.
The eleventh Cause of Action for Unfair Competition as it is fatally uncertain
and fails to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and is therefore
subject to demurrer under California Code of Civil Procedure sections
430.10(e)&(f).
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, HCMM dba
GlenMed Billing Services, Inc. (Defendant or GlenMed)
Responding Party: Plaintiff, BZD Labs, LLC
Moving Papers: Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure to sufficiently
meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here, Defendant’s
counsel, Rosely George, alleges that a meet and confer took place, but an
agreement could not be reached. (George Decl. ¶¶3-5.)
II.               
BACKGROUND


On
September 9, 2022, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Defendant alleging the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Written Contract, (2) Promissory
Estoppel, (3) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Fraud –
Intentional Misrepresentation, (5) Fraudulent Inducement, (6) Fraudulent
Concealment, (7) Negligent Misrepresentation, (8) Negligence, (9) Conversion,
(10) Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, and (11) Unlawful and Unfair Business
Practices in Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200.
This
case arises out of Plaintiff, BZD, alleging it entered into a written services
agreement with Defendant, GlenMed, for GlenMed to provide BZD professional
services in connection with medical billing, processing and collection, and
billing compliance consulting in exchange for commission-based payment of
certain fees. BZD alleges it discovered that GlenMed was failing to competently
perform and adequately perform its duties in violation of the Agreement.
On
12/9/2022, the Court ruled on Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike. The
Court overruled the demurrer as to the first cause of action (breach of written
contract), overruled the demurrer as to the second cause of action (promissory
estoppel), sustained the demurrer with leave to amend as to the third cause of
action (breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing), and sustained the
demurrer with leave to amend as to the fourth (fraud intentional
misrepresentation), fifth (fraudulent inducement), sixth (fraudulent
concealment), seventh (negligent misrepresentation), and eleventh (unlawful and
unfair business practices in violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200)
causes of action. 
On
01/09/2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. 
On
05/11/2023, the parties filed a signed stipulation to file a SAC.
On
06/16/2023, Plaintiff filed a SAC alleging the following causes of action: (1)
Breach of Written Contract, (2) Promissory Estoppel, (3) Breach of Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation, (5)
Fraudulent Inducement, (6) Fraudulent Concealment, (7) Negligent
Misrepresentation, (8) Negligence, (9) Conversion, (10) Misappropriation of
Trade Secrets, and (11) Unlawful and Unfair Business Practices in Violation of
Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code §17200.
The
instant demurrer pertains to the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and
eleventh causes of action in the SAC.
III.            
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS


Demurrer – Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) 
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. 
(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only
where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially
noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30,
430.70.)  The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally, it is an abuse of
discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)

Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored
and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot
reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against
him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague,
“ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
IV.            
ANALYSIS


A.    Third
Cause of Action – Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing


With respect to the third cause of action, the SAC
alleges as follows:
32. BZD re-alleges
the allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 31, inclusive, and
incorporates these paragraphs herein by this reference as though fully set
forth.
33. On February 7, 2022, BZD and GlenMed entered into a written Services
Agreement. 
34. Every contract in California includes an implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, which provides that no contracting party will do anything to
deprive any other party of the benefits of the contract. The covenant requires
that each party to the agreement act with fairness and good faith towards the
other parties. 
35. GlenMed breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
depriving BZD of its bargained agreement by, among other conduct, the Wrongful
Conduct, the False Representations, combined with the Exclusivity Clause. 
36. BZD substantially and materially complied with its obligations under the
Agreement. BZD is not in breach of any of the obligations imposed upon it under
the Agreement. 
37. As a direct and proximate result of GlenMed’s conduct alleged hereinabove,
BZD has suffered significant damages in an amount in excess of $2 million to be
proven at trial.
 
(SAC ¶¶32-37.)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff fails to state a claim for breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing because Plaintiff simply alleged that Defendant breached the
terms of the contract, and nothing more, and this claim is subject to demurrer.
 
In the Opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the SAC alleges wrongful conduct beyond a simple breach
of contract.
 
In the Reply,
Defendant argues that the “Wrongful Conduct” and “False Representations” are
alleged breaches of the contract. Further, Defendant states how the Exclusivity
Clause that Plaintiff references in support was a contracted provision of the
Agreement and Plaintiff cannot now claim that Defendant breached the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing by including an Exclusivity provision.
 
Further, in Reply,
Defendant inserts footnote 1 which states, “A demurrer should be sustained to a
duplicative cause of action where it merely repeats similar allegations adding
nothing by way of fact or theory. Award Metals, Inc. v. Superior Court (1991)
228 Cal.App.3d 1128, 1135. Merely attaching a different label to an allegation
does not save a duplicative cause of action. Id. It is proper to sustain a
demurrer to a duplicative cause of action without leave to amend. Careau &
Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc., supra; see also Rodrigues v.
Campbell Industries (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 494, 501.”(Reply, p. 3, fn. 1.)
 
Discussion – Third
Cause of Action – Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
“The
prerequisite for any action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing is the existence of a contractual relationship between the
parties, since the covenant is an implied term in the contract.” (Smith v.
City and County of San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 38, 49.) Here,
Plaintiff has clearly pled a contractual relationship since there is a breach
of contract claim alleged, and the Defendant is not demurring to that cause of
action.
 
A breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the
contractual duty itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair
dealing rather than mistaken judgment. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific
Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) 
 
“Thus, allegations
which assert such a claim must show that the conduct of the defendant, whether
or not it also constitutes a breach of a consensual contract term, demonstrates
a failure or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities, prompted not by
an honest mistake, bad judgment or negligence but rather by a conscious and
deliberate act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common purposes and
disappoints the reasonable expectations of the other party thereby depriving
that party of the benefits of the agreement. Just what conduct will meet these
criteria must be determined on a case-by-case basis and will depend on the
contractual purposes and reasonably justified expectations of the parties.” (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1395.)
 
“If the
allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and,
relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief
already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be
disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated. Thus,
absent those limited cases where a breach of a consensual contract term is not
claimed or alleged, the only justification for asserting a separate cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Careau
& Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d
1371, 1395.)
 
Although Defendant
argues that the allegations of “Wrongful Conduct,” “False Representations,” and
the Exclusivity Clause are simply allegations that the Defendant breached the
contract, the Court does not find this argument convincing.
 
First, although
Reply argues that the Exclusivity Clause was simply a contracted provision in
the contract, the Court cannot tell if this is accurate because it does not see
reference to the Exclusivity Clause in the SAC. However, even if Defendant is
correct, the Plaintiff alleged “Wrongful Conduct,” and “False Representations,”
and those allegations appear to be allegations beyond the alleged breach of
contract.
 
For example, the
SAC alleges what the breaches of contract are in ¶12:
 
However, in
approximately mid-2022, BZD discovered that GlenMed failed to perform its
Obligations under the Agreement. GlenMed’s breaches of the Agreement include
(hereinafter, the “Breaches”): 
 
a. Section 2 of
the Agreement. GlenMed totally failed to process BZD’s medical insurance claims
by all means possible and failed to process any of BZD’s claims (commercial
claims and uninsured through July 13, 2022); 
b. Section 4 of
the Agreement. For the period of February 14, 2022, through at least June 5,
2022, GlenMed totally failed to reprocess any and all BZD claim denials; 
c. Section 5 of
the Agreement. Throughout the terms of the Agreement through present GlenMed
totally failed to provide BZD with any monthly gross revenue and accounts
receivable reports in any detail and not in any detail satisfactory to BZD. 
d. Section 14 of
the Agreement. GlenMed totally failed to provide any Client Billing Compliance
Services as defined in the Agreement in the areas described in subsections (a)
through (j) of Section 14 of the Agreement.
 
(SAC ¶12.)
 
 
In ¶13-14 of the
SAC, Plaintiff appears to be pleading “Wrongful Conduct” that it alleges was
not part of the breach of contract:
 
13. In addition,
to GlenMed’s Breaches of the Agreement, GlenMed engaged in conduct in violation
of its legal duty of care, in violation of industry standards, and intentional
conduct that was designed to harm BZD and prevent it from receiving the benefit
of its bargain (collectively, the “Wrongful Conduct”). 
 
14. GlenMed’s
Wrongful Conduct includes, but is not limited to, the following: 
a. Failing to file
claims at all; 
b. Filing
incomplete claims; 
c. Failing to
provide all requested information to insurers; 
d. Failing to
follow up with insurers and diligently pursue claims; 
e. Filing untimely
claims and appeals; 
f. Failing to
reprocess denied claims within thirty (30) days of the denial date; 
g. Failing to
provide to BZD monthly gross revenue and accounts receivable reports per entity
in detail; 
h. Failing to
provide “Billing Compliance Consulting” to BZD; 
i. Intentionally
failing to inform BZD of the above actions and inactions; and 
j. Intentionally
failing to inform BZD of GlenMed’s billing and collection activity or
inactivity
 
(SAC ¶¶13-14.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s
allegations of “Wrongful Conduct” and “False Representations” appear to be
allegations beyond breach of the contractual duty itself. The “False
Representations” referenced in the third cause of action seem to be referring
to the False Representations in ¶¶16-17 of the SAC, the Plaintiff seems to be
alleging that Defendant made misrepresentations to induce BZD to enter into the
agreement.
 
The Supreme Court
in Erlich noted:
 
Tort damages have
been permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes
physical injury (*552 Fuentes v. Perez (1977) 66
Cal.App.3d 163, 168, fn. 2 [136 Cal.Rptr. 275]); for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts (Crisci v.
Security Ins. Co. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 425, 433-434 [58 Cal.Rptr. 13,
426 P.2d 173]); for wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public
policy (Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d 167,
175-176 [164 Cal.Rptr. 839, 610 P.2d 1330, 9 A.L.R.4th 314]); or where the
contract was fraudulently induced. (Las Palmas Associates v. Las Palmas
Center Associates (1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 1220, 1238-1239 [1
Cal.Rptr.2d 301].) In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm. (See, e.g., Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 885-886 [2 Cal.Rptr.2d
79, 820 P.2d 181].)
 
(Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING –
Third Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing


Defendant’s
demurrer to the third cause of action is OVERRULED. Plaintiff appears to have
alleged more than simply a breach of the terms of the contract. Plaintiff
appears to be alleging wrongful conduct beyond that of breach of the contract,
specifically, the “Wrongful Conduct” and “False Representations” referenced in
the SAC.
 
B.    
Fourth Cause of Action – Fraud Intentional
Misrepresentation


With respect to
the fourth cause of action, the SAC alleges as follows:
 
38. BZD re-alleges
the allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 37, inclusive, and
incorporates these paragraphs herein by this reference as though fully set
forth. 
39. GlenMed
knowingly and intentionally schemed to defraud BZD out of the money it would
have earned from the billing services performed by GlenMed under the Agreement
by making the False Representations to BZD on January 27 and numerous times
thereafter. 
40. GlenMed made
these representations to BZD to defraud BZD and have them enter into an
agreement with GlenMed despite their lack of expertise and inability to perform
under the Agreement, along with inducing BZD into continuing to use GlenMed’s
services, and inducing BZD to not take legal action against GlenMed. 
41. Contrary to
the false, untrue, and fraudulent misrepresentations that were made by GlenMed,
GlenMed, in fact, did not have the expertise or experience that BZD was seeking
for a company to handle billing.
42. When the False
Representations were made, GlenMed knew them to be false, and they were made
with the intent to deceive and defraud and to induce BZD to act in reliance
thereon, specifically to enter into the Agreement with GlenMed. 
43. At the time
the misrepresentations were made, BZD was ignorant of the falsity of the
representations and acted in reliance thereon. Had BZD known that GlenMed did
not have the experience or expertise necessary to handle the insurance billing
for BZD, BZD would not have entered into the Agreement, would not have
continued using GlenMed’s services, and would have pursued legal action against
GlenMed. 
44. BZD’s reliance
was justified, given that GlenMed represented they had the expertise and
experience to provide the necessary services to BZD. BZD had no reason to
question the information provided or question GlenMed’s integrity or honesty. 
45. As a direct
and proximate result of the above False Representations, BZD has suffered
significant damages in an amount in excess of $2 million and in an amount to be
proven at trial. 
46. The acts of
GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent.
Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations to induce BZD to enter
into the Agreement, to continue to use GlenMed’s services, and to not pursue
legal action against GlenMed. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to exemplary and
punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter GlenMed from any further
fraudulent and oppressive conduct.
 
(SAC ¶¶38-46.)
 
Further, in
relevant part of the SAC, since these allegations were incorporated into the
fourth cause of action, the SAC alleges:
 
15. In addition,
GlenMed made various oral and written false representations made to BZD
regarding the nature and quality of services it was capable of providing to
BZD. 
16. From
approximately January 26, 2022 until the contract was signed on approximately
February 7, 2022, Maria Verdian (also known as Maria Kullahian-Allahverdi), who
is the Chief Executive Officer of GlenMed and signed the Agreement on behalf of
GlenMed, spoke on numerous occasions via telephone with Boris Dobrin, CEO of
BZD, Gerard Casale, General Counsel for BZD, and Desiree Bock, Senior Vice
President of BZD before the Agreement was finalized or signed. 
17. Maria Verdian
made numerous misrepresentations to BZD during a January 27, 2022 phone call
between her, Boris Dobrin and Desiree Bock, wherein Ms. Bock specifically asked
Ms. Verdian if her team could handle a large volume, such as bills for 3000 patients
a day. Ms. Verdian told Ms. Bock and Mr. Dobrin that, “yes”, her company could
handle that amount of volume, and that GlenMed had the team, expertise, the
software and computer programs, and the staff to do so (the “False
Representations”). 
18. In or around
mid-2022, BZD learned, for the first time, that GlenMed engaged in the
above-described Breaches, Wrongful Conduct, and False Representations.
 
(SAC ¶¶15-17.)
 
Defendant groups
together its reasoning as to why the demurrer should be sustained for the
fourth (fraud intentional misrepresentation), fifth (fraudulent inducement),
and sixth (fraudulent concealment) causes of action all in the same section of
the demurrer.
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff asserts the same factual allegations as to all of its
fraud-based claims. Defendant also argues that “At the hearing on GlenMed’s
demurrer to the initial complaint, the Court specifically pointed out that all
of BZD’s fraud-based causes of action are similar and improperly pled. The
Court stated that it was ‘unclear as to what the difference is between each
cause of action that Plaintiff is alleging’. This issue still remains.” (Def.
Dem. p. 7.)
 
Defendant also
argues that the SAC does not meet the specificity requirements for fraud of any
type. Defendant argues that there are no allegations of how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means GlenMed made a false misrepresentation, concealment, or
nondisclosure or acted to improperly induce BZD to contract with it.
 
Defendant also
argues that the entire basis for Plaintiff’s fraud based claims is in ¶17 of
the SAC wherein Plaintiff alleges that prior to signing the Agreement, Maria
Verdian responded “yes” when asked if the company could handle the volume of
billing. Defendant argues that this is insufficient for fraud because Plaintiff
is simply alleging that GlenMed failed to perform its obligations pursuant to
the contract. Defendant argues that these allegations are duplicative and do
not sound in fraud, but rather a contract dispute between two parties.
 
Defendant also
argues that since it is a corporate defendant, Plaintiff must also ““allege the
names of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written.” Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not met this
requirement.
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff groups together its reasoning as to why the demurrer should be
overruled as to the fraudulent misrepresentation and fraudulent inducement
causes of action. In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that it met the heightened
pleading requirement for fraud.
 
In Reply,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s breach-of-contract cause of action and
fraud-based cause of action are one in the same.
 
Discussion –
Fourth Cause of Action – Fraud Intentional Misrepresentation
“ ‘The elements of fraud, which gives rise to the tort
action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c)
intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.’ “ (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30Cal.4th  167, 173 citing Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638.)
 
Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than
with “‘general and conclusory allegations.’” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc.
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must
allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the
plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations,
their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when the representation was made. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996)12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)

 
(a) Misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure)
Here, Plaintiff alleged the misrepresentation as follows: 
 
16. From approximately January 26, 2022 until the
contract was signed on approximately February 7, 2022, Maria Verdian (also
known as Maria Kullahian-Allahverdi), who is the Chief Executive Officer of
GlenMed and signed the Agreement on behalf of GlenMed, spoke on numerous
occasions via telephone with Boris Dobrin, CEO of BZD, Gerard Casale, General
Counsel for BZD, and Desiree Bock, Senior Vice President of BZD before the
Agreement was finalized or signed. 
 
17. Maria Verdian made numerous misrepresentations to
BZD during a January 27, 2022 phone call between her, Boris Dobrin and Desiree
Bock, wherein Ms. Bock specifically asked Ms. Verdian if her team could handle
a large volume, such as bills for 3000 patients a day. Ms. Verdian told Ms.
Bock and Mr. Dobrin that, “yes”, her company could handle that amount of
volume, and that GlenMed had the team, expertise, the software and computer
programs, and the staff to do so (the “False Representations”). 
 
(SAC ¶¶16-17.)
 
Not only does Plaintiff identify the misrepresentation
as “yes,” but Plaintiff also meets the specificity requirements of facts
showing how, when, where, to whom, by what meant the representations were made.
Further, Plaintiff alleged the requirements for a corporate defendant wherein
the plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the
representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.
Further, it appears as if Plaintiff is alleging that Defendant misrepresented
that GlenMed had the team, expertise, the software, and computer programs, and
the staff to do so.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this
element.
 
(b) Knowledge of Falsity
As alleged in the
SAC, “When the False Representations were made, GlenMed knew them to be false…”(SAC
¶42.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this
element.
 
(c) Intent to Defraud, i.e. induce reliance
As alleged in the SAC, “When the False Representations
were made, GlenMed knew them to be false, and they were made with the intent to
deceive and defraud and to induce BZD to act in reliance thereon, specifically
to enter into the Agreement with GlenMed.” (SAC ¶42.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this
element.
 
(d) Justifiable Reliance
As alleged in the SAC, “At the time the
misrepresentations were made, BZD was ignorant of the falsity of the
representations and acted in reliance thereon. Had BZD known that GlenMed did
not have the experience or expertise necessary to handle the insurance billing
for BZD, BZD would not have entered into the Agreement, would not have
continued using GlenMed’s services, and would have pursued legal action against
GlenMed. BZD’s reliance was justified, given that GlenMed represented they had
the expertise and experience to provide the necessary services to BZD. BZD had
no reason to question the information provided or question GlenMed’s integrity
or honesty.” (SAC ¶¶43-44.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this
element.
 
(e) Resulting Damage
As alleged in the SAC, “As a direct and proximate
result of the above False Representations, BZD has suffered significant damages
in an amount in excess of $2 million and in an amount to be proven at trial.
The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent.
Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations to induce BZD to
enter into the Agreement, to continue to use GlenMed’s services, and to not
pursue legal action against GlenMed. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to exemplary
and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter GlenMed from any further
fraudulent and oppressive conduct.” (SAC ¶45-46.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this
element.

 
C.   
Discussion – Fifth Cause of Action –
Fraudulent Inducement


With respect to
the fifth cause of action, the SAC alleges:
 
47. BZD re-alleges
the allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 46, inclusive, and
incorporates these paragraphs herein by this reference as though fully set
forth. 
48. GlenMed
knowingly and intentionally schemed to fraud BZD out of the money it would have
earned from the billing services performed by GlenMed under the Agreement. 
49. As set forth
throughout this Complaint, GlenMed made a number of False Representations of
material fact to BZD, and did so intentionally.
50. Glen Med
intended that its False Representations to BZD would induce BZD to enter into
the Agreement with GlenMed despite GlenMed’s lack of expertise and inability to
perform under the Agreement, along with inducing BZD into continuing to use
GlenMed’s services, and inducing BZD to not take legal action against GlenMed. 
51. GlenMed knew
that its False Representations were false when GlenMed made them to BZD, had no
reasonable basis for believing them to be true, and had no basis to make such
representations. 
52. GlenMed,
through its False Representations and conduct, intended to deceive BZD and
induce its reliance on GlenMed’s False Representations. 
53. BZD
justifiably and actually relied on Glen Med’s False Representations and
consequently entered into the Agreement with GlenMed to BZD’s detriment. 
54. As a direct
and proximate result of GlenMed’s False Representations, BZD has suffered
significant damages in an amount in excess of $2 million and in an amount to be
proven at trial. 55. The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious,
oppressive, and fraudulent. Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False
Representations to induce BZD to enter into the Agreement. Accordingly, BZD is
entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter
GlenMed from repeating such oppressive and fraudulent conduct.
 
“‘The elements of
fraud, which gives rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ “ (Small v.
Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30Cal.4th 
167, 173 citing Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631,
638.)
 
Fraud must be
pleaded with specificity rather than with “‘general and conclusory
allegations.’” (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167,
184.) The specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made,
and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names
of the persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf
of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)12 Cal.4th 631,
645.)
 
(a) Misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure)
Here, Plaintiff alleged the misrepresentation as follows, “As set forth
throughout this Complaint, GlenMed made a number of False Representations of
material fact to BZD, and did so intentionally.” (SAC ¶49.)
 
Here, as explained
in analyzing the fourth cause of action with respect to this element, Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged this element.
 
(b) Knowledge of
Falsity
As
alleged in the SAC, “GlenMed knew that its False Representations were false
when GlenMed made them to BZD…” (SAC ¶51)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this element.
 
(c) Intent to
Defraud, i.e. induce reliance
As alleged in the
SAC, “Glen Med intended that its False Representations to BZD would induce BZD
to enter into the Agreement with GlenMed despite GlenMed’s lack of expertise
and inability to perform under the Agreement, along with inducing BZD into
continuing to use GlenMed’s services, and inducing BZD to not take legal action
against GlenMed. GlenMed knew that its False Representations were false when
GlenMed made them to BZD, had no reasonable basis for believing them to be
true, and had no basis to make such representations. GlenMed, through its False
Representations and conduct, intended to deceive BZD and induce its reliance on
GlenMed’s False Representations.” (SAC ¶¶50-52.)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this element.
 
(d) Justifiable
Reliance
As alleged in the
SAC, “BZD justifiably and actually relied on Glen Med’s False Representations
and consequently entered into the Agreement with GlenMed to BZD’s detriment.”
(SAC ¶53.)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this element.
 
(e) Resulting
Damage
As alleged in the
SAC, “As a direct and proximate result of GlenMed’s False Representations, BZD
has suffered significant damages in an amount in excess of $2 million and in an
amount to be proven at trial. The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton,
malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent. Specifically, GlenMed purposely used
False Representations to induce BZD to enter into the Agreement. Accordingly,
BZD is entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to
deter GlenMed from repeating such oppressive and fraudulent conduct.” (SAC
¶54-55.)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleged this element.
 
D.    Discussion
Sixth Cause of Action - Fraudulent Concealment


The SAC alleges the following with respect to the
sixth cause of action:
56. BZD re-alleges
the allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 55, inclusive, and
incorporates these paragraphs herein by this reference as though fully set
forth. 
57. As described
above, BZD requested information regarding GlenMed’s billing activity,
including, but not limited to, monthly gross revenue and accounts receivable
reports per entity in detail and other information relating to GlenMed’s
billing efforts, such as billing reports and collection reports. 
58. GlenMed
intentionally failed to disclose all such requested information and actively concealed
such information from Plaintiff. As set forth throughout this Complaint,
GlenMed made a number of False Representations. 
59. GlenMed
specifically concealed from BZD that GlenMed did not have the manpower or
expertise to handle the large amount of billing that BZD was looking for. 
60. GlenMed failed
to disclose to BZD material information regarding GlenMed’s billing and
collection activity including, but not limited to, its inability to handle the
billing and collection at the outset of the relationship, the monthly gross
revenue and accounts receivable reports per entity in detail, the fact that
GlenMed failed to file certain claims with insurers, the fact that GlenMed
failed to diligently follow up with insurers, and the fact that GlenMed failed
to reprocess denied insurance claims. 
61. At the time
GlenMed failed to disclose these facts and information to BZD, such facts were
known and accessible only to GlenMed, and GlenMed knew such facts were known
and accessible only to GlenMed. GlenMed nevertheless intentionally failed to
disclose these facts to BZD. GlenMed also engaged in the Wrongful Conduct in
carrying out its plan to conceal information from BZD. 
62. Upon
information and belief, GlenMed failed to disclose and took steps to conceal
these material facts and information from BZD for the purpose of defrauding and
inducing, and did in fact defraud and induce BZD to enter into an Agreement
with GlenMed, to induce BZD into continuing to use GlenMed’s services, and to
induce BZD into not seeking legal action against GlenMed. 
63. Had BZD known
of the undisclosed and concealed facts, BZD would never have agreed to take
actions including, but not limited to, entering into the Agreement with
GlenMed, continuing to use GlenMed’s services, and refraining from taking legal
action against GlenMed. 
64. As a direct
and proximate result of the above fraudulent misrepresentations, BZD has
suffered significant damages in an amount in excess of $2 million in an amount
to be proven at trial. 
65. The acts of
GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent.
Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations to induce BZD to
enter into the Agreement. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to exemplary and
punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter Defendant from repeating its
fraudulent and oppressive conduct.
 
“’[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit
based on concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230,
248 citing Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,748.) “Fraud must be
pleaded with specificity rather than with “’general and conclusory’”
allegations.” (Boschma, supra, at 248 citing Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)
Defendant did not provide, in the Court’s view, any
cognizable arguments with respect to sustaining the demurrer as to fraudulent
concealment. 
Defendant’s arguments appear to be related to fraud,
generally, but it is difficult to decipher Defendant’s arguments as to
fraudulent concealment. 
Defendant makes no argument as to how Plaintiff fails
to allege the specific elements of fraudulent concealment. Therefore, the Court
will not attempt to speculate as to what Defendant’s arguments are as to this
cause of action.
TENTATIVE RULING – Fourth, Fifth, and
Sixth Causes of Action
Defendant’s
demurrer to the fourth and fifth causes of action is overruled because
Plaintiff alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of action. Defendant’s
demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled because Defendant did not
provide any cognizable arguments specific to a fraudulent concealment cause of
action nor a legal basis to sustain the demurrer. Defendant seemed to provide
general arguments with respect to fraud. 

E. Seventh Cause of Action – Negligent Misrepresentation


As alleged in the
SAC:
 
66. BZD re-alleges
the allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 65, inclusive, and
incorporates these paragraphs herein by this reference as though fully set
forth. 
67. As set forth
throughout this Complaint, GlenMed made a number of False Representations to
BZD. 
68. In or around
mid-2022, BZD first became aware of the False Representations that GlenMed made
to BZD. 
69. When GlenMed
made each of its False Representations to BZD, it had no reasonable basis for
believing them to be true, had no basis to make such representations, and knew
that such representations were probably false. 
70. In reasonable
reliance on GlenMed’s representations, BZD was actually induced into certain
conduct including entering into the Agreement with GlenMed, along with
continuing to use GlenMed’s services, and deciding not to take legal action
against GlenMed. 
71. As a direct
and proximate result of the above False Representations, BZD has suffered
significant damages in an amount in excess of $2 million in an amount to be
proven at trial.
 
(SAC ¶66-71.)
 
“The elements of
negligent misrepresentation are well established. A plaintiff must prove the
following in order to recover. ‘Misrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage…’” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v.
Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates, Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
1145, 1154.)
 
Here, Plaintiff appears
to allege all the elements of negligent misrepresentation except the element of
“intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented.” However,
although this element wasn’t alleged in the portion of the SAC with respect to
the seventh cause of action, this element was alleged in ¶42. Since ¶42 was
incorporated into the paragraphs of the seventh cause of action, Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
 
TENTATIVE RULING SEVENTH
CAUSE OF ACTION – NEGLIGENT MISREPRESNTATION
Defendant’s
demurrer to the seventh cause of action for negligent misrepresentation is
OVERRULED.
 
Eleventh Cause of
Action – Unlawful and Unfair Business Practices
The
SAC alleges as follows:
 
90. BZD re-alleges
the allegations contained in paragraphs 1 through 89, inclusive, and
incorporates these paragraphs herein by this reference as though fully set
forth. 
91. As set forth
throughout this Complaint, GlenMed made False Representations of material fact
to BZD, and did so intentionally which harmed BZD. 
92. As result, BZD
entered into an Agreement with GlenMed that contained an Exclusivity Clause
which had the effect of holding BZD hostage to GlenMed, thereby further harming
BZD. 93. Further, GlenMed engaged in the above-described Wrongful Conduct that
harmed BZD. 
94. GlenMed’s
actions constitute unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business acts and practices
which are prohibited by California Business and Professions Code § 17200 et
seq. Specifically, GlenMed’s actions are unfair as they offend an establish
public policy regarding deceit and intentional misrepresentation, specifically
Civil Code section 1709 and 1710. 
95. As a direct
and proximate result of GlenMed’s unfair business practices, suffered
significant damages in an amount in excess of the minimum unlimited
jurisdiction limits of this Court and in an amount to be proven at trial.
 
(SAC ¶¶90-95.)
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff failed to allege a cause of action because: 
 
BZD must plead
facts showing that they had a pattern of ongoing misconduct/legal violation
committed them. However, the SAC still fails to state what specific legal
violation GlenMed has committed or any pattern of misconduct. The SAC alleges
in a conclusory fashion that GlenMed’s conduct constitutes unfair and
fraudulent business acts because GlenMed did not allegedly perform pursuant to
the contract. See SAC, ¶¶ 91-93. Additionally, to now argue that the
exclusivity clause, which was a bargained for provision, is unfair competition
makes absolutely no sense. The exclusivity clause has nothing to do with BZD’s
allegations.
 
(Dem. p. 11.)
 
Defendant also
argued:
 
The SAC still does
not allege with any specificity how any of the alleged conduct by GlenMed was
unfair, violated a legislatively declared policy, impacted competition in any
way or whether the public would be deceived. BZD simply makes overbroad and conclusory
allegations that GlenMed engaged in unlawful conduct. Additionally, the
allegation that the contract contained an exclusivity clause (a provision that
BZD agreed to) does not make it unfair, unlawful or fraudulent. BZD has not
sufficiently alleged unfair practices or how the public was likely to be
deceived. Conclusory allegations of fraudulent conduct is improper for this
claim to survive. Further, the entire claim is uncertain and improper to the
extent that BZD fails to specify any restitution to which they may be entitled
and seeks to recover monetary damages which are not allowed under the statute.
 
(Dem. p. 11.)
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff
argues that the demurrer should be overruled because the SAC identifies the
particular section of the statutory scheme which was violated, deceit and
intentional misrepresentation under Civil Code section 1709 and 1710.
 
In Opposition,
Plaintiff argues that it satisfies the second and third tests for unfairness in
consumer cases because the SAC alleges that Defendant’s actions “are unfair as
they offend an established public policy regarding deceit and intentional
misrepresentations, specifically Civil Code section 1709 and 1710.
 
In Reply,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not alleged with specificity how any of the
alleged conduct on the part of GlenMed is unfair, violates a legislatively
declared policy, or impacts competition in any way. Defendant argues that this
action does not involve any issues of “business practices” and/or
“competition.”
 
In Reply,
Defendant also argues that there are no allegations of general unfair practices
affecting the public. Defendant also argues that these allegations simply
reference GlenMed’s alleged breaches and wrongful conduct which are very
specific to Plaintiff and specific to the terms of the contract between the
parties.
 
E.    
Discussion – Eleventh Cause of Action

The
purpose of the UCL “is to protect both consumers and competitors by promoting
fair competition in commercial markets for goods and services.” (Drum v. San
Fernando Valley Bar Assn. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 247, 252 citing Kasky
v. Nike, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 939, 949.) Business and Professions Code
section 17200 provides: “[a]s used in this chapter, unfair competition shall
mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice
and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising and any act prohibited
by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the
Business and Professions Code.” (Progressive West Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 284.) Because 
the UCL is written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of
unfair competition – acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or
fraudulent. (Adhav v. Midway Rent a Car, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954,
970 citing Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone
Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)
 
Unlawful
“
‘The “unlawful” practices prohibited by … section 17200 are any practices
forbidden by law, be it civil or criminal, federal, state, or municipal,
statutory, regulatory, or court-made. [Citation.] It is not necessary that the
predicate law provide for private civil enforcement. [Citation.] As our Supreme
Court put it, section 17200 “borrows” violations of other laws and treats them
as unlawful practices independently actionable under section 17200 et seq.’” (South
Bay Chevrolet v. General Motors Acceptance Corp. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 861,
880 citing Hewlett v. Squaw Valley Ski Corp. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 499,
531-532.) “A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these statutes
must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory
elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619; “Demurrer was properly sustained as to this cause of
action because the second amended complaint identifies no particular section of
the statutory scheme which was violated and fails to describe with any
reasonable particularity the facts supporting violation.” 
 
The Court is
satisfied that, taken as a whole, the SAC sufficiently alleges a claim under
the UCL’s Unlawful prong.
 
Fraudulent
 
“A fraudulent business practice under section
17200 ‘is not based upon proof of the common law tort of deceit or deception,
but is instead premised on whether the public is likely to be deceived.’” (Progressive
West Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 284 citing Pastoria
v. Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1498.) Stated another way,
“In order to state a cause of action under the fraud prong of [section 17200] a
plaintiff need not show that he or others were actually deceived or confused by
the conduct or business practice in question. ‘The “fraud” prong of [section
17200] is unlike common law fraud or deception. A violation can be shown even
if no one was actually deceived, relied upon the fraudulent practice, or
sustained any damage. Instead, it is only necessary to show that members of the
public are likely to be deceived.’ [Citations.]” (Progressive West Ins. Co.,
supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at 284 citing Schnall v. Hertz Corp. (2000)
78 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167.)
 
Here, Plaintiff made no allegations about
whether the public is likely to be deceived. Therefore, the Plaintiff did not
allege a violation of the UCL under the fraudulent prong.
 
TENTATIVE RULING ELEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION


The Court OVERRULES the Demurrer as to the
Eleventh Cause of Action.
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant HCMM dba
GlenMed Billing Services, Inc. (“GlenMed”) will, and hereby does move to strike
the following portions of the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) filed by
Plaintiff BZD LABS, LLC (“BZD”): 
 
1. Page 7, Paragraph 46, lines 15-18 which
states “The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent. Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations to
induce BZD to enter into the Agreement, to continue to use GlenMed’s services,
and to not pursue legal action against GlenMed. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to
exemplary and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter GlenMed from
any further fraudulent and oppressive conduct.” 
 
2. Page 8, paragraph 55, lines 15-18 which
states “The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent. Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations to
induce BZD to enter into the Agreement. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to
exemplary and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter GlenMed from
repeating such oppressive and fraudulent conduct.” 
 
3. Pages 9-10, paragraph 65 which states “The
acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent.
Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations to induce BZD to
enter into the Agreement. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to exemplary and
punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter Defendant from repeating its
fraudulent and oppressive conduct.” 
 
4. Page 11, paragraph 81, lines 25-27 which
states “The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, and
fraudulent. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in
an amount sufficient to deter Defendant from again acting as alleged above.” 
 
5. Prayer for Relief, page 13, paragraph 2 which
states “For punitive damages according to proof at the time of trial (as to the
fourth, fifth, sixth, and ninth cause of action)”.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, HCMM dba GlenMed Billing Services,
Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
BZD Labs, LLC
Moving Papers: Motion
to Strike
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300(c)): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
Here,
Defendant’s counsel met and conferred. (Decl. George ¶¶3-5.)
Legal Standard Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations
of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their
context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP
§431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Punitive
Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code
§3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (CCP
§3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury. (CCP §3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud, or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal.
App. 4th 1033, 1042.) 
Further as stated in Monge v. Superior Court,
which helps explain the case law behind alleging punitive damages: 
In determining
whether a complaint states facts sufficient to sustain punitive damages, the
challenged allegations must be read in context with the other facts alleged in
the complaint. Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or
conclusions of law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged
as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to
recovery of punitive damages. (Perkins v. Superior Court (1981) 117
Cal.App.3d 1, 6–7, 172 Cal.Rptr. 427.)
 
Perkins provides the
highly pertinent example of this standard in the context of a motion to strike
punitive damage allegations. There the complaint alleged that defendants
“wrongfully and intentionally” invaded plaintiff's privacy and terminated his
telephone service “in retaliation” for prior complaints lodged by plaintiff.
The complaint also generally alleged that defendants were guilty of
“oppression, fraud and malice.” Perkins read the complaint as a whole
and held that the alleged conclusions of fact or law considered in the context
of alleged wrongful conduct “in retaliation” pleaded an evil injurious motive
sufficient **68 to establish malice and sustain a plea for punitive
damages.
 
In G.D. Searle
& Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 27–32, 122 Cal.Rptr.
218, it was pointed out that there exists an uncertainty in the case law as to
just what terms adequately describe the necessary elements of “oppression,
fraud or malice” under Civil Code section 3294. Searle suggests that
different types of injurious conduct allow different formulations in pleading
oppression or malice, but that the critical element is an “evil motive” of the
defendant. (Id., at pp. 29–31, 122 Cal.Rptr. 218.)
 
*511 The meanings of
“oppression” and “malice” with regard to Civil Code section 3294 are explained
in Richardson v. Employers Liab.
Assur. Corp. (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 232, 245–246, 102 Cal.Rptr. 547. “Malice”
means a wrongful intent to vex or annoy. “Oppression” means “subjecting a
person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of his rights.”
Malice and oppression may be inferred from the circumstances of a defendant's
conduct.
 
(Monge v.
Superior Court (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 503, 510-11.)
 
Defendant argues that based on the conclusory facts pled, GlenMed’s
conduct cannot be malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent. Defendant argues that
BZD’s arguments are conclusory allegations and are not facts and should be
disregarded for the purposes of this motion.
 
TENTATIVE RULING 


Defendant moves to strike portion 1 which is Page 7, Paragraph 46,
lines 15-18 which states “The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious,
oppressive, and fraudulent. Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations
to induce BZD to enter into the Agreement, to continue to use GlenMed’s
services, and to not pursue legal action against GlenMed. Accordingly, BZD is
entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter
GlenMed from any further fraudulent and oppressive conduct.”
 
Given the Court’s ruling on the fourth COA, this motion to strike is
DENIED. Inherent in successfully alleging a cause of action for fraud,
Plaintiff can request punitive damages because a cause of action for fraud was
stated. (See CCP § 3294(a).) 
 
Defendant moves to strike portion 2 which is Page 8, paragraph 55,
lines 15-18 which states “The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious,
oppressive, and fraudulent. Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False
Representations to induce BZD to enter into the Agreement. Accordingly, BZD is
entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter
GlenMed from repeating such oppressive and fraudulent conduct.”
 
Given the Court’s ruling on the fifth COA, this motion to strike is
also DENIED, for similar reasons.
 
 
Defendant moves to strike portion 3 which is Pages 9-10, paragraph 65
which states “The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive,
and fraudulent. Specifically, GlenMed purposely used False Representations to
induce BZD to enter into the Agreement. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to exemplary
and punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter Defendant from repeating
its fraudulent and oppressive conduct.”
 
Once again, given the Court’s ruling on the sixth COA, this motion to
strike is also DENIED, for similar reasons.
 
Defendant moves to strike portion 4 which is Page 11, paragraph 81,
lines 25-27 which states “The acts of GlenMed were willful, wanton, malicious,
oppressive, and fraudulent. Accordingly, BZD is entitled to exemplary and
punitive damages in an amount sufficient to deter Defendant from again acting as
alleged above.”
 
Defendant’s motion to strike portion 4 is DENIED. “There
is no question that punitive damages may be recovered in an action for
conversion.” (Krusi v. Bear, Stearns & Co. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d
644, 678.)  Defendant did not demur to
the conversion cause of action; therefore, whether Plaintiff’s conduct was
willful, wanton, malicious, oppressive, or fraudulent is for the trier of fact.
Defendant moves to strike portion 5 which is Prayer
for Relief, page 13, paragraph 2 which states “For punitive damages according
to proof at the time of trial (as to the fourth, fifth, sixth, and ninth cause
of action)”.
As above, given the Court’s ruling on the fourth,
fifth, and sixth COAs, this motion to strike is DENIED.  