 Case Number:  22STCV34581    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  October 28, 2022, Plaintiff County of Los Angeles (“Plaintiff”) filed this subrogation  action against Defendants Bianca Roselyn Munoz, Blanca Esquivel Munoz, and Does  1-10 for motor vehicle tort under Labor Code section  3852.  On  October 4, 2023, Defendants Bianca Roselyn Munoz and Blanca Esquivel Munoz (“Defendants”)  filed an answer.  On  August 20, 2024, Martha Malki (“Malki”) filed a motion for leave to file a  complaint-in-intervention.  The motion  was set for hearing on September 30, 2024.   No opposition has been filed.  Trial  is currently scheduled for October 24, 2024.  PROPOSED INTERVENOR’S  REQUEST  Malki  asks the Court for leave to file a complaint-in-intervention.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 387 provides in part:  “(c) A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to  intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application. The petition shall include  a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and  set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.  “(d) (1) The court shall, upon timely application,  permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the  following conditions is satisfied:  “(A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right  to intervene.  “(B) The person seeking intervention claims an  interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the  action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may  impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that  person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing  parties.  “(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a  nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest  in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an  interest against both.  “(e) If leave to intervene is granted by the court,  the intervenor shall do both of the following:  “(1) Separately file the complaint in intervention,  answer in intervention, or both.  “(2) Serve a copy of the order, or notice of the  court’s decision or order, granting leave to intervene and the pleadings in  intervention as follows:  “(A) A party to the action or proceeding who has not  yet appeared shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant  to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part  2.  “(B) A party who has appeared in the action or  proceeding, whether represented by an attorney or not represented by an  attorney, shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant to  Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2,  or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title  14 of Part 2.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 387, subds. (c), (d), (e).)            Labor  Code section 3852 provides:  “The claim of  an employee, including, but not limited to, any peace officer or firefighter,  for compensation does not affect his or her claim or right of action for all  damages proximately resulting from the injury or death against any person other  than the employer. Any employer who pays, or becomes obligated to pay  compensation, or who pays, or becomes obligated to pay salary in lieu of  compensation, or who pays or becomes obligated to pay an amount to the  Department of Industrial Relations pursuant to Section 4706.5, may likewise  make a claim or bring an action against the third person. In the latter event  the employer may recover in the same suit, in addition to the total amount of  compensation, damages for which he or she was liable including all salary,  wage, pension, or other emolument paid to the employee or to his or her  dependents. The respective rights against the third person of the heirs of an  employee claiming under Section 377.60 of the Code of Civil Procedure, and an  employer claiming pursuant to this section, shall be determined by the court.”  (Lab. Code, § 3852.)            Labor  Code section 3853 provides:  “If either  the employee or the employer brings an action against such third person, he  shall forthwith give to the other a copy of the complaint by personal service  or certified mail. Proof of such service shall be filed in such action. If the  action is brought by either the employer or employee, the other may, at any  time before trial on the facts, join as party plaintiff or shall consolidate  his action, if brought independently.”  (Lab. Code, § 3853.)DISCUSSION  Plaintiff  has filed suit “[a]s a subrogated, self insured employer” to recover “damages  for all wages and workers compensation benefits paid to or on behalf of  Plaintiff's employee, [Malki]” under Labor Code section 3852.  Malki,  Plaintiff’s employee, is entitled to join the action as a party plaintiff under  Labor Code section 3853.  The Court  therefore grants the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS Martha Malki’s motion for leave to intervene.  Martha Malki is ordered to file her complaint-in-intervention  within 10 days of the Court’s ruling and comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (e).  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.