  Case Number:  19STCV30200    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  August 26, 2019, Plaintiff Donnovan Lewery filed this action against Defendants  Club DB Lounge, Hayk Gevorkyan, Frontline Protection, Inc. (“Frontline”), and  Does 1-25 for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision, premises liability,  assault, battery, and intentional infliction of emotional distress.  On  October 7, 2019, Defendants and Cross-Complainants Club DB Lounge (also  referred to as Downey’s Billiard LLC dfba Club db Lounge) and Hayk Gevorkyan  (also referred to as Hayk Geborkyan) filed a general denial and a  cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Frontline and Roes 1-100 for  indemnity.  On  February 14, 2020, the clerk entered Frontline’s default on Plaintiff’s  complaint. On January 18, 2023, the Court set aside Frontline’s default. On  January 19, 2023, Frontline filed a general denial.  On  August 23, 2022, the Court dismissed the cross-complaint of Club DB Lounge and  Hayk Gevorkyan without prejudice at their request.  On  March 4, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted matters  specified in Plaintiff’s requests for admission, set one, served on Frontline.  The Court deemed the matters admitted. In addition, the Court (1) granted  Plaintiff's motion to compel Frontline's responses to the demand for production  of documents and ordered Frontline to provide verified code-compliant responses  without objections and to produce the documents, electronically stored  information, and/or other things requested without objections by March 25,  2024, (2) granted Plaintiff's motion to compel Frontline's responses to the  special and form interrogatories and ordered Frontline to provide verified  code-compliant responses without objections by March 25, 2024, and (3) imposed  monetary sanctions on Frontline.  On September  4, 2024, E. Steve Najera filed a motion to be relieved as counsel for  Frontline. The motion was set for hearing on September 30, 2024.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 28, 2025.  COUNSEL’S REQUEST  Plaintiff’s  counsel, E. Steve Najera, asks to be relieved as  counsel.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 284 provides:  “The attorney in an action or special proceeding may  be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as  follows:  1.               “Upon the consent  of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes;  2.               “Upon the order  of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice  from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 284.)  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides:  “(a) Notice  “A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as  counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the  client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as  Counsel-Civil (form MC-051).  “(b) Memorandum  “Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no  memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as  counsel.  “(c) Declaration  “The motion to be relieved as counsel must be  accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion  to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in  general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the  attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section  284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure  section 284(1).  “(d) Service  “The notice of motion and  motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties  who have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service,  electronic service, or mail.  “(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail  under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a  declaration stating facts showing that either:  “(A) The service address is the current residence or  business address of the client; or  “(B) The service address is the last known residence  or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a  more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days  before the filing of the motion to be relieved.  “(2) If the notice is served on the client by  electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,  it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service  address is the client's current electronic service address.  “As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the  address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be  relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last  known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message  was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is  current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)  applies.  “(e) Order  “The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared  on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form  MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order  must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including  the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the  court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,  a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that  have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order  relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the  client has been filed with the court.”  (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.)  DISCUSSION  In  the Court’s August 28, 2024 order denying counsel’s previous motion to be  relieved as counsel, the Court observed that counsel had served the notice of  motion and motion and declaration on Frontline and on counsel for Plaintiff,  Club DB Lounge, and Hayk Gevorkyan.   However, the Court explained, under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d),  counsel must also serve the proposed order on the client and all parties  who have appeared in the case.  (August  28, 2024 minute order, citing Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1362(d).)  In  counsel’s renewed motion to be relieved as counsel, counsel again has failed to file proofs of service of  the proposed order on “the client and on all other parties who have appeared in  the case.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1362(d).)  The Court denies the motion.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES without prejudice E. Steve Najera’s motion to be relieved as  counsel for Defendant Frontline Protection, Inc.  Counsel  is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Counsel  is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within  five days.