 Case Number:  20STCV10214    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
March 13, 2020, Plaintiff Michael Garcia (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Starbucks Corporation (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for
general negligence and premises liability. 
On
April 23, 2020, Defendant filed an answer. 
On April
10, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file an amended
complaint. 
On
April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendant and
Does 1-50 for negligence. 
Trial
is currently set for January 13, 2025. 
B.   Motion for summary judgment 
On
December 22, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  The
motion was set for hearing on September 30, 2024.  On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On September 25, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply.  
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
DEFENDANT’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
Overruled. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The initial complaint 
The initial
complaint alleges that on February 8, 2020, at 1789 W. Jefferson Boulevard, Los
Angeles, CA 90018: 
“Defendants
negligently, carelessly and recklessly served drinks that were too hot. 
“Defendants
did not securely fasten the lids of each hot beverage that were negligently,
carelessly and recklessly served to Plaintiff. 
“Defendants
negligently, carelessly and recklessly served Plaintiff hot drinks in a
beverage container that was not structurally sound and/or flawed in design. 
“Defendants
negligently, carelessly and recklessly handed over the hot beverages to the
Plaintiff without the Plaintiff having a secure grip on the hot beverages. 
“As
a result, Plaintiff sustained physical injuries as alleged herein.” 
The
initial complaint asserted claims for general negligence and premises
liability. 
B.   The first amended complaint 
The first amended complaint alleges the following: On
February 8, 2020, Plaintiff entered Defendant’s drive-through at 1789 West
Jefferson Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, 90018, ordered hot drinks, and
proceeded to the pickup window. 
Defendants owed a duty to exercise reasonable care with respect to the
preparation, handling, and service of hot beverages to prevent them from
spilling onto and injuring customers such as Plaintiff, including a duty to
properly secure their potentially dangerous products in the tray before handing
them to a customer. 
Defendants
breached their duty of care by failing to properly “seat” or secure the hot
drinks into a drink carrier, and otherwise negligently preparing, handling, and
serving the drinks, causing a hot drink to spill and burn Plaintiff. 
Defendants’
failure to properly secure a hot drink in its carrier created a foreseeable
danger that an unbalanced and unsecured cup of hot liquid would spill upon
handing it to a customer such as Plaintiff. 
The first amended complaint asserts a negligence
claim. 
C.   The motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication
is moot 
“ ‘ “It is well established that an amendatory
pleading supersedes the original one, which ceases to perform any function as a
pleading.” ’ ” (State Compensation Ins. Fund v. Superior Court (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1124, 1130 (State Compensation), quoting Foreman
& Clark Corp. v. Fallon (1971) 3 Cal.3d 875, 92.)  “Thus, an amended complaint supersedes all
prior complaints.”  (Ibid.)  “The amended complaint furnishes the sole
basis for the cause of action, and the original complaint ceases to have any
effect either as a pleading or as a basis for judgment.”  (Id. at p. 1131.) 
“Because there is but one complaint in a civil action [citation],
the filing of an amended complaint moots a motion directed to a prior
complaint.”  (State Compensation, supra,
184 Cal.App.4th at p. 1131.)  “Thus, once
an amended complaint is filed, it is error to grant summary adjudication on a
cause of action contained in a previous complaint.”  (Ibid.)  “ ‘After a cause of action is amended, the
court may rule in favor of the defendant if, upon subsequent motion, or perhaps
renewal of the earlier motion if appropriately framed, it is shown ... there
are no triable material issues of fact which would permit recovery on that
theory.’ ” (Ibid. [filing of amended complaint rendered motion for
summary adjudication moot].) 
Here, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint with Court
permission after Defendant filed its motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication.  The amended complaint
rendered Defendant’s motion moot.  Therefore,
the Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES as moot Defendant Starbucks Corporation’s motion for summary judgment
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.