 Case Number:  EC068660    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
arthur ambarachyan,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
George plavjian, et al., 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  EC068660
 
Hearing Date:  November 9, 2023
  
  [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to enforce settlement pursuant to ccp § 664.6 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
of the 4AC 
Plaintiff Arthur Ambarachyan (“Ambarachyan”) alleges that he is an
investor who was defrauded by Defendants Sona Chukhyan (“Chukhyan”) and George
Plavjian (“Plavjian”), as well as their co-conspirators KSR Realty, Inc.
(“KSR”), Reta Narkaz, Ruzana Badeer (“Badeer”), Kiane Shabazian (“Shabazian”),
and Mariam Kakoian (“Kakoian”). 
Ambarachyan alleges that Kakoian was the owner of property located at
1737 Bel Aire Dr. in Glendale and that Chukhyan and Kakoian took out loans on
the property to pay off other investors that Chukhyan scammed or
defrauded.  In February 2015, Chukhyan
and Kakoian approached Plaintiff for a loan in the amount of $355,000.00.  Plaintiff lent the money and Kakoian signed a
promissory note agreeing to pay the money back with interest, and the note was
secured by a deed of trust against the property.  However, the property was sold for
$935,300.00 in 2017 and Plaintiff was not paid from the proceeds of the sale. 
The fourth amended complaint (“4AC”), filed March
17, 2020, alleges causes of action for: (1) fraud and conspiracy against
Kakoian; (2) negligent misrepresentation against Kakoian; (3) breach of
contract against Kakoian; (4) equitable lien against Kakoian; (5) negligence
against Lawyers Title; (6) equitable indemnity against Chukhyan, Plavjian, KSR,
Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; (7) comparative indemnity against Chukhyan,
Plavjian, KSR, Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; (8) declaratory relief against
Chukhyan, Plavjian, KSR, Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; and (9) declaratory
relief against Petrosian, Baburyan, and Lawyers Title.  
In the 4AC, Ambarachyan notes that the Court previously
sustained the demurrer without leave to amend as to the 1st, 4th,
and 9th causes of action. 
B.     Allegations of Ms. Kakoian’s TAXC
On June 20, 2022, Kakoian filed a third amended cross-complaint (“TAXC”),
alleging causes of action for: (1) fraud – misrepresentation against Chukhyan,
Plavjian, KSR, Badeer, Shabazian, and Narkaz; (2) fraud – concealment against
Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Escrow, and National Properties; (3) breach of contract
against Agakhanyan and Penway; (4) intentional interference with contractual
relations against Chukhyan, Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Escrow, KSR, Shabazian,
Badeer, and Plavjian; (5) breach of fiduciary duty against Chukhyan, Ambarachyan,
Narkaz, Nazarian, Escrow, KSR, Shabazian, Badeer, Plavjian, and National; (6)
constructive fraud against Plavjian, Chukhyan, KSR, Badeer, Shabazian,
Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Escrow, and National Properties; (7) breach of statutory
duty (Bus. & Profs. Code, § 10177(h)) against Ambarahcyan and Narkaz; (8) conversion
against Chukhyan, Plavjian, Badeer, Shabazian, and Ambarachyan; and (9) IIED
against Chukhyan, Plavjian, Badeer, Shabazian, Ambarachyan, Narkaz, Nazarian,
KSR, and Escrow.  
C.    
Relevant
Background
On May 11, 2023, the parties participated in a Mandatory Settlement
Conference with the Court and were able to reach a settlement.    
On May 15, 2023, Ms. Kakoian dismissed the action with prejudice as to
Cross-Defendants Ambarachyan, Escrow on Brand Inc., Sevak Agakhanyan, Arpi
Nazarian, National Properties, Inc., and Penway LLC.  
On August 8, 2023, Ms. Kakoian filed an Acknowledgement of Satisfaction
of Judgment stating that the judgment was fully satisfied by Ambarachyan
(judgment debtor) to Ms. Kakoian (judgment creditor).  
D.   
Motion
on Calendar
On September 11, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ms. Kakoian filed a
motion to enforce the settlement pursuant to CCP § 664.6.  
On September 25, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Defendant Sona Chukhyan filed an
opposition brief.
On September 25, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Defendants George Plavjian,
Ruzana Badeer, and Kiane Shabazian filed a joinder to Chukhyan’s opposition
brief.  
The matter was initially scheduled for hearing on October 6, 2023, but
was continued based on the parties’ Stipulation to continue the hearing so that
there would be time to pay off the $60,000 balance following a pending escrow
transaction.  The Court continued the
hearing to November 9, 2023.  
DISCUSSION  
A.    Settlement Agreement
Ob May 11, 2023, the parties entered into a
handwritten settlement agreement.  (J.
Kakoian Decl. at p. 8, lines 12-15.)  The
settlement agreement was entered between Cross-Complainant Ms. Kakoian and Cross-Defendants
Plavjian, Badeer, Shabazian, and Chukhyan. 
The parties agreed as follows:
·        
1. Cross-Defendants shall pay to
Cross-Complainant $110,000 as follows: (a) $50,000 to be paid on or before 60
days after the execution of the agreement; (b) $25,000 to be paid on or before
90 days after the execution of the agreement; (c) $25,000 to be paid on or
before 120 after the execution of the agreement; and (d) the final $25,000
payment 150 days after the execution of the agreement. All payments were to be
the joint and severable obligations of all named Cross-Defendants.[1]
·        
2. The payment of money is not an
admission of liability.
·        
3. All parties agree that upon execution
of the agreement, the Court may dismiss the case but retain jurisdiction
pursuant to CCP § 664.6. 
·        
4. Upon the full and final payment of the
sums, the parties will be deemed to have mutually dismissed the others from any
claims, causes of action, demands, etc. 
·        
5. The agreement is the entire agreement
and understanding between the parties.
·        
6. The parties agree that a long form
agreement will be prepared and circulated for signatures, but if the
parties/any party fails to sign the long form agreement, the short form
agreement shall be fully enforceable. 
·        
7. The agreement shall be modified or
amended only by a writing signed by all the parties.
The agreement is
signed by Cross-Complainant Ms. Kakoian (and her attorneys) and
Cross-Defendants Chukhyan (by Plavjian), Shabazian (by Plavjian), Badeer (by
Plavjian), and Plavjian (and their counsel). 
Plavjian states that he has been granted authority and power of attorney
to sign for Shabazian and Badeer.  
B.    
Discussion of Merits
Ms. Kakoian moves to enforce the settlement agreement, seeking $50,000
in settlement payments, which were due in installments ($25,000 on August 9,
2023 and $25,000 on September 11, 2023), plus interest on the amounts due and
owing.  At the time she filed the motion
on September 11, 2023, Ms. Kakoian stated that another $10,000 payment would be
due by October 8, 2023, which might necessitate another separate motion.  
Ms. Kakoian states that Cross-Defendants requested two extensions,
which Ms. Kakoian’s counsel granted so that the August 2023 payment would be
due by August 31, 2023.  (J. Kakoian
Decl. at p.9, lines 20-26.)  She argues
that Cross-Defendants have breached the agreement as payment was not made for
the August 2023 and September 2023 payments. 
(Id. at p. 9, lines 27-28.) 
Ms. Kakoian argues that the Court has the power to enforce the terms of
the settlement agreement pursuant to CCP § 664.6.  
In opposition, Chukhyan argues that Ms. Kakoian has already received
the first $50,000 and that Chukhyan is in the process of obtaining the $60,000
balance to pay off the settlement amount in full, but that she needs an extra
30 days.  In her declaration, Chukhyan
states that she is solely responsible for the payment, though her husband
Plavjian and his sisters Badeer and Shabazian are also named parties to the
action.  (Chukhyan Decl., ¶3.)  She states that she paid the first $50,000
payment to her law firm’s client trust account. 
(Id., ¶4, Ex. 1.)  She
states that there is a pending escrow to pay the $60,000 settlement balance to
her law firm’s client trust account and provides a redacted copy of the escrow
instructions.  (Id., ¶5, Ex.
2.)  She requests that the Court not
enter judgment against Plavjian, Badeer, and Shabazian as she intends to pay
off the full balance in 30 days.  (Id.,
¶6.)  The escrow instruction is dated
September 22, 2023 and states that the buyer and seller agree that the escrow
shall close on or before October 31, 2023 and that the borrower authorizes the
escrow holder to release the sum of $60,000 to Kaplan, Kenegos, and Kadin
(client trust account) from the proceeds due at the close of escrow. 
The parties do not dispute that Cross-Defendants are in breach of their
settlement obligations.  While Chukyhan
has shown that efforts are being made to pay Ms. Kakoian in full for the
$60,000 remaining settlement payment within 30 days, based on the moving and
opposition papers before the Court, it does not appear that a further extension
was requested for the second and third payments (or the final October 8, 2023
payment for $10,000).  The settlement
agreement does not provide any procedure for curing defaults.  As such, the Court is inclined to grant Ms.
Kakoian’s motion to enforce the settlement agreement and enter judgment in the
amount of $50,000.  
However, Ms. Kakoian states in her moving papers that she will likely
be filing a second motion for the anticipated default for the final October
2023 payment for $10,000.  In addition,
the parties stipulated to continue the initial hearing on this motion so that
Chukhyan could complete the escrow transaction and pay Ms. Kakoian the
remaining $60,000 payment.  
Based on the Court’s review of the filed documents in this case, no
additional documents have been filed to show whether Chukhyan’s escrow
transaction has completed and whether a payment of the remaining $60,000 has
been made.  
As such, the Court will order the parties to attend the hearing so that
it may discuss with the parties whether the payment has been made, whether the
escrow transaction was successfully completed, or whether additional time may
be necessary.  Further, if the escrow
transaction has not been completed, then the Court will inquire whether it would
be more prudent to continue the hearing on this motion following Ms. Kakoian’s proposed
second motion to enforce the settlement (regarding the final October 8, 2023
payment) so that there will be one judgment, as opposed to two judgments
entered.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
The Court is inclined to grant Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Mariam Kakoian’s to enforce the settlement agreement and enter judgment in the
amount of $50,000 against Defendants/Cross-Defendants Sona Chukhyan, George Plavjian, Ruzana Badeer, and Kiane
Shabazian.  
The parties are ordered to attend the hearing
so that the Court may make inquiries about the matter, as more fully stated in
the Court’s order. 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant shall
provide notice of this order.   
Warning regarding electronic appearances:  All
software for remote or electronic appearances is subject to malfunction based
on system weakness and human error, which can originate from any of the
multiple parties participating each morning. The seamless operation of the
Court’s electronic appearance software is dependent on numerous inconstant and
fluctuating factors that may impact whether you, or other counsel or the Court
itself can be heard in a particular case. Not all these factors are within the
control of the courtroom staff. For example, at times, the system traps
participants in electronic purgatories where they cannot be heard and where the
courtroom staff is not aware of their presence. If you call the courtroom,
please be respectful of the fact that a court hearing is going on, and that the
courtroom staff is doing their best to use an imperfect system. If it is
truly important to you to be heard, please show up to the courtroom in the
normal way. Parking is free or reasonable in Burbank.
 
 


