 Case Number:  24NNCV03249    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



DENNIS MARTINEZ SALAZAR, et al.,
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
SUDHESHNA
   MIRYALA,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV03249
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   13, 2024




 


 


 



 
Mitchell
 P. Beck seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for plaintiffs
 Dennis Martinez Salazar and Maria Martinez Salazar (collectively,
 “Plaintiffs”) on grounds that the
 attorney-client relationship has deteriorated. The hearing on this
motion was previously continued so that counsel could file revised proposed
orders. Counsel filed revised proposed orders on November 4, 2024.
Absent a showing of resulting
prejudice, an attorney’s request for withdrawal should be granted. (People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406.) The Court notes that trial in
this matter is not yet set and no prejudice will result from granting these
motions. Accordingly, the unopposed motions to be relieved are GRANTED and
effective upon filing a proof of service showing service of this Order on Plaintiffs
and all parties who have appeared.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 13th
day of November 2024     
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 