 Case Number:  23STCV11174    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
May 17, 2023, Plaintiff A.M. (“Plaintiff”), a minor, by and through his
guardian ad litem, W.R., filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles
Unified School District (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for negligence based on
Government Code sections 815.2, 815.6 and 820 and negligent hiring,
supervision, training and retention based on Government Code sections 815.2,
815.6 and 820. 
On
July 21, 2023, the Court appointed Wendy Rolgan to serve as A.M.’s guardian ad
litem. 
On
March 7, 2024, Defendant filed a combined demurrer and a motion to strike, to
be heard on April 4, 2024.  (For future reference, Defendant should file separate motions.)  On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
March 27, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. The Court continued the hearing on the
demurrer to April 30, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 14, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer and to strike the complaint. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer and deny the motion to strike. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have
the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the same
parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it cannot
be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or
is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section
411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)   
B.       Motion to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) 
“The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading of from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)  “Where the motion to strike is based on
matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or
453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be specified in the notice of
motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the court may
otherwise permit.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) 
“In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in
isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
C.      Claims
against a public entity 
“ ‘Ordinarily, negligence may be pleaded in general
terms and the plaintiff need not specify the precise act or omission alleged to
constitute the breach of duty. [Citation.] However, because under the Tort
Claims Act all governmental tort liability is based on statute, the general
rule that statutory causes of action must be pleaded with particularity is
applicable. Thus, “to state a cause of action against a public entity, every
fact material to the existence of its statutory liability must be pleaded with
particularity.” ’ ”  (Lopez v.
Southern California Rapid Transit District (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795 (Lopez), quoting
Peter W. v. San Francisco Unified Sch. Dist. (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 814,
819.) "Lopez does not stand for the proposition that a plaintiff must specifically plead, before undertaking discovery, the identity of a government employee whose alleged negligence is made the basis for vicarious liability under [Government Code] section 815.2, and we doubt such an impracticable rule would be consistent with the legislative intent in enacting that statute."  (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872 (C.A.)DISCUSSION 
  A.      Complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following on information and belief: 
On
or around October 12, 2022, and October 19, 2022, another student assaulted,
battered, and stabbed Plaintiff on the campus of John Marshall High School.
  Defendant had prior notice of the existence of
inappropriate, harassing, violent conduct occurring at John Marshall High
School or the dangerous propensities of the student assailant and was therefore
aware of the potential danger and direct threat to John Marshall High School
students including Plaintiff. Despite this knowledge, Defendant failed to take
reasonable and appropriate measures to protect students, including Plaintiff,
from foreseeable harm.  (Complaint ¶¶
6-7.) 
B.
      Defendant’s demurrer 
          Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to plead
sufficient facts to show that Defendant breached a duty of care.  According to Defendant, Plaintiff has not “specif[ied]
what act or omission [Defendant] committed which fell below the standard of
care and led to the harm alleged.”  For
example, the complaint’s first cause of action alleges that “Defendants failed
to carefully supervise, monitor, and observe Plaintiff and the violent
attackers in light of their age and their need for supervision in a school
setting while on campus during school hours.”  (Complaint ¶ 34.)  These allegations are inadequate, Defendant
asserts, because they provide no detail about the actions or omissions which
resulted in the breach, such as who committed a breach, when the breach
occurred, and how it led to Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Similarly,
Defendant contends that the second cause of action fails to allege facts
showing “which employees were negligently hired, screened, selected, retained
or supervised, how the negligence allegedly occurred, or how it led to
Plaintiff’s injuries.”  
On
both claims, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has failed to plead facts
showing causation. 
Plaintiff
responds that the complaint sufficiently alleges breach of duty and causation by
alleging that Defendant’s employees failed to act reasonably in supervising
staff and students and that students and staff were unsupervised and alone, leading
to Plaintiff’s injuries. (Opposition p. 5, citing Complaint ¶¶ 7, 13–18, 22–26,
28, 34, 37, 39, 47, & 49–51.) 
The
complaint alleges facts showing that Defendant violated its duty to supervise
students and staff and that, as a result, Plaintiff was attacked and injured. Plaintiff
is not required to present, in the complaint, the evidence it will present to
support these allegations at trial.  (See C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 872 [“the
District cites no statute or decision requiring a plaintiff to specify at the
pleading stage which of the defendant’s employees committed the negligent
acts or omissions for which a public entity is allegedly liable under
[Government Code] section 815.2” (original emphasis)]; ibid. [“to survive
a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s
proof need not be alleged”]; Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:1124, pp.
6-39 to 6-40 [“ ‘Ultimate facts’ are those that raise the issues on which the
right to recover depends – i.e., the essential elements of the cause of
action.  All the facts that are material
to the cause of action – i.e., the facts that make a difference to the outcome
of the case – must be alleged [citation]. 
[Citations.]  By contrast,
allegations of unnecessary detail and generalized argument may be objectionable
as ‘evidentiary’ pleading and ‘legal conclusion,’ respectively”].) 
The
Court concludes that the complaint pleads with sufficient particularity facts showing breach of duty and
causation. 
The Court overrules the demurrer. 
          C.      Defendant’s
motion to strike 
1.    Government Code section 815.6 
Defendant
argues that the complaint fails to plead a mandatory duty that would support a
claim under Government Code section 815.6.  Government Code section 815.6 provides: 
“Where a public entity is under a mandatory duty
imposed by an enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a
particular kind of injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that
kind proximately caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public
entity establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the
duty.” 
(Gov. Code, § 815.6.)  Courts will
find a mandatory duty “only if the enactment ‘affirmatively imposes the duty
and provides implementing guidelines.’ ” (Guzman v. County of Monterey
(2009) 46 Cal.4th 887, 889, quoting O'Toole v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 488, 510.) 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege the existence of a mandatory duty
because Plaintiff has not cited a statute that imposes a duty to keep students
safe. 
In
response, Plaintiff argues that she has alleged that Defendant failed to
discharge mandatory duties based on Education Code section 44662 and California
Code of Regulations, Title 5, section 5531. 
Although
Plaintiff refers to Education Code section 44662, the statute on which Plaintiff
appears to rely is Education Code section 44807, which provides in part that “[e]very
teacher in the public schools shall hold pupils to a strict account for their
conduct on the way to and from school, on the playgrounds, or during recess.”  (Educ. Code, § 44807.) 
In Hoff
v. Vacaville Unified School Dist. (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925 (Hoff), the
plaintiff asserted a negligence claim against a school district, alleging the
school district breached its duty to supervise the student who injured the
plaintiff. [1]  (Hoff, supra, 19 Cal.4th at p.
930.)  The Supreme Court rejected the
plaintiff’s argument that he could rely on Education Code section 44807 to
state a claim directly against the district under Government Code section 815.6,
reasoning: “By its terms, Education Code section 44807 requires only ‘teacher[s]’
to hold pupils to a strict account for their conduct; it does not purport to
impose a mandatory duty more broadly on any public entity.” [2]
 (Id. at p. 939.) 
  The parties have not provided a copy of
California Code of Regulations, Title 5, section 5531, but they agree it
provides that “[a]ll social activities of pupils, wherever held, if conducted
under the name or auspices of a public school or of any class or organization
thereof, shall be under the direct supervision of certificated employees of a
district or an office of a county superintendent of schools.”  The Court finds that this enactment does not
impose a mandatory duty because it does not appear to provide implementing
guidelines. 
Because
Plaintiff has not identified an enactment that imposes a mandatory duty and
provides implementing guidelines, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s claims under Government Code section 815.6. 
2.    Defendant’s request to strike “conclusory” statements 
Defendant
asks the Court to strike “conclusory” statements alleged in the complaint based
on information and belief. 
For
the reasons discussed above in connection with Defendants’ demurrer, the Court
denies Defendant’s motion to strike the “conclusory” statements in Plaintiff’s
complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
demurrer to Plaintiff A.M.’s complaint. 

The Court GRANTS in part Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District’s motion to strike and strikes Plaintiff A.M.’s claims based on
Government Code section 815.6 with 30 days leave to amend.  In all other
respects, the Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
motion to strike. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days of the date of the hearing.

