 Case Number:  23STCV25605    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 19, 2023, Plaintiff Carmen Padilla (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Brixmor Montebello Plaza LP, Brixmor Montebello Plaza GP,
and Does 1-50 for negligence and premises liability. 
On
November 20, 2023, Defendants Brixmor Montebello Plaza, L.P. (erroneously sued
as Brixmor Montebello Plaza LP) and Brixmor Montebello Plaza GP filed an
answer. 
On
February 8, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant Brixmor Montebello Plaza GP
without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for trial preference to be heard on
April 30, 2024. On April 17, 2024, Defendant Brixmor Montebello Plaza, L.P. (“Defendant”)
filed an opposition.  On April 25, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 17, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to grant a trial preference and specially set the trial no later
than 120 days from the ruling on this motion. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
DEFENDANT’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
          Overruled 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 36 provides in part: 
“(a) A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: 
“(1) The party has a substantial interest in the
action as a whole. 
“(2) The health of the party is such that a preference
is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation. 
* * *
“(c) Unless the court otherwise orders: 
“(1) A party may file and serve a motion for
preference supported by a declaration of the moving party that all essential
parties have been served with process or have appeared. 
“(2) At any time during the pendency of the action, a
party who reaches 70 years of age may file and serve a motion for preference. 
* * *
“(f) Upon the granting of such a motion for
preference, the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days
from that date and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the
granting of the motion for preference except for physical disability of a party
or a party’s attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record.  Any continuance shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one
continuance for physical disability may be granted to any party.” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 36, subds. (a), (c), (f).) 
          “An affidavit submitted in support of a
motion for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by the
attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as
to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not
admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36.5.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
asks for trial preference because she is 86 years old, is in declining health,
and has a substantial interest in her action for personal
injuries.  To support the motion,
Plaintiff has submitted a declaration from her counsel stating in part: 
“7. Based on my discussions with [Plaintiff], I am
informed and believe that a trial preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing her interest in the litigation. At the age of 86, she runs a
heightened risk of illness and other negative health effects. These conditions
make it highly likely that she will experience deteriorated health, which will
limit her ability to meaningfully participate in a trial, including testifying
and aiding me in preparation. [Plaintiff’s] health threatens her ability to not
only effectively participate in a trial but to enjoy the fruits of an judgment
that may come her way. 
“8. Based upon information known to me and
interactions with [Plaintiff], it is my belief that her medical diagnosis and
prognosis mandates trial preference to avoid prejudicing her interests in this
litigation.” 
(Kilday dec. ¶¶ 7-8.)  Plaintiff has also submitted a declaration in
which she states her age and attaches a copy of an orthopedic surgery inpatient
consult by Gregory Northrup, M.D., dated August 23, 2023.[1]
 Defendant
opposes the motion, arguing that “no medical necessity exists to force
Defendant into an expedited trial schedule.”  (Opposition p. 5.)  According to Defendant: 
 “Plaintiff has
not demonstrated through these declarations that her health is such that trial
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in this litigation,
which is required under California Code of Civil Procedure § 36 (a). While
Plaintiff’s counsel alludes to Plaintiff’s past medical history, Plaintiff has
provided no evidence as to her current prognosis. The Declaration of Casey E.
Kilday fails to state that Plaintiff’s current medical condition is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interest in this
litigation. Instead, attorney Kilday only declares his non-medical opinion as
to Plaintiff’s potential of developing ill health in the future. Additionally,
attorney Kilday disingenuously declares that, Plaintiff’s “heightened risk of
illness and other negative health effects . . . will limit her ability to
meaningfully participate in a trial, including testifying and aiding me in
preparation.” [Citations.] As discussed above, in the February 7, 2024,
Application and the March 22, 2024, Application [for appointment of a guardian ad litem for Plaintiff], Attorney Kilday declared that
Plaintiff lacks legal competency due to a stroke that she suffered in 2011,
thereby establishing that Plaintiff, prior to the Incident, was unable to
meaningfully participate in trial preparation or to testify at trial.  Additionally, Plaintiff presents no objective medical evidence or opinions that
necessitate a trial preference. Hence, there is no evidence that Plaintiff’s
health, other than her pre-existing lack of legal competency, for which a
Guardian Ad Litem will be appointed, is such that trial preference is necessary
to avoid prejudicing Plaintiff’s interest in this litigation.”  (Opposition p. 6.) 
Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration provides adequate support for the motion.[2]
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)    The Court finds that Plaintiff has a
substantial interest in the action and her health is such that a preference is
necessary to avoid prejudicing her interest in the litigation.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).) The possible appointment of Plaintiff’s son as her
guardian ad litem does not change this result. 
The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Carmen Padilla's motion for trial preference. 
The Court vacates the current trial date and sets the trial for August
28, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The
Final Status Conference is set for August 14, 2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department
28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  Discovery and related dates will be based on the new trial date.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.

