 Case Number:  22STCV29533    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  30 CECILIA GOMEZ vs LOREN QUEZADATENTATIVEDefendant's Motion to Reclassify as Limited Civil Jurisdiction Case is DENIED. Plaintiff to give notice.Defendant Loren Quezada’s motion to compel responses to special interrogatories, set one, is GRANTED. Plaintiff Cecilia Gomez is ordered to provide verified responses without objections to the discovery requests within 20 days of this order. Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED. Defendant to give notice.Legal Standard“If a party files a motion for reclassification after the time for that party to amend that party’s initial pleading or to respond to a complaint, the court shall grant the motion and enter an order for reclassification only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:(1) the case is incorrectly classified.(2) the moving party shows good cause for not seeking reclassification earlier.”(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 403.040(b).)The court can transfer an action to limited jurisdiction if “it becomes clear that the matter will ‘necessarily’ result in a verdict below the superior court jurisdictional amount.” (Walker v. Superior Court (1992) 53 Cal. 3d 257, 262.)The standard requires a “high level of certainty” that a damage award will not exceed jurisdictional limits.“The court explained: ‘This standard requires¿a high level of certainty¿that a damage award will not exceed $25,000 and is not satisfied by a finding that such an award is merely 'unlikely' or 'not reasonably probable.' " (Id. at p. 269, italics added.) Consequently, in deciding this issue, the trial court is¿not permitted to determine the merits of the plaintiff's claim(s); its sole inquiry is whether ‘the verdict will 'necessarily' fall short of the superior court jurisdictional requirement of a claim exceeding $25,000." (Singer v. Superior Court (1999) 70 Cal. App. 4th 1315, 1320.)DiscussionReclassificationDefendant moves to reclassify the action as a limited jurisdiction action arguing that Plaintiff has only incurred $3,885 in medical bills. Further, Defendant contends that Plaintiff’s property damage has already been paid, and she is not claiming loss of income. Thus, her damages will not exceed $25,000.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that her current medical damages, loss of use, and property damages exceed the jurisdictional amount and her medical treatment is ongoing. Plaintiff argues she has not accepted the payment for property damage from her insurer. Plaintiff also argues she intends to make a wage loss claim.The Court also notes that Plaintiff has a claim for general damages. Based on the evidence, and in light of Plaintiff’s ongoing medical treatment, it does not appear to a “legal certainty” that Plaintiff cannot recover more than the jurisdictional amount.Motion to CompelOn September 14, 2023, Defendant served Special Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff. (Leach Decl., Exh. A.) Plaintiff has yet to provide any responses to the discovery.As Defendant properly served the request for discovery, and Plaintiff has failed to provide responses, the Court finds Defendant is entitled to a court order directing Plaintiff to provide verified responses without objections to the discovery request served on Plaintiff. Therefore, the motion is granted.Defendant also request sanctions. Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.290(c) mandates sanctions when the motion is unsuccessfully opposed. Here, as the motion was not opposed, the request for sanctions is denied.Defendant’s request for sanctions under CCP section 2023.010 for the misuse of discovery is also denied, as "sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.)