  Case Number:  24AVCV00122    Hearing Date:   January 21, 2025    Dept:  A14 Background  This is a motor vehicle – personal injury action. Plaintiff Drion Richard Graham (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about March 21, 2022, at Challenger Way near Avenue J-14, Lancaster, CA 93535 (the “Subject Location”) Defendants HP Communications, Inc. (“HP Communications”) and Romertorres (“Romertorres” and collectively “Defendants”) owned, entrusted, maintained, drove, and operated a certain white 2017 Ford F250 with Florida license number NTGI09; and Romertorres caused the collision with Plaintiff’s vehicle by inattentively, carelessly, and negligently operating the motor vehicle at an excessive rate of speed under the circumstances, failed to observe due care and precaution and to maintain proper control of the Defendants’ vehicle, failed to keep proper lookout for other vehicles lawfully on the highway, and failed to exercise reasonable care in the operation of Defendants’ vehicle. Plaintiff alleges that the incident resulted in injuries and related damages.  On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging two causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2) Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision.  On April 18, 2024, HP Communications filed its Answer.  On April 24, 2024, Romertorres filed his Answer.  On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions (“RFAs”) admitted. This motion has not been heard yet.   On October 21, 2024, Greenwich Insurance Company (“Greenwich”) filed an Ex Parte Application, seeking leave to intervene or to advance the hearing date for its Motion for Leave to Intervene. On the same date, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to this motion.   On October 22, 2024, the Ex Parte Application was granted in part and Greenwich was informed that it may set a Motion for Leave to Intervene for hearing on January 21, 2025.  On December 19, 2024, Greenwich filed its Motion for Leave to Intervene.  On January 06, 2025, Plaintiff filed his Opposition.  On January 13, 2025, Greenwich filed its Reply.   -----  Legal Standard  Standard for Leave to Intervene– Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §387(b) provides that, “An intervention takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action or proceeding between other persons by… [j]oining a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint[,] [u]niting with a defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff[,] [or] [d]emanding anything adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant.”¿ ¿ “A nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or ex parte application [which] shall include a copy of the proposed complaint in intervention . . . and set forth the grounds upon which intervention rests.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §387(c).)¿ ¿ In the case of intervention as a right, “[t]he court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if… [either] [a] provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene[,] [or] [t]he person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §387(d)(1)(A)-(B).)¿ ¿ In the case of permissive intervention, “[t]he court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §387(d)(2).)¿ ¿ “If leave to intervene is granted by the court, the intervenor shall do both of the following: (1) Separately file the complaint in intervention, answer in intervention, or both. (2) Serve a copy of the order, or notice of the court's decision or order, granting leave to intervene and the pleadings in intervention as follows: (A) A party to the action or proceeding who has not yet appeared shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2. (B) A party who has appeared in the action or proceeding, whether represented by an attorney or not represented by an attorney, shall be served in the same manner for service of summons pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2, or in the manner provided by Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1010) of Title 14 of Part 2. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 387(e).)¿   -----  Discussion  Application – Greenwich presents that Romertorres1 terminated his employment with HP Communications in June of 2024, cease4d communication with HP Communications and his counsel thereafter, and purportedly relocated to El Salvador. Greenwich further presents that the subject incident occurred within the policy period in which Greenwich insured HP Communications and HP Communications employed Romertorres. Greenwhich highlights Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(3) and Cal. Ins. Code § 11580 as the legal basis for the right to intervene and argues that (1) it has a direct and immediate interest in this litigation as it may be required to satisfy any judgment entered against Defendants, (2) Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted is pending before the Court and it is unlikely that Romertorres will participate in further discovery or defending his interest, and (3) while Romertorres is not a named insured, the policy defines an “insured” as “anyone [else] while using with your permission a covered ‘auto’ you own, hire or borrow...” and, as such, Greenwich may be liable for any judgment against Romertorres in this litigation. (Decl. Cecilia K. Leinewber at ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Greenwich contends that its intervention will not enlarge issues in this litigation and the reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition due to the prejudice that Greenwich and Defendants will face should Romertorres fail to respond to the propounded discovery. Greenwich has included a proposed Answer.  The gravamen of Plaintiff’s Opposition is that Cal. Ins. Code § 11580 does not form the basis for intervention as Romertorres has already appeared, answered, and used discovery tools to litigate this case against Plaintiff. Plaintiff presents that all of Greenwich’s cited cases are distinguished as they hold that intervention is only appropriate when an insured is barred by the law from defending against a lawsuit, Romertorres is not Greenwich’s insured, and HP Communication’s interests align with Romertorres as they are both being sued for the First Cause of Action and, as such, Romertorres’ interests are adequately represented by HP Communication. Plaintiff highlights that there is no default in this action, so intervention is impermissible. Plaintiff then distinguishes Greenwich’s cited cases from this action at hand. Plaintiff further argues that Cal. Ins. Code § 11580 does not shift the burden, any attempt by Greenwich to contact Romertorres is flimsy, and Plaintiff will suffer prejudice if this intervention is granted as there is no legal basis and it is a misuse of intervention to circumvent the discovery statutes. Greenwich presents that Romertorres is an insured under HP Communication’s policy and Plaintiff’s attempt to distinguish Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383 (“Reliance”) is a distinction without difference for the purposes of this motion. Greenwich refutes that Romertorres propounded discovery on Plaintiff, attaching exhibits to show that written discovery was withdrawn. Greenwich argues that it is permitted to intervene as Romertorres was an insured by way of his employment and Romertorres’ interests are not adequately represented by HP Communication because HP Communication cannot respond to written discovery or appear at a deposition for Romertorres. Greenwhich emphasizes that flimsy is not a legal standard and it will suffer prejudice if the intervention is not granted.   The Court notes that Plaintiff has an argument that intervention would enlarge the issues due to one section of Greenwich’s proposed Answer. This is no longer at issue as Greenwich has agreed to omit the section Plaintiff takes issue with. (See Reply 5:11-19.)   Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 387(d) provides:  (1) The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. (B) The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties. (2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.  Greenwich is moving under both Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(1)(A) and (B).  Regarding Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(1)(A), Greenwich utilizes Cal. Ins. Code § 11580 as the basis. Reliance provides, in relevant part:  An insurer's right to intervene in an action against the insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a result of Insurance Code section 11580. Section 11580 provides that a judgment creditor may proceed directly against any liability insurance covering the defendant, and obtain satisfaction of the judgment up to the amount of the policy limits. (See Croskey et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Insurance Litigation (The Rutter Group) P 15:1028 et seq. (rev. # 1, 1999).) Thus, where the insurer may be subject to a direct action under Insurance Code section 11580 by a judgment creditor who has or will obtain a default judgment in a third party action against the insured, intervention is appropriate. (Clemmer v. Hartford Insurance Co. (1978) 22 Cal. 3d 865, 884-885 [151 Cal. Rptr. 285, 587 P.2d 1098].) The insurer may either intervene in that action prior to judgment or move under Code of Civil Procedure section 473 to set aside the default judgment. (22 Cal. 3d at pp. 884-885.) Where an insurer has failed to intervene in the underlying action or to move to set aside the default judgment, the insurer is bound by the default judgment. ( Id. at p. 886.)  (Reliance, supra, 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386-87.)  Here, a default is not at issue as Romertorres responded. Further, the exceptions listed in Reliance and the analysis provided by Reliance regarding a suspended corporation are not applicable to the facts of this case. (See id. at 387-89.) Further, it is unclear that Cal. Ins. Code §11580 applies. While Greenwich has stated that Romertorres is considered its insured under the policy, it directs the Court and the parties to Exhibit A in which the exceptions as to who is an insured are cut off. (See Exh. A.) As such, the Court cannot make a determination as to whether Romertorres is considered an insured under the policy that was at play during the incident.   Regarding Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(1)(B), the Court believes that Greenwich’s interests are adequately protected by HP Communications as HP Communications is Greenwich’s insured party.  Accordingly, the Motion for Intervention is DENIED.   -----  Conclusion  Greenwich Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to Intervene is DENIED.