  Case Number:  BC714514    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  74 Lawson v.
Los Angeles Unified School District et al. 
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District’s Motion for Clarification
 
BACKGROUND 
             This motion arises out of an employment
dispute between plaintiff Tabitha Lawson (Plaintiff) and the Los Angeles
Unified School District (Defendant).
            On
September 14, 2023, the parties stipulated to filing cross-motions for summary
adjudication under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(t).  On December 6, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication and denied Defendant’s motion for
summary adjudication. On February 1, 2024, Defendant filed a writ of mandate
which the Court of Appeal denied. On February 9, 2024, Defendant filed a
petition for review from the Court of Appeal denial which the Supreme Court
denied. 
            On
November 16, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for reconsideration labeled as a
motion for clarification. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Defendant’s
motion for “clarification” is in substance a motion for reconsideration of the
court’s ruling. (Lennar Homes of Cal., Inc. v. Stephens (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 673, 681-82.) A court may grant a motion for reconsideration under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 based on “new or different facts,
circumstances, or law.”  A motion for
reconsideration must be filed within ten days of service of written notice of
entry of the order upon the party.
            
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
filed a motion for clarification requesting that (1) the court clarify which
issues and causes of action remain active for purposes of trial and (2) whether
Defendant is permitted to present affirmative defenses that were not discussed
in the cross-motions for summary adjudication or the court’s ruling on those
cross-motions. A motion for reconsideration must be filed within ten days of
the order; it has been nine months.  Moreover,
a motion for reconsideration must be based on new or different facts,
circumstances, or law; Defendant does not allege any new or different facts,
circumstances, or law. Finally, Defendant does not cite any authority
obligating (or permitting) the court to issue - as Defendant requests - an
advisory opinion about issues not discussed in either cross-motion for summary
adjudication.
CONCLUSION
            The
Court denies Defendant’s Motion for Clarification.
            Defendant
shall give notice.