  Case Number:  22STCV16874    Hearing Date:   February 2, 2024    Dept:  74 Stephanie Salto Soto v. Liberty
Global, LLC, et al.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Protective
Order and Request for Sanctions 
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On May 20, 2022, Plaintiff Stephanie
Salto Soto (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendant Liberty Global, LLC,
Ingenious, LLC, Adam Alvardo, and Marc Lelah (Defendants).       In the complaint, Plaintiff alleges the
following causes of action: discrimination; harassment; failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; failure to engage in a good faith
interactive process; failure to provide reasonable accommodations; negligent
supervision and retention; assault; retaliation; wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; and declaratory judgment.
            On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion for a protective order.
LEGAL STANDARD
            “When an inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically
stored information has been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been
directed, and any other party or affected person, may promptly move for a
protective order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (a).) 
            “The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include […]
[t]hat the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling be made only on specified
terms and conditions.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060, subd. (b)(4).) 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff seeks a protective order
limiting dissemination of Plaintiff’s medical records concerning her pregnancy,
in addition to a third party’s medical records, that Plaintiff has agreed to
produce in discovery. (Gomez Decl., ¶ 2; Ex. 2, § 7, ¶¶ 4, 8; Ex. 3; Ex. 6;
Motion, p. 5:6-9.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration details his efforts to discuss the proposed protective order with Defendants’ counsel from
February 27, 2023, to September 11, 2023. (Gomez Decl., ¶¶ 2-8.) Defendants appear
to misapprehend the difference between Plaintiff putting her health at issue by
filing her lawsuit versus limiting public dissemination of confidential medical
records. The court finds unpersuasive each of Defendants’ argument against a protective
order for those records. The court grants Plaintiff’s motion for a protective
order.
            The
court grants Plaintiff’s counsel’s request for sanctions in full because he is
the prevailing party and Defendants lack substantial justification for opposing
the protective order. Plaintiff’s counsel’s proposed hourly rate is reasonable,
and he has substantiated his request with an hourly breakdown of work
performed. (Gomez Decl., ¶¶ 9-12.) Thus, the court will award Plaintiff’s
counsel $2,324.77 in attorney fees ($450 x 5 hours + $74.77 in costs). 
CONCLUSION
                The court grants Plaintiff’s motion
for a protective order. The court orders Defendants’ counsel to pay Plaintiff’s
counsel $2,324.77 in attorney fees by February 12, 2024.
                Plaintiff shall give notice.