 Case Number:  24STLC00596    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  26   Sandford  v. TransUnion, LLC, et al.1. [Motion to Compel Discovery -  Off Calendar - Moving defendant TransUnion  was dismissed
on 4/25/24].2. DEMURRER(CCP §§ 430.10, et seq.) TENTATIVE RULING:    Defendant Experian Information Services, Inc.’s Demurrer to  the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.     ANALYSIS:   On January  26, 2024, Plaintiff William Sandford (“Plaintiff”)  filed this action for violation of California Consumer Credit Reporting  Agencies Act (“CCRAA”) against Experian Information  Services, Inc. (“Defendant”). On March 19, 2024, Defendant filed the  instant Demurrer to the Complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition on March 25,  2024 and Defendant replied on May 2, 2024.    Discussion   Allegations in  the Complaint   The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff  is a consumer and Defendant is a consumer credit reporting agency as defined by  Cal. Civ. Code § 1785.3. (Compl., ¶¶5-6.) Multiple times in 2023, Plaintiff  gave notice to Defendant that Plaintiff disputes the accuracy and completeness  of derogatory information reported on their consumer credit report. (Id.  at ¶10.) This “derogatory information includes without limitation information  on alleged debts as well as mistakes in Plaintiff’s personal identifying  information (collectively, “the alleged debt”).” (Id. at ¶11.) Plaintiff  provided Defendant with all the necessary information to identify the alleged  debt but Defendant failed to conduct an investigation. (Id. at ¶¶15-16.)     Demurrer to Complaint   The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as required  by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Meet and Confer Decl., filed 03/19/24,  ¶¶2-4.) Defendant demurs to the Complaint for failure to allege  sufficient facts. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., §430.10, subd. (e).) Specifically,  Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to plead sufficient facts regarding an  “inaccuracy” on his credit file under the CCRAA. The Complaint does not specify  which debts or information is inaccurate or in what way they are inaccurate,  which is insufficient to allege an inaccuracy, which is a necessary element of  the claim. In support of the Demurrer, Defendant cites Carvalho v. Equifax  Info. Servs., LLC (9th Cir. 2020) 629 F.3d 876, as there is no California  state case that considers whether a plaintiff must demonstrate that a disputed  item is inaccurate to obtain relief for a violation of the CCRAA. In Carvalho,  the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held that the CCRAA’s reinvestigation  provision requires a plaintiff to plead and prove an actual inaccuracy. (Carvalho  v. Equifax Info. Servs., LLC (9th Cir. 2020) 629 F.3d 876, 890.)    Plaintiff’s allegations are  insufficient to demonstrate an actual inaccuracy with respect to “the alleged  debt.” The Complaint contends there are inaccuracies regarding alleged debts  and Plaintiff’s personal information but provides no other information  regarding what specific debt or personal information is inaccurate. The  Complaint also alleges that Defendant was provided with the necessary  information to identify “the alleged debt” but then fails to include that  identifying information in the pleading. Plaintiff’s opposition is also  confusing and mischaracterizes the Demurrer. First, Plaintiff argues that the  Demurrer is brought on the grounds that the Complaint must aver that the item  of information he disputed actually was incomplete or inaccurate. This is only  a partial statement of the Demurrer which is also brought on the grounds that  the information must be sufficiently identified. The opposition then  confusingly refers to non-existent arguments in the Demurrer regarding  defamation and Plaintiff’s California residency.    Accordingly, the Court finds the  Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for  violation of the reinvestigation provisions of the CCRAA. However, Plaintiff  has alleged that the necessary facts to make such an allegation are in his  possession so leave to amend will be allowed. (See Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)   Conclusion   Defendant Experian Information Services, Inc.’s Demurrer to  the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND.     Moving party to give notice. 