 Case Number:  23LBCV00207    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Michelle Sampson filed this action against Defendant,
Theresa Gereaux for libel, slander, and defamation arising out of statements
made during the course of the parties’ employment-based relationship.  Plaintiff filed her complaint on
2/03/23.  Defendant filed an answer on
3/16/23.
 
2.    
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
a.    
Initial Note
Defendant filed
this motion on 1/26/24, setting it for hearing on 8/01/24.  On 2/16/24, at Defendant’s request, the Court
advanced the motion for hearing on 4/30/24. 
Defendant gave notice of the ruling on 2/20/24.  To date, Plaintiff has not filed opposition
to the motion.  The Court will not
consider untimely opposition to the motion. 

b.    
Standard on Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings  
CCP §438 states, in relevant
part:  “(b)(1) A party may move for
judgment on the pleadings. . . . (c)(1) The motion provided for in this section
may only be made on one of the following grounds:  (A) If the moving party is a plaintiff, that
the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of action
against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint. 
(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either of the following
conditions exist: . . . . (ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”  
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings “has the purpose and effect of a general demurrer.”  (Smiley v. Citibank (S.D.), N.A. (1995) 11
Cal. 4th 138, 146 (citation omitted)). 
“[T]he trial court generally confines itself to the complaint and
accepts as true all material facts alleged therein.  As appropriate, however, it may extend its
consideration to matters that are subject to judicial notice.  In this, it performs essentially the same
task that it would undertake in ruling on a general demurrer.” (Id. (citations
omitted)).
 
c.     Meet
and Confer
CCP §439 requires a party moving
for judgment on the pleadings to meet and confer prior to filing the
motion.  Defense Counsel declares she
sent two meet and confer letters to Plaintiff, both of which asked Plaintiff to
contact her to set up a time to meet and confer telephonically.  Plaintiff did not respond to either
letter.  Defendant therefore satisfied
the meet and confer requirement prior to filing the motion.  
 
d.     Analysis
Plaintiff, at ¶7
of her complaint, indicates she is suing for defamation, libel (sic), and
slander.  
 
Defamation is an
invasion of the interest in reputation. It may be libel (written) or slander
(spoken).  The tort involves (a) a
publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d) unprivileged, and that
(e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special damage.  (Civil Code §§45, 46; Rest.2d, Torts §§558,
559; see Smith v. Maldonado (1999) 72 Cal.A.4th 637, 645.)  
 
Plaintiff, at ¶4
of her complaint, provides details concerning a substitute teaching assignment
she was hired for at West High School. 
Notably, nothing in ¶4 indicates Defendant said or wrote anything about
Plaintiff in connection with the assignment. 
At ¶5, Plaintiff alleges, “Defendant has written falsehoods and told
lies in an effort to get Plaintiff fired.” 
Plaintiff fails, however, to allege what Defendant said, what Defendant
wrote, to whom the statements were made, or any other details about the statements.  
 
Absent details
about the alleged publication(s), the complaint fails to state a cause of
action.  The motion for judgment on the
pleadings is therefore granted.  
 
e.    
Leave to Amend
It is not up to
the Court to figure out how the complaint can be amended to state a cause of
action.  Rather, the burden is on the
plaintiff to show in what manner he or she can amend the complaint, and how
that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.  Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349;
Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.
 
A plaintiff may
not amend as a matter of right, and in order to be in a position to complain
upon appeal of an abuse of discretion in sustaining a demurrer without leave to
amend, he must ask permission to amend, unless it is made to appear that he had
no opportunity to ask such permission. 
Williams v. Hinckley (1930) 109 Cal.App. 574, 576.
 
In light of the
lack of opposition, Plaintiff has necessarily failed to show how she would
amend if given leave to do so.  The
motion is therefore granted without leave to amend.
 
Defendant is
ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   