 Case Number:  20LBCP00248    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
On 10/16/20, the Labor Commissioner commenced 20LBCP00248 by filing a
petition to have the Clerk enter judgment based on the final order of the Labor
Commissioner.  The same day, the Clerk
entered judgment.  20LBCP00249 and
20LBCP00239 were commenced in a similar manner; notably, the parties refer to
the three actions as “related,” but there is no official order deeming them
related.  This order applies equally to
each of the three actions on calendar today.
 
The Labor Commissioner commenced the actions by way of petition.  The petitions were filed on behalf of the
real party in interest, Sarbjeet Singh. 
The petitions sought to have judgment entered against the respondents,
including Baljeet Bansal (00248), Balwinder Kaur (00249), and SG Nanda Agency,
Inc. (00239).
On 5/10/23, the Court heard and denied Respondent, Bansal’s motion to
remove encumbrances.  The motion was made
on the ground that the judgment had been satisfied.  Specifically, he contended the parties
settled the action, and he had made all payments per the settlement.  Singh opposed the motion, taking the position
that the settlement payments were not timely, and that a provision in the settlement
made clear that the underlying labor commissions findings could be reduced to a
judgment in the event a settlement payment was not timely made.  
 
The Court denied the motion, finding that (a) there was no authority
presented in the moving papers in support of the relief sought, and (b) Bansal
had not given notice of the motion to the labor commissioner, and (c) Bansal
had not provided sufficient evidence establishing that all settlement payments
had been timely made.    
 
2.    
Applications to Set Aside Judgments
On 4/12/24, the labor commissioner filed applications to set aside the
judgments in each of the three above cases. 
The applications are denied for the following reasons:
 
First and foremost, there are no points and authorities with any of the
applications.  There is no notice of
motion, no statement of the grounds for the relief sought, and no authority
presented to support the relief sought.  
 
Second, the applications all consist solely of the Declaration of Max
Norris, an attorney with the labor commissioner’s office.  Norris declares that the judgments should be
set aside because it has been determined that the judgments were entered
erroneously, as the parties settled the maters with the settlement fully
consummated.  As noted above, whether or
not settlements have been fully consummated was the subject of prior court
proceedings.  Notably, Singh opposes the
applications.  The moving papers are
entirely devoid of evidence concerning the terms of the settlements, payments
on the settlements, etc.  Absent evidence
establishing that the judgments were erroneously entered, the Court cannot
grant the relief requested.
 
The applications are denied.  The
ruling is without prejudice to the labor commissioner’s right to file properly
noticed motions, with scheduled hearing dates, and including all relevant
evidence and authorities in support of the relief sought.  
 
The labor commissioner is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   