 Case Number:  23LBCV01474    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Carlos Freddis Peraza
filed this action against Defendant, Total Terminals International, LLC for
damages arising out of an automobile accident that occurred on Defendant’s
property.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Further Responses to RFAs
Plaintiff propounded RFAs on
Defendant and Defendant responded.  The
parties met and conferred, and Defendant served supplemental responses.  Plaintiff, believing the responses to remain
deficient, filed this motion to compel further responses.  
 
The RFAs that are at issue on this
motion are all variations on the same theme – each RFA asks Defendant to admit
that Plaintiff suffered a certain type of injury or damage as a result of the
subject collision.  Defendant, in its
initial responses, objected on the grounds that the RFAs called for expert
medical opinion, sought work product information, and was premature.  Defendant then went on to state that it could
neither admit nor deny the requests due to the status of discovery.  Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter, and
the letter contended the expert and work product objections lacked merit.  Defendant, after receiving the letter, served
supplemental responses.  The supplemental
responses omitted the expert and work product objections, but continued to
state the premature objection, and continued to substantively indicate the
responses could be neither admitted nor denied due to the status of discovery.  
 
Plaintiff filed this motion without
meeting and conferring after receiving the supplemental responses.  Defendant contends the motion should be
denied due to failure to meet and confer. 
Plaintiff, in reply, contends further meet and confer was not necessary
and would not have resolved the issues. 
Plaintiff contends he met and conferred after receiving the initial
responses, and the supplemental responses continued to include meritless
objections, such that further meet and confer was not necessary.  The problem with Plaintiff’s position is that
Plaintiff’s meet and confer correspondence, sent after receipt of the original
responses, did not mention the “premature” objection or the substantive
responses at all.  The meet and confer
letter mentioned only the expert and attorney work product objections.  Defendant, therefore, had no reason to
anticipate Plaintiff would take issue with the supplemental responses, which
omitted the only two objections Plaintiff had addressed in the meet and confer
correspondence.  
 
CCP §2033.290(b)(1) requires
parties to meet and confer prior to filing a motion to compel further responses
to RFAs.  Because Plaintiff failed to
meet and confer on the issue that forms the basis of this motion, the motion is
denied.
 
The Court notes that Defendant does
not seek imposition of sanctions with the opposition papers, and therefore no
sanctions are imposed.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   