  Case Number:  21STCP00295    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  82 Siry Investments, L.P., et al.                                     Case No. 21STCP00295
 
v.
                                                                    Hearing:
September 18, 2024
                                                                        Location:
Stanley Mosk Courthouse
                                                                                    Department:
82                                     
Saeed Farkhondehpour, et al.                            Judge: Stephen I. Goorvitch
                                     
 
[Tentative] Order Granting Receiver’s
Motion to Approve
Sale of Receivership Real Property
 
INTRODUCTION

 
            Court-appointed
receiver Blake Alsbrook (the “Receiver”) moves for an ordering to approve the
sale of certain real properties for a total purchase price of $7,250,000.  The real properties at issue are: (1) 350
South Los Angeles Street, Los Angeles, California 90013 (the “Los Angeles
Street Property”), and (2) 416-424 South Wall Street, Los Angeles, California
9003 (the “Wall Street Property”) (hereinafter, collectively, the “Properties”).  The motion is not opposed.  Cross-complainants/cross-defendants Mora Ben
Neman, Simon Neman, Brian Neman, and Jessical Kilburn filed a joinder to the
motion.  Plaintiffs filed a “partial
joinder” to the motion.  Good cause
having been shown, the motion is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 14, 2023, the court (Beckloff,
J.) appointed a receiver for the limited purpose of refinancing loans on
certain real properties, which were in default. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated February 14, 2023.)  Then, on March 29, 2024, the court (Beckloff,
J.) granted a motion for an order authorizing the Receiver to list and market
the Properties.  (See Court’s Minute
Order, dated March 29, 2024.)  
 
Thereafter, the Receiver retained the
Seymour Weinberger Group of Keller Williams Realty (the “Broker”) to market the
Properties.  (Id. ¶ 6.)  After active marketing of the Properties, the
Receiver received offers in the range of $3 million to $3.625 million for each
of the Properties.  (Id. ¶¶
8-9.)  After conferring with the Broker, the
Receiver entered a contract with a buyer (the “Buyer”), who made an offer of
$7,250,000 for both Properties, with $3.625 million allocated to each
property.  (Id. ¶ 10.)  The Receiver states: 
 
The proposed sale
is on an as-is/where-is basis, with no representations or warrantees made by
the Receiver, with all faults known and unknown, and with the payment of a 2%
commission to the Receiver’s broker, Seymour Weinberger Group, KS Commercial,
and the payment of a 2% commission to the Buyer’s broker.  The sale is also subject to overbidding at the
hearing on this Motion. 
 
(Motion
for Order Confirming Sale (“Mot.”) 2.)  The
Buyer has agreed to these terms.  (Alsbrook
Decl. ¶ 10 and Exh. 3-4.)  
 
On September 11, 2024, Plaintiffs Siry
Investment LP, Mohammed Siry, and Siry Brothers Partnership filed and served a partial
joinder in the motion.  Plaintiffs agree that
the properties should be sold and do not object to the purchase price.  However, Plaintiffs request that the court
reject the Receiver’s recommendation that credit bidding not be permitted.  Plaintiffs argue: “There is good reason for
there to be credit bidding.”  On
September 13, 2024, cross-defendants/cross-complainants Mora Ben Neman, Simon
Neman, Brian Neman, and Jessical Kilburn filed a joinder to the motion.  The Receiver filed and served a notice of
non-receipt of opposition.  No opposition
to the motion has been filed.
 
Receiver’s request for judicial notice of
Exhibit A is granted.  
            
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“A receiver may, pursuant to an order of the court, sell real
or personal property in the receiver’s possession upon the notice and in the
manner prescribed by Article 6 (commencing with Section 701.510) of Chapter 3
of Division 2 of Title 9. The sale is not final until confirmed by the
court.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 568.5.)  A sale of
receivership property by the Receiver is not final until confirmed by this
court.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 568 and
568.5; see Cal-American Income Property Fund VII v. Brown Development Cor. (1982)
138 Cal.App.3d 268, 273-74.)
 
A receivership court is not strictly bound to the
procedure set forth in section 568.5. 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 568 grants receivers the general
power ‘to do such acts respecting the property as the Court may authorize.’
Read together, these provisions permit a court to tailor the method of sale of
receivership property to the circumstances before it.”  (County of Sonoma v. Quail (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 657, 684.)  The receivership court has broad discretion
in determining the proper manner of sale of the property.  (Lesser & Son v. Seymour (1950) 35
Cal.2d 494, 499 [“a court in an equity proceeding has the power to
change the manner of sale of property in its custody by a receiver appointed by
it from that previously prescribed by it in the order directing the
sale”].)  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
A.        Notice 
 
             The Receiver gave adequate notice of the
motion to all parties to this action. 
(See Proof of Service filed July 25, 2024.)  The Receiver also published and posted
notices of the sale in a manner consistent with Code of Civil Procedure section
701.540 for each property address.  (See
Suppl. Alsbrook Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Exh. 1-3; Suppl. Lake Decl. 2-4, Exh. 4-6.)
 
B.        The Standard of Review
“Judicial
confirmation of a receiver’s sale rests upon the appointing court’s sound
discretion exercised in view of all the surrounding facts and circumstances and
in the interest of fairness, justice and the rights of the respective
parties.”  (Cal-American Income Property Fund VII, supra, 138 Cal.App.3d at 274, citation omitted.)  The court must consider “all material facts
and evidence” in consideration of “legal principles.”  (Ibid.)      
Here, the Broker actively marketed the
Properties for sale: 
 
The properties
were syndicated across hundreds of national and international commercial real
estate platforms for maximum exposure. The listings were accompanied by 20-page
offering memorandums for each property, highlighting their attributes,
financials, and specifications. Since listing, the Properties garnered a
significant amount of interest and received over 83,000 views and clicks, 60+
calls and inquiries from brokers and buyers, and over 300 downloads of the
offering memorandums.  
 
(Alsbrook
Decl. ¶ 7.)  
 
The Buyer
accepted terms customary to receiver’s sales, “including that the purchase is
on an as-is/where-is basis, with all faults known and unknown, and with no
representations or warrantees” made by Receiver.  (Id. ¶ 10.)   The Buyer also agreed that any sale is
subject to the court’s approval and subject to overbidding at the hearing to
confirm the sale.  (Id. ¶
10.)  
 
In
his declaration, the Receiver summarizes the benefits of the proposed sale to
the receivership estate, as follows: 
 
I believe that a
sale under present circumstances would be beneficial for numerous reasons and
is critical at this point. First, the sale is for market value and accomplishes
the direction provided by Judge Beckloff in his March 29, 2024 order. Second, the
loans secured against both Properties are in default, accruing interest at the
default rate and with threats of foreclosure by the lender, Black Gem. Third,
each of the Parties has separately indicated that a sale is desirable to them
at various points throughout this matter. Fourth, the sale will resolve a
significant piece of the conflict between these Parties over the management of
the Properties.
 
(Alsbrook
Decl. ¶ 21.)  Most of the parties concur
in the sale, and the remaining parties do not oppose the motion.  
 
The
court notes that Receiver has not filed, at least for this motion, any
professional valuations of the Properties by an appraiser or the Receiver
himself.  Nonetheless, the robust
marketing of the Properties by Broker, as well as the lack of opposition from
Plaintiffs, Defendants, or Cross-Defendants, generally supports Receiver’s
assertion that the “sale is for market value.” 
(Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 21.)  In
addition, Receiver received four offers in the range of $3 million to $3.625
million for each of the Properties.  (Id.
¶¶ 7-9.)[1]  The court is satisfied that the Buyer’s offer
is reasonable based upon the marketing of the Properties, the four offers in a
similar price range, and the lack of opposition.  The opportunity for overbidding will also
ensure that the sale price is fair and reasonable.  Further, as stated by the Receiver and
Plaintiffs, the proposed sales are beneficial to the receivership estate
because the loans secured against the Properties are in default and are
accruing interest; there is a risk of foreclosure by the lender; and the sales
will resolve a significant part of the conflict between the parties.  Based on the foregoing, the court finds that
the proposed sales to the Buyer are reasonable in light of all surrounding
circumstances.  
 
C.        Clearing Liens and Encumberances
 
The
Receiver asserts that the Properties should be sold “free and clear” of liens
and encumbrances (other than the primary loan from Hanmi Bank), including a
30-year-old deed of trust in favor of Solos, Inc., a dissolved entity.  (Mot. 11-12.) 
“A court of equity has the
power to order the sale of property free and clear of liens and
encumbrances.”  (City of
Riverside v. Horspool (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 670, 684; see also County
of Sonoma v. Quail (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 657, 683-87.)  
 
The
evidence does not show any liens or encumbrances on the Los Angeles Street
Property, other than the primary loan by Hanmi Bank which was apparently purchased
by Black Gem.  The Receiver acknowledges
that the Hanmi Bank loan must be repaid by the proceeds of the sale.  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 13, Exh. 5.)  The court agrees and will not clear the lien
by Hanmi Bank.    
 
The
preliminary title report for the Wall Street Property reflects the loan
purchased by Black Gem from Hanmi Bank, “which must be paid.”  (Id. ¶ 14.)  The court agrees and will not clear the lien
by Hanmi Bank.  
 
The
title report for the Wall Street Property also reflects a deed of trust for an
indebtedness of $350,000, recorded in 1995, and for which the beneficial
interest was assigned to Solos, Inc., a California Corporation.  However, public records of the State of
California show that Solos, Inc. was dissolved in 1999.  (Id. ¶ 14, Exh. 6 and RJN Exh. A.)  The Receiver concludes that the Wall Street
Property may be sold free and clear of the deed of trust assigned to Solos,
Inc. because “this Deed of Trust is 30 years old, held by an entity that has
been dissolved for nearly thirty years, and … major financial institutions have
lent money secured by 416 S. Wall Street over the past thirty years.”  (Id. ¶ 14.)  The certificate of dissolution of Solos, Inc.
is signed by the two directors—Yue Wing Choi and Luen C. Choi—and states: “The
corporation’s known assets have been distributed to the persons entitled
thereto.”  (RJN, Exh. A.)  No one filed a new lien against the Wall
Street Properties making clear that he/she obtained the note in the
dissolution.  (See Alsbrook Decl., Exh.
6.)  The Receiver provided notice of the
sale and hearing via publication and no one came forwarded claiming ownership
the Solos, Inc.’s former note.  Based
upon the foregoing, the court agrees that it would be equitable to confirm the
sale free and clear of the deed of trust assigned to Solos, Inc. 
 
Based
upon the foregoing, the court clears any lien by Solos, Inc., or anyone who
acquired the note in the dissolution of Solos, Inc.  The court declines to clear the liens by
Hamni Bank and any successor who acquired the notes.  The title reports reflect no additional liens
against the properties.  
 
D.        Overbidding 
 
The Buyer agreed that the proposed sales may
be subject to overbidding at the hearing on this motion.  (See Alsbrook Decl. ¶ 10 and Exh.
3-4.)  The Receiver recommends that the
court utilize the overbidding standards used in partition actions, as
summarized in the Receiver’s declaration and the proposed overbidding rules
agreement submitted as Exhibit 7.  (Id.
¶¶ 17-19.)  To participate in the
overbidding process, bidders must, among other things, submit to Broker: “(a) a
signed copy of these Rules for Confirmation and Overbid Hearing; (b) proof of
funds in an amount equal to or greater than the highest amount the bidder is
willing to bid; and (c) a cashier’s check in the amount of $220,000, payable to
Receiver Blake Alsbrook, for the earnest money deposit.”  (Id. Exh. 7.)  The hearing is scheduled for September 18,
2024.  The Receiver provided notice by
publication.  No potential buyers
complied with the terms or appeared at the hearing.  
 
E.         Credit
Bidding 
 
The Receiver states: “Some of the parties
have indicated a desire to ‘credit bid’ their ownership interest.”  The Receiver recommends against credit
bidding because “given the ongoing litigation between the Parties, including
the ownership entities, it is unclear what the value of any party’s ownership
interest is at this time, such that it is impossible to determine what credit
should be provided.”  (Alsbrook Decl. ¶
20.)  The court agrees.  
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The motion to approve the sale is
granted.
 
            2.         Based upon the foregoing, the court clears
any lien by Solos, Inc., or anyone who acquired the note in the dissolution of
Solos, Inc. relating to the Wall Street Property.  The court declines to clear any other liens,
including those by Hamni Bank and any successor who acquired the notes.  If additional liens are discovered, the
Receiver shall file an ex parte application with the court. 
 
            3.         The
Receiver shall lodge a proposed order if necessary.
 
            4.         The
Receiver shall provide notice and file proof of service with the court.  
  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED
 
 
Dated:
September 18, 2024                                        ______________________

                                                                                    Stephen
I. Goorvitch
                                                                                    Superior
Court Judge 
    


