  Case Number:  23VECV01037    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



AZNIVE SARKISSIAN,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
DON CHAVA FOODS, INC. DBA LA CORONA BAR &
  GRILL; AND DOES 1 TO 15,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV01037
 
ORDER
  DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  
 
 




 
AND ALL RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS.


)
)
)
)
)


    
  
 
 



 


 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This is a
personal injury action. Plaintiff Aznive Sarkissian (“Plaintiff”) alleges she was
injured after slipping on a liquid on the floor of Defendant Don Chava Foods,
Inc. dba La Corona Bar & Grill’s (“Defendant”) restroom. (See Complaint,
¶¶ GN-1, Prem.L-1.)Defendant now moves for summary judgment as to both
Plaintiff’s causes of action for general negligence and premises liability. 
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On March 8,
2023, Plaintiff filed her Complaint, alleging (1) General Negligence; and (2)
Premises Liability.
On August 11,
2023, Defendant filed its Answer. 
On August 11,
2023, Defendant filed its Cross-Complaint, alleging (1) Implied & Equitable
Indemnity;(2) Contribution; (3) Comparative Fault; and (4) Declaratory Relief. 
On February
13, 2024, this Court granted in part Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
further responses to its Form Interrogatories and denied Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Plaintiff’s further responses to its Special Interrogatories. 
On August 8,
2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (“Motion”). 
On October
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Opposition.
On October
25, 2024, Defendant filed its Reply.  
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
The function
of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as
to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (See
Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In
analyzing such motions, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Thus, summary
judgment or summary adjudication is granted when, after the Court’s
consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable
inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist, and the moving party
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) [1]; Villa
v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.) 
As to each
claim as framed by the complaint, the party moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting
facts to negate or establish an essential element. (See Scalf v. D.B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
be denied where the moving party’s evidence does not prove all material facts,
even in the absence of any opposition or where the opposition is weak. (See
Leyva v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475; Salesguevara v.
Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384 & 387.) When a
plaintiff is the moving party, the plaintiff has a higher burden: it must “present
evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying
material fact more likely than not.” (See Aguilar, 25
Cal.4th at 845 (emphasis added).) “The burden of the moving party is to persuade
the court that there is no material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find.”
(PP Mortgage, Ltd. v. Bizar (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 773, 776 (emphasis in
original) (cleaned up).) 
Once the
moving party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show via specific facts that a triable issue of material fact exists to a cause
of action or a defense thereto. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2).)
IV.         
ANALYSIS 
A.            
Evidentiary Issues 
The Court SUSTAINS
Defendant’s evidentiary objection No. 1 on hearsay as to statements made by and
agreements between “other women.” The Court OVERRULES Defendant’s objection No.
2 as the grounds all go to the weight, not the admissibility of these
statements. 
The Court OVERRULES
Plaintiff’s objections even though they were not raised in compliance with California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1354. Plaintiff’s counsel is cautioned that in the
future, the Court may overrule the objections due to procedural noncompliance
and forego the sort of substantive analysis it performed here.
B.            
Undisputed Material Facts
Plaintiff alleges injuries from a slip
and fall in Defendant’s restroom on March 12, 2021, at around 9:30 p.m. (See
Defendant’s Reply to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts (“UMF”) No. 1.) After Plaintiff’s fall, another customer in the restroom,
Reina Ayon (“Ayon”), crawled under the door of the stall Plaintiff was in,
unlocked the door, and went to look for help. (See UMF No. 9.) One of
Defendant’s employees inspected the restroom around 9:00 p.m. the night of
Plaintiff’s fall and the restroom was clean and dry. (See UMF No. 14.) There
were no other reports of cleanliness issues or liquid on the floor the night of
Plaintiff’s fall. (See UMF No. 15.) There have been no prior similar incidents
of a customer slipping in the restroom. (See UMF No. 17.)  
C.            
Triable
Issues of Material Fact Exist.
Plaintiff levies two claims
against Defendant: general negligence and premises liability. (See Complaint.)
Defendant moves for summary judgment as to both. 
“The elements of any negligence
cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.” (Peredia
v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.) “The elements
of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty
of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. Premises
liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right
to control and manage the premises; accordingly, mere possession with its
attendant right to control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for
the imposition of an affirmative duty to act. But the duty arising from
possession and control of property is adherence to the same standard of care
that applies in negligence cases.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158 (cleaned up).) 
“To comply with this duty, a person who controls
property must inspect
[the
premises] or take other proper means to ascertain their condition and,
if
a dangerous condition exists that would have been discovered by the exercise
of
reasonable care, has a duty to give adequate warning of or remedy it.” (Staats
v. Vintner’s
Golf Club, LLC (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 826, 833 (cleaned up).)
“Because the owner is not the insurer of the
visitor’s personal safety, the owner’s actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition is a key to
establishing
its liability. Although the owner’s lack of knowledge is not a defense, [t]o
impose liability for injuries suffered by an invitee due to [a] defective
condition of the premises, the owner or occupier must have either actual or
constructive knowledge of the dangerous condition or have been able by the
exercise of ordinary care to discover the condition, which if known to him, he
should realize as involving an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises.”
(Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1206 (cleaned up).) 
          Defendant makes three arguments: (1)
There is no evidence that a dangerous condition was present; (2) Defendant did
not have actual or constructive notice of any alleged dangerous condition; and
(3) Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendant caused Plaintiff’s fall. (See Motion.)

In support of its arguments, Defendant submits evidence
that Plaintiff did not observe any liquid on the floor of the restroom stall before
or after she fell, and that she did not recall if her hands or clothes were wet
after she fell (Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (“Defendant’s
Proposed UMF”) Nos. 6-8); that Ayon had used the same stall as Plaintiff just
prior to Plaintiff’s use and the stall was clean and dry (Defendant’s Proposed
UMF Nos. 3-4); that Ayon crawled under the stall door to unlock it for
Plaintiff but that she did not see any liquid when she crawled under the door nor
did her clothes get wet (UMF Nos. 9-11); that one
of Defendant’s employees inspected the restroom around 9:00 p.m. the night of
Plaintiff’s fall and the restroom was clean and dry (UMF No. 14); and that there
were no other reports of cleanliness issues or liquid on the floor the night of
Plaintiff’s fall, nor have there been prior similar incidents of a customer
slipping in the restroom (UMF Nos. 15, 17). 
The Court finds Defendant has submitted
sufficient evidence to meet its initial burden of proof on summary judgment. Critical
to Defendant’s argument is Ayon’s declaration. Ayon declares, in relevant part,
“[a]t or just before 9:30p.m., I used the women’s restroom. The stall was not
dirty nor was there any liquid on the floor when I used it. As I walked out of
the stall, I held it open for an elderly woman who was waiting to use the
restroom. Her granddaughter was with her. While I was washing my hands at the
sink, I heard a thud. I looked under the stall walls and saw the woman on the
ground. I crawled under the stall door and unlocked it for the woman. When I
crawled under the door, I did not see any liquid on the ground and my clothes
did not get wet.” (Declaration of Reina Ayon filed August 8, 2024 (“Ayon Decl.”),
¶ 3.) From this, Defendant contends the stall was not dirty and there was no
liquid on the floor immediately before Plaintiff’s use of the same
stall. Because both Plaintiff’s causes of action are centered on the presence
of liquid on the floor, Defendant’s evidence to the contrary is sufficient to negate
Plaintiff’s claims and meet Defendant’s initial burden of proof.
The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to
demonstrate a triable issue of material fact. The Court finds Plaintiff has met
her burden. Plaintiff submits the declaration of Plaintiff’s granddaughter,
Christine Sarkissian (“Christine”), who went to the restroom with Plaintiff at
the time of Plaintiff’s fall. (See Declaration of Christine Sarkissian
filed October 16, 2024 (“Christine Decl.”), ¶ 6.) Christine declares “[m]y
grandmother went into the larger handicapped stall and I waited outside the
stall. At the same time an unknown woman came out of the smaller stall. We
heard the sound of my grandmother falling….the unknown woman got down quickly
and crawled under the door to unlock it so that I could get in to assist her.
[¶…The floor was wet with water that seemed to be coming from behind or under
the toilet.” (Christine Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.) 
Plaintiff thus submits admissible
evidence disputing Ayon’s immediate prior use of the stall at issue, and, by
way of, Ayon’s claims that there was no liquid on the ground when she used the
stall, thereby creating a triable issue of material fact. Christine’s
declaration also demonstrates a dispute as to whether there was liquid on the
ground immediately after Plaintiff’s fall, as her declaration that there
was water on the ground is in direct contrast to Ayon’s declaration that there
was no liquid on the ground when she crawled under the door. 
          Accordingly, the Court DENIES
Defendant’s Motion.
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      October 31, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


