 Case Number:  23STLC03837    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  26   
State Farm v. Kaur, et al.LEAVE
TO AMEND PLEADING
(CCP §§ 473(a), 576; CRC Rule 3.1324)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended
Complaint is GRANTED. THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT IS TO BE FILED AND SERVED
WITHIN 10 DAYS OF THIS ORDER. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action
against Defendant Harjinder Kaur dba HK Trucking Co (“Defendant”) on June 20,
2023. On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff
filed the instant Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint on December
22, 2023. No opposition has been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
The First Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for automobile
subrogation in the amount of $18,915.78. (FAC, p. 1.) Plaintiff now moves for leave to amend the First
Amended Complaint to increase the damages sought based on additional repairs to
Plaintiff’s insured’s vehicle. (Id. at p. 2:3-6.) As set forth in the
Motion, leave to amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure section 473,
subdivision (a) and section 576. Also, a motion for leave to amend a pleading
must also comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, which
requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what allegations are
to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence was discovered
warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made earlier. The motion
must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered amendment, (2)
specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that would be
deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect, necessity and
propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for delay. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)
 
Plaintiff’s Motion is supported by a declaration
explaining what changes are to be made to the First Amended Complaint. (Motion,
Cicione Decl., ¶¶3-4.) The Motion also explains that the necessity of these
changes arose upon Plaintiff’s counsel’s learning in November 2023 that
additional damages had been paid to its insured. (Ibid.) A copy of the
proposed Second Amended Complaint is attached to the Motion. (Id. at
Exh. A.) 
 
The policy favoring amendment and
resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case
in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . . .” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) However, “[a] different
result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff seeks
leave to amend the First Amended Complaint prior to demonstrating service of
the Summons and Complaint on Defendant, or any appearance by Defendant in this
action. There is no indication of excusable delay nor prejudice to Defendant. 
 
Conclusion
 
Therefore, Plaintiff State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company’s Motion for Leave to File Second Amended
Complaint is GRANTED. THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT IS TO BE FILED AND SERVED
WITHIN 10 DAYS OF THIS ORDER. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 