  Case Number:  20TRCV00565    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  P Defendants’ Motion in LimineMoving Parties: Defendants Curry Parkway and Platino, Inc.Responding Party: Plaintiff Saint Andrews EquitiesRULINGHaving considered the moving papers and opposition, the motion is DENIED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn August 11, 2020 Plaintiff Saint Andrews Equities (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Curry Parkway L.P. (“Curry”); Platino, Inc. (“Platino”); First American Title (“First American”); and DOES 1-100, inclusive.On October 26, 2020, Movant Elad Investment (“Elad”) filed a complaint in intervention concurrently with a motion to expunge lis pendens. The motion to expunge lis pendens was granted on October 29, 2020.On January 19, 2021, Plaintiff filed several amendments to the complaint to amend fictious names. The same day, Plaintiff filed for leave to file an amended complaint, which was granted.On September 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against Defendants Curry; Platino; First American; Carolyn Ausweger; Kurt Ausweger; Aerodynamics Plating Co., Inc.; Built Construction; Elad Investments; and DOES 6-100 alleging sixteen causes of action.On February 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for summary adjudication regarding the existence of Defendants’ duty to accept Plaintiff’s offered cash payment. On November 14, 2023, the court denied the motion for summary adjudication.On August 15, 2024, Defendants Curry and Platino filed the instant motion. Plaintiff filed an opposition on September 30, 2024.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDDefendants acquired a $300,000 promissory note (“Note”) secured by a deed of trust (“Deed of Trust”) which had been executed by Plaintiff. (Motion, p. 2, lines 14-18.) At the time of the acquisition, the Note and Deed of Trust were in default. (Motion, p. 2, lines 18-20.) A foreclosure sale was scheduled for August 6, 2020. (Motion, p. 2, lines 19-20.)Defendants and Plaintiff negotiated a possible reinstatement based upon the satisfaction of certain condition, and the parties agreed to continue the foreclosure sale to August 13, 2020. (Motion, p. 2, lines 23-26.)The parties were unable to agree on the conditions of the agreement, and Plaintiff’s representative indicated that Plaintiff would pay off the note. (Motion, pp. 2-3.)On August 10, 2020, the parties agreed that the payoff figure would be $325,762.02 with instructions to pay via wire transfer. (Motion, p. 3, lines 2-5.) Plaintiff’s representative indicated that Plaintiff would pay the amount in cash, to be delivered by hand. (Motion, p. 3, lines 6-7.) Defendants notified Plaintiff that it would not accept cash, only wire transfer or cashier’s check. (Motion, p. 3, lines 9-10.)Plaintiff filed for a temporary restraining order to prevent the foreclosure sale, but the court denied the application, and the property was sold for $403,500.01. (Motion, p. 3, lines 12-19.)LEGAL STANDARDA motion in limine must present the specific evidence sought to be excluded. “Until the evidence is actually offered, and the Court is aware of its relevance in context, its probative value, and its potential for prejudice, matters related to the state of the evidence at the time an objection is made, the Court cannot intelligently rule on admissibility.” (Kelly v. New West Federal Savings (1996) 49 Cal. App. 4th 659, 671.) Instead of a motion in limine, the proper procedure is to make an objection at the time the evidence is offered, which serves to focus the issue and to protect the record. (Id.)Accordingly, a motion in limine must specify the evidence, clearly state the exclusion and explain why it applies.Further, Local Rule 3.57(a) requires that motions made for the purpose of precluding the mention or display of inadmissible and prejudicial matter in the presence of the jury must be accompanied by a declaration that includes the following:1) Specific identification of the matter alleged to be inadmissible and prejudicial;2) A representation to the court that the subject of the motion has been discussed withopposing counsel, and that opposing counsel has either indicated that such matter willbe mentioned or displayed in the presence of the jury before it is admitted in evidence orthat counsel has refused to stipulate that such matter will not be mentioned or displayedin the presence of the jury unless and until it is admitted in evidence;3) A statement of the specific prejudice that will be suffered by the moving party if themotion is not granted; and4) If the motion seeks to make binding an answer given in response to discovery, the declaration must set forth the question and the answer and state why the use of theanswer for impeachment will not adequately protect the moving party against prejudicein the event that evidence inconsistent with the answer is offered.“A motion in limine may not be used for the purpose of seeking summary judgment or summary adjudication of an issue or issues. These motions may only be made in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c and applicable court rules.” (Local Rule 3.57(b).)DISCUSSIONRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendants request judicial notice of a prior court ruling. The court may take notice of its own file, pursuant to Evid. Code section 452, subd. (d). Defendants’ request is GRANTED.Moving Party’s ArgumentDefendants contend that the issue of duty was disposed of after a prior court ruling on a motion for summary adjudication. Thus, any evidence relating to the existence of a duty is irrelevant and prejudicial.Opposing Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion in limine is a thinly veiled motion for summary adjudication. Plaintiff contends that Defendants assert a novel and unsupported argument that a denial of Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication acts as a grant of summary adjudication in Defendants’ favor.Merits of the MotionFirst, Defendants’ motion in limine is procedurally deficient as the accompanying declaration does not specifically identify the evidence to be excluded, nor does it describe the specific prejudice Defendants will suffer if the motion is not granted.Further, as Plaintiff notes, this is an improper use of a motion in limine. Defendants’ assert that the denial of Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication means that Defendants, conclusively, did not have a duty to accept the cash payment. However, the court simply noted that Plaintiff had not met its burden of proving that there was a duty. (Defendants’ RJN, Exh. A at p. 8.) Further, the court noted that although there was no statutory basis for the duty, such a duty could arise from an agreement between the parties, but Plaintiff did not address this argument in its motion. (Defendants’ RJN, Exh. A at p. 9.) Thus, the denial of Plaintiff’s motion was not an affirmative grant of summary adjudication in Defendants’ favor.Accordingly, Defendants’ motion in limine is DENIED.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion in limine is DENIED.