 Case Number:  23STCV07315    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  14 #8Case Background
This is an action for breach of contract, breach of
personal guaranty, unfair business practices, and declaratory relief arising
from Defendants’ failure to repay a loan which was used to purchase automobiles.
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff Westlake Flooring filed its
Complaint against LJT Holdings, LLC (LJT), John Anthony Thompson, and the
California Department of Motor Vehicles.
On May 15, 2024, Counsel Swenson and Hill filed this
motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendants LJT and Thompson.
Instant Pleading
Counsel Swenson and Hill seek to be relieved as counsel
for Defendants LJT and Thompson.
Decision
The motion is GRANTED, effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
order upon the client.
Legal Standard
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 requires that counsel
fill out forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053. These forms serve two basic
functions: (1) ensuring that notice is given to the client and (2) providing
the court with an adequate explanation of why the matter is being handled via
motion rather than mutual consent. See Code of Civil Procedure § 284;
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362.
Discussion
Counsel completed the required forms. Those forms
indicate that Counsel served LJT and Thompson at their last known addresses
which Counsel confirmed via mail, return receipt requested, at least 30 days
before the hearing on this matter. 
Counsel represents that there was an irreparable
breakdown of the attorney-client relationship such that withdrawal is permitted
pursuant to California Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700. Counsel offers
to provide more detail during in camera hearing outside the presence of other
parties.
Counsel complied with the requirements of Rule 3.1362,
and relief is appropriate under the circumstances of this case. The motion is
GRANTED, effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the signed order upon the client.