 Case Number:  24STCV04857    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  14 #10Case Background This is an action for fraud, rescission, breach of  contract, injunctive relief, an accounting, involuntary dissolution of the  corporation, and declaratory judgment. Plaintiffs allege that they bought a  home healthcare business in September 2023 together with Defendant Belzunce.  The seller, Defendant Akopyan, and Belzunce misrepresented that Medicare’s provider  agreement and billing privileges would convey to Plaintiffs. Belzunce then locked  Plaintiffs out of the premises and all corporate records and accounts. Belzunce  named herself CEO, President, and secretary of the corporation and named her  son, Defendant Beto, as the Assistant CFO. Plaintiff placed the business  property’s lease in her own name and placed Beto in a corporate position  without the shareholders’ consent. After Plaintiffs terminated Belzunce from their  positions, Belzunce refused to relinquish control of the company. On February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs Mohsen Ali and Carol  Ghanem filed their Complaint against Defendants Hero Home Healthcare, Inc.  (Hero), Diana Akopyan, Maria Isabel Belzunce, and Sebastian Beto. On June 10, 2024, Defendant Akopyan filed this  demurrer. On July 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On July 25, 2024, Akopyan filed a reply. Instant Pleading Akopyan demurs to the Complaint. Decision Akopyan’s demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the cause of  action for an accounting and OVERRULED as to the remaining causes of action.  Plaintiffs failed to discuss the issue of leave to amend and must be prepared  to discuss this issue at the hearing on this matter. Discussion Akopyan demurs to the first through third causes of  action for fraud, rescission, and breach of contract on the grounds that  Plaintiffs are barred from asserting them by the parol evidence rule. Akopyan  demurs to the fourth through seventh causes of action on the grounds that they  only concern the actions of Defendant Belzunce, not Akopyan. As a preliminary matter, the causes of action for  rescission, injunctive relief, involuntary dissolution, and declaratory relief are  not the proper subject of a demurrer. “A demurrer is not the  appropriate vehicle to challenge a portion of a cause of action demanding an  improper remedy.” (Caliber Bodyworks, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 134  Cal.App.4th 365, 384-85; see PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)  33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682-83 (“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause  of action.”).) “The appropriate procedural device for challenging a portion of  a cause of action seeking an improper remedy is a motion to strike.” (Caliber  Bodyworks, Inc., supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at 385.)  Here, because the second,  fourth, and seventh causes of action are remedies, they are not the proper  subject of a demurrer. Akopyan did not file a motion to strike. Therefore, the  demurrer is overruled as to these remedies. 1.      Parol Evidence Rule Akopyan alleges in her moving papers and reply that the  causes of action for fraud and breach of contract are barred by the parol  evidence rule.  “The parol evidence rule generally prohibits the  introduction of any extrinsic evidence, whether oral or written, to vary, alter  or add to the terms of an integrated written instrument” and it is embodied in  Code Civ. Proc., section 1856. (Alling v. Universal Manufacturing Corp.  (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1433.) “Terms set forth in a writing intended by the  parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to the terms  included therein may not be contradicted by evidence of a prior agreement or of  a contemporaneous oral agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 1856(a); See  also Alling 5 Cal.App.4th at 1433, [“An integrated agreement is a  writing or writings constituting a final expression of one or more terms of an  agreement.”].)  The test for admissibility of extrinsic evidence to  explain the meaning of a written instrument is not whether it appears to be  plain and unambiguous on its face, but whether the offered evidence is relevant  to prove a meaning to which the language of the instrument is reasonable  susceptible.  (Pacific Gas & Elec. Co. v. G. W. Thomas Drayage  & Rigging Co. (1968) 69 Cal.2d 33, 37, [“But extrinsic evidence is  not admissible to give language used in a written instrument a meaning to which  it is not reasonably susceptible.”]; People ex rel. Dept. of Parks and  Recreation v. West-A-Rama, Inc. (1973) 35 Cal.App.3d 786, 791.) Fraud Here, regarding the first cause of action for fraud,  Akopyan argues that the parol evidence rule bars Plaintiffs from alleging that Defendants  false representations prior to entering into the purchase agreement which are  inconsistent with the terms of the contract, which states Plaintiffs were  required to familiarize themselves with the operations of the Corporation and  applicable regulations. (Compl., Exh. 1, sections 9(b)-9(c).)  A claim for fraud must plead all of the  following elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity; (3) intent  to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage. (Odorizzi  v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123, 128; Wilhelm v.  Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.)  Here, Akopyan argues that Plaintiffs were legally  required to familiarize themselves with the laws regarding the existence of  restrictions against transferring business licenses and that the parol evidence  rule bars Plaintiffs asserting causes of action based on their reliance on  false representations that Hero’s business license was transferrable. However,  the parol evidence rule affects what evidence may be admitted to vary, alter,  or add to the terms of an integrated written instrument. The rule does not  expressly bar what may be pled in a complaint. Additionally, Plaintiffs are not  alleging breach of contract or fraud based on any dispute over the meaning of  any contract term.   Akopyan also argues that the parties’ agreement  expressly disclaimed any and all prior statements by Akopyan. However, no such  provision exists in the agreement. The clause stating Plaintiffs performed  independent investigations into the affairs of the Corporation and familiarized  themselves with all applicable regulations does not appear to disclaim  Akopyan’s prior statements. The Complaint alleges that Akopyan and Belzunce  misrepresented that the Medicare provider agreement and billing privileges  would transfer to Plaintiffs and Belzunce and that the 36-month prohibition on  the sale of a home healthcare agency did not apply to the transaction. (Compl.,  ¶¶20-21.) Plaintiffs relied on this misrepresentation and agreed to the  purchase, later discovering that the provider agreement and billing privileges  did not transfer and that Belzunc had been illegitimately transferring clients to  Hero without notifying Medicare of the ownership change. (Compl., ¶¶22-23.)  Plaintiffs would not have agreed to the sale but for the misrepresentation.  (Compl., ¶24.) The Court finds that Plaintiffs have pled each element  of fraud. Therefore, the demurrer is overruled as to the cause of action for  fraud. Breach of Contract Akopyan makes the same arguments for the breach of  contract cause of action as the fraud cause of action.  The  elements of a claim for breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the  contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)  defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis  West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821.) In addition, the  complaint must demonstrate damages proximately caused by the breach. (St.  Paul Ins. v. American Dynasty (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1060.)  Here, as discussed above, the parol evidence rule is a  limitation on the evidence which may be introduced to affect the meaning of a  contract term. The rule does not expressly limit what may be pled in a  complaint. The Complaint alleges that Akopyan represented she “disclosed in  writing all relevant information to the Buyer concerning the business, it’s (sic)  assets, and it’s (sic) liabilities including…valid licenses held by the  corporation…and other relevant information concerning the state of the business.”  (Compl., ¶37, Exh. 1, section 8(c).) During negotiations, Akopyan and Belzunce  falsely represented to Plaintiffs that there were no restrictions on the change  of ownership. (Compl., ¶38.)  Because the Medicare provider’s agreement and billing  privileges are relevant to whether Hero can continue operating as a home  healthcare business, it is reasonable that Akopyan should have disclosed the  fact that the agreement and billing privileges did not transfer to Plaintiffs  due to a 36-month prohibition on the sale of the business under the parties’  agreement. Because the Complaint alleges Akopyan failed to disclose that the  agreement and billing privileges did not transfer and instead misrepresented  that they did transfer, the Complaint sufficiently alleges a breach of the  representations and warranties. There is no dispute over the meaning of section  8(c) of the agreement, only whether Akopyan made the requisite representations  and warranties. Therefore, the parol evidence rule does not bar Plaintiffs from  pleading this cause of action. The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the breach of contract  cause of action. 2.      Remaining cause of action for an Accounting An accounting is an equitable proceeding that  must be supported by some underlying misconduct which allows the plaintiff to  invoke the right to an equitable remedy for accounting. (Green Valley  Landowners Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 425, 442, citing  Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105,  1137.)  Although an accounting is generally a remedy, it  may be a cause of action in some cases, such as when one party owes another a  fiduciary duty that requires an accounting, and some balance is due to a  plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. (Pantoja v.  Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2009) 640 F.Supp.2d 1177, 1191; Union Bank  v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 593.) Where a defendant owes  no money to a plaintiff, the plaintiff has no right to an accounting. (Union  Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 594.) Here, the Complaint alleges that Defendants Belzunce  and Beto’s illegitimate corporate actions and inactions resulted in the sale,  transfer, or other disposal of corporate assets which require an accounting to  ascertain. However, the only allegations as to Akopyan pertain to the alleged  misrepresentations she made at the time of the sale. Plaintiff’s opposition  does not clarify what conduct committed by Akopyan would require an accounting.  Because there are no allegations that Akopyan took part in the misappropriation  of corporate assets, the demurrer is sustained as to the cause of action for an  accounting. Conclusion The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the cause of action for  an accounting and OVERRULED as to the remaining causes of action.