 Case Number:  23STCV27564    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  14 #9Case Background
This is an action for violations of the FEHA, Labor
Code violations, wrongful termination, and intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Plaintiff alleges that while he was employed at a Lowe’s as a lumber
salesman, he was denied a full-time position and suffered harassment due to his
race. Plaintiff alleges he was later wrongfully terminated after suffering an
injury on the job.
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff Angel Garcia filed his
Complaint against Defendants Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC, Lowe’s Companies, Inc.,
Fabiola Garcia, and Edwin Hurtado.
On May 14, 2024, Defendants Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC
and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (Lowe’s Defendants) filed this motion to compel
arbitration. The motion is unopposed.
Instant Pleading
The Lowe’s Defendants move to compel arbitration of
this matter and to stay this action pending the outcome of arbitration.
Decision
The Lowe’s Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.
Legal Standard 
California
law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively
quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. To further that policy,
California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions
applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real
Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967 [citations omitted]; Code Civ.
Proc., section 1281.2.) 
In
deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial courts must decide first
whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between the parties, and
then determine the second gateway issue whether the claims are covered within
the scope of the agreement. (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking arbitration has the “burden of proving
the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the
evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v.
Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The
trial court “sits as the trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral testimony the court
may receive at its discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Id.)
General principles of contract law govern whether parties have entered a
binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see also Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) 
Whether there is a written agreement to arbitrate is a matter
of contract, and courts must enforce arbitration contracts according to their
terms. (Banc of California, National Association v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 357, 366.) A party cannot be required
to submit to arbitrate any dispute to which he has not agreed to arbitrate. (Id.)
If an application has been made to a
court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, for an order to
arbitrate a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding
pending before a court of this State and such application is undetermined, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until the
application for an order to arbitrate is determined and, if arbitration of such
controversy is ordered, until an arbitration is had in accordance with the
order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies. (Code
Civ. Proc., section 1281.4.)
Discussion
The Lowe’s Defendants allege that Plaintiff entered
into an arbitration agreement when he began his employment in October 2019. The
agreement reads in relevant part:
“In exchange for the mutual promises in this
Agreement, Lowe’s offer of employment, and your acceptance of employment by
Lowe’s Companies, Inc., Lowe’s Home Centers, LLC (whichever is your employer)
and its successors or assigns (hereinafter ‘Lowe’s’), you and Lowe’s agree that
any controversy between you and Lowe’s (including agents of Lowe’s and any of
Lowe’s predecessors), arising out of your employment or the termination of your
employment shall be settled by binding arbitration,(at the insistence of either
you or Lowe’s, conducted by a single arbitrator under the current applicable
rules, procedures and protocols of JAMS, Inc. (‘JAMS’) or the American
Arbitration Association (‘AAA’), as may be amended from time to time.”
(Spears Decl., Exh. D.)
Lowe’s Director of TA Systems & Solutions testifies
that Lowe’s uses Gateway IBM Kenexa Brass Ring as an electronic database for
Lowe’s applicants. (Spears Decl., ¶5.) The process requires applicants to
access the Lowe’s job portal online to read information and answer questions. (Id.)
The portal presented Plaintiff with an offer letter containing an arbitration
agreement on October 3, 2019. (Id., ¶7.) Plaintiff electronically signed
the offer letter on October 11, 2019. (Id.) The portal is secured by a unique
password and username. (Id., ¶10.) When employees open offer letters,
they are required to scroll through to the end of the agreement and select a box
to accept or decline the offer of employment. (Id.) Lowe’s also provided
Plaintiff with a standalone arbitration agreement. (Id.) Plaintiff was required to open the agreement, select the appropriate language, scroll down
through to the bottom of the agreement, and check a box accepting the
agreement. (Id.) Next to the box, there is a sentence which reads “By
checking the box, I agree and acknowledge that my checking the box is my
electronic signature.” (Id.)
“Contracts formed on the Internet come primarily
in two flavors: ‘clickwrap’ (or ‘click-through’) agreements, in which website
users are required to click on an “I agree” box after being presented with a
list of terms and conditions of use; and ‘browsewrap’ agreements, where a
website’s terms and conditions of use are generally posted on the website via a
hyperlink at the bottom of the screen.” (Nguyen v. Barnes & Noble, Inc.
(9th Cir. 2014) 763 F.3d 1171, 1176.) Browsewrap agreements are generally
unenforceable where the hyperlinks to terms and conditions do not require the
user to manifest assent. (Ibid.) Califonia courts have generally found
that clickwrap agreements are enforceable. (Sellers v. JustAnswer LLC
(2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 444, 466; Long v. Provide Commerce, Inc. (2016)
245 Cal.App.4th 855, 862; Swift v. Zynga Game Network, Inc. (N.D. Cal.
2011) 805 F.Supp.2d 904, 912United States v. Drew (C.D.Cal. 2009) 259
F.R.D. 449, 462 n.22.)
“An electronic record or
electronic signature is attributable to a person if it was the act of the
person. The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing
of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the person to which
the electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.” (Civ. Code,
section 1633.9, subd. (a).) “The effect of an electronic record or electronic
signature attributed to a person under subdivision (a) is determined from the
context and surrounding circumstances at the time of its creation, execution,
or adoption, including the parties' agreement, if any, and otherwise as
provided by law.” (Id., subd. (b).) 
Here, Lowe’s standalone arbitration agreement was
a clickwrap agreement because Plaintiff was required to scroll through the
entire agreement before signing the agreement. The sentence by the click box
would put a reasonably prudent person on notice that clicking the box and
submitting the form communicated assent to the Terms of Use. (See Specht v.
Netscape Communications Corp. (2d Cir. 2002) 306 F.3d 17, 29-30 [“a
consumer’s clicking on a download button does not communicate assent to
contractual terms if the offer did not make clear to the consumer that clicking
on the download button would signify assent to those terms”]; see also Fteja
v. Facebook, Inc. (S.D.N.Y. 2012) 841 F.Supp.2d 829, 835 [where the
sentence “By clicking Sign Up, you are indicating that you have read and agree
to the Terms of Service” appeared immediately below the “Sign Up” button and
the “Terms of Service” was underlined and hyperlinked, the court held plaintiff
“was informed of the consequences of his assenting click and he was shown,
immediately below, where to click to understand those consequences. That was
enough.”].) 
The Lowe’s Defendants’ records show that
Plaintiff electronically signed and thus accepted the arbitration agreement. (Spears
Decl., Exhs. A-C.) Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of this agreement
as well because his claims arise from his employment. The Lowe’s Defendants
thus meet its burden of showing an arbitration agreement exists and that the
scope of the agreement covers Plaintiff’s claims.
 Plaintiff did
not oppose this motion. Because the Lowe’s Defendants meet their burden of
proving an enforceable arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and the
Lowe’s Defendants, the motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. This matter
will be stayed pending the outcome of arbitration.