

 
BACKGROUND
 
On December
29, 2021, Plaintiff Labor Commissioner, State of California (“Plaintiff”) filed
a Complaint against Defendants Benbaroukh, LLC (“Benbaroukh”), Elias Shokrian
(“Shokrian”), Edward Villegas aka Eduardo Villegas (“Villegas”), and DOES 1
through 10, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) foreclosure of
mechanic’s lien; (2) unpaid regular wages; (3) overtime wages (Labor Code §
510); (4) liquidated damages (Labor Code § 1194.2); (5) waiting time penalties
(Labor Code § 203); (6) unreimbursed business expenses and attorney’s fees
(Labor Code § 2802); (7) itemized wage statements (Labor Code § 226); and (8)
late payment of wages (Labor Code § 210). The Complaint arises from Defendants’
alleged failure to pay wages to construction laborers at 13755 Roscoe
Boulevard, Panorama City, CA 91402. 
 
On
September 22, 2022, Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian filed a joint Answer to
the Complaint. 
 
Also, on
September 22, 2022, Defendant Benbaroukh filed a Cross-Complaint for breach of
contract against Cross-Defendants Fredy E. Duarte (“Duarte”) and Oscar Antonio
Beltran Pineda (“Pineda”) and for declaratory relief against
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Labor Commissioner and Cross-Defendants Duarte and
Pineda.  
 
On April
24, 2023, default was entered against Defendant Villegas. 
 
On August
29 and 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed motions to compel the attendance at deposition
and production of documents for Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian.  
 
On
September 12, 2023, Substitution of Attorney forms were executed which
indicated that Neil C. Evans was no longer representing Defendants Benbaroukh
and Shokrian, and that Jason M. Stone was representing Defendants Benbaroukh
and Shokrian. 
 
On November
15, 2023, after hearing oral argument, the Court granted the respective motions
to compel deposition filed by Plaintiff as to Defendants Benbaroukh and
Shokrian. (11/15/23 Minute Order.) The Court ordered the Person Most Qualified
for Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian to appear for deposition and produce
documents at a date, time, and place as agreed between the parties and properly
noticed and set forth in a subpoena by Plaintiff’s counsel. (11/15/23 Minute
Order at p. 2.) The Court also awarded Plaintiff monetary sanctions in the
amount of $1,400.00 against Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian, and their
counsel of record, Neil Evans, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days of
the Court’s order. (11/15/23 Minute Order at p. 8.) 
 
On
December 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed and served notice of the Court’s November 15,
2023 order. 
 
On February
7, 2024, Jason M. Stone and Laura H. Park filed a motion to be relieved as
counsel for Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian. 
 
On March
20 and March 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed and served the instant motions for
terminating sanctions or, alternatively, issue, evidentiary and/or monetary
sanctions against Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian (the “Motions”). The
Motions are made on the grounds of Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian’s
non-compliance with the Court’s November 15, 2023 order. Plaintiff seeks
terminating sanctions against Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian pursuant to
the Motions. Alternatively, pursuant to the Motions, Plaintiff seeks issue
sanctions against the respective defendants which will bar them from
prosecuting any parts of their claims or defenses in this action and that
designated facts shall be established in accordance with Plaintiff’s claim.
Each motion requests additional sanctions in the amount of $1,800.00. 
 
Given
that the Motions present the same arguments and are based on the same facts,
the Court will address the Motions in this one ruling. The Motions are
unopposed as of April 23, 2024. 
 
On April
11, 2024, after hearing, the Court granted the motion to be relieved as counsel
for corporate Defendant Benbaroukh only and continued the hearing on the motion
to be relieved as counsel for individual Defendant Shokrian to April 22, 2024
for counsel to address procedural defects. (04/11/24 Minute Order at p. 7.) The
Court set an OSC re: Status of Defendant Benbaroukh’s Legal Representation or
in the Alternative, Why Defendant Benbaroukh’s Answer filed on September 9,
2022 Should Not Be Stricken for April 22, 2024 at 10:00 AM. (04/11/24 Minute
Order at p. 7.) 
 
On April
22, 2024, the Court granted the motion filed by Counsel Jason M. Stone, Esq. to
be relieved as counsel for Defendant Shokrian. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 4.)
The Court indicated that the Court’s ruling and the attorney’s relief as
counsel of record for Defendant Shokrian is not effective until a proof of
service of the order signed by the Court upon the client is filed in this
action. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 4.) 
 
Also, on
such date, the Court held an OSC re: Status of Defendant Benbaroukh’s Legal
Representation or in the Alternative, Why Defendant Benbaroukh’s Answer filed
on September 9, 2022 Should Not Be Stricken. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 1.)
There was no appearance for Defendant Benbaroukh at the OSC nor was there any
substitution of attorney filed on its behalf. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) Due
to this fact, the Court ordered the Answer to the Complaint filed by Defendant
Benbaroukh thereby stricken. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) 
 
Non-jury
trial is set to begin on April 30, 2024. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
requests orders that terminating sanctions be imposed against Defendants
Benbaroukh and Shokrian, respectively. Alternatively, Plaintiff requests that
issue sanctions be imposed against Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian,
respectively, which will bar such defendants from prosecuting any part of their
claims or defenses in this action and that designated facts shall be
established in accordance with Plaintiff’s claim. Plaintiff also seeks monetary
sanctions of $1,800.00 in connection with each motion. The Motions are made on
the grounds that Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian have failed to comply with
the Court’s November 15, 2023 order. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition was filed to the Motions.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Sanctions

A.               
Legal Standard 

“A trial court may impose
sanctions, including terminating sanctions, for a party’s misuse of the
discovery process, which includes disobedience of a court order.” Sole
Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207. A misuse of the
discovery process includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).) A misuse of the
discovery process also includes a failure “to confer in person, by telephone,
or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section
governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration
stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (i).) 
 
A terminating sanction may be
imposed by the court by one of the following orders: (1) an order striking out
the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process; (2) an order staying further proceedings by that party
until an order for discovery is obeyed; (3) an order dismissing the action, or
any part of the action, of that party; or (4) an order rending judgment by
default against that party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1)-(4).) 
 
“The discovery statutes evince an
incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174
Cal.App.4th 967, 992. “Discovery sanctions should be appropriate
to the dereliction, and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” Ibid. “[C]ontinuing misuses of
the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the
sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” Ibid. Where
discovery violations are “willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the
evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with
discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.” Ibid. A trial court has broad discretion
to impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally a prerequisite to
the imposition of nonmonetary sanctions. Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004)
124 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1327. Where discovery sanctions are requested against
a party, there must be a failure to comply with a court order and the failure
must be willful. Ibid.  
 
“A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.” Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690, 702.
A trial court’s order to impose terminating sanctions will be reversed only if
it “was arbitrary, capricious, or whimsical.” Ibid.  “[W]here a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” Ibid. Trial courts have properly
imposed terminating sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders. Los
Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390. Terminating sanctions are warranted when a party’s
lack of compliance with the discovery process has caused the opposing party
prejudice. Doppes v. Bentley
Motors, Inc., supra,
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 989.
 
As an alternative to terminating
sanctions, “[t]he court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated
facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with the claim
of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery process. The
court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or opposing
designated claims or defenses.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).) 
 
California Code of Civil
Procedure, Section 2023.030 provides that “[t]he court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct.” 
 
B.        Analysis
a.         Defendant
Shokrian   

 
On April 25,
2023, Plaintiff propounded to Defendant Benbaroukh a notice of deposition of
its person most qualified, to take place on May 16, 2023, with a request for
production of documents.[1] (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. A.) On May
11, 2023, Defendant asked Plaintiff for a continuance of all discovery,
including the noticed depositions citing a breakdown in communication between
counsel and Defendant. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. B.) On May 12, 2023,
Plaintiff agreed to continue the depositions if the parties could continue the
trial, due to impending discovery deadlines, and Defendant agreed to draft a
stipulation for Plaintiff’s review. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. B.) Plaintiff
never received a stipulation from Defendant and the deposition remained on
calendar. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. B.) 
 
On
May 16, 2023, Plaintiff called the deposition and Defendant did not show, nor
did it object. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 8.) Counsel then sets forth meet and
confer efforts to reschedule the depositions, and attests that Plaintiff agreed
to reschedule the deposition after communications with Defendant’s counsel, and
the deposition was noticed for June 28, 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶¶ 9-11;
Exhs. D and E.) On June 22, 2023, Defendants cited a breakdown in communication
with counsel and Defendant’s counsel stated that he would be unable to proceed
with the deposition and would be filing to withdraw as counsel the following
week. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. F.) On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff agreed to
reschedule the depositions once again and asked that Defendant’s counsel move
forward with any plans to withdraw if he was going to do so. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 13; Exh. F.) On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff propounded a new deposition
notice on Defendant for August 8, 2023, which requested that the deponent also
produce documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 14; Exh. G.) 
 
On
July 20, 2023, Defendant’s counsel emailed Plaintiff and stated that he would
file a motion to withdraw the following day, and Plaintiff confirmed that the
depositions would remain on calendar and that as soon as Defendant’s counsel
withdrew, she would serve the notices on Defendant directly. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff provided the link for a virtual deposition and resent
the notice of deposition and request for production of documents. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 15; Exh. H.) Defendant has not served a valid objection under Section
2025.410. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 16.) Defendant failed to appear for examination
on August 8, 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 17; Exh. I.) On August 11, 2023,
Plaintiff sent an email to meet and confer regarding the missed deposition.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 18; Exh. J.) Plaintiff then filed motions to compel the
depositions of Defendants Shokrian and Benbaroukh in August of 2023.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 20.) 
 
On
November 15, 2023, after hearing, the Court issued an order compelling the
depositions of the PMK for Defendant Benbaroukh and for Defendant Shokrian, as
well as monetary sanctions. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 21; Exh. K.) After
coordinating with counsel for Defendants Shokrian and Benbaroukh, Plaintiff
noticed the depositions for December 19, 2023, along with production of
documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 22; Exh. L.) Defendants paid a portion of the
sanctions ordered by the Court. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 23; Exh. M.) Defendants’
counsel communicated that it needed more time for the depositions due to the
production of documents request included and the depositions were continued to
February of 2024. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 24; Exh. N.) 
 
After
coordinating with opposing counsel again, Plaintiff agreed to continue trial to
a mutually acceptable date of April 30, 2024, and noticed the depositions for
February 14, 2024. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 25; Exh. O.) On February 7, 2024,
opposing counsel served Plaintiff with the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,
and when Plaintiff asked about the scheduled depositions, opposing counsel
stated that they needed to be rescheduled and that Plaintiff could speak
directly with Defendant Shokrian to secure dates. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 26;
Exh. P.) Plaintiff emailed Defendant Shokrian on February 26, 2024, regarding
the scheduling of the depositions and has not received any response.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 27; Exh. Q.) On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff sent an email
to opposing counsel advising them of the filing of the present motion and the
date set for the motion. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 28; Exh. P.) Plaintiff has yet
to hear from opposing counsel or Defendant Shokrian. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 29.)

 
Given
that the instant motion is unopposed, it is undisputed that Defendant Shokrian
has failed to comply with the Court’s November 15, 2023 order. Given that the
motion is unopposed, the Court finds that Defendant Shorkrian’s non-compliance
is willful. 
 
The
Court does not find that monetary sanctions will compel Defendant Shokrian’s
compliance with this Court’s orders. Defendant Shokrian and his counsel of
record have been ordered to pay monetary sanctions; however, such sanctions have
not been fully paid in compliance with this Court’s orders. 
 
The
Court, however, finds that terminating sanctions are not appropriate at this
time. Although Defendant Shokrian has failed to comply with the Court’s November
15, 2023 order, the Court must take an incremental approach to discovery
sanctions pursuant to Doppes v.
Bentley Motors, Inc., supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992. The declaration of counsel does not state
that Plaintiff has been prejudiced due to the non-compliance of Defendant
Shokrian with such order. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
request for terminating sanctions as to Defendant Shokrian.  
 
As
to Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions, Plaintiff requests issue sanctions
which will bar Defendant Shokrian “from prosecuting any part of its claims or
defenses in this action and designated facts shall be established in accordance
with Plaintiff’s claims.” (Motion at p. 2:12-14.) The Court finds that issue
sanctions are appropriate against Defendant Shokrian. Defendant Shokrian has
failed to comply with a discovery order issued by this Court and—due to the
lack of opposition to the motion—the Court finds that Defendant Shokrian’s non-compliance
was willful. Non-jury trial is set for April 30, 2024—which is less than one
week away from the date of this order—and Plaintiff has been unable to obtain
relevant discovery from Defendant Shokrian despite an order from this Court.
Moreover, as stated above, monetary sanctions will not and have not compelled Defendant
Shokrian’s compliance with this Court’s orders.
 
The
Court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions against
Defendant Shokrian.  

 
b.         Defendant
Benbaroukh 
 
On April 25, 2023, Plaintiff
propounded to Defendant Benbaroukh a notice of deposition of its person most
qualified, to take place on May 16, 2023, with a request for production of
documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. A.) On May 11, 2023, Defendant asked
Plaintiff for a continuance of all discovery, including the noticed depositions
citing a breakdown in communication between counsel and Defendant. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. B.) On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff agreed to continue the
depositions if the parties could continue the trial, due to impending discovery
deadlines, and Defendant agreed to draft a stipulation for Plaintiff’s review.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 6; Exh. B.) Plaintiff never received a stipulation from
Defendant and the deposition remained on calendar. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 7;
Exh. B.) 
 
On May 16, 2023, Plaintiff called
the deposition and Defendant did not show, nor did it object. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 8.) Counsel then sets forth meet and confer efforts to reschedule the
depositions, and attests that Plaintiff agreed to reschedule the deposition
after communications with Defendant’s counsel, and the deposition was noticed
for June 28, 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶¶ 9-11; Exhs. D and E.) On June 22,
2023, Defendants cited a breakdown in communication with counsel and
Defendant’s counsel stated that he would be unable to proceed with the
deposition and would be filing to withdraw as counsel the following week.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 12; Exh. F.) On June 28, 2023, Plaintiff agreed to
reschedule the depositions once again and asked that Defendant’s counsel move
forward with any plans to withdraw if he was going to do so. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 13; Exh. F.) On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff propounded a new deposition
notice on Defendant for August 8, 2023, which requested that the deponent also
produce documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 14; Exh. G.) 
 
On July 20, 2023, Defendant’s
counsel emailed Plaintiff and stated that he would file a motion to withdraw
the following day, and Plaintiff confirmed that the depositions would remain on
calendar and that as soon as Defendant’s counsel withdrew, she would serve the
notices on Defendant directly. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 15.) Plaintiff provided
the link for a virtual deposition and resent the notice of deposition and
request for production of documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 15; Exh. H.)
Defendant has not served a valid objection under Section 2025.410. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 16.) Defendant failed to appear for examination on August 8, 2023.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 17; Exh. I.) On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff sent an email
to meet and confer regarding the missed deposition. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 18;
Exh. J.) Plaintiff then filed motions to compel the depositions of Defendants
Shokrian and Benbaroukh in August of 2023. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 20.) 
 
On November 15, 2023, after
hearing, the Court issued an order compelling the depositions of the PMK for
Defendant Benbaroukh and for Defendant Shokrian, as well as monetary sanctions.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 21; Exh. K.) After coordinating with counsel for
Defendants Shokrian and Benbaroukh, Plaintiff noticed the depositions for
December 19, 2023, along with production of documents. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶
22; Exh. L.) Defendants paid a portion of the sanctions ordered by the Court.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 23; Exh. M.) Defendants’ counsel communicated that it
needed more time for the depositions due to the production of documents request
included and the depositions were continued to February of 2024. (Diaz-Weaver
Decl., ¶ 24; Exh. N.) 
 
After coordinating with opposing
counsel again, Plaintiff agreed to continue trial to a mutually acceptable date
of April 30, 2024, and noticed the depositions for February 14, 2024.
(Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 25; Exh. O.) On February 7, 2024, opposing counsel served
Plaintiff with the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, and when Plaintiff asked
about the scheduled depositions, opposing counsel stated that they needed to be
rescheduled and that Plaintiff could speak directly with Defendant Shokrian to
secure dates. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 26; Exh. P.) Plaintiff emailed Defendant
Shokrian on February 26, 2024, regarding the scheduling of the depositions and
has not received any response. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 27; Exh. Q.) On March 15,
2024, Plaintiff sent an email to opposing counsel advising them of the filing
of the present motion and the date set for the motion. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶
28; Exh. P.) Plaintiff has yet to hear from opposing counsel or Defendant
Shokrian. (Diaz-Weaver Decl., ¶ 29.) 
 
Given that the instant motion is
unopposed, it is undisputed that Defendant Benbaroukh has failed to comply with
the Court’s November 15, 2023 order. Given that the motion is unopposed, the
Court finds that Defendant Benbaroukh’s non-compliance is willful. 
 
The Court does not find that
monetary sanctions will compel Defendant Benbaroukh’s compliance with this
Court’s orders. Defendant Benbaroukh and its counsel of record have been
ordered to pay monetary sanctions; however, such sanctions have not been fully
paid in compliance with this Court’s orders. 
 
The Court notes that it has already
struck the Answer of Defendant Benbaroukh. (See 04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 5.)
The Court struck the Answer of Defendant Benbaroukh due to its failure to
appear at the April 22, 2024 OSC and the lack of a filed substitution of
attorney on its behalf. (04/22/24 Minute Order at p. 5.) Terminating sanctions
may be imposed by “[a]n order striking out the pleadings . . . of any party
engaging in misuse of the discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd.
(d)(1).) By striking the Answer of Defendant Benbaroukh in connection with the
OSC, the Court has already granted the relief that Plaintiff seeks against
Defendant Benbaroukh through the instant motion. Plaintiff’s request for
terminating sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh is therefore MOOT. Accordingly, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
request for terminating sanctions as to Defendant Benbaroukh as MOOT.  
 
As to Plaintiff’s request for issue
sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh, Plaintiff requests issue sanctions
which will bar Defendant Benbaroukh “from prosecuting any part of its claims or
defenses in this action and designated facts shall be established in accordance
with Plaintiff’s claims.” (Motion at p. 2:12-14.) The Court finds that issue
sanctions are appropriate against Defendant Benbaroukh. Defendant Benbaroukh
has failed to comply with a discovery order issued by this Court and—due to the
lack of opposition to the motion—the Court finds that Defendant Benbaroukh’s non-compliance
was willful. Non-jury trial is set for April 30, 2024—which is less than one
week away from the date of this order—and Plaintiff has been unable to obtain
relevant discovery from Defendant Benbaroukh despite an order from this Court.
Moreover, as stated above, monetary sanctions did not compel Defendant
Benbaroukh’s compliance with this Court’s orders. 
 
The Court therefore GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh.  
            
c.         Monetary Sanctions   

   
            Pursuant to each of the Motions,
Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,800. The Court,
however, notes that the respective declarations of counsel do not set forth
counsel’s hourly rate or the time spent on the respective motions. The Motions
merely argue that “Plaintiff’s counsel spent hours researching terminating
sanctions under the Code of Civil Procedure and drafting this motion, as well
as its exhibits. In addition, Plaintiff’s counsel anticipates spending more
hours drafting a reply and appearing at the hearing for this motion.” (See
Motions at p. 5:16-18.) The Court reminds Plaintiff that “[i]n law and motion
practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court by way of declarations.” Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224. The
Court lacks a factual basis to ascertain whether the amount of monetary
sanctions requested are reasonable. The Court cannot ascertain the hours spent
on the respective motions as counsel’s declarations in support of the Motions
are void of facts to substantiate the requested amount of monetary sanctions.
 
            The Court therefore DENIES
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions pursuant to the Motions.
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, the Motions are therefore GRANTED
IN PART. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request
for terminating and monetary sanctions against Defendant Elias Shokrian;
however, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for issue sanctions against
Defendant Elias Shokrian. 
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for terminating
sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh, LLC as MOOT.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh, LLC.  The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for issue
sanctions against Defendant Benbaroukh, LLC. 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  


