  Case Number:  22PSCV01913    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: 
Amelita Reyes Diaz v. Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba
Superior Grocers 
Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc.’s
Motion for Summary Judgment 
TENTATIVE RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment. Defendant must submit a proposed judgment. 
             Defendant
is further ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar
days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a slip-and-fall case. On November
18, 2022, plaintiff Amelita Reyes Diaz (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendant
Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba Superior Grocers (Defendant) and Does 1 to 10, alleging
causes of action for premises liability and general negligence. On April 11,
2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging the
same causes of action against Defendant and Does 1 to 10. 
On January 23, 2024, Defendant moved
for summary judgment. On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the motion. On March
18, 2024, Defendant replied. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, italics in original
and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The function of the pleadings
in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.) 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established,
or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion
“shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster v.
Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) 
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court takes judicial notice
of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content and authenticity
of public records and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice
of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.) 
DISCUSSION 
Summary of Undisputed Material
Facts 
On November 28, 2020, Plaintiff
was injured in a slip-and-fall accident at Defendant’s store, located at 1375
N. Citrus Ave., Covina, CA 91722, due to water on the ground of the store floor.
(UMF 3-4.) Defendant performs hourly inspections and sweeps of the entire sales
floor and cleans up debris, liquids, or other hazards. (UMF 6.) On the date of
the accident, Defendant made two sweeps of the area in question approximately
50 minutes before Plaintiff was injured, and no water was present at that time.
(UMF 7-9.) Surveillance camera footage shows that an unidentified third party customer
was carrying a gallon of water and tampering with the lid, which caused it to
spill. (UMF 11.) After the spill, the unidentified third party customer looked
at the spill, turned around, walked back the way he came, and put the gallon of
water on a random shelf. (UMF 12.) Approximately 10 seconds later, Plaintiff
came through the area in question and then slipped and fell. (UMF 13.) A few
minutes later, Defendant cleaned up the spill. (UMF 14.) 
Analysis 
The elements of claims for premises liability and
negligence are the same, namely a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
causation, and damages. (Martinez v. City of Beverly
Hills (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 508, 517; Jones v. Awad (2019) 39
Cal.App.5th 1200, 1207.) “It is well established in California that although a
store owner is not an insurer of the safety of its patrons, the owner does owe
them a duty to exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises reasonably
safe. [Citation.]” (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) “A store owner exercises ordinary care by making
reasonable inspections of the portions of the premises open to customers, and
the care required is commensurate with the risks involved.” (Id.)
“Because the owner is not the insurer of the visitor's personal safety
[citation], the owner's actual or constructive knowledge of the dangerous
condition is a key to establishing its liability.” (Id. at p. 1206.)
“Most Courts of Appeal hold that a defendant is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law if the plaintiff fails to show that the dangerous condition
existed for at least a sufficient time to be discovered by ordinary care and
inspection.” (Id. at p. 1207.) “[W]here the only evidence is that the
foreign object has been on the floor of the market for ‘a minute and a half,’
it must be held that it is insufficient to support an inference that the
defendant proprietor failed to exercise the care required of him.” (Girvetz
v. Boys’ Market (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 831.) 
            Defendant
moves for summary judgment on the grounds that the undisputed evidence shows
Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice of the hazardous condition
to timely act. Defendant contends the surveillance video footage shows that
Defendant did not create the hazardous condition; rather, an unidentified third
party customer spilled the water, and that the water was on the ground for
approximately 10 seconds before Plaintiff slipped and fell. (UMF 11, 13.)
Defendant also contends Plaintiff has no evidence to dispute the surveillance
video showing when the spill was created, and that Plaintiff cannot show
Defendant had actual or constructive notice due to the short length of time
between the spill and Plaintiff’s fall. Defendant further contends that even if
Plaintiff had conducted an inspection of the area a few minutes before
Plaintiff’s fall, it would not have prevented Plaintiff’s fall because of the
10-second gap between the spill and the fall. Defendant also contends the
evidence shows Defendant acted promptly to address the spill after learning of
it. (UMF 14.) 
            The
Court finds Defendant has met its moving burden and that Defendant has
established the absence of a triable issue of material fact. The evidence
presented shows that Defendant conducted regular sweeps of the store floor to
address hazardous conditions like the one in question, Defendant inspected the
area less than an hour before Plaintiff’s injury, a third-party created the
hazardous condition, and approximately 10 seconds elapsed between the spill and
Plaintiff’s fall. (UMF 6-13.) The Court finds that, as a matter of law, 10 seconds
is insufficient to have put Defendant on notice of the hazardous condition here.
(See Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1207; Girvetz, supra, 91
Cal.App.2d at p. 831.) Accordingly, the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to
establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff contends that the fact of Plaintiff’s slip and fall is
sufficient to create a triable issue of fact as to Defendant’s liability. Plaintiff
cites allegations from the FAC to show that Defendant owns the property where
the incident occurred and thereby owed Plaintiff a duty of care when Plaintiff
slipped and fell inside the store due to Defendant’s alleged failure to
properly maintain the common areas. Plaintiff argues that a triable issue of
material fact exists regarding whether Defendant’s inspection of the subject
area 50 minutes before Plaintiff’s injury was reasonable, and that more
frequent inspections would have prevented Plaintiff’s injury.                       
            The Court finds Plaintiff has failed to establish the
existence of a triable issue of material fact. First, Plaintiff did not submit
any evidence in opposition to Defendant’s motion. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(2) [“The opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.”]; Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.5th at p. 843 [purpose of summary judgment is to cut through the pleadings to
determine whether trial is necessary despite the allegations].) Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement contains no citations to any admissible evidence. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1350, subd. (f)(3); see generally, Plaintiff’s Response to
Defendant’s Separate Statement.) Plaintiff’s citations to allegations from the FAC
as evidence in support of her opposition to Defendant’s motion are also
insufficient to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 702 fn. 7 [“It is
generally understood, for instance, that a party cannot rely on the allegations
of his own pleadings, even if verified, to make or supplement the evidentiary
showing required in the summary judgment context. [Citations].”]) 
The Court further agrees with Defendant that Plaintiff’s
citation to Regents of University of California v. Superior Court (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 755 is unavailing, as Plaintiff only provides the general
citation and does not indicate which holding or conclusion she relies on. The
Court will not guess what Plaintiff intended with this citation. 
            Second, Plaintiff’s opposition does not address the
primary argument that Defendant did not have actual or constructive notice of
the hazardous condition to timely act. More specifically, Plaintiff does not
address the evidence that shows a third party caused the spill, which was on
the store ground for approximately 10 seconds before Plaintiff slipped and
fell. (UMF 11, 13.) The law makes clear that 10
seconds is an insufficient amount of time to give the property owner notice of
the hazardous condition. (Girvetz, supra, 91 Cal.App.2d at p. 831.) 
Third, Plaintiff’s opposition presents no evidence to
dispute when or how the spill occurred, or how long the spill was on the ground
before Plaintiff slipped and fell. Thus, Plaintiff’s argument regarding whether
Defendant acted reasonably by sweeping the subject area 50 minutes before the
incident is beside the point and does not establish the existence of a triable
issue of material fact. 
Finally, to the extent Plaintiff argues in her
Separate Statement that she was unable to view the surveillance video in the
format provided by Defendant for this motion, that does not help Plaintiff.
(See generally, Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement.)
Defendant served the motion on January 3, 2024, almost three months before the
hearing on this motion. If Plaintiff had trouble viewing the video, Plaintiff’s
counsel had ample time to contact Defendant’s counsel to provide a viewable
copy, but Plaintiff provides no evidence of having attempted to do so. 
The Court also notes that Defendant submitted declarations
regarding the surveillance video footage, which indicate that a copy of the
video was previously produced to Plaintiff during discovery. (Leon Decl., ¶ 5;
Martinez Decl., ¶ 5; Diamond Decl., ¶ 6.) Accordingly, even if the copy of the
video submitted with the motion was unviewable, Plaintiff should have been able
to view the copy previously produced during discovery. Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement does not otherwise indicate that it was not produced to her
previously or that she was unable to view any such prior copy. (See generally,
Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment. Defendant must submit a proposed judgment. 
             Defendant
is further ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar
days of this order.