  Case Number:  22STCV30431    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Amend Judgment
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Californian II Homeowners Association
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
The
Motion to Amend Judgment is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff shall have seven (7)
days leave to file its proposed default judgment.   
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On September 16, 2022, Plaintiff
Californian II Homeowners Association filed its Complaint against Defendant
Regina Sarfaty. 
 
        On December 5, 2022, Plaintiff filed its
Notice of Action Pending.
 
        On March 3, 2023, Plaintiff amended its
Complaint by substituting Doe 1 with Frank G. King.
 
        On October 23, 2023, the Court entered
Default Judgment in this matter. 
 
        On November 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed
its Motion to Amend Judgment. 
 
        No opposition or other response has been
filed to the Motion. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his
or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of
merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves the Court to enter an
ordering correcting the Default Judgment based on Plaintiff’s Counsel’s
mistake. (Motion, p.  5:5–7.)
Specifically, it appears that despite foreclosure of a lien being a cause of
action in the Complaint, Judgment Creditor’s Counsel mistakenly left that
relief out of the request for default judgment and the proposed judgment
submitted to the Court. 
 
Judgment Creditor’s Counsel attests to
their mistake, includes a copy of the proposed default judgment that would
correct the issue, and submits the Motion within six months of the signed
Default Judgment. (Motion, Decl. Famili, ¶ 6 and Exh. C; Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b).)
 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
The
Motion to Amend Judgment is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff shall have seven (7)
days leave to file its proposed default judgment. 
 
 