 Case Number:  20STCV44141    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE
Hearing Date: 1/3/25¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV44141 ALISHA GARTH, et al.
vs MAXIMILLIAN A. HUFF
Moving Party: Defendant Maximillian Huff
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:
DENIED
Background
On November 17, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present auto accident case. Defendant filed an answer on
February 4, 2021. On December 5, 2024, Defendant moved the Court to change
venue to San Diego County, where the car accident allegedly occurred, citing
convenience of witnesses. Trial is currently set for January 29, 2025.
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 397 provides that “the court may, on motion, change the place of trial
. . . [w]hen the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be
promoted by the change.” “A motion for a change of venue, grounded upon the convenience
of witnesses, rests in the discretion of the trial court.” (Blossom v.
Waller (1916) 30 Cal.App. 439, 441.) The party moving to change an action’s
venue has the burden of proving that both convenience of witnesses and ends of
justice will be thereby promoted. (Prewitt v. Prewitt (1954) 128
Cal.App2d 344, 346.) The motion must be accompanied by declarations that
establish a substantial factual basis for granting the motion based on
“convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice.” (Juneau v. Juneau (1941)
45 Cal.App.2d 14, 16.) 
In determining whether
the transfer would promote the convenience of the witnesses, the Court is to
consider only the convenience of non-party witnesses, and not the convenience
of party witnesses and party-affiliated witnesses. (Rios v. Lacey Trucking
Co. (1954) 123 Cal.App.2d 865, 868-869; Chaffin Cost. Co .v. Maleville
Bros. (1957) 155 Cal.App.3d 660, 663 [convenience of party’s
employee-witnesses not to be considered].) There are exceptions to this rule
which the parties agree are not applicable here. (See Rios, supra, 123
Cal.App.2d at p. 869.) However, if a party intends to call an opposing
party’s employees as adverse witnesses, the Court may take the convenience of
those witnesses into account. (J.C. Millett Co. v. Latchford-Marble Glass
Co. (1959) 167 Cal.App.2d 218, 227.) 
Timeliness
There is no statutory
deadline for filing a motion to transfer venue based on the convenience of
witnesses or to promote the ends of justice. However, courts have held that
such motions must be made within a reasonable time after the case is at issue
on the facts. The determination of what constitutes a "reasonable
time" rests largely in the discretion of the trial court. (Cooney v.
Cooney, 25 Cal.2d 202, 208.)
In Willingham v.
Pecora (1941) 44 Cal.App.2d 289, 295 the Court of Appeal held that motions
to change venue must be filed within a reasonable time. The Court found that a
motion filed nearly one year after the commencement of the action, but less
than a month before the trial date, was untimely because the moving party
allowed the case to lie dormant for nearly four months before seeking a
transfer. Furthermore, the court held that the delay would have caused a 5-month
postponement of the trial and would not promote the ends of justice. 
Discussion
This personal injury
action arises from a two-car motor vehicle accident that occurred on January
30, 2019, in La Mesa, California, at the intersection of Quarry Road and
Riviera Drive, located in San Diego County. Plaintiff filed the case on
November 17, 2020. Defendant now seeks to transfer venue to San Diego County
after four years of litigation, just days before the trial scheduled for
January 29, 2025.
The Court finds that
the motion was not made within a reasonable time nor would it promote the ends
of justice. First, this case has been at issue for over four years. The
residence of witnesses presumably should have been discovered long ago, yet
Defendant has not explained why this motion is being made on the eve of trial.
Second, Defendant has failed to identify any non-party witnesses who will be
incovenienced. Defendant merely asserts that both Defendant and witnesses
reside in San Diego County and would be inconvenienced by a trial in Los
Angeles. Without knowing the number of non-party witnesses, their locations,
their schedules, the nature of their testimony and whether they are essential
to the case , the Court cannot adequately assess the extent of any
inconvenience to the witnesses.
Third, this case is
approaching its five-year statutory deadline, and this motion is being heard
just 15 days before the trial date. Granting the motion at this stage would
undoubtedly cause a delay in the trial, potentially pushing the action beyond
the five-year deadline, which could result in dismissal under Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.310.  Further, by
granting the motion at such a late date, the Court would put the San Diego
Superior Court in a position of having to ensure resources for this case to go
to trial in a short time; that is unfair to that court.
The present case
presents an even more egregious delay than in Willingham v. Pecora. In Willingham,
the motion to change venue was filed nearly one year after the commencement of
the action and less than a month before trial, with the Court finding the delay
unreasonable due to a four-month period of dormancy and the potential for a
five-month postponement of the trial. Here, however, Defendant waited over four
years before filing the motion, allowing the case to proceed through extensive
litigation and only raising the issue on the eve of trial, just 15 days before
the scheduled trial date. Unlike in Willingham, where at least some
explanation of witness inconvenience was provided, Defendant has failed to
identify specific non-party witnesses, their locations, or their availability,
leaving the Court unable to assess the inconvenience alleged. Furthermore, the
delay in this case risks extending the action beyond the five-year statutory
deadline, a consequence far more severe than the delay considered in Willingham.
Accordingly, the court denies the motion as it was not filed within reasonable
time and would not promote ends of justice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 