 Case Number:  21STCV30667    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 1/3/25 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV30667 ALEXANDER JOSEPH
GUERRERO vs CAROLINE NGO, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Richard Pranada
and Denise Pranada
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
Background
On
August 18, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present gun discharge case against
multiple defendants, including Richard Pranada and Denise Pranada. On April 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint, which is the operative
complaint in this case. The causes of action against the Pranada Defendants are
negligence and premises liability. 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants Richard and Denise Pranada own a home located at 24669
Moon Avenue, Lomita, California. From March 1, 2018, to the present, the
Pranadas have leased their home to Defendants Caroline Ngo and Craig Finley
pursuant to a written lease agreement. On May 31, 2020, Plaintiff attended a
barbecue hosted by tenants Ngo and Finley at the property. During the event,
Finley displayed a collection of unsecured and loaded firearms that he stored
in a closet in a bedroom. While Finley was handling a gun, it discharged and
injured Plaintiff. (The parties dispute which gun it was that discharged – Finley
contends it was actually a gun brought by Plaintiff; Plaintiff contends it was one
of the cache of guns that Finley displayed.[1])
The Pranadas were not present at the barbecue and do not reside at the
property.
The
Pranada Defendants now move for summary judgment on the basis that they owed no
duty to Plaintiff, a third party. Trial is currently set for March 3, 2025, and
Defendant Ngo’s motion for summary judgment is set to be heard on January 14,
2025.
 
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v.
D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) If the moving
party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be
denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare
(2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) Even if the
moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the
motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in
the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.)
“Once the
defendant … has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court
decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in
the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant
summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id.
at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].) 
 
Evidentiary
Ruling 
 
The Court overrules Defendants
Objections 36-40. The Parties did not make any other objections to evidence
that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).)
 
Undisputed Facts
 
·       
On May 31, 2020, Finley accidentally discharged a bullet from weapon
at 24669 Moon Ave., Lomita, CA 90717-1415 (the “subject Premises”); the bullet struck
Plaintiff (the “Incident”). 
·       
At the time of the Incident, Defendants Ngo and Finley resided at
the Subject Premises. 
·       
The Subject Premises is owned by Defendant Richard Pranada and his
wife, Defendant Pranada. 
·       
The Pranadas began leasing the Subject Premises to Defendants Ngo
and Finley in or about March of 2018. 
·       
The Pranadas do not live at the Subject Premises. 
·       
The Panadas had no knowledge of the alleged discharge of any guns,
firearms, or weapons on the Subject Premises until after the incident. 
·       
The Pranadas had no knowledge of any prior discharges of any
weapons at the property.
·       
Prior to the Incident, the Pranadas had no knowledge of Defendant Finley
or Defendant Ngo discharging any guns, firearms, or other weapons at the
Subject Premises. 
·       
Prior to the Incident, the Pranadas had no knowledge of Defendant
Craig Finley ever employing a firearm against a person on the premises or
otherwise. 
 
Discussion
 
Liability for
Third Party Conduct 
 
Defendant introduces the framework
for analyzing duty in the context of third-party acts by distinguishing between
"misfeasance" and "nonfeasance."
(Lugtu v. California Highway Patrol (2001) 26 Cal.4th 703, 716.)
"Misfeasance exists when the defendant is responsible for making the
plaintiffs position worse, i.e., defendant has created a risk.
Conversely, nonfeasance is found when the defendant has failed to aid plaintiff
through beneficial intervention." (Weirum v. RKO General, Inc.
(1975) 15 Cal.3d 40, 49.)  
 
A legal duty may arise from affirmative acts "where the
defendant, through his or her own action (misfeasance) has made the plaintiffs
position worse and has created a foreseeable risk of harm from the third
person. In such cases the question of duty is governed by the standards of
ordinary care." (Pamela L. v. Farmer (1980) 112 Cal.App.3d 206,
209; see Lugtu v. California Highway Patrol, supra, 26
Cal.4th at p. 716; Weirum, supra, 15 Cal.3d at p. 49.)  
 
By contrast, nonfeasance generally does not give rise to a legal
duty. The underlying premise is that "a person should not be liable for
`nonfeasance' in failing to act as a `good Samaritan.'" (Pamela L. v.
Farmer, supra, 112 Cal.App.3d at p. 209.) In other words, "one
`who has not created a peril is not liable in tort merely for failure to take
affirmative action to assist or protect another' from the acts of a third
party." (Garcia, supra, 164 Cal.App.4th at 1453, fn. 3,
quoting Williams v. State of California (1983) 34 Cal.3d 18, 23.) Thus,
absent misfeasance, "as a general matter, there is no duty to act to
protect others from the conduct of third parties." (Delgado v. Trax Bar
Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.)  
 
Even in the case of nonfeasance, there are "recognized
exceptions to the general no-duty-to-protect rule," one of which is the
special relationship doctrine. (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 235;
see Weirum, supra, 15 Cal.3d at 49.) "A defendant may owe an
affirmative duty to protect another from the conduct of third parties if he or
she has a `special relationship' with the other person." (Delgado,
at p. 235.)  
 
Where there is a legal basis for imposing a duty — as in cases
of misfeasance or when a special relationship exists — the court considers the
foreseeability of risk from the third party conduct. (Melton v. Boustred,
(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 532.) Generally, "a duty to take affirmative
action to control the wrongful acts of a third party will be imposed only where
such conduct can be reasonably anticipated." (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza
Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 676; see Wiener, supra,
32 Cal.4th at p. 1146; Rest.2d Torts, § 314A, com. e, p. 120.)  Acts by third parties are not
foreseeable absent prior similar incidents. (See e.g. Wingard v. Safeway
Stores, Inc. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 37, 43.) For example, in Ann M., the California Supreme
Court held that a landowner’s duty to control third-party conduct depends on
whether the landowner had notice of prior similar incidents. (Ann M., supra, at
p. 676.) In that case, the plaintiff, who was raped at her workplace located in
a secluded area of a strip mall, alleged that prior assaults and robberies had
occurred on the premises. However, she failed to produce evidence showing that
the defendant landowner had notice of these alleged incidents. (Id. at
p. 679.)
 
Civil Code Section 1714(a)
 
Plaintiff, in contrast,
introduces a framework for analyzing landlord responsibility under Civil Code
section 1714(a), which provides: "[e]veryone is responsible, not only for
the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to
another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his
or her property or person." This principle imposes a duty on property
owners to prevent or address foreseeable risks created by known dangerous
conditions on their property, provided they have the opportunity and ability to
mitigate the harm.
 
Plaintiff cites three cases clarifying the extent of
a landlord’s liability to third parties, particularly under Civil Code section
1714(a): Uccello v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 504, Rosales v.
Stewart (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 130 and Hernandez v. Jensen (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 1056. In Uccello, a
five-year-old neighbor was attacked by a tenant's dangerous dog. The landlord,
who knew the dog posed a risk and had the legal right to terminate the lease,
was found to owe a duty to protect third parties. The court held the landlord
liable because the landlord knew about the dangerous condition and had the
ability to eliminate the danger by terminating the lease.
 
In Rosales, a young child was fatally struck
by a stray bullet fired by a tenant using the yard as a shooting range. The
landlord was held liable because the landlord had knowledge of the tenant's
dangerous activity and the ability to address it through warnings, lease
termination, or other measures to prevent harm.
 
In Hernandez, a home
healthcare worker was injured by an unsecured, loaded firearm openly hanging in
a closet. The homeowners, who were aware of the firearm and failed to warn or
protect the worker, were held to have a duty of care because they knew of the
danger and could have prevented the injury.
 
Ultimately, both Defendants’ and Plaintiff’s
frameworks for analyzing duty hinge on whether the defendant had prior
knowledge of the alleged dangerous condition.
 
        Lack
of Prior Knowledge
 
The Pranadas met their initial burden by
demonstrating they had no prior knowledge of the alleged dangerous condition.
First, the Pranadas do not reside at the subject
premises. (Declaration of Richard Pranada, ¶4; Declaration of Denise Pranada,
¶3, Compendium of Documentary Evidence.) Second, the Pranadas had no prior
knowledge of the presence, discharge, or ownership of firearms or other weapons
on the premises prior to the incident. They further declare they were unaware
of any prior incidents involving weapons on the property or any use of firearms
by Craig Finley, Caroline Ngo, or any other individual associated with the
premises. (Declarations of Richard and Denise Pranada, ¶¶ 5–9, Compendium of
Documentary Evidence.) This evidence establishes that the Pranadas had no
knowledge of any dangerous condition involving firearms on the property,
thereby satisfying their initial burden to demonstrate an absence of duty under
the applicable legal standards.
 
The evidence presented by Plaintiff is insufficient to raise a
triable issue of fact regarding Defendant’s knowledge of prior incidents or the
possession of firearms on the premises. Plaintiff relies on the general
presence of vendors, including a gardener, plumber, and handyman, who entered
the property during the tenancy, as well as the allegation that weapons were
openly displayed in a closet.  (Lahmani
Dec., Ex. H [Finley’s Response to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set No.
Two) Nos. 54 & 57; Lahmani Dec., Ex. C at 41:14-42:1.) However, Plaintiff
fails to provide any evidence that these vendors observed the firearms, were
aware of their presence, or reported them to Defendants. The mere fact that
individuals entered the property at some point and may have seen firearms does
not establish that Defendants had knowledge of any dangerous condition.
Plaintiff’s argument relies entirely on speculation that someone might have
observed the firearms and conveyed that information to Defendants, but
speculation and conjecture cannot create a triable issue of fact. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 163.)
 
Negligence Per Se
 
Plaintiff argues that the Pranadas could be subject to liability
per se under Penal Code section 626.9, the Gun-Free School Zone Act, which
prohibits any person from possessing a firearm in a location the person knows,
or reasonably should know, is within a school zone. Plaintiff invokes the
negligence per se doctrine and contends that the tenant’s alleged violation of
this statute should be imputed to the Pranadas as landlords. However, Plaintiff
fails to establish a legal basis for this imputation or demonstrate how the
statute imposes any duty on landlords.
 
To impose liability under negligence per se, Plaintiff must show
that (1) the defendant violated a statute; (2) the violation proximately caused
the injury; (3) the harm suffered was the kind the statute was designed to
prevent; and (4) the plaintiff was in the class of persons the statute was
intended to protect. (Scripps Health v. Superior Court (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 529, 536.) Here, Plaintiff relies on alleged statutory violations
by Finley, including firearm registration and safety certification
requirements, but provides no evidence that the Pranadas themselves violated
Penal Code section 626.9 or any other statute. Plaintiff fails to bridge the
gap between the tenant’s independent actions and any direct statutory violation
or duty on the part of the Pranadas.
 
Plaintiff attempts to bridge this gap by arguing that the Pranadas’
lease agreement did not require Ngo or Finley to secure firearms on the
premises or take steps to prevent accidents involving loaded weapons.
Additionally, Plaintiff contends that the Pranadas did not take precautions to
ensure their tenants complied with the Gun-Free School Zone Act or other
firearm-related laws. However, there is no provision in Penal Code section
626.9—or any other statute cited by Plaintiff—that imposes such requirements on
landlords. Plaintiff has not provided authority, and the Court is not aware of
any case law or statutes, that mandates landlords to include firearm-specific
clauses in their leases, or to inspect premises without suspicion or prior
knowledge to ensure that tenants comply with all applicable state and federal
laws. 
 
Duty Under Lease
 
Plaintiff also argues that the Pranadas failed to fulfill their
duty as landlords to comply with the law and protect third parties, such as
Guerrero, based on the language of the lease agreement. Plaintiff contends that
the lease agreement, which required tenants to obey all federal, state, and
local laws and authorized the landlords to inspect the premises, created a duty
for the Pranadas to prohibit or monitor firearm possession on the property.
However, this argument is unsupported by the language of the lease.
 
The relevant lease provisions require tenants to ensure compliance
with applicable laws and prohibit unlawful activities on the premises.
Specifically, the lease states:
“Tenant shall not, and shall ensure that guests and licensees of Tenant shall
not, disturb, annoy, endanger or interfere with other tenants of the building
or neighbors, or use the Premises for any unlawful purposes, under federal,
state, or local law including, but not limited to, using, manufacturing,
selling, storing or transporting illicit drugs or other contraband, or violate
any law or ordinance, or commit a waste or nuisance on or about the Premises.” (Dec.,
Ex. G [Pranada Depo., Ex. A at §§ 15 & 19.])
 
This language clearly imposes obligations on the tenants—not the
landlords—to comply with the law and ensure lawful conduct on the premises.
While the lease grants the landlords the right to inspect the premises, it does
not impose an affirmative obligation to do so. The plain language of these
provisions does not create a duty for the landlords to police tenant behavior
or monitor compliance with specific laws, such as firearm regulations.
Furthermore, Plaintiff has failed to provide any legal authority to support the
contention that a tenant’s obligations under a lease create a corresponding
duty on the part of the landlord to enforce or monitor tenant compliance. Accordingly,
Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue of fact establishing that the
lease imposes a duty on the landlords to ensure that the tenants did not
possess firearms on the premises.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact as
to the element of duty, and summary judgment is therefore granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 


