  Case Number:  20STCV35050    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
  
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS
COUNSEL  
Hearing Date: 1/3/2025 at 1:30
p.m.  
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV35050
MICHAEL GREENWOOD, AN INDIV... vs ALL CARTAGE TRANSPORTATION et al.
Moving Party: Defendant’s Counsel
Hirschfeld Kraemer
Responding Party: Unopposed  
Notice: Insufficient  
  
Ruling: MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS
COUNSEL IS DENIED 
 
Background 
 
Law firm Hirschfeld Kraemer represents
Defendant Cartage West, Inc. Defense counsel moves to be relieved as counsel,
citing an irremediable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿ 
The Court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.) 
¿ 
A motion to be relieved as counsel
must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion),
MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the
client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).) 
¿ 
Analysis and Conclusion¿ 
¿ 
Counsel has filed Judicial Council
Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel for Defendant on the
grounds that there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship and
nonpayment of attorney fees. The Court finds this to be proper grounds for
withdrawal. (See Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014 (a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship is grounds for allowing the
attorney to withdraw).)  
 
Counsel states he personally
served the client with copies of the motion papers filed with his declaration.
However, the proof of service shows that the motion was not personally served
on Defendant but was instead served electronically. Moreover, there is no
indication that the client’s last known email address was confirmed to be
current. In other words, there is no evidence that the client actually received
service of this motion, particularly given Counsel’s representation that
Defendant is not responding to communications. Additionally, trial is currently
set for January 7, 2025, which is only four days away. This would not provide
sufficient time for Defendant to retain new counsel, and withdrawal at this
time would result in prejudice and disrupt the orderly process of justice.
Accordingly, the present motion is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave. 
 
 