 Case Number:  BC691437    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




frank depto

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
st. paul the apostle church

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


BC691437




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   4, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to amend operative
  complaint to assert punitive damages (code civ. proc., § 425.14)
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Frank Depto  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a
Corporation Sole (erroneously sued and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles),
St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St. Paul the Apostle School
Motion to Amend Operative Complaint to Assert Punitive Damages
The court
considered the amended moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection
with this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on defendants
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a Corporation Sole (erroneously sued
and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles), St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St.
Paul the Apostle School’s evidentiary objections to the deposition of Richard
Billups, filed on August 21, 2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-3 are
overruled. 
The court rules on defendants
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a Corporation Sole (erroneously sued
and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles), St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St.
Paul the Apostle School’s evidentiary objections to the declaration of Karen
Duenes, filed on August 21, 2024, as follows:
            Objections
Nos. 6-8 are sustained.     
Objections Nos. 1-5 are
overruled. 
The court rules on defendants
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a Corporation Sole (erroneously sued
and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles), St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St.
Paul the Apostle School’s evidentiary objections to the declaration of Marie
Laraneta-Watson, filed on August 21, 2024, as follows:
            Objections
Nos. 6-7 and 9 are sustained.       
Objections Nos. 1-5 and 10 are
overruled. 
Objection No. 8 is overruled
as to the statements “In early 2017, I called my husband Cosbey Watson Jr.
(hereafter as ‘Cosbey’) to get his opinion about a kiln installed at St.
Paul.  Cosbey is a general contract and
has over thirty years of experience in the field and often works on large
industrial projects[,]” and is sustained as the other statements set forth in
paragraph 11. 
The court rules on defendants
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a Corporation Sole (erroneously sued
and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles), St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St.
Paul the Apostle School’s evidentiary objections to the declaration of Cosbey
Watson, filed on August 21, 2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-6 are
overruled. 
The court rules on defendants
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a Corporation Sole (erroneously sued
and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles), St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St.
Paul the Apostle School’s evidentiary objections to the declaration of Vincent
Gomez III, filed on August 21, 2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-8 are
overruled. 
The court rules on defendants
Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a Corporation Sole (erroneously sued
and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles), St. Paul the Apostle Church, and St.
Paul the Apostle School’s evidentiary objections to the declaration of Geoffrey
Graham, filed on August 21, 2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-6 are
overruled. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Frank Depto (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Fourth Amended
Complaint in this action against defendants St. Paul the Apostle Church, Roman
Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a Corporation Sole (erroneously sued and
served as the Archdiocese of Los Angeles), and St. Paul the Apostle School[1]
(“Defendants”) on May 17, 2023. 
Plaintiff now moves the court for an order granting him leave to amend
his complaint to assert a claim for punitive damages pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.14.
“No claim for punitive or exemplary damages against a religious
corporation or religious corporation sole shall be included in a complaint or
other pleading unless the court enters an order allowing an amended pleading
that includes a claim for punitive or exemplary damages to be filed.  The court may allow the filing of an amended
pleading claiming punitive or exemplary damages on a motion by the party
seeking the amended pleading and upon a finding, on the basis of supporting and
opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established evidence
which substantiates that plaintiff will meet the clear and convincing standard
of proof under Section 3294 of the Civil Code.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.14.) 
First, the court finds that Plaintiff’s motion is not untimely under
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.14.
The court notes, as Defendants have pointed out, that Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.13 provides that a court shall not grant a motion for
leave to include a claim for punitive damages if the motion is not filed within
the earlier of two years after the initial pleading is filed or not less than
nine months before the date the matter is first set for trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.13, subd. (a).)  However, that statute applies to “action[s]
for damages arising out of the professional negligence of a healthcare
provider,” and therefore does not apply to this action.  (Ibid.)  Moreover, while the court acknowledges that sections
425.13 and 425.14 were enacted with similar goals, i.e., to provide the covered
entities with “a pretrial mechanism to eliminate unsubstantiated punitive
damages claims[,]” Defendants have not cited authority establishing that the
court may apply the time-limit set forth in section 425.13 to this action.  (Little Co. of Mary Hospital v. Superior
Court (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 261, 268; Opp., p. 13:9-13 [arguing that the
court should use section 425.13 to determine whether Plaintiff’s motion is
timely and should be granted].)  Finally,
the authority interpreting this statute provides that, “subject to the usual
limitations on the amendment of pleadings prior to or during trial, a party
seeking to comply with section 425.14 should be able to do so at any time when
there is available sufficient evidence to make the required prima facie
showing.”  (Rowe v. Superior Court (1993)
15 Cal.App.4th 1711, 1735.)
Second, the court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to
“establish[] evidence which substantiates that [P]laintiff will meet the clear
and convincing standard of proof under Section 3294 of the Civil Code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.14.)
Plaintiff has submitted (1) a letter sent by Plaintiff, in which he stated
that (i) he was asked by Richard Billups (“Billups”) to install a pottery kiln
inside the science room, (ii) he informed Defendants’ staff that venting the
kiln was “not a safe ideal,” (iii) Billups responded to Plaintiff’s email
stating that his sources said it was okay to install the kiln, (iv) Billups was
upset that Plaintiff was not installing the kiln as requested, and (iv) he
believed that the changing of his job description, knowing it would end his
pension, was done in direct retaliation for Plaintiff’s raising of this issue,
such that he was being involuntarily terminated; (2) the deposition transcript
of Billups, in which Billups testified that (i) he held a role in creating
policies and procedures on behalf of the Defendants, and (ii) he was aware that
Plaintiff needed to have union clearance for his job duties or Plaintiff would
risk losing his pension; (3) the interrogatory responses of defendant Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a
Corporation Sole (erroneously sued as the Archdiocese of Los Angeles),
in which it stated that the decision makers to the disciplinary actions
communicated to Plaintiff “during his employment” with that defendant consisted
of Billups and Father Daniel McCotter; (4) the declaration of Cosbey Watson, in
which Watson stated that he inspected the scene where the kiln was going to be
installed, and determined that “the idea was unsafe” and posed safety concerns,
which he raised at a facilities board meeting. 
(Guevara Decl., Ex. 8, pp. 2-4; Guevara Decl., Ex. 2, Billups Dep., pp. 16:21-17:3
[Billups was responsible for creating policies and procedures regarding
day-to-day operations of the school], 94:13-17; Guevara Decl., Ex. 3, pp,
13:20-14:2; Guevara Decl., Ex. 12, Watson Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Guevara Decl., Ex. 10
[Notice to Employee as to Change in Relationship from “Archdiocese of Los
Angeles,” i.e., defendant Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a
Corporation Sole (erroneously sued and served as Archdiocese of Los Angeles)].)
 
The court finds that this evidence is sufficient to establish a prima
facie showing, which meets the clear and convincing standard of proof under
Civil Code section 3294, of Defendants’ oppression and malice, and ratification
and act of oppression and malice on the part of a managing agent of Defendants
(i.e., Billups) based on the evidence showing that (1) Plaintiff refused to
install a kiln as requested because of legitimate safety concerns, and (2)
following this refusal, Defendants changed Plaintiff’s job description to eliminate
his pension, indicating the possible existence of retaliation and his
involuntary termination.  (Civ. Code, §
3294, subds. (b), (c)(1), (c)(2); Davis v. Kiewit Pacific Co. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 358, 365 [“‘Managing agents’ are employees who ‘exercise[]
substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimate determine
corporate policy’”]; Rowe, supra, 15 Cal.App.4th at p. 1735 [plaintiffs
may amend the pleading pursuant to section 425.14 “at any time when there is
available sufficient evidence to make the required prima facie showing”].) 
Third, the court finds that Defendants have not shown that they will
be unduly prejudiced by this amendment. 
As noted by Plaintiff, his claim for punitive damages is based on the
same facts and theory already alleged in his pleadings.  Moreover, although the court acknowledges
that Plaintiff brought the pending motion on the day before trial was scheduled
to begin, the court, in concluding that this case was not ready for trial,
continued trial from August 7, 2024 to January 3, 2025.  (Aug. 7, 2024 Minute Order, p. 2.)  Thus, Defendants have four months to
challenge the pleadings and prepare for trial. 
Moreover, the court will order that discovery is reopened for the
limited purpose of allowing the parties to conduct discovery on Plaintiff’s
claim for punitive damages to ensure that Defendants may conduct discovery on
this claim.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a) [court may, in its discretion, allow amendment “upon any terms as may
be just”].) 
The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend his
complaint to assert punitive damages against Defendants.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 473, subd. (a), 425.14.)

ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Frank
Depto’s motion to amend complaint to assert punitive damages.
The court orders plaintiff Frank Depto to file with the court the
Fifth Amended Complaint, in the form attached to the declaration of Genessis
Guevara as Exhibit 19, no later than September 6, 2024.
The court orders that discovery is reopened for the limited purpose of
allowing the parties to conduct discovery on plaintiff Frank Depto’s claim for
punitive damages in this action.
            The court orders plaintiff Frank
Depto to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 4, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


