 Case Number:  22STCV16148    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Summary Judgment on East
West’s Cross-Complaint
 
Moving Party: Wells
Fargo Bank, National Association
Resp. Party:    Morillo Construction, Inc. and East West
Bank   
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for Terminating Sanctions Against
Eva Neumann, or Alternatively for Issue or Evidentiary Sanctions, and for
Monetary Sanctions Against Eva Neumann and Her Counsel of Record
 
Moving Party: Morillo
Construction, Inc. 
Resp. Party:    None   
 
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Summary judgment is granted in favor of East West and against Morillo on the
second and third causes of action in the Complaint. Summary judgment is also
granted in favor of Wells Fargo and against East West on East West’s
Cross-Complaint. 
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is
GRANTED in part. Eva Neumann’s Answer to the Complaint is STRICKEN. The Motion
for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED as to all other requests for relief.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On May 13, 2022, Morillo Construction,
Inc. (“Morillo”) filed its Complaint against Defendants Royal Construction
& Architectural Corporation (“Royal”); Eva Neumann; Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association (“Wells Fargo”); Western Surety Company (“Western
Surety”); and East West Bank (“East West”).   
 
        On June 10, 2022, Western Surety filed:
(1) General Denial of the Complaint; and (2) Verified Cross-Complaint against
Royal and Morillo.
 
        On July 13, 2022, Morillo filed its
Verified Answer to the Verified Cross-Complaint. 
 
        On July 27, 2022, by request of Morillo,
the Clerk’s Office entered default on Eva Neumann and Royal regarding the
Complaint. 
 
        On August 3, 2022, East West filed: (1)
Answer to the Complaint; and (2) Cross-Complaint against Wells Fargo, Royal,
and Eva Neumann. 
 
        On August 8, 2022, by request of
Morillo, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice Wells Fargo from the
Complaint. 
 
        On August 12, 2022, Morillo, Royal, and
Eva Neumann filed a Stipulation to Vacate and Set Aside the Defaults as to
Royal and Eva Neumann. 
 
        On August 8, 2023, the Court ordered Eva
Neumann to provide initial responses to the form interrogatories and further
responses to the requests for production of documents propounded by Morillo
within fourteen days. 
 
        On
August 12, 2022, Eva Neumann filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On September 14, 2022, Wells Fargo filed
its Answer to East West’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
        On October 18, 2022, by request of East
West, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Eva Neumann and Royal regarding
East West’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
        On August 18, 2023, Wells Fargo filed
its Motion for Summary Judgment on East West’s Cross-Complaint (“MSJ”). In
support of its MSJ, Wells Fargo concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Matthew
J. Esposito; (2) Separate Statement; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
        On October 10, 2023, Morillo filed its
Motion for Terminating Sanctions Against Eva Neumann, or Alternatively for
Issue or Evidentiary Sanctions, and for Monetary Sanctions Against Eva Neumann
and Her Counsel of Record (“Motion for Terminating Sanctions”). In support of
its Motion for Terminating Sanctions, Morillo concurrently filed its Proposed
Order. 
 
        On October 20, 2023, Morillo filed its
Opposition to the MSJ. In support of its Opposition to the MSJ, Morillo
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Christopher Dodson; (2) Declaration of
Pierre B. Morillo; (3) Declaration of David J. Sire, Jr.; (4) Compendium of
Exhibits; (5) Separate Statement; (6) Evidentiary Objections; and (7) Proposed
Order. 
 
        On October 23, 2023, East West filed its
Response to the MSJ. In support of its Response to the MSJ, East West
concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Jennifer Cheung; and (2) Response to
Separate Statement.
 
        On October 27, 2023, Wells Fargo filed:
(1) Reply; (2) Reply to Evidentiary Objections; (3) Reply Separate Statement;
and (4) Objection to Morillo’s Evidence. 
 
        On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed
three Notice of Errata regarding the declarations filed in support of its
Opposition to the MSJ.
 
        No opposition or other response has been
filed to the Motion for Terminating Sanctions. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
A.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
1.      Morillo’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
Morillo filed evidentiary objections to Wells
Fargo’s evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




 
2.      Wells
Fargo’s Evidentiary Objections
 
Wells Fargo filed evidentiary objections to
Morillo’s evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




7


 


OVERRULED




8


 


OVERRULED




9


 


OVERRULED




10


 


OVERRULED




11


 


OVERRULED




12


 


OVERRULED




13


 


OVERRULED




14


 


OVERRULED




15


 


OVERRULED




16


 


OVERRULED




 
B.      Legal
Standard
 
“A party may
move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the
action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.
The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general
appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is
directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that the court,
with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. That is because of the general principle that a party who seeks
a court’s action in his favor bears the burden of persuasion thereon. There is
a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment standards in Aguilar
to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues. Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a fact
finder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder,
supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no
discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation omitted.) 
 
C.      Discussion
 
1.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Wells Fargo moves for summary judgment on
East West’s Cross-Complaint. (MSJ, p. 19:3–4.) Wells Fargo argues: (1) that
summary judgment must be granted when there is no triable issue of material
fact; (2) that Morillo’s claims against East West are time-barred by the
deposit agreement; and (3) that because Morillo’s claims against East West
fail, Wells Fargo has no remaining liability in this action. (Id. at pp.
11:12–13, 12:10–11, 17:18–19.)
 
Morillo opposes the MSJ, arguing: (1) that
Morillo has standing to oppose the MSJ because it is a party with an interest
in the outcome; (2) that unendorsed checks alone do not amount to notice of a
fraud; (3) that Morillo’s proposed First Amended Complaint provides grounds for
denying the MSJ; (4) that East West assigned blame to Wells Fargo for breaching
warranties and improperly processing joint checks; and (5) that the MSJ should
be continued to permit Morillo to complete discovery necessary to oppose the
MSJ. (Opposition to MSJ, pp. 7:25–26, 9:8–9, 12:15, 13:13–14, 15:1–2.)
 
East West does not oppose the MSJ, arguing:
(1) that the Court should adjudicate that Morillo has no claim against East
West on both the Cross-Complaint and the Complaint; and (2) that the discovery
issues are essentially resolved and discovery is near conclusion. (Response to
MSJ, pp. 3:4–6, 4:3–5.)
 
        In its Reply, Wells Fargo
argues: (1) that Morillo lacks standing to oppose the MSJ; (2) that there is no
material dispute that Morillo agreed to East West’s deposit agreement; (3) that
Morillo has not provided a sufficient excuse to its contractual obligations;
and (4) that Morillo’s request to continue the hearing should be denied.
(Reply, pp. 1:25, 4:4–5, 5:16, 9:10.)
 
2.      Standing
 
Morillo, East West, and Wells Fargo each
argue about standing. None provide binding authority on the issue. 
 
        After conducting its own
research, the Court did not find a prior case exactly on point to this
situation – i.e., where a plaintiff who is not also a cross-defendant seeks to
oppose a motion that would adjudicate the cross-complaint. 
 
        However, various Courts of
Appeal have considered standing in ways that are apposite. (See New Tech
Devs. v. Bank of Nova Scotia (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 1065, 1068, fn. 1
[noting that a party that is not an object of a preliminary injunction has
standing to oppose the injunction when its enforcement affects that party in a
way that makes it an aggrieved party]; see also Abadjian v. Super. Ct. (1985)
168 Cal.App.3d 363, 370 [accepting that a party does not have standing to
oppose a petition because it did not participate in the trial court proceedings
and was not a party favored or affected by the ruling].)
 
        In addition, two maxims of
jurisprudence in the Civil Code are helpful guides here.  “Where the reason is the
same, the rule should be the same.” (Civ.  Code, § 3511.) “The law respects form
less than substance.” (Civ. Code, § 3528.)
 
        As to the first maxim of
jurisprudence, a helpful analogue is the standard for standing on appeal. “‘Any party aggrieved’ may appeal from an adverse judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 902.) The test is twofold – one must be
both a party of record to the action and aggrieved to
have standing to appeal.” (Stonegate Homeowners Ass’n v. Staben (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 740, 745, fn. 1, emphasis omitted.)
 
        As to the second maxim of
jurisprudence, it is obvious that a motion which in its title only attacks one
pleading but in substance attacks both pleadings is actually an attack on both
pleadings. 
 
        Here, Wells Fargo has filed
a motion for summary judgment that clearly attacks the pleadings of both East
West and Morillo. Both East West and Morillo have participated as parties of
record in this litigation. A determination on the issues at hand would affect
and potentially aggrieve both East West and Morillo, albeit in different ways,
because of Morillo’s two causes of action (for breach of written contract and breach
of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing) against East West.
(Complaint, pp. 4:21, 6:17.)
 
        The Court determines that
Morillo has standing to oppose the Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
3.      Continuance
for Additional Discovery
 
Trial is scheduled December 4, 2023 – less
than 30 days from the hearing on the MSJ. Discovery-related issues should have
already been resolved. Morillo has not made a sufficient showing to warrant a
continuance of either trial or the MSJ. The Court declines to continue the MSJ in
order to allow further discovery. 
 
4.      The
Proposed First Amended Complaint
 
Morillo argues that its proposed First
Amended Complaint provides grounds for denying the MSJ. (Opposition to MSJ, p.
12:15.) Specifically, Morillo claims that asserting three additional causes of
action (negligence, reformation of contract, and declaratory relief) against
East West would bear on the arguments at issue. (Id. at pp. 12:16–17,
13:9–12.)
 
The Court disagrees with Morillo’s argument. 
 
First, the proposed First Amended Complaint
is just that – a proposed pleading. It is not the subject of the MSJ at hand,
which is directed to the Complaint. 
 
Second, the addition of three causes of
action in a pleading, without any additional allegations of underlying conduct
as to the original causes of action, would make no difference to the
adjudication of the current causes of action. 
 
Accordingly, the Court declines to consider
the proposed First Amended Complaint at this time. The proposed First Amended
Complaint will be considered at the time previously scheduled for such
consideration. 
 
5.      The
Deposit Account Agreement at Issue
 
The basis for Morillo’s two causes of action
against East West are violations of a deposit account agreement between them.
(Complaint, ¶¶ 23–24, 28, 34–35.)
 
The following are the relevant provisions
from the contract between Morillo and East West that implicates any liability
between them (and, by extension, any indemnity that Wells Fargo could have to
East West on the basis of East West’s liability to Morillo):
 
“Unauthorized Transactions –You are in
the best position to discover and report any unauthorized debit to your
account. If you discover a forgery, alteration, counterfeit check or other
unauthorized withdrawal or debit involving your account, you must promptly
notify your branch of account, in writing, of the relevant facts. It is
important that you carefully and promptly review all statements and notices we
send to you. If you fail to notify us within a reasonable period of time (not
exceeding 21 days after your statement date) of an unauthorized signature,
alteration, forgery, counterfeit check or other unauthorized debit to your
account we may not be responsible for subsequent forgeries or alterations by
the same wrongdoer. (See Customer Responsibilities and Limit on Time to Assert
Claims, under the Additional Terms and Conditions section, for additional
information. See the Holds for Uncollected Funds/ Delayed Funds Availability
section for information regarding claims pursuant to a substitute check,
covered under the ‘Check 21 Act’.) 
 
“Without regard to care or lack of care
of either you or us, if you do not discover and report an error or an
unauthorized signature, alteration, forgery, counterfeit check, or other
unauthorized debit to your account within 60 days after the date of your
statement or the date the information about the item or transaction is made
available to you, whichever is earlier, you are precluded from asserting the
error or unauthorized transaction against us. (Note: Different
notification and liability rules apply to certain electronic funds transfers.
See the Electronic Funds Transfers section for additional information.) 
 
. . . 
 
“You also agree that we will have no
liability for items paid that were forged or altered in a manner such that the
fraud could not be reasonably detected by us. 
 
“You agree to pursue all rights you may have
under any insurance policy covering any loss and to provide us with information
regarding coverage. 
 
“Our liability will be reduced,
proportionately in accordance with our responsibility for any loss, by the
amount of any insurance proceeds you receive or are entitled to receive for the
loss. If we reimburse you for a loss and the loss is covered by insurance, you
agree to assign us your rights under the insurance policy to the extent of our
reimbursement, in accordance with this provision. You waive all rights of
subrogation against us with respect to any insurance policy or bond.”
 
(Decl. Esposito, Exh. 4, pp. 19–20 [actual page 70 of 213], emphasis
added.)
 
“Customer Responsibilities and Limit on
Time to Assert Claims – You agree to exercise reasonable control over all
bank checks, unissued checks, certificates of deposit, passbooks, check cards
(of any kind), personal identification numbers (PINs), ATM access cards and any
other item, instrument, or card related to your account. It is your responsibility
to keep any of the above safe and secure and to promptly discover if any of
them are missing in time to prevent misuse. You agree to notify us immediately
if any of these items may be lost, stolen or used without your authorization,
or if you believe there is an error in your periodic statement or that an
unauthorized transaction has occurred or may occur on your account. You
acknowledge that your account may have to be closed if any of these events
occurs. (See Unauthorized Transactions and Protecting Your Account,
under the Additional Terms and Conditions section, for additional
information.)
 
. . . 
 
“You agree to review your statements, checks
and other records sent or made available to you with reasonable promptness,
which you agree does not exceed 21 days after your statement date or the date
the information is otherwise made available to you. If you do not receive your
statement by the date you usually receive it, call us at once. You assume full
responsibility for monitoring and reviewing the activity of your account and
the work of your employees, agents, accountants, whether or not you actually receive
the statements, and whether or not the statements contain the items bearing an
unauthorized signature or alteration. (See Periodic Statement and Notice
Responsibilities, under the Additional Terms and Conditions
section, for additional information.)
 
“You must notify us as soon as possible if
you believe there is an error, forgery, alteration, unauthorized transaction or
other problem (individually and/or collectively referred to herein as
‘problem’) related to your account. You agree that 21 days after we have mailed
the statement to the mailing address you have provided to us, or/otherwise made
the information available to you, is a reasonable amount of time for you to
review your account activity and report any problem related to your account and
we will not be responsible for any subsequent unauthorized activity or other
problems that might have been corrected if you had reviewed your statement and
reported any problems within such period. In addition, you agree not to
assert a claim concerning any problem unless you have notified us of such
problem within 60 days after we mailed you the statement or otherwise made the
information available to you, and to exhaust all of your remedies against your
insurance or bonding company before filing a claim against us for unauthorized
transactions in which your employee has been involved. You agree that
any recovery you receive will be applied toward the loss you claim against us.
(See Limiting Our Liability, under the Additional Terms and
Conditions section, for additional information.)
 
“Notwithstanding the foregoing, and in
addition to any rights we may have under applicable law, if you fail to
discover and report to us any problem related to your account(s) within 60 days
of the date the statement on which such problem is reflected is mailed or the
information is otherwise made available to you (or other shorter period
provided by law), you agree for all purposes to accept the balance indicated in
our records as correct and relieve us of further responsibility or liability to
you with respect to such problem., You are precluded from asserting, and waive
any right to assert, any such problem against us in any proceeding including,
without limit, arbitration or court proceeding, after such period.
 
“Except for shorter periods provided under
this Agreement or by applicable law, any action or proceeding brought by you to
enforce any obligation, duty, or right arising under or relating to this
Agreement or otherwise relating to your account(s) or service(s) provided to
you hereunder, must be commenced within 1 year after the cause of action
occurs.
 
“You agree that you will not deposit any item
into your account, which does not bear either a true original signature of the
person on whose account the item is drawn or an authorized mechanical
reproduction of that person’s signature, without our prior express written
consent, which may be withheld at our discretion. If we do consent to deposit
of such items such consent may be withdrawn at any time without cause or prior
notice.”
 
(Decl. Esposito, Exh. 4, pp. 25–26 [actual page 73 of 213], emphases
added.)
 
6.      Whether
There is a Triable Issue of Material Fact 
 
Here, Morillo argues that there are multiple
triable issues of material fact, and its separate statement points to nearly a
dozen allegedly “disputed” facts. 
 
The Court disagrees with Morillo’s arguments.

 
First, Morillo’s claims about what the
deposit account agreement does and does not require are simply unfounded. The
deposit account agreement is clear: “you [i.e., Morillo] agree not to assert a
claim concerning any problem unless you have notified us [i.e., East West] of
such problem within 60 days after we mailed you the statement or otherwise made
the information available to you”. (Decl. Esposito, Exh. 4, p. 26 [actual page
73 of 213].) Claims include “an error . . . or other problem . . . related to
your account.” (Ibid.) While the provisions at issue may be
objectionable or unconscionable, there is no actual dispute that they are
clear. 
 
Second, Morillo disputes the extent of its
access to online banking. Yet there is no actual dispute that Morillo did have
access to online banking through East West. (See, for example, Morillo’s
Separate Statement, p. 9 [“Because of these risks, Morillo has limited its
online banking only to payroll . . . .”].) 
 
Third, Morillo states it had a policy of only
using online banking when it had to and claims that there is a dispute about
whether this policy was reasonable. But Morillo’s internal policy is irrelevant
to the terms of the deposit account agreement. East West making information
available to Morillo was sufficient to trigger the sixty-day notice deadline
under the deposit account agreement because the phrase “otherwise made the
information available to you” includes making that information immediately
available via an online bank account. Thus, whether Morillo had an internal
policy of not reviewing its online account except under certain circumstances
is not a material fact regarding East West’s liability under the deposit
account agreement. 
 
Fourth, Morillo disputes whether the front
and back images of the dispute checks were available online, when they were
made available, and for how long. (Morillo’s Separate Statement, pp. 9–10.) But
Morillo provided copies of the front and back of each of the eighteen checks at
issue in its Complaint. (Complaint, Exh. B.) The bottom-right portion of these
copies shows the access dates as either August 30, 2021 or September 9, 2021 – more
than six months before the Complaint was filed in this matter. Further, the
top-right portion of each of the copies (again, of the front and back of each
of the checks) includes a uniform resource locator (a.k.a., a URL, or a web
address) to Morillo’s online bank account with East West. Thus, this “dispute”
is unreasonable and illusory – Morillo’s own evidence demonstrates that it had
online access to the front and back sides of each of the eighteen checks. 
 
Finally, Morillo disputes that it waited more
than sixty days to notify East West of the issues with the eighteen checks. But
Morillo’s Separate Statement states that notice was given on September 6, 2021 –
which is more than sixty days after the last check was paid on June 9, 2021.
Thus, there is no dispute here. 
 
Because Wells Fargo had met its initial
burden to show that there are no triable issues of material fact, it is
Morillo’s subsequent burden to show that there is one. Morillo has not met that
burden. 
 
7.      Wells
Fargo’s Liability in East West’s Complaint
 
There are no triable issues of material fact
as to East West’s liability to Morillo. Because East West is not liable to
Wells Fargo on the causes of action in the Complaint, Wells Fargo is not liable
to East West on the causes of action in East West’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
Therefore, summary judgment is appropriate
here. 
 
D.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Summary judgment is granted in favor of East West and against Morillo on the
second and third causes of action in the Complaint. Summary judgment is also
granted in favor of Wells Fargo and against East West on East West’s
Cross-Complaint. 
 
II.      
Motion for Terminating Sanctions
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 gives
the court the discretion to impose sanctions against anyone engaging in a
misuse of the discovery process. A court may impose terminating sanctions by
striking pleadings of the party engaged in misuse of discovery or entering
default judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) A violation of a
discovery order is sufficient for the imposition of terminating sanctions. (Collison
& Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1620.) Terminating
sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in disobeying the court's
orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 795–796.)
 
A terminating sanction is a "drastic
measure which should be employed with caution." (Deyo, supra,
at p. 793.) 
 
"A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky v.
Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279–280.)
 
While the court has discretion to impose
terminating sanctions, these sanctions "should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery." (Deyo, supra,
84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "[A] court is empowered to apply the ultimate
sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to comply with
his discovery obligations." (Ibid.) Discovery sanctions are not to
be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to encourage fair disclosure of
discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the lack of information. (See Midwife
v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as
stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971.)
 
"A trial court has broad discretion to
impose discovery sanctions, but two facts are generally prerequisite to the
imposition of nonmonetary sanctions . . . (1) absent unusual circumstances,
there must be a failure to comply with a court order, and (2) the failure must
be willful." (Biles v. Exxon Mobil Corp. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th
1315, 1327; but see Reedy v. Bussell (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1272, 1291
["willfulness is no longer a requirement for the imposition of discovery
sanctions."].)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Morillo moves the Court to issue: (1) a
terminating sanction striking Eva Neumann’s Answer to the Complaint; (2) an
issue sanction that Eva Neumann be prohibited from asserting the affirmative
defenses contained in her Answer to the Complaint; (3) an evidentiary sanction
that Eva Neumann be prohibited from introducing any evidence in support of the
affirmative defenses contained in her Answer to the Complaint; and (4) a
monetary sanction against Eva Neumann and her Counsel in the amount of
$1,345.00. (Motion for Terminating Sanctions, pp. 7:20–25, 8:1–2.)
 
        According to Morillo’s
Counsel, Eva Neumann has not complied with the Court’s order on August 8, 2023
to provide Morillo with certain initial and further discovery responses.
(Motion for Terminating Sanctions, Decl. Sire, ¶¶ 5, 7.)
 
        Upon a review of the docket
and the record in this matter, there appears to be a glaring issue with the
relief requested: Eva Neumann is already in default. 
 
        On July 27, 2022, by request
of Morillo, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Eva Neumann and Royal
regarding the Complaint. A few days later, on August 12, 2022, Morillo, Royal,
and Eva Neumann filed a Stipulation to Vacate and Set Aside the Defaults as to
Royal and Eva Neumann. 
 
        However, the Court never issued an order
vacating the default. Neither Morillo nor Eva Neumann requested such an order
or a hearing on such an order, and the Court was not made aware that this
Stipulation required any action by the Court. Putting aside that the Parties
were responsible for keeping track of this issue, the Parties should have been
made aware that Royal and Eva Neumann remained in default on Sept. 22, 2022,
when Morillo attempted to request default for a second time on Royal but was
rejected by the Clerk’s Office on the ground that Royal had already been
defaulted by the Request for Entry of Default on July 27, 2022. 
 
The remaining default would have been an additional (and independent)
reason to strike Royal’s Answer to the Complaint, which the Court struck
because Royal was an unrepresented corporate litigant. 
 
That same reasoning applies here: Eva Neumann’s Answer to the Complaint
must be stricken because she remains in default. Because Eva Neumann has been
in default, the Court declines to issue the issue, evidentiary, or monetary
sanctions requested. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for Terminating Sanctions is
GRANTED in part. Eva Neumann’s Answer to the Complaint is STRICKEN. The Motion
for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED as to all other requests for relief.
 