 Case Number:  23STCV11730    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
 
Moving Party: Defendant
FCA US LLC 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Chul Hak Gwag
                                    
 
Defendant
FCA’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On May 23, 2023, Plaintiff
Chul Hak Gwag filed his Complaint against Defendants FCA US LLC (“FCA”) and
Sierra LA CDJR, LLC (“Sierra”). 
 
On July 12, 2023, both Defendant
Sierra and Defendant FCA filed their Answers to the Complaint. 
 
On October 4, 2023, Defendant
FCA filed its Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action. In support of its
Motion, Defendant FCA filed its Proposed Order. 
 
On October 17, 2023,
Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion. In support of his Opposition,
Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Request for Judicial Notice; and (2)
Evidentiary Objections. 
 
On October 23, 2023,
Defendant FCA filed its Reply regarding the Motion. In support of its Reply,
Defendant FCA concurrently filed Declaration of John Stock. 
 
On November 8, 2023,
Plaintiff filed its second Request for Judicial Notice (“Supplemental Request
for Judicial Notice”). 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary
Objections
 
Plaintiff filed
evidentiary objections to Defendant FCA’s evidence. The following are the
Court’s rulings on these objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


SUSTAINED


 




2


SUSTAINED


 




3


SUSTAINED


 




4


SUSTAINED


 




 
II.      
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that
the Court take judicial notice of various opinions by Courts of Appeal.
Plaintiff later requests that the Court take judicial notice of a writ of
mandate in an ongoing appellate matter. 
 
        The Court DENIES judicial notice to
these of these items. Plaintiff may cite published opinions as authority in its
memorandum. However, “an opinion of a California Court of Appeal or
superior court appellate division that is not certified for publication or
ordered published must not be cited or relied on by a court or a party in any
other action.” (California Rules of Court, Rule 8.115.)
 
 
III.    
Legal
Standard
 
“A
written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a
controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon
such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.)
 
“On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists [unless it makes certain determinations].”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
“Under
both federal and state law, arbitration agreements are valid and enforceable,
unless they are revocable for reasons under state law that would render any
contract revocable. . . . Reasons that would render any contract revocable
under state law include fraud, duress, and unconscionability.” (Tiri v.
Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239, citations omitted.)
 
“The
party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence the existence of an arbitration agreement.¿The
party opposing the petition bears the burden of establishing a defense to the
agreement's enforcement by a preponderance of the evidence.¿In determining
whether there is a duty to arbitrate, the trial court must, at least to some
extent, examine and construe the agreement.” (Tiri, supra, at p.
239.)
 
IV.     
Discussion
 
A.         
        The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant
FCA moves the Court to compel Plaintiff to arbitration and stay this action
pending the completion of arbitration. (Motion, p. 15:4–5.)
 
        Defendant
FCA argues: (1) that Plaintiff’s claims are subject to arbitration pursuant to
the signed “Agreement to Arbitrate”; (2) that Plaintiff’s claims are subject to
arbitration pursuant to the signed “Retail Installment Sale Contract”; (3) that
the Agreement to Arbitrate may also be enforced through the procedures set
forth in the California Arbitration Act (CAA); (4) that the arbitration
provisions in both agreements are valid and enforceable; (5) that the
arbitration provisions are neither procedurally nor substantively
unconscionable; and (6) that this matter must be stayed while the application
to arbitrate is pending through the conclusion of arbitration. (Motion, pp.
1:3–16, 5:23, 7:14, 8:19–20, 10:4, 12:11–12, 14:13–14.)
 
        Plaintiff
opposes the Motion, arguing: (1) that the Motion must be denied because
Defendant FCA does not provide competent evidence of an arbitration agreement;
(2) that Defendant did not demonstrate that Plaintiff consented to the
arbitration provisions; (3) that both arbitration provisions are
unconscionable; (4) that there is no consideration for the Agreement to
Arbitrate; (5) that equitable estoppel does not prevent Plaintiff from refusing
to arbitrate; and (6) that the Court should follow certain case law and not
other case law. (Opposition, pp. 5:8–9, 6:1–3, 7:12, 9:11, 9:18–19, 14:24.)
 
        In
its Reply, Defendant FCA argues: (1) that the Agreement to Arbitrate is a
business record and is thus admissible under an exception to the hearsay rule;
(2) that Plaintiff received a warranty in consideration for the Agreement to
Arbitrate; and (3) that Defendant FCA can enforce the arbitration provision in
the Retail Installment Sale Contract as a third-party beneficiary. (Reply, pp.
2:24–25, 3:15–16, 4:5–6, 4:15–16.)
 
B.         
FCA has Failed to Prove the Existence of
an Arbitration Agreement
 
Plaintiff
FCA has attached several exhibits to its Motion to Compel Arbitration, including
what it purports to be an arbitration agreement.  However, the Court has sustained Defendant’s
objections to these exhibits because none of these exhibits were authenticated.  
 
        The fact that Mr. Stock, Plaintiff’s custodian
of records, authenticated the exhibits in FCA’s reply is not sufficient.  “The general rule of motion practice, .
. . is that new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.” (Jay v.
Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1538-1539 [cleaned up], quoting
Plenger v. Alza Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 349, 362, fn. 8.)  “Points raised in the reply brief for the
first time will not be considered, unless good reason is shown for failure to
present them before.” (Campos v.
Anderson (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 784, 794, fn.3.  See also, Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149
Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010; Neighbours v. Buzz
Oates Enterprises (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 325, 335, fn. 8; Alcazar v. LAUSD (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 86,
fn. 5.)
 
        FCA has presented no reason at all – let alone a good reason –
for presenting these new facts in its reply. 
Therefore, FCA has failed to prove the
existence of an arbitration agreement.  
 
        On this ground alone, FCA’s motion must
be denied.
 
        However,
as indicated below (see sections IV(C) and IV(D), even if the Court were to
consider the arbitration agreement, the Court would deny the motion to compel.
 
 
C.         
The Arbitration Provision in the Retail
Installment Sale Contract does not Compel Defendant to Arbitrate with FCA
 
The
Retail Installment Sale Contract contains an arbitration provision. (Decl.
Stock, Exh. A, p. 5.) 
 
The
Court need not restate the exact terms of the arbitration provision because the
Retail Installment Sale contract is only signed by Plaintiff and Defendant
Sierra, not by Defendant FCA. 
 
The
situation here – where a non-signatory automobile manufacturer attempts to
compel a consumer to arbitration – is similar to that in Ford Motor Warranty
Cases (2023), review pending at Ochoa v. Ford Motor Co. (In re
Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (2023) Cal. LEXIS 4235. On the other hand, the
Court finds that Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486 – in
which a signatory automobile dealership moved to compel arbitration based on
the contract that it signed – is neither binding nor persuasive.
 
The Ford
Motor Warranty Cases held that: (1) equitable estoppel does not apply
because the manufacturer has not shown that the claims against it are founded
in or intertwined with the sale contract; (2) the manufacturer’s warranty
outside of the contract is not a part of the sales contract; (3) the
manufacturer is not a third-party beneficiary of the sale contract; and (4)
there is no agency connection that gives the manufacturer the right to compel
arbitration as an undisclosed principal. (Ford Motor Warranty Cases, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th at pp. 1332, 1335, 1336, 1340.)
 
Further,
several recent cases have agreed with the holdings in Ford Motor Warranty
Cases. These cases include: Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 958, 968, 972; Kielar v. Superior Court (2023) 94
Cal.App.5th 614, 620–621; and Yeh v. Superior Court (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th
264, 269–279. The facts in these cases are also similar to the situation in the
case before us today.
 
        The
Court adopts the reasoning of the Ford Motor Warranty Cases and its progeny
and declines to compel arbitration based on the arbitration provision in the
Retail Installment Sale Contract. 
 
D.        
        The Arbitration Provision in the
Agreement to Arbitrate
 
1.         
        The Language of the Arbitration Provision
 
The
Agreement to Arbitrate is an arbitration agreement. (Decl. Stock, Exh. B.)
 
The
Agreement to Arbitrate states in pertinent part:
 
Notice of Agreement to Arbitrate
 
Pursuant
to the Agreement to Arbitrate contained below, you agree that you or FCA will
resolve any dispute through a neutral, binding arbitration process and not by a
court action. 
 
Agreement to Arbitrate
 
Please
carefully read this agreement to arbitrate, which applies to any dispute
between you and FCA US LLC and its affiliates (together ‘FCA,’ ‘we’ or ‘us’). 
 
If
you have a concern or dispute, please send a written notice describing it and
your desired resolution to FCA US Office of the General Counsel, 1000 Chrysler
Drive, CIMS 485-13-62, Auburn Hills, MI 48326-2766. 
 
If
your concern or dispute is not resolved within 60 days, you agree that any
dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the relationship between
you and FCA will not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA)
under its Consumer Arbitration Rules in effect at the time you signed
this agreement. This includes claims arising out of your warranty and claims
arising before this Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our
products. 
 
We
will pay all AAA fees and costs for any arbitration, which will be held in the
city or county of your residence. To learn more about the rules and how to begin
an arbitration, you may call any AAA office or go to www.adr.org.
 
The
arbitrator may resolve only disputes between you and FCA and may not
consolidate claims without the consent of all parties. You and FCA may bring
claims against the other only in your or its individual capacity and not as a
plaintiff or class member in any class or representative action. The arbitrator
cannot hear class or representative claims on behalf of others purchasing or
leasing FCA vehicles. If a court or arbitrator decides that any part of this
agreement to arbitrate cannot be enforced as to a particular claim for relief
or remedy (such as declaratory relief), then that claim or remedy (and only
that claim or remedy) shall be severed and must be brought in court and any
other claims must be arbitrated.
 
If
you prefer, you may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court.
 
You
may opt out of arbitration within 30 days after signing this agreement by
sending a letter to: FCA US Office of the General Counsel, 1000 Chrysler Drive,
CIMS 485-13-62, Auburn Hills, MI 48326-2766, stating your name, Vehicle
Identification Number, and intent to opt out of the arbitration provision. If
you do not opt out, then this agreement to arbitrate is binding. 
 
YOU
AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS CONTRACT. YOU CONFIRM THAT BEFORE YOU SIGNED THIS
CONTRACT, WE GAVE IT TO YOU, AND YOU WERE FREE TO TAKE IT AND REVIEW IT. YOU
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU HAVE READ BOTH SIDES OF THIS CONTRACT BEFORE SIGNING
BELOW. YOU CONFIRM THAT YOU RECEIVED A COMPLETELY FILLED-IN COPY WHEN YOU
SIGNED IT.
 
(Decl. Stock, Exh. B.)
 
2.         
Plaintiff’s Arguments regarding Consent,
Consideration, and Estoppel are not Persuasive
 
Plaintiff
argues that there was neither consent nor consideration for the Agreement to
Arbitrate. Plaintiff also argues that it cannot be estopped. 
 
The
Court disagrees with these arguments. 
 
Plaintiff
clearly signed the Agreement to Arbitrate, indicating his consent. Further,
Defendant FCA correctly notes that there is consideration. Specifically, the
sale of the car and the warranties provided with it are part of the
consideration. 
 
As
to equitable estoppel, Plaintiff is correct regarding the arbitration provision
in the Retail Installment Sale Contract but not regarding the Agreement to
Arbitrate. In the latter, Defendant FCA is alleged party, not Defendant Sierra.
Thus, equitable estoppel is inapplicable. 
 
3.         
 The
Arbitration Agreement is Unconscionable
 
Plaintiff’s
remaining argument is that the Agreement to Arbitrate is unconscionable.
 
a.         
        Legal Standard
 
“Agreements to arbitrate may be
invalidated if they are found to be unconscionable.” (Fitz v. NCR Corp.
(2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 713, citations omitted.)
 
“Unconscionability consists of
both procedural and substantive elements. The procedural element addresses the
circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or
surprise due to unequal bargaining power. Substantive unconscionability
pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of
whether they are overly harsh or one-sided. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v.
Pinnacle Mkt. Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 246, citations
omitted.)
 
“‘The prevailing view is that
[procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in
order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.’ But they need not be present
in the same degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards
the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that
creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness
of the substantive terms themselves.’ In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable,
and vice versa. (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 83, 114, [cleaned up], italics in original, abrogated in part on
other grounds by AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2010) 565 U.S.
333.).)
 
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.” (Pinnacle, supra, 55 Cal.4th at p.
247, citation omitted.)
 
“Moreover, courts are
required to determine the unconscionability of the contract ‘at the time it was
made.’” (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899,
920, quoting Civ. Code, § 1670.5.) 
 
 
b.         
The Arbitration Agreement is Procedurally
Unconscionable
 
i.           
Legal Standard
 
“[P]rocedural unconscionability requires oppression or
surprise. Oppression occurs where a contract involves lack of negotiation and
meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly unconscionable provision is
hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle, supra, 55
Cal.4th at p. 247 [cleaned up].)
 
“The
procedural element of an unconscionable contract generally takes the form of a
contract of adhesion . . . .” (Little v. Auto
Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1064, 1071.)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
The
Agreement to Arbitrate is clearly a contract of adhesion. Despite the language
at the bottom of the agreement that is bolded and capitalized, there is no
doubt that this is a contract of adhesion. The entire contract, including the
Agreement to Arbitrate, is a classic take-it-or-leave-it document that did not
give Plaintiff a meaningful choice or opportunity to negotiate. 
 
        A contract can be adhesive when it is presented for signature
on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis and where the other party was given no
opportunity to negotiate any of the preprinted terms in the lease. (See, Gutierrez
v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77; Sanchez v. Valencia Holding
Co., LLC (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 74, 90.) 

 
        “Absent unusual circumstances, a contract offered on a
take-it-or-leave-it basis is deemed adhesive, and a commercial transaction
conditioned on a party‘s acceptance of such a contract is deemed procedurally
unconscionable.”  (Vasquez v. Greene
Motors, Inc. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1172, 1184.)
 
        The
Court finds that the Agreement to Arbitrate is procedurally unconscionable.
 
c.          
The Arbitration Agreement is Substantively
Unconscionable
 
i.           
Legal Standard
 
“Substantive
unconscionability focuses on overly harsh or one-sided results. In assessing
substantive unconscionability, the paramount consideration is mutuality.” (Fitz,
supra, 118 Cal.App.4th at p. 723 [cleaned up].)
 
ii.         
Discussion
 
The
Agreement to Arbitrate is almost entirely devoid of any mutuality.
Specifically, the Agreement to Arbitrate binds Plaintiff to arbitration while
it seemingly gives Defendant FCA complete freedom to choose between arbitration
and court. 
 
According
to the text of the Agreement to Arbitrate:
 
·       “Pursuant
to the Agreement to Arbitrate contained below, you agree
that you or FCA will resolve any dispute through a neutral, binding arbitration
process and not by a court action.”
·       “If
your concern or dispute is not resolved within 60 days, you
agree that any dispute arising out of or relating to any aspect of the
relationship between you and FCA will not be decided by a judge or jury . . .
.”
·      
“If you prefer, you
may instead take an individual dispute to small claims court.” (Decl. Stock,
Exh. B [emphases added].)
 
Nothing
in the Agreement to Arbitrate binds Defendant FCA to arbitrate. It is
not even clear that Defendant FCA has given its consent to arbitration. Indeed,
the language of this agreement seemingly gives Defendant FCA the ability to
choose whether to file a case in court or with an arbitrator. 
 
Even
the first, bolded line of the “Notice of Agreement to Arbitrate” is ambiguous.  This line says 
 
“[p]ursuant
to the Agreement to Arbitrate contained below, you agree that you or FCA
will resolve any dispute through a neutral, binding arbitration process and not
by a court action.”  
 
It does
not state that both Plaintiff and FCA “will resolve any dispute through a
neutral, binding arbitration process and not by a court action.”  It does not say that both Plaintiff and
FCA agree that they will resolve any dispute through arbitration. Rather, it simply
states that Plaintiff agrees that either he or FCA will resolve any
dispute through arbitration. 
 
It
is also worth noting that the Agreement to Arbitrate is not even signed by
Defendant FCA.  The Agreement may be on
FCA’s letterhead (although FCA has presented no evidence of this “fact”) but it
is only signed by Plaintiff.
 
The
Court finds that the Agreement to Arbitrate is substantively unconscionable. 
 
d.         
The Court will not Enforce this
Unconscionable Arbitration Agreement 
 
 
        A contract is unconscionable if there is “an absence of
meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract
terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (Baltazar v.
Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243.)
 
        “The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the
contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a
court should withhold enforcement.”  (Magno v. The College Network, Inc.
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 277, 285.)
 
        As
indicated above, the Court finds the Agreement to Arbitrate both procedurally
and substantively unconscionable. Further, the Court finds that it would be impossible
to sever the unconscionable clauses so as to save can save this agreement. 
 
        “[U]pholding this type of agreement with multiple
unconscionable terms would create an incentive for [a manufacturer] to draft a
onesided arbitration agreement in the hope [consumers] would not challenge the
unlawful provisions, but if they do, the court would simply modify the
agreement to include the bilateral terms the [manufacturer] should have
included in the first place.”  (Mills
v. Facility Solutions Group, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 1035, 1045.)
 
        The
Court declines to compel arbitration:  the
Agreement to Arbitrate is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable.  Further, any semblance of mutuality is belied
by the explicit terms of the Agreement to Arbitrate – an agreement that was
drafted by Defendant FCA.
 
V.        
Conclusion
 
For
the reasons stated above in sections IV(B) and IV(D), FCA’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
is DENIED.
 
 