 Case Number:  23PDUD02727    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
AAA Management
  group llc,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
victoria goring, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23PDUD02727
 
  Hearing Date:  January 10, 2025
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
DEMURRER TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations
of Complaint
On August 4,
2023, Plaintiff AAA Management Group LLC (“AAA”) filed an unlawful detainer
complaint against Defendants Victoria Goring (“Victoria”), Carson Paulina
Goring (“Carson”) and Does 1 through 10. The property at issued is located at
1814 Grismer Ave., Unit K, Burbank, CA 91504. AAA alleged that it is the owner
of the premises. AAA alleged that on February 1, 2023, it entered into a
written agreement for a 12-month tenancy with Victoria and Carson, with rent
payable monthly on the first of the month. AAA alleged that Victoria and Carson
were served with a 3-day notice to pay rent on quit on July 25, 2023, and the
period for Victoria and Carson to comply expired on July 28, 2023. AAA sought
possession of the premises, costs incurred in the proceeding, forfeiture of the
agreement, and damages at the rate of $66.16 per day from July 29, 2023.
 
B.     Cross-Complaint
On August 22,
2024, Cross-Complainant Carson Paulina Goring (Cross-Complainant) filed the
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant AAA Management Group LLC
(Cross-Defendant). The only cause of action included in the cross-complaint was
for apportionment of fault. The cross-complaint did not include any statement
of factual allegations beyond those already included in the Form PLD-PI-002, on
which the cross-complaint was filed.
C.     Relevant
Background
On November 8,
2024, AAA voluntarily filed a request for dismissal of the unlawful detainer
action, as possession of the premises was no longer in dispute. The dismissal
was merely procedural as the central issue—AAA’s right to possession—had been
resolved.
D.    Motion
on Calendar
            On
December 12, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed the instant demurrer to the sole cause
of action in the cross-complaint.
            On
December 27, 2024, Cross-Complainant filed its opposition brief. 
 
DISCUSSION                                                                                               
Cross-Defendant
demurs to cross-complaint on the basis that the cross-complaint fails to
identify any legal basis for equitable apportionment of fault because there is
no valid cause of action that underlies the claim for apportionment. 
Further,
Cross-Defendant contends that the cross-complaint fails to allege any
independent factual basis for the claim of fault. Unlawful detainer actions,
the underlying claim in this matter, are summary proceedings aimed at
determining possession of rental property, not for resolving tort claims such
as negligence or product liability, applicable to claims for apportionment of
fault. And finally, even if there were factual or legal basis to plead an
apportionment of fault claim, Cross-Complainant failed to support its claim
with any allegations of fact. The only allegations included in the
cross-complaint are those that were pre-printed on the Form PLD-PI-002 on which
the cross-complaint was filed.
In opposition,
Cross-Complainant contends that the claim of apportionment of fault has solid
factual basis because it alleges that the damages Cross-Defendant claims were
caused by Cross-Complainant were in fact caused by Cross-Defendant themselves
“due to intentional negligence and faulty repairs, as evidenced by LA County
inspections.” (Opp., at p. 2:2-3.) Cross-Complainant further claims that
“[t]hese damages caused physical, financial and emotional harm to
cross-plaintiff, including lasting illness, the loss of a housing voucher,
repairs and accommodations that cross-plaintiff paid for out of pocket when
threat to their safety was an issue, unlawful harassment and professional
incompetence from AAA Management Group.” (Id. at p. 2:3-5.) Ultimately,
Cross-Complainant states that its apportionment of fault claim “is supported by
additional causes of action; Fraud, Professional Negligence, and Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress which were filed as causes of action in the
cross-complaint.” (Id. at p. 2:5-6.) Each of Cross-Complainant’s
assertions are incorrect.
The Court finds
that none of Cross-Complainant’s factual contentions were included anywhere in
the four corners of the cross-complaint, and, therefore, there is no factual
basis for Cross-Complainant’s claim for apportionment of fault. (See
Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.30(a),
430.70 (demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (on demurrer, trial court determines “whether or not the …
complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any legal
theory.”)) Further, despite Cross-Complainant’s assertion to the contrary, the only
cause of action included in or attached to the cross-complaint was its claim
for apportionment of fault.
Accordingly,
because Cross-Complainant fails to state a calid cause of action and seeks a
remedy that is not legally available, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to the
cross-complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Cross-Defendant’s
demurrer to the cross-complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. The
cross-complaint is hereby dismissed with prejudice. 
Cross-Defendant
shall
provide notice of this order.
 
                                                     
DATED: January 10, 2025                                         ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court