  Case Number:  19STCV45931    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



RIGHT
  BROTHERS MANAGEMENT, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
JOAO
  SILVERSTEIN, et al.


 Case No.: 
  19STCV45931
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 30, 2024



 
Plaintiff Right Brothers
Management, LLC’s motion for leave to file a fifth amended complaint is granted.  Plaintiff may file the proposed fifth amended
complaint with the Court.
 
          Plaintiff Right
Brothers Management, LLC (“Right Brothers”) (“Plaintiff”) moves
for and order granting leave to file a fifth amended complaint (“5AC”) and
deeming the amended 5AC filed and served as of the date their motion is granted.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1.)
 Plaintiff moves on the
basis that allowing Plaintiff to amend the complaint is in the interests of
justice and of judicial efficiency because the amendments are related to the subject
matter of the existing controversy between the parties and will not result in
prejudice to Defendants, and allowing the amendments would therefore promote
the efficient resolution of all claims between the parties.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1.)
          
          Request
for Judicial Notice
          Defendants’
1/19/24 request for judicial notice of the Complaint; First Amended Complaint; Second
Amended Complaint; Third Amended Complaint; Fourth Amended Complaint; Request
for Dismissal dated August 24, 2021; Request for Dismissal dated October 13,
2022; and Request for Dismissal dated March 21, 2023, is denied, as this Court
does not need to take judicial notice of filings on the instant docket.
          
          Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed its Complaint on December 20, 2019.  Plaintiff filed its First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) on August 12, 2020. The parties later stipulated to allow Plaintiff to
file a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which Plaintiff filed on November 19,
2020. Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on May 18, 2021.  On April 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Fourth
Amended Complaint (“4AC”) by stipulation of the parties.      
          Plaintiff
filed the instant motion for leave to amend on January 9, 2024.  Defendants Joao Silverstein (“Silverstein”), Mehran
Agazaryan aka Mike Agazaryan (“Mike”), Ara Baljian aka Eric Baljian (“Eric”),
Davo Agazaryan aka David Agazaryan (“David”), BMI Group Inc. (“BMI”), Ocean
Hye, LLC (“Ocean Hye”), and Meir Abramov (“Abramov”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed their opposition on January 19, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its reply on January 24,
2024.
 
          Motion for Leave to Amend
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (C.C.P.
§473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in
furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such
amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this
state since 1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d
486, 488-489.) 
CRC
Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the proposed
. . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional] allegations are
located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion
includes a copy of the proposed 5AC.  (Notice of Motion, Exh. A.)   Plaintiff’s
motion sets forth the allegations proposed to be added and deleted, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the proposed additions/deletions are
located by attaching a redline, which substantially satisfies this requirement. 
(Notice of Motion, Exh. B; CRC Rule 3.1324(a)(3).) 
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Plaintiff submitted a separate declaration of
its counsel that specifies the effect of the amendments and explains why the
amendments are necessary and proper.  (Decl. of Minkler ¶¶3-4.)  Plaintiff
asserts the amendments are necessary because they relate to the same set of
facts that gave rise to the original Complaint in this action, and the disputes
raised by these amendments should be resolved in this matter.  (Decl. of Minkler
¶12.)  Plaintiff asserts the proposed 5AC
does not add any claims but adds allegations to support an additional theory of
recovery for the existing claims of fraudulent inducement, intentional
misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, breach of contract, breach of
fiduciary duty, and unfair competition.  (Decl. of Minkler ¶3.)
Plaintiff’s
counsel states when the facts giving rise of the amended allegations were
discovered and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Plaintiff’s counsel declares, “Plaintiff
learned of the facts supporting the new allegations in discovery conducted
after the [4AC] was filed. Plaintiff brings this motion shortly after the
information was discovered, shortly after Defendants raised objections to the allegations
being outside the scope of the pleadings, and after attempts to obtain a
stipulation from Defendants to permit the amendments.”  (Decl. of Minkler ¶13.) 
Defendants
argue none of the allegations are new facts and there is no explanation for
Plaintiff’s failure to present new facts earlier.  (Opposition, pgs. 4-6; Decl. of Schwettmann
¶9.)  Defendants argue they will be
prejudiced by this Court granting leave to amend because instead of focusing on
trial documents, they will be forced to oppose this motion and since the
inception of this action, they have prepared the defense for their case based
on the allegations in the prior pleadings and targeted discovery to those
allegations as well as settlement discussion. 
(Opposition, pg. 9.)
The
Court notes Defendants’ arguments on the timing of the motion and the impending
trial date currently set for February 20, 2024. 
However, the policy favoring amendment is so strong that denial of leave
to amend can rarely be justified: “If the motion to amend is timely made
and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also
results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of
action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.”  (Morgan v. Superior
Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530, emphasis added; see Mabie v. Hyatt (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
581, 596 [citing text]; Bettencourt v. Hennessy Industries, Inc. (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1103, 1111 [abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend when
there is a “reasonable possibility” that defect can be cured].)
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a 5AC is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend is granted. 
Plaintiff may file the proposed 5AC with the Court.
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  January _____, 2024
                                                                             





  