  Case Number:  22STCV35268    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



IBIERE N. SECK, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
BRIAN T. DUNN, A PROFESSIONAL LAW
  CORPORATION,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV35268
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 30, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Plaintiffs Ibiere N. Seck (“Seck”) and Seck Law, P.C. (“Seck
Law”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for summary judgment on their Complaint
against Defendant Dunn Law P.C., d/b/a the Cochran Firm (the “Cochran Firm”).
In the alternative, Plaintiffs seek summary adjudication on each of their
claims in the Complaint.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for summary adjudication.
 
Background
 
This case relates to a dispute over a fee sharing agreement
between attorneys.
 
The Cochran Firm employed Seck, an attorney, for a number of
years ending December 31, 2018. (Plaintiffs’ Undisputed Fact (“UF”) 1.) Seck’s
law firm, Seck Law, and her previous employer, the Cochran Firm, entered into an
agreement on October 29, 2019 with respect to the end of Seck’s employment with
the Cochran Firm and how compensation would be handled for cases that Seck
worked on prior to her departure (the “Agreement”). (UF 4-5.) The parties
reached the Agreement following a mediation on October 29, 2019, where Seck
participated on behalf of herself and Seck Law, and Marcelis Morris
participated on behalf of the Cochran Firm. (UF 2-4.) The Agreement was signed
by Morris, who was authorized to attend the mediation and settle the matter by
the Cochran Firm. (UF 5.)
 
The dispute in this case relates to one of the matters
addressed in the Agreement, John Doe v. The Rock Corona, et al. (Case
No. RIC 1901347) (the “Doe Case”). 
 
The Cochran Firm employed Seck as an associate at the time the
Doe Case came to the Cochran firm.  (Defendants
and Cross-Complainants’ Additional Fact (“AF”) A.) The family of John Doe, the
plaintiff in the Doe Case, specifically retained the Cochran Firm, and not
Seck. (AF A.) 
 
The Cochran Firm contends that Seck excluded other Cochran
Firm attorneys, including Dunn, from the Doe Case and prevented other attorneys
from contacting the Doe plaintiff’s family. (AF O, W.) The Cochran firm
contends that Seck falsely induced Morris to believe that the Doe matter was
only at the Cochran Firm for a short period, rather than the actual period of
14 months. (AF L.) 
 
Weeks after the Doe Case came to the Cochran Firm, Seck
retained the services of the law firm Taylor & Ring to co-represent the Doe
plaintiff. (AF B.) Seck entered a fee sharing agreement with Taylor & Ring
which provided that 50 percent of the gross attorney’s fees in the Doe Case
would be awarded to Taylor & Ring, and 50 percent would be awarded to the
Cochran Firm. (AF B.) The Cochran Firm contends that Seck retained Taylor &
Ring without the knowledge of any other attorney employed by the Cochran Firm and
without the consent of Brian Dunn, the managing attorney. (AF B.) The Cochran
Firm contends that Seck concealed her retention of Taylor & Ring from the
rest of the Cochran Firm. (AF F.) There is no mention of the agreement with
Taylor & Ring in the Cochran Firm’s client file for the Doe Case. (AF CC.)
Dunn declares that, if he had been informed of Seck’s planned retention of
Taylor & Ring, he would not have allowed it to occur. (AF I; Dunn Decl. ¶
9.) 
 
During December 2018, while Seck was still employed by the
Cochran Firm, Seck told Brian Dunn that she had a close relationship with the
family of John Doe which pre-dated her employment with the Cochran firm. (AF G;
Dunn Decl. ¶ 10.) Seck told Dunn that, when the Doe family first retained the
Cochran Firm, the Doe family had in fact sought out Seck directly, as opposed
to the Cochran Firm. (Dunn Decl. ¶ 10.) The Cochran Firm contends that this
statement was false, and that Seck knew it to be false. (Dunn Decl. ¶ 10.) The
Cochran Firm contends that, in reality, the Doe family had sought out the
Cochran Firm. (Dunn Decl. ¶ 10.)
 
At the time of Seck’s departure from the Cochran Firm, Seck
had been practicing law for around 10 years. (AF P.) Brian Done and Anahita
Sedaghatfar, who were also attorneys at the firm, had practiced for 23 years
and 17 years respectively. (AF P.) The Cochran firm has historically given
preferential treatment to attorneys, even associates with less experience than
other firm attorneys, who have preexisting relationships with clients of the
Firm. (AF R.) 
 
When a client retains the Cochran Firm, rather than a
specific attorney, the firm generally views the case as the property of the
firm. (AF S.) When an associate with plans to leave the firm handles a
potentially lucrative case, senior attorneys at the firm would make efforts to
ingratiate themselves with the client so that the client would stay with the
Cochran Firm, rather than leaving with the departing attorney. (AF S.) For
example, in the weeks preceding Seck’s departure, Dunn undertook efforts to
keep the case of Reddick v. MTA with the Cochran Firm. (AF T.) Dunn
frequently met with the plaintiff in that matter in a successful effort to keep
that client from leaving the firm for Seck Law. (AF T.) Dunn would not have
undertaken those efforts if he had believed that Seck had a preexisting
relationship with the Reddick plaintiff. (AF T, Dunn Decl. ¶ 11.)
 
Because Seck told Dunn that she had a prior relationship
with the family of the Doe plaintiff, Dunn made no efforts to contact any
member of the Doe family in the weeks preceding Seck’s departure and took no
actions aimed at keeping the Doe Case at the Cochran Firm. (AF U.) The Doe Case
was likely to be lucrative, so Dunn would have taken personal efforts to keep
the client if he had not believed that Seck had a preexisting relationship with
the client. (AF V.)
 
The mediation resulted in an agreement that 93 percent of
the attorney’s fees from the Doe Case would be allocated to Plaintiffs and 7
percent would be allocated to the Cochran Firm. (UF 10.) Plaintiffs stipulate
that the 7 percent of fees owed to the Cochran Firm can be calculated from the
total awarded net attorney’s fees, as opposed to Plaintiffs’ portion of the
attorney’s fees after Taylor & Ring’s share is taken. (UF 15.) In any
event, the 7 percent allocation to the Cochran firm was significantly lower
than the Cochran firm’s shares on each of the other seven cases, which were 40
percent, 25 percent, 15 percent, 25 percent, 30 percent, and 30 percent. (AF E;
Plaintiffs’ Ex. A.)
 
The Cochran Firm contends that at the time of the mediation,
Morris believed that this split was fair because he believed that the Doe Case
had not been at the firm for very long and that the firm had not performed any
substantive tasks on the case. (AF JJ.) The Cochran Firm contends that if Dunn
had been aware that Seck had retained Taylor & Ring or that Seck did not
have a preexisting relationship with the Doe family, he would not have
considered the distribution of the Doe Case’s attorney’s fees appropriate for
mediation, nor would he have agreed to the 7 percent rate. (AF J, K, L, X, Y.)
 
The Doe Case settled on February 7, 2022. (UF 6.) 
 
Prior to Taylor & Ring’s distribution of the attorney’s
fees from the Doe case, Plaintiff contacted the Cochran firm to notify them of
the settlement and to obtain authorization for the payment of the 7 percent
allocation to the Cochran Firm pursuant to the terms of the Agreement. (UF 8.)
Despite multiple attempts to obtain authorization for payment, the Cochran Firm
continuously refused to authorize the payment and instead demanded that Taylor
& Ring not disburse any payment of Plaintiffs’ portion of the attorney’s
fees. (UF 9.) As a result, Plaintiffs have not been able to obtain the portion
of the fee that they claim. (UF 10-11.)
 
The Cochran Firm never challenged the enforceability of the
Agreement prior to the settlement of the Doe Case. (UF 12.)
 
Plaintiffs filed this action on November 3, 2022, raising
claims for (1) breach of contract; and (2) declaratory relief that (a) the
Agreement is a legally enforceable contract between the parties, and (b) the
Cochran Finn is only entitled to receive the specific percentage of net
attorneys' fees from the Doe Case that are set forth in the terms of the
Agreement.
 
Plaintiffs moved for summary judgment on April 12, 2024.
Defendant filed an opposition and Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants filed objections.  (All opposition papers state that they were
filed on behalf of Defendants and Cross-Complainants, even though Plaintiffs
direct this motion only against defendant the Cochran Firm.)  The objections filed by Defendants and Cross-Complainants
do not attempt to follow the format required by California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1354, subd. (b). The Court therefore overrules these objections.
 
Plaintiffs’ objections do not quote the material objected to
as required by California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1354, subd. (b)(3). The Court
overrules Plaintiffs’ objections on this basis. The Court additionally
overrules Plaintiffs’ objections on their merits.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
 
“A plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
 To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
Breach of Contract – First Claim
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
Plaintiffs have
provided evidence that the parties entered the Agreement to split the
attorney’s fees from the Doe case 93 percent to 7 percent, that Plaintiffs
sought to distribute the Cochran Firm’s portion, that the Cochran Firm refused
to consent to the distribution, and that Plaintiffs have been unable to obtain
their own portion as a result. Plaintiffs have thus established their prima
facie case for breach of contract. Although the Cochran Firm purports to
dispute some of Plaintiff’s material facts, those dispute go to the Cochran
Firm’s affirmative defense, as discussed below, and not to Plaintiffs’ prima
facie case. The Cochran Firm has not established a triable issue of material
fact as to Plaintiffs’ prima facie case.

 
The Cochran Firm raises the affirmative defense of fraud to
the enforcement of the agreement.
 
“One who has been induced to enter into a contract by false
and fraudulent representations may rescind the contract; or he may affirm it,
keeping what he has received under it, and maintain an action to recover
damages he has sustained by reason of the fraud; or he may set up such damages
as a complete or partial defense if sued on the contract by the other party.” (Grady
v. Easley (1941) 45 Cal.App.2d 632, 642 [citation and quotation marks
omitted].) “The right to avoid for fraud, however, is lost if the injured
party, after acquiring knowledge of the fraud, manifests an intention to affirm
the contract.” (Bowmer v. H. C. Louis, Inc. (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 501,
503.)
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of
its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e)
resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
The Cochran Firm has provided evidence supporting its claim that
Seck falsely represented that she had a preexisting relationship with the Doe
plaintiff’s family. Defendant has provided evidence that, relying on these
representations, Dunn did not attempt to retain the Doe plaintiff as he would
have in the absence of such a preexisting relationship. The Cochran Firm has
also provided evidence that Plaintiff concealed the retention of Taylor &
Ring from the Cochran Firm, and that Dunn would not have considered the Doe Case
appropriate for mediation if he had known that Plaintiff had agreed to a 50
percent split of fees with Taylor & Ring. Finally, the fact that the Doe
Case had a much smaller allocation for the Cochran Firm than any of the other
cases handled at the mediation provides evidence that the Cochran Firm suffered
a pay cut as a result of its reliance on the representations that Seck made.
The Cochran Firm has therefore supported the existence of a triable issue of
fact that Seck fraudulently induced it to enter into the Agreement.
 
These facts are sufficient to support a triable issue of
fact and defeat summary adjudication of this claim. Because the Court denies
summary adjudication on this claim, the Court also denies summary judgment.
 
Declaratory Relief – Second Claim
 
“To qualify for declaratory
relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential
elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or
obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home
Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets
omitted.)
 
A cause of action for declaratory
relief should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues raised in another cause of action. (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d
465, 470.) “The availability of another form of relief that is adequate will
usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief” (California Insurance Guarantee Association v. Superior Court (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to
demurrer (Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290).
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.” (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek declaratory relief that (a) the
Agreement is a legally enforceable contract between the parties, and (b) the
Cochran Finn is only entitled to receive the specific percentage of net
attorneys' fees from the Doe Case that are set forth in the terms of the
Agreement. 
 
As discussed above, the Cochran Firm has supported a triable
issue of fact that the defense of fraud applies to the enforcement of the
Agreement. The Court therefore denies summary adjudication on this claim.