 Case Number:  23STCV06990    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WEN LUNG CHENG, as an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Jimmy Hsieh aka Juinn Ming Hsieh, Lily Lin-Lih Hsieh, Jane
  Hsieh, GOLDEN HYDE, LLC, a California limited liability company, Debby Margrate
  Hsieh A&K Plaza Limited Partnership, a California limited partnership, as
  nominal defendant, and DOES 1-100,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV06990
 Hearing Date:   11/2/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Jimmy
  Hsieh, Lily Lin-Lih Hsieh, Jane Hsieh, Golden Hyde, LLC, Debby Margrate Hsieh,
  and A&K Plaza Limited’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, and Request for
  Monetary Sanctions.



 
Background
Plaintiff Wen Lung Cheng sues Defendants Jimmy Hsieh (Jimmy), Lily
Lin-Lih Hsieh (Lily), Jane Hsieh (Jane), Golden Hyde, LLC, Debby Margrate Hsieh
(Debby), A&K Plaza Limited (A&K), and Does 1-100 pursuant to a May 12,
2023 First Amended Complaint alleging claims of (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
(2) Breach of Contract, (3) Accounting, (4) Dissolution of Partner[ship], (5)
Constructive Fraud, (6) Unjust Enrichment, and (7) Conversion.
The claims arise from allegations that Plaintiff Cheng and Defendant
Jimmy Hsieh are respectively a 10% limited partner and the general partner of
Defendant A&K, a limited partnership created for the purpose of acquiring
the property commonly known as 1168 San Gabriel Boulevard, Rosemead, California
91770 (1168 San Gabriel). (A 1992 partnership agreement for A&K is attached
as Exhibit A to the FAC. The body of the FAC alleges that Plaintiff Cheng did
not have a copy of the 1992 partnership agreement until 2021 and that Plaintiff
was not given a copy of the “actual” partnership agreement he signed, but the
FAC relies on that agreement to advance his claims.) The FAC alleges that the
Hsieh family (Jimmy, his wife Lily, and their daughters Jane and Margrate),
have engaged in conduct harmful to A&K. Such conduct includes Jimmy
executing, Lily receiving, and Jane notarizing a deed of trust and/or
promissory note for $483,207 without consideration to A&K in exchange, as well as the Hsieh
family operating a number of businesses (including Defendant Golden Hyde) out
of 1168 San Gabriel without paying fair market value rent to A&K, e.g., no
rent from Golden Hyde since assuming possession in 2010. The Complaint ties
Defendants through allegations of (1) alter ego liability, with each Defendant
as the other Defendants’ alter ego, (2) an agency relationship between A&K
as principal and each member of the Hsieh family as agent, and (3) conspiracy
between Defendants.
On June 6, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel arbitration and stay
proceedings, and for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff Cheng and counsel.
On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff Cheng opposed Defendants’ motion.
On October 26, 2023, Defendants replied to the opposition.
The motion to compel arbitration is now before the Court.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Reply Objections
Objection No. 1-6 to Cheng Decl.:
OVERRULED.
Objection Nos. 4-8 to Hwang Decl.:
OVERRULED.
Objection Nos. 4-7 to Lee Decl.:
OVERRULED.
Remaining Objections: Not ruled on
as not material to disposition of this motion.
 
Motion to Compel Arbitration, Stay Proceedings, Award
Sanctions

Procedural Requirements
“A petition to compel arbitration
or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and
1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of
the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)
Here, Defendants attach a copy of
the 1992 A&K partnership agreement (which is also attached as Exhibit A to
the FAC), and quote the relevant arbitration provision verbatim: “‘Disputes
arising under this Agreement, or under any instrument made to carry out the
terms of this Agreement, shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with
the arbitration laws of the state of California.’” (Mot., p. 5, citing 1992 A&K
Partnership Agreement, § 10.05; Mot., Lin Decl. Ex. 1.)
Legal Standard 
A party to an arbitration agreement
may seek a court order compelling the parties to arbitrate a dispute covered by
the agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Absent a viable defense to
enforcement, the court must grant the motion if it determines there is an
agreement to arbitrate that has not been rescinded. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2; see also Cinel v. Barna (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1383, 1389
[“Under section 1281.2, the court shall order a matter to arbitration if it
determines that there is an agreement to arbitrate and (1) the agreement has
not been waived or (2) the agreement has not been revoked”].) Even where the
FAA governs the interpretation of arbitration clauses, California law governs
whether an arbitration agreement has been formed in the first instance. (Baker
v. Osborne Development Corp. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 884, 893.) 
The party seeking arbitration has
the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence[.]” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) “Once that burden is satisfied, the party
opposing arbitration must prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense
to the petition.” (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38
Cal.App.5th 244, 257.) “The trial court sits as the trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc., supra, at
p. 842.) “A party required to prove something by a preponderance of the
evidence ‘need prove only that it is more likely to be true than not true.’
[Citation.] Preponderance of the evidence means ‘“that the evidence on one side
outweighs, preponderates over, is more than, the evidence on the other side,
not necessarily in number of witnesses or quantity, but in its effect on those
to whom it is addressed.”’ [Citations.] In other words, the term refers to
‘evidence that has more convincing force than that opposed to it.’
[Citations.]” (People ex rel. Brown v. Tri-Union Seafoods, LLC (2009)
171 Cal.App.4th 1549, 1567.)
“California has a strong public
policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a
dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital
v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This strong
policy has resulted in the general rule that arbitration should be upheld
unless it can be said with assurance that an arbitration clause is not
susceptible to an interpretation covering the asserted dispute.” (Id.
[internal quotations omitted].) Generally, thus, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)
Nonetheless, California’s policy in favor of arbitration does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation holding that the contractual
terms themselves must be carefully examined before the parties to the contract
can be ordered to arbitration. (Rice v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th
175, 185.)
Order Compelling Arbitration and
Awarding Sanctions: GRANTED as to arbitration; DENIED as to sanctions.
I.
Whether Arbitration Agreement
Exists
“Parties are not required to
arbitrate their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A
contract to arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’
[Citation.] When determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we
apply ordinary state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation]
In California, a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or
implied in fact. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014)
755 F.3d 1089, 1092-93 [applying California law].) The court is only required
to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.)
In its motion, Defendants argue
that California has a strong public policy in favor of arbitration, that an
agreement to arbitrate exists between Plaintiff Cheng, Defendant Jimmy Hsieh,
and Defendant A&K through the 1992 A&K partnership agreement, and that
Lily, Jane, and Debby Hsieh can
invoke the arbitration agreement through equitable estoppel. (Mot., pp. 6-11.)
The Jimmy Hsieh declaration advances the position that Plaintiff Cheng signed
the 1992 A&K partnership agreement. (Mot., Hsieh Decl., ¶¶ 1-3.) Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration attaches a copy of the 1992 partnership agreement, which
contains an arbitration provision. (See Mot., Lin Decl., Ex. 1, art. X, § 10.05,
Arbitration.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
that that the 1992 A&K partnership agreement was not signed by him, that he
never saw that agreement until 2020, and that the only partnership agreement
seen by Plaintiff Cheng is a 1987 A&K partnership agreement that was not
signed by Plaintiff. The opposition also argues that Defendants Lily, Jane, and
Debby Hsieh and Golden Hyde cannot invoke the 1992 partnership agreement.
(Opp’n, pp. 8-10; see Opp’n, Cheng Decl., ¶¶ 1-8.)
In reply, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff Cheng did in fact sign the arbitration agreement, that Plaintiff
Cheng admits to his signature in the FAC’s allegations, and that Plaintiff’s
claims rely so heavily on the 1992 partnership agreement that it must be enforced.
(Reply, pp. 2-5.)
Defendants otherwise make arguments
relating to waiver, unconscionability, and the risk of inconsistent rulings.
(Reply, pp. 5-10.)
The Court finds in favor of Defendants
on this issue.
First, the Court determines that
Plaintiff is bound by the 1992 A&K partnership agreement and its
arbitration clause through equitable estoppel. “‘[T]he linchpin for equitable
estoppel is equity—fairness.’” (Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 209, 220.) “The doctrine thus prevents a party from playing fast
and loose with its commitment to arbitrate, honoring it when advantageous and
circumventing it to gain undue advantage.” (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventura
Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705,
1713.) Under the “direct benefits estoppel” doctrine applied in other courts, a
nonsignatory who “embraced” a contract during the life of the contract may be
required to arbitrate a dispute when, during litigation, the nonsignatory
attempts to repudiate the arbitration clause in the contract. (See, e.g., Noble
Drilling Services, Inc. v. Certex USA, Inc. (5th Cir. 2010) 620 F.3d 469,
473.) A nonsignatory “embraces” a contract with an arbitration clause by
“knowingly seeking and obtaining ‘direct benefits’ from that contract” or “seeking
to enforce the terms of that contract or asserting claims that must be
determined by reference to that contract.” (Ibid.; see Everett v.
Paul Davis Restoration, Inc. (7th Cir. 2014) 771 F.3d 380, 383-385 [nonsignatory,
actively involved in franchise, required to arbitrate dispute with franchisor,
having knowingly accepted same benefits of franchise agreement containing
arbitration clause as her husband who signed agreement].) California courts
have extended the reach of equitable estoppel to the reasoning behind the direct
benefits estoppel doctrine. (See, e.g., Turtle Ridge Media Group, Inc. v.
Pacific Bell Directory (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 828, 831-835 [nonsignatory
subcontractor estopped from non-enforcement of an arbitration agreement between
signatory client and non-party contractor where the subcontractor’s claims
against the defendant client were intertwined with the contract between the
client and the contractor] (Turtle Ridge).)
Here, the May 12, 2023 FAC relies
on the 1992 A&K partnership agreement to seek relief against Defendants.
(See, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 18, 22, 31, 39, 53-54, 58, 62, 76.) As a result, given that
Plaintiff seeks to enforce the terms of the 1992 A&K partnership agreement
against Defendants, Plaintiff is equitably estopped from arguing that he is not
subject to the arbitration clause in the 1992 A&K partnership agreement. (Cf.
Turtle Ridge, supra, 140 Cal.App.4th at pp. 831-835.)
Defendant Jimmy Hsieh is a party to
the 1992 A&K partnership agreement, and A&K is the entity contemplated
by the agreement. (See Mot., Lin Decl., Ex. 1, 1992 A&K Partnership
Agreement.) They thus have standing to invoke the arbitration provision at
issue here.
Moreover, even though Defendants
Lily, Jane, and Debby were not signatories to the 1992 partnership agreement,
they may invoke its arbitration clause because “when
a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration
agreement, the defendant may enforce the agreement even though the defendant is
not a party thereto. [Citations.]” (Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 605, 614; see Complaint, ¶ 33 [Lily, Jane, and Debby alleged
to be agents of A&K].)
Accordingly, the Court finds that
an agreement to arbitrate exists between the parties.
II.
Delegation of Determination on
Scope and Defenses
“Generally, a court will look to
the arbitration agreement itself to determine its scope.” (United Teachers
of Los Angeles (2012) 54 Cal.4th 504, 516; see Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
“‘[P]arties may agree to have an
arbitrator decide not only the merits of a particular dispute but also
‘“‘gateway’ questions of ‘arbitrability,’ such as whether the parties have
agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular controversy.”’
[Citation.] But ‘[c]ourts should not assume that the parties agreed to
arbitrate arbitrability unless there is “clea[r] and unmistakabl[e]” evidence
that they did so.’ [Citation.] This is a ‘heightened standard,’ and it
‘pertains to the parties’ manifestation of intent, not the agreement’s
validity.’ [Citation.]” (Najarro v. Superior Court (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th
871, 879-880 (Najarro).)
In their motion, Defendants argue
that gateway questions of arbitrability should be decided by the arbitrator.
(Mot., p. 8.)
The Court disagrees.
The Court’s review of the arbitration
clause in the 1992 A&K partnership agreement does not show a delegation of
gateway questions of arbitrability. (See Mot., Lin Decl., Ex. 1, § 10.05.)
The Court therefore proceeds with a
discussion of scope and defenses.
III.
Scope of the Arbitration
Agreement
“[T]he decision as to whether a
contractual arbitration clause covers a particular dispute rests substantially
on whether the clause in question is ‘broad’ or ‘narrow.’” (Bono v. David
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 1055, 1067.) “‘A “broad” clause includes those using
language such as “any claim arising from or related to this agreement”’
[Citation] or ‘arising in connection with the [a]greement’ [Citation.]” (Rice
v. Downs (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 175, 186 [italics omitted].) “But clauses
requiring arbitration of a claim, dispute, or controversy ‘arising from’ or ‘arising
out of’ an agreement, i.e., excluding language such as ‘relating to this
agreement’ or ‘in connection with this agreement,’ are ‘generally considered to
be more limited in scope than would be, for example, a clause agreeing to
arbitrate “‘any controversy … arising out of or relating to this agreement[.]’”
[Citations.]” (Id. at pp. 186-87, italics omitted.) “Several Ninth
Circuit cases have held that agreements requiring arbitration of ‘any dispute,’
‘controversy,’ or ‘claim’ ‘arising under’ or ‘arising out of’ the agreement are
intended to encompass only disputes relating to the interpretation and
performance of the agreement.” (Id. at p. 187.)
In their motion, Defendants argue
that the scope of arbitration is broad because it covers “[d]isputes arising
under th[e] [1992 A&K partnership] [a]greement, or under any instrument
made to carry out the terms of th[e] [1992 A&K partnership] [a]greement.” Defendants
argue that the conduct complained of in the FAC arises from that scope and
equally applies to all Defendants. (Mot., p. 8.)
In opposition, Plaintiff does not
address the scope issue head on. Instead, Plaintiff argues that certain claims
lie beyond the scope of an arbitrator because they are questions for the Court
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, subdivision (c), which
relates to denying arbitration where “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is
also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions[,]
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact.” Plaintiff argues that the fraud, conversion, and unjust enrichment
claims lie outside the scope of the arbitration agreement but does not cite a
pending action or special proceeding involving a third party. (Opp’n, pp.
14-16.)
In reply, as to section 1281,
subdivision (c), Defendants argue that this subdivision is not applicable
because there is no third party at this moment with whom conflicting rulings
are possible (Reply, pp. 9-10), e.g., no lawsuits by other limited partners
pursuant to the same claims or claims similar to those supporting this action.
The Court finds in favor of
Defendants on this point.
The FAC is somewhat vague as to the
terms in the 1992 A&K partnership agreement that were breached by
Defendants’ conduct. Indeed, though Plaintiff brings claims based on conduct
harming the A&K partnership (see, e.g., FAC, ¶¶ 44-44(e)), he brings this
suit in his individual capacity, not in his individual and derivative capacity
on behalf of A&K.
In any case, the language of the
scope of arbitration is broad because it covers disputes “arising under” the
terms of the 1992 partnership agreement.
Moreover, the suit revolves on harm
to A&K and its partners (like Plaintiff) based on Defendants’ self-dealing,
failure to act in good faith, misappropriation of partnership assets, and
refusal to disclose information to limited partners regarding partnership
property. (FAC, ¶¶ 44-44(e).) Such conduct necessarily arises from duties of
the 1992 A&K partnership agreement. Indeed, the 1992 A&K partnership
agreement is alleged by the FAC as controlling the duties and benefits of the
A&K partnership. (FAC, ¶ 18.)
To Plaintiff’s argument that the
scope of the arbitration agreement does not encompass the fraud, conversion,
and unjust enrichment claims, the Court disagrees. Plaintiff does not explain
why the arbitrator cannot decide the fraud or conversion claims, which arguably
arise from duties in the 1992 A&K partnership agreement. As for unjust
enrichment, that is not a valid cause of action in California. (City of Oakland v. Oakland Raiders (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 458, 477-478 [“There is no cause of action in California
labeled ‘unjust enrichment,’” where the typical cause of action for restitution
of a benefit unjustly enriching the recipient is instead a ‘quasi-contractual’
claim].)
To the
extent that Plaintiff relies on Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
subdivision (c), the Court notes that subdivision (c) relies on the existence
of third parties alleging claims arising from the same or similar transactions
as this action. At most, Plaintiff explains that two other limited partners—Ken
Hwang and Samantha Lee—are interested in joining this action as plaintiffs.
(Opp’n, p. 6; Opp’n, Hwang Decl., ¶¶ 6-10; Opp’n, Lee Decl., ¶¶ 6-9.) However,
Plaintiff fails to reference any already-initiated superior court actions or
special proceedings involving claims arising from the same or similar
transactions as this action. Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
subdivision (c) is thus inapplicable. Moreover, if Hwang or Lee had instituted
claims similar or the same to Plaintiff Cheng’s claims, they would similarly
rely on the terms of the 1992 A&K partnership agreement, perhaps equitably
estopping Hwang and Lee from disclaiming the 1992 A&K partnership
agreement’s arbitration clause, just like Plaintiff Cheng in Section I above. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that
this action is encompassed within the scope of the arbitration agreement. The
burden thus shifts to Plaintiff Cheng to point to defenses to enforcement of
the arbitration agreement.
IV.
Defenses to the Arbitration
Agreement
A “party opposing arbitration must
prove by a preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition” to compel
arbitration in the matter. (Lacayo v. Cataline Restaurant Group Inc., supra,
38 Cal.App.5th at p. 257.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Cheng
raises various defenses against enforcement of the arbitration clause in the
1992 A&K partnership agreement: (1) waiver of arbitration by Defendants;
(2) unconscionability; (3) application of Civil Code section 1281.2,
subdivision (c); and (4) the need to stay arbitration until the un-arbitrable
claims are adjudicated by this Court. (Opp’n, pp. 10-16.)
A. Waiver of
Arbitration by Defendants
A judge may deny a petition for
arbitration when the petitioner has waived the right to compel arbitration.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subd. (a); Spracher v. Paul M. Zagaris, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1135, 1137.) It is immaterial whether the Federal
Arbitration Act (9 U.S. Code 1 et seq.) or the California Arbitration Act (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 1280 et seq.) applies to the arbitration agreement at issue,
because the same standards apply in determining waiver under both acts. (Fleming
Distribution Co. v. Younan (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 73, 79, fn. 5.)
Although no single test delineates
the nature of the conduct that will constitute a waiver of arbitration, the
California Supreme Court has identified six factors relevant for consideration:
(1) whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate;
(2) whether the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked and the
parties were well into preparation of a lawsuit before the party notified the
opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested
arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period
before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a
crossclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) whether important
intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not
available in arbitration] had taken place; and (6) whether the delay affected,
misled, or prejudiced the opposing party. (Spracher v. Paul M. Zagaris, Inc.,
supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at p. 1138 [citing to St. Agnes Med. Ctr. v.
PacifiCare of Cal. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195-96, quotations omitted].)
A waiver of the right to arbitrate
may not be lightly inferred; rather, the party seeking to establish a waiver
has a heavy burden of proof. (St. Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of Cal.,
supra, 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1195; Fleming Distribution Co. v. Younan,
supra, 49 Cal.App.5th at p. 80.) Close judicial scrutiny of any claim of
waiver is required. (St. Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of Cal., supra,
at p. 1195.) A judge, not an arbitrator, generally resolves the issue of
whether a party petitioning to compel arbitration has waived the right to
arbitrate by the party’s litigation conduct. (Hong v. CJ CGV Am. Holdings,
Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 240, 243 [rejecting defendant’s contention that
arbitrator should have decided waiver by litigation conduct issue because case
was subject to Federal Arbitration Act].) 
In his opposition, Plaintiff Cheng
argues that waiver applies to Defendants for various reasons. The first reason
is that in the “three years prior to Cheng bringing suit, Defendant [Jimmy]
Hsieh never mentioned the arbitration sentence” in the 1992 A&K partnership
agreement. The second reason is that Defendant Jimmy Hsieh “used a potential
buyout as an excuse to delay Cheng’s access to any information related to the
Partnership.” Third, Plaintiff Cheng argues that ever since he “brought suit …,
Defendants [have] provided frivolous objections to Cheng’s discovery requests,”
“filed this motion to compel arbitration, [filed a] demurrer against Cheng’s
complaint, requested sanctions and served four sets of discovery requests on
Cheng,” and “continue to have sole and exclusive control over the Partnership,
the Property and all of its information.” (Opp’n, p. 11; see Opp’n, 10-12
generally.)
In reply, Defendants argue that
they “have never argued residency or jurisdictional issues after being served
nor contested service of the subject Complaint filed,” and instead, “through
their legal counsel have timely answered in filing of a proper Motion to Compel
Arbitration as well as proper Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint as well
as demanded that the case be properly transferred to Arbitration immediately.” Defendants
also make other arguments for why their discovery and other conduct has been
proper. (Reply, pp. 6-7.)
The Court finds in favor of
Defendants on this point.
The failure to mention the
arbitration clause in the 1992 A&K partnership agreement does not appear
relevant or even prejudicial, at least not until a true dispute arose between
the parties in 2023. Moreover, Plaintiff’s own evidence shows that the 1992
A&K arbitration agreement was disclosed to Plaintiff’s counsel as of
December 14, 2020, well before this action was filed in March 2023. Therefore,
there is no prejudice or misleading of Plaintiff Cheng by Jimmy Hsieh based on
failure to specifically note the existence of the arbitration clause in the
1992 A&K partnership agreement. A simple reading of the agreement would
have shown the clause’s existence.
To the extent that Defendant Jimmy
Hsieh has relied on statutory provisions permitting a buyout of Plaintiff’s
share in A&K, the Court does not see those efforts as inconsistent with the
right to arbitration. Defendants clearly did not file for arbitration until
there was an actual dispute between the parties. (Compare Complaint, p. 1
[filed on Mar. 30, 2023], with Mot., p. 1 [motion filed Jun. 6, 2023].)
As for Defendants’ conduct relating
to discovery, challenges to the pleadings, and other litigation efforts, the
Court finds that this conduct is not inconsistent with the right to arbitrate. Plaintiff
has not pointed to Defendants taking advantage of discovery procedures not
available in arbitration, nor has Plaintiff shown that the litigation machinery
has been sufficiently invoked as to connote a waiver of arbitration. Indeed,
trial has not even been set, discovery is only commencing, and the challenge to
the pleadings, the demurrer, was filed a day after the motion to compel
arbitration and is set for hearing in approximately one month should this
action not be compelled to arbitration.
The Court thus determines that
Plaintiff Cheng has provided an insufficient showing of waiver of the right to
arbitrate by Defendants.
B. Unconscionability 
“Both procedural unconscionability
and substantive unconscionability must be shown [for a finding of
unconscionability to exist], but ‘they need not be present in the same degree’
and are evaluated on a ‘sliding scale.’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC
(2017) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)
Whether an arbitration provision is
unconscionable is a question of law. (Suh v. Superior Court (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 1504, 1511-1512.)
1. Procedural
Unconscionability
Procedural unconscionability
“addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn., supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 246.) Established case law
explains that “‘[o]ppression’ arises from an inequality of bargaining power
which results in no real negotiation and ‘an absence of meaningful choice’
[and] ‘[s]urprise’ involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon
terms of the bargain are hidden [in the agreement] by the party seeking to
enforce the disputed terms.” (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 477, 484.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Cheng
argues that procedural unconscionability surrounds the 1992 A&K partnership
agreement. Plaintiff Cheng argues that procedural unconscionability arises from
him not having seen the 1992 A&K partnership agreement until December 2020,
which means that the arbitration clause was not negotiated. Plaintiff also
argues that the arbitration clause lacks essential terms that amount to a
dispute resolution mechanism because the agreement “does not provide for (a) a
third party decisionmaker chosen by the parties, (b) a mechanism for ensuring
neutrality in the rendering of the decision, (c) an opportunity for both
parties to be heard; and (d) a binding decision.” (Opp’n, pp. 12-13.)
In reply, Defendants argue that
Plaintiff insufficiently elaborates the grounds for procedural
unconscionability beyond conclusory arguments. Defendants also argue that
Plaintiff Cheng admitted to signing the 1992 A&K partnership agreement, for
which reason he had an opportunity to negotiate the terms in the agreement.
(Reply, pp. 7-8.)
The Court finds in favor of Defendants
on this issue.
Plaintiff Cheng cannot rely on the
terms of the 1992 A&K partnership agreement that he claims he did not sign
to support his causes of action while simultaneously disclaiming the
arbitration term in that agreement.  (See
Section I discussion supra.)
The Court recognizes that a “a true
arbitration agreement [contains]: (1) a third party decisionmaker; (2) a
mechanism for ensuring neutrality with respect to the rendering of the
decision; (3) a decision maker who is chosen by the parties; (4) an opportunity
for both parties to be heard, and (5) a binding decision.” (Cheng-Canindin
v. Renaissance Hotel Assocs. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 676, 684-685 (Cheng-Canindin).)
Here, the entire arbitration provision reads: “Disputes arising under this
Agreement, or under any instrument made to carry out the terms of this
Agreement, shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the arbitration
laws of the state of California.” (Mot., Lin Decl., Ex. 1, art. X, § 10.05,
Arbitration.) This clause is vague as to the terms of the arbitration itself. However,
again, because Plaintiff has relied on the 1992 A&K partnership agreement
to enforce its action against Defendants, the Court finds that any failure to flesh
out the arbitration clause more fully is attributed to both parties. Plaintiff
has not cited any cases stating that arbitration clauses are unenforceable
where they fail to provide the terms for deciding on an arbitrator, costs, etc.
The arbitration agreement at issue in Harper v. Ultimo (2003) 113
Cal.Ap.4th 1402, 1406-07, cited by Plaintiff, did in fact refer to a set of arbitration
rules under the Better Business Bureau, which did not provide for the
possibility of full relief to the plaintiff and hence was found unconscionable.
Nevertheless, depending on the
Defendants’ position as to which arbitration provider and rules will apply, the
Court could find some substantive unconscionability. In order to avoid any
prejudice or unconscionability, the Court will inquire at the hearing as to the
arbitration provider and arbitration rules that the parties propose to be used.

2. Substantive
Unconscionability
Substantive unconscionability
focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are so one-sided
as to shock the conscience.” (Kinney v. United HealthCare Servs., Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Cheng
argues that two clauses in the 1992 A&K partnership agreement show
substantive unconscionability. First, Plaintiff points to the clause giving the
general partners “full, exclusive and complete discretion and control of the
management [of A&K], [and] to conduct the operation of the Partnership and
the [Property] in all respects.” Second, Plaintiff points to a term giving the
general partner and a majority in interest the power to unilaterally amend the
terms of the Partnership Agreement. Plaintiff relies exclusively on a
comparison to federal case law to support these points. (Opp’n, pp. 13-14,
citing [Mot., Lin Decl., Ex. 1,] 1992 A&K Partnership Agreement, §§ 3.04,
6.01.)
In reply, Defendants argue that sections
3.04 and 6.01 “only set the authority of the general partners in managing the
partnership’s affairs and potential amendments to the partnership agreement,
which reflect the general nature of a limited partnership.” (Reply, p. 8.)
The Court finds in favor of
Defendants on this issue.
As to section 6.01—granting the
“General Partners … full, exclusive and complete discretion and control of the
management, to conduct the operation of the Partnership and the Investment in
all respects”—the Court finds that this type of clause is typical in limited
partnerships. (Mot., Lin Decl., Ex. 1, Article VI, § 6.02.)
As to section 3.04—providing that
the 1992 A&K partnership “[a]greement may not be altered or modified except
by a writing signed by the General partners and a Majority in Interest”—the
Court notes that this term is not inherently one-sided. (Mot., Lin Decl., Ex.
1, Article III, § 3.04.) The term only gives Defendant Jimmy Hsieh full control
of the “majority in interest” insofar as Jimmy has acquired such a majority
interest, such that he can unilaterally vote both as the general partner and as
a majority in interest of the partnership. However, the term itself is not
unconscionable. Any unfairness arises from Jimmy’s acquisition of a majority
interest in A&K.
The Court thus finds that no
substantive unconscionability arises from the 1992 A&K partnerships’ terms,
for which reason substantive unconscionability does not provide a defense to
enforcement of the agreement’s arbitration clause.
C. Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2, subd. (c)
The Court adopts its discussion at
Section III to determine that Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2,
subdivision (c) does not provide a defense to enforcement of the arbitration
agreement against Plaintiff Cheng. (Opp’n, pp. 14-16.)
D. Need to Stay
Arbitration Pending Judicial Determination of Non-Arbitrable Claims
The Court adopts its discussion in
Section III to determine that there are no claims outside the scope of the 1992
A&K partnership agreement, such that, there are no “non-arbitrable claims”
that the Court must first adjudicate before arbitration may proceed. (Opp’n, p.
16.)
V. Arbitration
Conclusion
Because Defendants have shown the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate between the parties that encompasses the
FAC’s claims, and because Plaintiff has failed to advance valid defenses to the
arbitration agreement, Defendants’ motion is GRANTED.
VI.
Dismissal or Stay of Action
“If a court of competent
jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a
controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending
before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is
pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the
action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order
to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.4.)
Here, the Court finds it proper to
stay this action until arbitration is had in accordance with this order or
until such earlier time as the Court specifies.
VII.
Sanctions
“In addition to any other sanctions
permitted by law, the court may order a person, after written notice and an
opportunity to be heard, to pay reasonable monetary sanctions to the court or
an aggrieved person, or both, for failure without good cause to comply with the
applicable rules. For the purposes of this rule, ‘person’ means a party, a
party’s attorney, a witness, and an insurer or any other individual or entity
whose consent is necessary for the disposition of the case. If a failure to
comply with an applicable rule is the responsibility of counsel and not of the
party, any penalty must be imposed on counsel and must not adversely affect the
party’s cause of action or defense thereto.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.30,
subd. (b).)
In their motion, Defendants argue
that this rule—erroneously referred to as “CRC Rule 2.3”—has been triggered
here based on “Plaintiff and his counsels’ frivolous objection and refusal to
concede to the demand for Arbitration of all claims in this Action.” (Mot., p.
12.)
In opposition, Plaintiff Cheng
notes the incorrect reference to rule 2.3 but makes no reference to rule 2.30.
(Opp’n, p. 17.)
In reply, Defendants do not
directly argue in favor of sanctions. (See Reply, Lin Decl., ¶¶ 4-5 [only
mention of sanctions within statements arguing that Defendants are entitled to
sanctions].)
The Court finds in favor of
Plaintiff Cheng on this issue.
Beyond the fact that Defendants
reference the incorrect rule of court in relation to sanctions—erroneously
reference Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.3, not rule 2.30—the Court finds that
Defendants also fail to reference the “applicable rule[]” with which Plaintiff
Cheng has failed to comply by opposing arbitration. Alternatively, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s opposition raised arguments in good faith, even if the
Court ultimately did not agree with those arguments.
Sanctions are thus DENIED. 
Conclusion
Defendants Jimmy Hsieh, Lily
Lin-Lih Hsieh, Jane Hsieh, Golden Hyde, LLC, Debby Margrate Hsieh, and A&K
Plaza Limited’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
The parties are ORDERED to
arbitration. The Court will take argument at the
hearing as to the arbitration provider and rules proposed to be used by the
parties.
The corresponding Request for
Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.