 Case Number:  23STCV07315    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  86 WESTLAKE FLOORING COMPANY, LLC V. LJT HOLDINGS,
LLC, ET AL.
Case Number: 23STCV07315
Hearing Date: November 3, 2023
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF POSSESSION
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
DENYING APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF ATTACHMENT
 
                                                                                                                                                                                           
 
Plaintiff, Westlake Flooring Company, LLC, dba
Westlake Flooring Services, applies for a writ of possession against Defendant,
LJT Holdings, LLC dba Infiniti of Mission Viejo (LJT) as to approximately 34 vehicles
as specified in the declaration of Jonathan Zhan filed in support of
Plaintiff’s application. (See Possess. Appl. ¶ 4; Zhan Decl. ¶¶ 6, 9.)
Separately, Plaintiff applies for writs of attachment against LJT and Defendant
John Anthony Thompson (collectively, Defendants) (through a single application)
in the amount of $2,678,264.[1]  
 
[The parties are reminded that the court’s First
Amended General Order requires courtesy copies of all pleadings and motions
that require points and authorities. See also Department 86’s Courtroom
Information.]
 
RELEVANT PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On April 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants for breach of contract and related claims. On September 6,
2023, Defendants answered the complaint. 
The answer states multiple affirmative defenses, including unclean
hands.
 
On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed its
applications for a writ of possession and a writ of attachment.  On October 23, 2023, Defendants filed their
opposition to the application for a writ of possession. Defendants did not file
an opposition to the application for a writ of attachment. On October 27, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a reply to the opposition to the application for writ of
possession and a notice of non-opposition to the application for writ of
attachment.  
 
///
 
///
 
SUMMARY OF
APPLICABLE LAW 
 
Writ of
Possession 
 
“Upon the
filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply
pursuant to this chapter for a writ of possession by filing a written
application for the writ with the court in which the action is brought.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 512.010, subd. (a).)[2]
              
Pursuant to
section 512.010, subdivision (b), the application must be submitted under oath
and include:
 
(1) A showing of the basis of the
plaintiff's claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the
property claimed. If the basis of the plaintiff's claim is a written
instrument, a copy of the instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the property is
wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came
into possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge,
information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular description of the
property and a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place
which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there.
 
(5) A statement that the property has not
been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized,
that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
“The writ
will be issued if the court finds that the plaintiff's claim is probably valid
and the other requirements for issuing the writ are established.” (§ 512.040,
subd. (b).) “A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not
that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”
(§ 511.090.)  
 
Prior to the
issuance of a writ of possession, the Plaintiff must file an undertaking “in an
amount not less than twice the value of the defendant's interest in the
property or in a greater amount.” (§ 515.010, subd. (a).)  
 
///
 
Writ of
Attachment 
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at
any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a
right to attach order and a writ of attachment by filing an application for the
order and writ with the court in which the action is brought.”  (CCP § 484.010.)
 
The court
shall issue a right to attach order if the court finds all
of
the following: 
 
(1)   The claim
upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be
issued. 
(2)   The
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the
attachment is based. 
(3)   The
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based. 
(4)   The amount
to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero. (§ 484.090.) 
 
“A claim has ‘probable validity’
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on that claim.” (§ 481.190.)    
 
“The Attachment Law statutes are subject
to strict construction.” (Epstein v. Abrams (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1168.)  
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Writ of Possession 
 
Wrongful
Detention
 
Pursuant to
section 512.010, subdivision (b)(2), the application must include “a showing
that the property is wrongfully detained by the defendant, of the manner
in which the defendant came into possession of the property, and, according to
the best knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for
the detention.” (Emphasis added.)
 
Plaintiff
provides information explaining how LJT originally purchased the vehicles with
financing advanced by Plaintiff pursuant to the parties’ Promissory Note and Loan and Security
Agreement (PNLSA). (Zhan Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.) However, Plaintiff’s declarant, Senior Vice
President Jonathan Zhan, does not provide any evidence in his moving
declaration that LJT, which operated an auto dealership, currently has
possession of the subject vehicles—that is, Plaintiff does not demonstrate
wrongful detention “by the defendant.” (See Zhan Decl. generally.) Zhan does
not declare Plaintiff’s agents have observed the vehicles at LJT’s automobile dealership located at 28471
Marguerite Parkway in Mission Viejo, California or at any other specific
location in California. Moreover, there is no foundation for Plaintiff’s
counsel’s statement in the application concerning location of the vehicles. (Plaintiff
did not verify the application; Plaintiff’s counsel did.)
 
In reply,
Zhan provides a spreadsheet explaining that certain vehicles “have not been repossessed by Plaintiff”
while other vehicles have been repossessed. (Reply Zhan Decl. ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff does not show good cause to submit this
new evidence in reply. (See Balboa
Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010. [“The salutary rule
is that points raised in a reply brief for the first time will not be
considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to present them
before.”])[3]
The court sustains LJT’s objection to the evidence and strikes it. (See
Sur-Reply.)
 
Alternatively,
on the merits, Zhan’s reply declaration does not state whether the vehicles
that have not been repossessed are currently in LJT’s possession. That the
vehicles have not been repossessed does not demonstrate LJT (a car dealership) retains
possession of the vehicles. For these reasons, Plaintiff does not meet its
moving burden on this application.
 
Furthermore, in
his opposing declaration, Thompson states: “None of the vehicle identified in WFS’s writ application or order are
currently at the IMV dealership property located at 28471 Marguerite Pkwy,
Mission Viejo, California 92692, as all of the identified vehicles were
either repossessed by WFS or sold to bona fide purchasers months ago.”
(Thompson Decl. ¶ 17 [emphasis added].) Because Plaintiff submits no evidence
that contradicts Thompson’s statement regarding possession of the vehicles, the
court credits paragraph 17 of Thompson’s declaration for purposes of this application.[4] Defendant’s unrebutted
evidence preponderates—Defendant it no longer has possession of any of the vehicles.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff has not made a sufficient showing that any specific
vehicles have been wrongfully detained by LJT.
 
Description
and Value of Property
 
Pursuant to
section 512.010, subdivision (b)(3), the application must include a particular
description of the property and a statement of its value.
 
Plaintiff has
provided a particular description of the subject vehicles, by make and vehicle
identification number. (See Zhan Decl. ¶ 6; Reply Zhan Decl. ¶ 2, Exh.
25.)  
 
However,
Plaintiff has not provided a statement of the value of each of the
vehicles for which it seeks a writ of possession, as required by section
512.010, subdivision (b)(3).[5]
Rather, Plaintiff provides only a statement of total contractual damages
allegedly owed by LJT pursuant to the terms of the parties’ PNLSA. (Zhan Decl. ¶ 8; Reply Zhan Decl. ¶ 3.) A
statement of total contractual damages is not equivalent to a statement of
value for a specific item of property. For example, Plaintiff’s calculation of
contractual damages (first provided in its reply papers and struck based on Defendant’s
objection) shows the inclusion of various fees as well as interest. (Reply Zhan
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 26.) Plaintiff does not demonstrate such fees and interest have
any relationship to the value of the vehicles for which possession is sought. Accordingly,
Plaintiff does not fully satisfy the requirements of section 512.010,
subdivision (b)(3).[6]
 
Statutory
Statements
 
Pursuant to
section 512.010, subdivision (b)(4) and (5), the application must include: 
 
(4) A statement, according to the best
knowledge, information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the
property and, if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place
which may have to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is
probable cause to believe that such property is located there.
 
(5) A statement that the property has not
been taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized
under an execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized,
that it is by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
Plaintiff has
provided a statement the vehicles have not been taken for a tax, assessment, or
fine, pursuant to statute and have not been seized under an execution against
the Plaintiff’s property. (Appl. ¶ 8.)  
 
For the
reasons discussed above, however, Plaintiff does not submit evidence of the
location of the vehicles. Specifically, Zhan does not declare that agents of
Plaintiff have observed the vehicles at LJT’s automobile dealership located at 28471 Marguerite Parkway in Mission
Viejo, California or at any other specific location. Plaintiff’s counsel, who
verified the application, provides no foundation for his statement of the
vehicles’ location. Plaintiff also does not cite any other evidence, such as
photographs or admissions made by Defendants’ agents, concerning the current
location of the vehicles. Additionally, LJT’s evidence expressly provides the
vehicles are not located at the automobile dealership or in its possession.
 
Because the
application asks for an order permitting a levying officer to enter private
property and take possession of the vehicles, Plaintiff must also establish
“probable cause” to believe the vehicles are located at such private property.
(See §§ 512.010, subd. (b)(4), 512.080.) Plaintiff seeks a writ authorizing
entry onto LJT’s automobile
dealership located at 28471 Marguerite Parkway in Mission Viejo, California to
take possession of the vehicles. (Appl. ¶ 6.) However, for the reasons
discussed above, Plaintiff does not show probable cause to believe the vehicles
are located at that address or show they are at any other specific
location.  Accordingly, the application
must be DENIED.
 
Turnover Order
 
Plaintiff
appears to request a turn-over order. (See Memorandum 2:18-23.)  Section 512.070 states: “If a writ of possession is issued, the
court may also issue an order directing the defendant to transfer possession of
the property to the plaintiff. Such order shall contain a notice to the
defendant that failure to turn over possession of such property to plaintiff
may subject the defendant to being held in contempt of court.” (Emphasis
added.) “Thus a ‘turnover’ order, issued pursuant to section 512.070, is not a separate remedy but rather an alternative means of
enforcing a writ of possession.” (Edwards
v. Superior Court (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 173, 178.)
 
Accordingly, a turnover order is
unwarranted here.
 
The application for writ of possession
against LJT is DENIED. In light of this conclusion, the court need not analyze
the probable validity of Plaintiff’s claim, the amount of undertaking or
affirmative defenses asserted by Defendants.
 
///
Preliminary Injunction
 
In the memorandum of points and
authorities for the application for writ of possession, Plaintiff also
requests, in the alternative, “that the Court issue a preliminary injunction
preventing Defendants from selling or otherwise disposing of the Vehicles.” (Memo
7:21-22.) Plaintiff has not provided sufficient notice to move for a preliminary
injunction. (See Application on Form CD-100 and Notice of Hearing on Form
CD-110.) Even assuming LJT waived the notice issues, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
shown LJT has possession of any specific vehicles. The court cannot grant a
preliminary injunction preventing Defendants from selling or disposing of vehicles
without some evidence of LJT’s possession of same.  
 
The request for a preliminary injunction
is DENIED.
 
Writ of Attachment 
 
Section 484.040 states: “No order or writ
shall be issued under this article except after a hearing. At the times
prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, the defendant shall be
served with all of the following: . . . (b) A notice of application and
hearing. . . .” (Emphasis added.) Section 484.050 states the notice of
application “shall inform” defendants of numerous matters, including the place
and time of the hearing; the amount to be secured; and specific procedures that
apply to an attachment motion.  
 
Here, Plaintiff has not filed a notice
that includes the information required by section 484.050 or a proof of service
showing that such notice was served on Defendants. The notice requirements are
mandatory. As noted earlier, “[t]he Attachment Law statutes are subject to
strict construction.” (Epstein v. Abrams, supra, 57 Cal.App.4th at 1168.)  Accordingly,
the application for writ of attachment is DENIED.
 
Finally, Plaintiff has not attached an
affidavit or declaration to the application as stated on the application. It
appears Plaintiff has not attached the relevant evidence in support of the
application. (App. ¶ 7.)
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The application for writ of
possession is DENIED (as are the related turnover order and preliminary injunction).

 
The application for writ of
attachment is DENIED.
 
 IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
November 3, 2023                                                                _______________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court  


