 Case Number:  23STCV12687    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  86 BENOM v. MYERS
Case Number: 23STCV12687
Hearing Date: November 3, 2023 
 
 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
APPOINTING RECEIVER
 
                                                                                                                                                                              
 
 
Plaintiff, Paula
Benom, moves for the appointment of a receiver 
 
to: (a) take possession and control of
the United Facility Solutions, Inc. (the ‘Corporation’ [or UFS]); (b) operate
and collect all income earned by the Corporation; (c) clawback all monies
belonging to the Corporation; (d) pay off all Corporation creditors and claims;
(e) wind down the business of the Corporation; (f) dissolve the Corporation;
and (g) divide the remaining assets of the corporation among the stakeholders.
(Notice 2:6-11.)  
 
Defendants, Mark E.
Myers and Anthony Redon, oppose the motion.[1]  
 
Plaintiff’s reply
request for judicial notice (RJN) of Exhibit A is granted.
 
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Mark Myers: Objections 1, 2, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11 and 12 are sustained. The remaining objections are overruled.
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint
against Defendants (and nominal Defendant UFS), for appointment of a receiver;
breach of fiduciary duty; removal of Defendant Myers as a Director of UFS;
conversion; theft pursuant to Penal Code section 496; elder financial abuse;
and involuntary dissolution of UFS. 
Defendants answered the complaint.
 
On July 18, 2023, Defendants filed a
cross-complaint against Plaintiff, Luz Maria Veloz, and several other
cross-defendants for breach of loyalty, unfair competition, tortious
interference, and misappropriation; breach of contract; specific performance; accounting;
and constructive trust. Plaintiff answered the cross-complaint.  
 
On August 23, 2023, the court (Judge Curtis Kin)
denied Plaintiff’s ex parte application for appointment of a receiver. The
court found there was no urgency or emergency justifying the ex parte nature of
the request.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD  
 
“In this
state a receiver may be appointed only as permitted by Code of Civil Procedure section 564.” (Barclays
Bank of California v. Superior Court (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 593, 597.)  
 
Appointment of a receiver is a drastic
provisional remedy that the court should grant only when facts are presented by
admissible evidence clearly establishing a receiver is necessary to protect the
property and maintain the status quo. (Ibid;
City and County of San Francisco v. Daley
(1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744). The appointment of a receiver is an equitable
remedy and should be used only when necessary and where other legal remedies
are unavailable.  (Rogers v. Smith (1946) 76 Cal.App.2d 16, 21).
 
“Appointment of a receiver may well
result in serious injury to the name and good will of a solvent, going concern, and
that if there is any other adequate remedy, which is less severe and which will
protect the rights of the parties, a court should not take the drastic step of
appointing a receiver.” (In re Jamison
Steel Corp. (1958) 158 Cal.App.2d 27, 36.) “Ordinarily, if there is any
other remedy, less severe in its results, which will adequately protect the
rights of the parties, a court should not take property out of the hands of its
owners.” (Golden State Glass Corp. v. Superior
Court (1939) 13 Cal.2d 384, 393.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Grounds for
Receivership 
 
Plaintiff
moves for appointment of a receiver pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 564, subdivision (b)(1), (5), (6), and (9). (Memo 16:4-12.) Code of Civil Procedure section 564,
subdivsiion (b)(1), (5), (6), and (9) authorize the appointment of a receiver
in a pending action, as follows:
 
(1)  
In an
action … between
partners or others jointly owning or interested in any property or fund, on the
application of the plaintiff, or of any party whose right to or interest in the
property or fund, or the proceeds of the property or fund, is probable, and
where it is shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost,
removed, or materially injured.
. . . .
(5) Where a corporation
has been dissolved, as provided in Section 565.
(6) Where a corporation is insolvent,
or in imminent danger of insolvency . . . .
. . . .
(9) . . . where necessary to preserve the property or rights of any
party.
 
Plaintiff also relies on Corporations Code sections
1800 and 1803 as additional authority in support of her request for the
appointment of a receiver. (Memo 17:12-28.) 
 
Corporations Code section 1800 provides, in pertinent
part, any shareholder who holds shares representing not less than 33 1/3
percent of the corporation may pursue involuntary dissolution of the
corporation on the following grounds: 
 
(3) There is
internal dissension and two or more factions of shareholders in the corporation
are so deadlocked that its business can no longer be conducted with advantage
to its shareholders or the shareholders have failed at two consecutive annual
meetings at which all voting power was exercised, to elect successors to
directors whose terms have expired or would have expired upon election of their
successors. 
 
(4) Those in
control of the corporation have been guilty of or have knowingly countenanced
persistent and pervasive fraud, mismanagement or abuse of authority or
persistent unfairness toward any shareholders or its property is being
misapplied or wasted by its directors or officers.  
 
Corporations
Code section 1803 provides: 
 
If, at the
time of the filing of a complaint for involuntary dissolution or at any time
thereafter, the court has reasonable grounds to believe that unless a receiver
of the corporation is appointed the interests of the corporation and its
shareholders will suffer pending the hearing and determination of the
complaint, upon the application of the plaintiff, and after a hearing upon such
notice to the corporation as the court may direct and upon the giving of
security pursuant to Sections
566 and 567
of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may appoint a receiver to take over and
manage the business and affairs of the corporation and to preserve its property
pending the hearing and determination of the complaint for dissolution.  
 
              Factual
Background 
 
UFS is a corporation in the business of
providing security guard and janitorial services to commercial clients. Until
May 2021, UFS was owned 50-50 by two shareholders, Defendant Myers and Martin
Benom. (Benom Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) On May 15, 2021, Martin Benom died. (Id. ¶
4.) Upon Martin Benom’s death, half of his UFS shares passed to Plaintiff, his wife,
under community property laws, and the other half passed to Plaintiff as Martin
Benom’s sole heir and representative of his estate. (Id. ¶ 4.) On March
24, 2022, the Orange County Superior Court confirmed that Martin Benom’s 25
percent community property interest in UFS passed to Plaintiff and that
Plaintiff owned another 25 percent of UFS. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. C.) 
 
In light of the Superior Court’s March
24, 2022 order, it is undisputed Plaintiff owns 50 percent of the shares of
UFS. (See Opposition 5:7-10.) 
 
However, that was not always the situation.
Defendant “refused to acknowledge Paula as a shareholder . . . . of UFS” after
Martin Benom’s death in May 2021 until the Superior Court issued its confirmation
order in March 2022. (Memo 8:23-25; Benom Decl. ¶ 5; Myers Decl. 
¶¶ 8-10.)[2]  Although Defendant Myers asserts “there were
a number of conflicting ownership claims asserted against the husband's UFS
shares,” he identifies only a single alleged conflicting claim of Piper Benom,
Martin Benom’s daughter from a previous marriage. (Myers Decl. ¶ 8.)  Both Piper Benom and Plaintiff dispute Defendant
Myers’ contention Piper Benom ever made a claim for Martin Benom’s shares of
UFS after his death. (See Reply Decls. of Piper Benom and Plaintiff; and
Exhibit 1 thereto.) Nonetheless, the court need not decide for purposes of this
motion, whether Defendant Myers had a valid basis to refuse to acknowledge
Plaintiff’s ownership interest in UFS until March 2022. For purposes of this motion,
the foregoing evidence is relevant simply because it shows the origin of a
sometimes contentious and unworkable relationship between UFS’s two 50 percent
shareholders.
 
Sometime in the Spring of 2022, both
Plaintiff and Defendant Myers decided joint ownership of UFS by its two 50
percent shareholders was not possible. (Memo 9:18-19; Benom Decl. ¶ 6; see also
Opposition 6:9-10 [acknowledging mutual desire to dissolve and wind down UFS].)
Defendant Myers reports “[w]hen Plaintiff obtained the Orange County Superior
Court order that confirmed her ownership of her husband's UFS shares, both
Plaintiff and I had already mutually agreed to dissolve UFS and divide the
business.” (Myers Decl. ¶¶ 11-12.) 
 
Plaintiff and Defendant Myers have
discussed how to “divide the business” and have taken certain steps to do so.
As summarized by Plaintiff: 
 
UFS's clients and employees were, in an operational sense, divided
into two groups, depending on which faction was more directly working with
various clients. Accordingly, we began to discuss a schedule and terms for a
fair division of UFS's operations, and an orderly transition process. (Benom
Decl. ¶ 6.)  
 
These discussions (attended by separate counsel
for Plaintiff and Defendant Myers) continued from the Spring of 2022 until
around February 7, 2023. (See Lee Decl. ¶¶ 3-21 and Exh. 1-10.)  Although the parties discussed many technical
details and made some progress toward UFS’s division, the discussions
eventually broke down. The evidence demonstrates, for purposes of this motion,
Plaintiff and Defendant Myers have not finalized the terms of, or
executed, an agreement to dissolve and wind down UFS. (See ibid.; Benom
Decl. ¶¶ 7-21; Myers Decl. ¶¶ 11-33; but see RJN Exh. A ¶¶ 45-55 [Defendant Myers’
unverified cross-complaint alleging Plaintiff and Myers entered an “oral
agreement to dissolve UFS and to wind down”].)[3]
 
Plaintiff submits evidence in late 2022
Defendant “Myers was preparing to move a portion of UFS’s clients and employees
into his newly-formed corporation, Gibraltar Protection, Inc. (‘Gibraltar’),
which would operate in the security guard industry (i.e. the same industry
which UFS operated in).” (Benom Decl. ¶ 8.) “[I]n the first week in January of
2023, Gibraltar used UFS's employees and facilities to begin invoicing UFS
clients in Gibraltar's name and office address.” (Benom Decl. ¶ 10 and Exh. K;
see also id. ¶¶ 11-16.)  Plaintiff
also acknowledges: 
 
[Defendant] Myers’ anticipated move would leave behind the remaining
portion of UFS’ clients and employees who were not going with him to Gibraltar,
to be moved into a separate new corporation to be controlled by me and two
remaining UFS colleagues, Luz Veloz and Guillermo Amador. Accordingly, on
December 3, 2022, Articles of Incorporation for that new company named
Customized Guard Services & Systems ("CGSS") were filed by Ms.
Veloz on our behalf. . . . This was to be the corporate vehicle into which such
remaining portion of UFS’s clients and employees would be transitioned, in the
event that [Defendant] Myers and I were ever able to come to an agreement on
how to divide up the business and wind down UFS. To that end, CGSS had applied
for a PPO [“Private Patrol Operator License”] as well.
 
              .
. . .
 
In January, CGSS received its required PPO License from BSIS, leaving
just one final item of approval from the California Department of Consumer
Affairs for the use of CGSS Badge, Uniform Patch and/or Cap Insignia, which was
later issued March 14, 2023. Effective March 29, 2023, CGSS began its own
operations. Accordingly, UFS ceased providing any services to clients. However,
UFS still had substantial funds to pay its outstanding obligations, after which
any remaining monies should have been split in a 50-50 final distribution to [Defendant]
Myers and me as the equal shareholders of the company.
 
              (Benom
Decl. ¶¶ 8, 17.)
 
Defendants do not dispute that Defendant Myers
has taken steps to “move” a portion of UFS’s clients and employees to
Gibraltar, or that Plaintiff has taken steps to move the remainder of the
company to CGSS. (See Myers Decl. Generally.) 

 
Plaintiff submits evidence Defendant
Myers has taken possession of “a check from the Internal Revenue Service (‘IRS’)
payable to UFS dated December 6, 2022, in the amount of $966,042.08.”  (Benon Decl. ¶ 9 and Exh. E, H.) Defendant Myers
acknowledges that his attorney, Daniel Yee, has possession of these funds.
(Myers Decl. ¶ 22.) Defendant Myers explains the funds are being held “in trust
for the benefit of UFS.”  (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff acknowledges receipt of two
other checks from the IRS in the amount of $411,407.49 and $1,153,551.28,
respectively. (Reply Benom Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) Plaintiff attests she caused the
$411,407.49 check “to be deposited into the Wells Fargo Bank account of UFS’s
factoring company, State Financial, on January 19, 2023.” (Reply Benom Decl. ¶¶
7-8.) Plaintiff also reports she caused the $1,153,551.28 check to be deposited
“into UFS’s operating bank account at Wells Fargo Bank on March 30, 2023.” (Reply
Benom Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)  
 
As further discussed infra, the
parties accuse one another of misappropriation of UFS funds and wrongful
exclusion from UFS’s operations and bank accounts. Plaintiff also submits
evidence that UFS is in imminent danger of insolvency because it has been
unable to pay its obligations in the ordinary course of business. (Benom Decl.
¶¶ 17-21; Myers Decl. ¶¶ 15-33.)  
 
              Code
of Civil Procedure Sections 564, Subdivision (b)(1) and (9)
 
Plaintiff is a 50 percent shareholder of
UFS. Accordingly, she shows a “probable” and/or joint interest in the
corporation. (Code Civ. Proc., § 564, subd. (b)(1).) Plaintiff also demonstrates
UFS is “in
danger of being lost, removed, or materially injured” as a result of corporate
dissension. (Ibid.) 
 
“The court may appoint a receiver in a
stockholder’s suit if the directors and majority of the stockholders are so
managing or disposing of its business or assets in their own interest that they
will probably be lost or destroyed before a decree can be rendered, or where
there are such dissensions within the corporation that its business cannot be
honestly or properly managed, or if for any other reason it clearly
appears to the court that the appointment of a receiver pending the suit is
necessary to preserve the assets of the corporation, and protect the rights of
the complaining stockholders.” (Misita v. Distillers Corp. (1942) 54
Cal.App.2d 244, 250-251.) “A court of equity has power to appoint a receiver of a going
corporation upon a showing that there are such dissensions in its governing
body as to create a virtual suspension of its business.” (Golden State
Glass Corp. v. Superior Court, supra, 13 Cal.2d at 393.)
 
As summarized above, the evidence before
the court demonstrates UFS’ two 50 percent shareholders have not
finalized an agreement to dissolve and wind up UFS. (See Lee Decl. ¶¶ 3-21;
Benom Decl. ¶¶ 6-21; and Myers Decl. ¶¶ 11-33.) Although Plaintiff’s attorney
emailed Defendant Myers’ attorney a draft "Mutual Separation and
Transition Agreement" on January 20, 2023, that agreement was not finalized
and executed by Plaintiff and Defendant Myers. (Lee Decl. ¶ 20.) Defendant Myers’
attorney acknowledges discussion between counsel ceased in early February 2023.
(Lee Decl. ¶ 21.) Nonetheless, despite having no formal process or agreement in
place, both Plaintiff and Defendant Myers have taken steps to move clients and
employees from UFS to their own newly formed corporations. (See Benom Decl. ¶¶ 8,
10-17.)    
 
Plaintiff contends Defendant “Myers has
refused to conduct shareholders’ meetings, appointed a director (Defendant Redon)
without so much as a shareholder meeting . . . [and] fired [Plaintiff] (a 50
percent shareholder) thereby cutting off her access to company information such
as emails, accounts receivable ledgers, accounts payable ledgers and UFS’s bank
accounts.” (Memo 18:24-19:1.) There is evidentiary support for her contentions.
(See e.g. Benom Decl. ¶ 16. [“Myers refused to proceed with the Shareholders'
Meeting”] and Exh. O [corporate resolution dated March 22, 2023, dismissing
Plaintiff from her employment with UFS and revoking her signatory authority
with “all banks”].)   
 
Significantly to the court, Defendant Myers
acknowledges that his attorney, Daniel Yee, has possession of at least
$966,042.08 in UFS funds. (Myers Decl. ¶ 22.) Defendant Myers attests Yee is
holding the funds “in trust for the benefit of UFS.” (Myers Decl. ¶ 22.) However,
Defendant Myers does not support his position with evidence, such as bank
statements, proving the funds are being held “in trust” or segregated for UFS.
More importantly, Defendant Myers’ uniliteral possession and control of nearly
$1 million in UFS funds means such funds are not currently available for use of
the corporation and payment of its creditors. 

 
Plaintiff also submits some evidence of Defendant
Myers’ control over another (approximately) $1 million in UFS funds. (Benom
Decl. ¶ 19.) In opposition, Defendant Myers concedes he closed UFS’s Wells
Fargo accounts and “withdrew the funds and deposited the money into new
accounts under the name of UFS.” (Myers Decl. ¶18.) Defendant Myers does not
specify the amount of money he withdrew from the Wells Fargo accounts. He
claims the “funds in these accounts will held and not used, pending the final
accounting between the parties.” (Myers Decl. ¶ 19.) However, as with the nearly
$1 million IRS check, Defendant Myers does not submit bank statements
supporting his contention the UFS funds are safely held and preserved. More
importantly, Defendant Myers’ uniliteral possession and control of UFS funds
means that such funds are not currently available for use of the corporation
and payment of its creditors.
 
Defendants contend “Plaintiff also caused
Defendant Myers, the UFS CEO, to be removed as a signatory on the UFS operating
accounts at Wells Fargo. She also caused the removal of Defendant Myers’ access
to both the UFS Quickbooks accounting software and Payroll Services.” (Opposition
14:6-9; Myers Decl. ¶ 15.) The evidence cited in support of Defendants’
position is conclusory and not particularly persuasive. (Myers Decl. ¶ 15.)  Plaintiff disputes Defendants’ assertion in
reply. (Reply Benom Decl. ¶¶ 10-13.) Nonetheless, there is evidence Plaintiff
has asserted control over the remaining portion of UFS’s operations as well as a
substantial portion of UFS’s funds (approximately $1.5 million). (See Benom
Decl. ¶ 17 [acknowledging control over certain aspects of UFS operations];
Reply Benom Decl. ¶¶ 7-8 [control over more than $1.5 million in UFS funds].)  
 
For purposes of this motion, the court
need not resolve the parties’ competing claims about who has acted “wrongfully”
in excluding the other or taking possession of UFS funds. The salient points are
UFS is experiencing profound dysfunction between its two 50 percent shareholders;
UFS is not being managed effectively because of the dissension; and UFS still
has substantial financial assets in its name (approximately $2.5 million or
more) that need to be preserved and distributed appropriately.  
 
The corporate dissension risks material
and permanent harm to UFS and its assets. As discussed detailed infra, Plaintiff
submits evidence UFS is in imminent danger of insolvency because it has been
unable to pay its obligations in the ordinary course of business. (Benom Decl.
¶¶ 19-20; Reply Benom Decl. ¶ 14.) Defendant Myers has possession and control
of at least $966,042.08 in UFS funds that are currently unavailable for
corporate use. Plaintiff has asserted control over another $1.5 million or so
in UFS funds.  These circumstances vividly
demonstrate judicial supervision, through a receiver, is required to manage,
control, and preserve UFS’s financial and other assets.  
 
In addition, the corporate dissension
makes it impossible for Plaintiff and Defendant Myers to dissolve and wind down
UFS, without judicial supervision, in a manner that preserves value for the two
shareholders. Plaintiff and Defendant Myers, along with counsel, engaged in
meaningful and productive efforts for approximately a year to reach an
agreement to dissolve and wind down UFS. Unfortunately, the shareholder efforts
were not successful. Since discussions ceased, each shareholder has acted
unilaterally to move UFS clients and employees to new corporate entities, and
to take control of UFS monies, which necessarily causes harm to UFS and both its
shareholders.
 
Based on the foregoing, the moving and
opposing evidence demonstrate “there are such dissensions within the
corporation that its business cannot be honestly or properly
managed.”  (Misita v. Distillers Corp.,
supra, 54 Cal.App.2d at 250-251.) Accordingly, Plaintiff has shown a
receivership should be appointed over UFS pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
564, subdivision (b)(1).[4]
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 564
Subdivision (b)(5)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(5),
a receiver may be appointed “[w]here a corporation has been dissolved, as
provided in Section 565.” Plaintiff does not provide any evidence suggesting
UFS “has been dissolved, as provided in Section 565.” Accordingly, the court may
not appoint a receiver under Code of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision
(b)(5) at this time.
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section 564,
Subdivision (b)(6)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
564, subdivision (b)(6), a receiver may be appointed “[w]here a corporation is insolvent,
or in imminent danger of insolvency . . . .” 

 
“The term ‘insolvency’ has two generally accepted
definitions: (1) where there is an excess of liabilities over assets; and (2)
where one is unable to meet his obligations as they mature in the ordinary
course of business. In the absence of a controlling statutory definition, the
second definition is preferred.” (California Retail Portfolio Fund GMBH & Co. KG v. Hopkins Real
Estate Group (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 849, 859-860.)  
 
Plaintiff submits evidence UFS is in
imminent danger of insolvency because it has been unable to pay its obligations
in the ordinary course of business. (Benom Decl. ¶¶ 19-20; Reply Benom Decl. ¶
14.) Defendants have not rebutted the evidence that certain UFS creditors have
gone unpaid. (See Myers Decl. generally.) As discussed earlier, both Plaintiff
and Defendant Myers acknowledge control over a substantial amount of UFS funds
that could be used to pay creditors or otherwise benefit UFS. A receivership would
benefit UFS by enabling these funds to be marshaled, preserved, and used for
corporate purposes, including payment of creditors.  Accordingly, Plaintiff has demonstrated a
receivership should be appointed over UFS pursuant to section Code of Civil
Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(6).
  
              Corporations
Code section 1803
 
Plaintiff has filed a complaint for
involuntary dissolution of UFS. For the same reasons discussed above as to Code
of Civil Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(1), “the
court has reasonable grounds to believe that unless a receiver of the
corporation is appointed the interests of the corporation and its shareholders
will suffer pending the hearing and determination of the complaint.” (Corp.
Code, § 1803.) Accordingly, Plaintiff has also shown a receiver should be
appointed pursuant to section 1803.
 
Alternatives to a Receivership 
 
“Ordinarily,
if there is any other remedy, less severe in its results, which will adequately
protect the rights of the parties, a court should not take property out of the
hands of its owners.” 
(Golden State Glass Corp. v. Superior Court, supra, 13 Cal.2d at 393.)
 
While Defendants cite case authority that stand for this
principle, Defendant do not explain, in any detail, how less drastic remedies
would adequately protect UFS and its shareholders under the circumstances
discussed above. That is, Defendants propose no solution to effectively resolve
the dissention.
 
To be sure, Defendants suggest the court “ENJOIN the parties
from disbursing or using any UFS funds until after the court approves the final
accounting.” (Opposition 20:24-25.) Even if the court issued such injunction, it
would not resolve issues with UFS to using its own funds to pay its creditors
or to use for other corporate purposes pending resolution of this action.
Further, such injunction would not safeguard and ensure the UFS funds are
actually being held “in trust” for UFS. A receiver is necessary to take
possession and control over all UFS funds for the protection of UFS, its
creditors and its shareholders.  
 
Defendants also request the court “Order the parties (1) to
exchange all the information that is required to complete the accounting, (2)
to complete forthwith the final accounting, (3) to wind down and dissolve UFS
in a timely manner following court approval of the final accounting, and (4) to
distribute the UFS funds and assets in accordance with the final accounting,
after approval of the same by the court.” 
(Opposition 20:26-21:2.) In essence, Defendants request a final
resolution of Plaintiff’s complaint for involuntary dissolution and Defendants’
cross-claim for accounting. 
 
The court cannot adjudicate such claims or grant such relief
based on a request made in an opposition brief. Moreover, given the dissension
between Plaintiff and Defendant Myers, Defendants fail to explain how the
requested orders would be effective. The evidence discussed earlier suggests
that constant court involvement (micromanagement) would be required to enforce
such an order. A receivership would be a much more efficient means of accounting
for UFS’s assets, collecting and preserving such assets for UFS’s benefit,
identifying creditors, and determining how to use or distribute UFS funds for
the benefit of the corporation and its shareholders.  
 
The court has considered alternative remedies and concludes
none proposed will adequately protect the parties and UFS. Accordingly, a
receivership is the appropriate provisional remedy under these facts and
circumstances.
 
Unclean Hands 
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff has “unclean
hands” and, therefore, is not entitled to an equitable remedy, such as a
receivership.
 
A party seeking equitable relief must
have “clean hands” and inequitable conduct by the party seeking relief is a
complete defense. (Dickson, Carlson & Campillo v. Pole (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 436, 446; Salas v. Sierra Chem. Co. (2014) 59 Cal.4th 407,
432.) A plaintiff’s “hands are rendered unclean . . . by any form of conduct
that, in the eyes of honest and fair-minded persons, may properly be condemned
and pronounced wrongful.” (Bennett v. Lew (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 1177,
1186.) The plaintiff must “come into court with clean hands, and keep them
clean,” or the plaintiff “will be denied relief, regardless of the merits of
his claim.” (Kendall-Jackson Winery, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 970, 978.) For the doctrine to apply, “there must be a direct
relationship between the misconduct and the claimed injuries.” (Mattco
Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 820, 846.) In
other words, “it must pertain to the very subject matter involved and affect
the equitable relations between the litigants.” (Ibid.) Thus, “[t]he
issue is not that the plaintiff's hands are dirty, but rather that the manner
of dirtying renders inequitable the assertion of such rights against the
defendant.” (Ibid.)  
 
Defendants contend Plaintiff has unclean
hands because, among other things, 
 
[i]t is believed that she used the authority of her
position [in the accounting department of UFS] (1) to manipulate the amount of
uncollectible accounts at the factoring company to decrease Defendants' share
of revenue, (2) to receive $1,522,958.29 of UFS Employee Retention Credit
payments and not to account for the same, (3) to remove Defendant Myers’s a
signatory on the UFS Wells Fargo Bank accounts, (4) to remove Defendant Myers'
access to the UFS Quickbooks account software so that he may be kept in the
dark about UFS business for which he is responsible, and (5) to remove
Defendant Myers’ access to Paycom, again to keep him in the dark about UFS
business for which he is responsible.” 
(Opposition 13:10-18 [citing Myers Decl. ¶ 15][emphasis added].)  
 
Defendants’ evidence supporting the
allegations of unclean hands lacks foundation and personal knowledge, and is
speculative and conclusory, as reflected in the court’s rulings on evidentiary
objections. (See Evidentiary Objections Nos. 7-9, 11.)  For that reason alone, Defendants do not demonstrate
the defense of unclean hands precludes appointment of a receiver here.
 
Furthermore, the court has considered all
of Defendants’ contentions and cited evidence for the defense of unclean hands.
Plaintiff disputes Defendants’ assertions that she has engaged in wrongful
conduct. Having weighed and considered the admissible evidence, the court
concludes, for purposes of this motion, that Plaintiff has not engaged in
inequitable conduct that would support denial of a receivership under the
circumstances presented here. As discussed earlier, the evidence shows extreme
dissension between the two shareholders of UFS and unilateral efforts to divide
the business, but without a formal agreement or process for doing so. Given the
circumstances, Defendants’ contentions regarding alleged misappropriation of
UFS funds; exclusion from bank accounts and UFS operations; and the alleged
need for an accounting do not prove unclean hands by Plaintiff and, instead, weigh
in favor of the appointment of a receiver.
 
For purposes of this motion only, the
court finds Defendants’ defense of unclean hands unpersuasive. Of course, Defendants
are not precluded from developing such defense further in subsequent
proceedings in this action.
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds
that appointment of a receiver over UFS is justified pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 564, subdivision (b)(1), (6) and (9) and Corporations Code
section 1803. 
 
Proposed Order
 
Plaintiff seeks an
order authorizing the appointed receiver to “take possession of the Corporation
and . . . manage, control, care for, preserve, maintain, and incur the expenses
necessary for the management, control, care for, preservation, and maintenance
of the Corporation, and, specifically, to operate the Corporation, to satisfy
creditors, and to otherwise employ labor as may be necessary, purchase
supplies, and incur the risks and obligations ordinarily incurred by owners and
managers of similar Corporation.” (Proposed Order ¶ 3.)  Given the corporate dissension and risk of
insolvency, the court tentatively concludes that paragraph 3 of the proposed
order, as well as paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5 (a) through (d), 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12 and
13 are proper.
 
Absent the
stipulation of the parties, the court finds paragraph 14 of the proposed order (“Receiver
shall wind down operations of the Corporation and dissolve same”) not
appropriate at this time. UFS’ dissolution and wind down cannot occur until the
parties have either voluntarily agreed to dissolve and wind down UFS or have
obtained a judicial decree for dissolution pursuant to Corporations Code
sections 1804 and 1805.  The purpose of
the receivership is “to take over
and manage the business and affairs of the corporation and to preserve its
property pending the hearing and determination of the complaint for
dissolution.”  (Corp. Code, § 1803.)  It follows that the receiver shall not be
authorized to wind down and dissolve UFS prior to adjudication of the complaint
for dissolution.
 
At the hearing, the
court requires further argument from the parties whether paragraphs 5(e), 10 and
15 (through page 6, line 3) should be included in the receivership order or
modified in some way.  
 
The proposed
preliminary injunction at page 6, line 4 through page 7, line 6 appears
proper.  
 
At the hearing, the
court requires further argument from the parties whether the unparagraphed
section at page 7, line 7 through page 8, line 6 (regarding bankruptcy) should
be included in the receivership order or modified in some way.  
 
Receiver’s Qualifications; and Hourly
Rates 
 
Plaintiff nominates Kevin Singer as the
receiver. Singer is qualified to serve as receiver. (See Singer Decl. ¶¶ 2-5,
Exh. A; Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1117, subd. (b).) Defendants have not
opposed the nomination of Singer or his proposed hourly rates.
 
Receiver’s Bond and Injunction Bond
 
Receiver must file an undertaking. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 567, subd. (b); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1178.) Plaintiff
proposes a receiver undertaking of $10,000. (Proposed Order ¶ 2.) The court
finds such a bond reasonable.
 
Plaintiff must also file an undertaking
in support of the preliminary injunction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 529.) The court
orders a $10,000 undertaking for the preliminary injunction.  
 
Defendant Myers’
Request to Present Oral Testimony 
 
On or about October
31, 2023, Defendants filed a request to present oral testimony pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1306, subdivision (b).
 
Rule 3.1306
provides, in relevant part: 
 
[a] Evidence received at a law and motion hearing must
be by declaration or request for judicial notice without testimony or
cross-examination, unless the court orders otherwise for good cause shown. . .
. [b] A party seeking permission to introduce oral evidence, except for oral
evidence in rebuttal to oral evidence presented by the other party, must file,
no later than three court days before the hearing, a written statement stating
the nature and extent of the evidence proposed to be introduced and a reasonable
time estimate for the hearing. When the statement is filed less than five court
days before the hearing, the filing party must serve a copy on the other
parties in a manner to assure delivery to the other parties no later than two
days before the hearing.
 
Defendants’ request to present oral testimony complies with
the procedural requirements of Rule 3.1306, subd. (b). The court concludes,
however, oral testimony is unnecessary here.
Even if Defendant Myers testifies as outlined in his request
to present oral testimony, it would not change the court’s ruling set forth
above because of the evidence the parties have presented. In the circumstances discussed above,
Defendants’ contentions regarding alleged misappropriation of UFS funds;
exclusion from bank accounts and UFS operations; and the alleged need for an
accounting do not prove unclean hands by Plaintiff and, instead, weigh in
favor of the appointment of a receiver. Defendant Myers’ proposed oral testimony is
consistent with the court’s finding of extreme corporate dissension at UFS; an
imminent danger of insolvency at UFS; and the need for appointment of a
receiver “to take over and manage the business and affairs of the corporation
and to preserve its property pending the hearing and determination of the
complaint for dissolution.”  (Corp. Code,
§ 1803.)  
 
Defendants’ request to present oral
testimony is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The motion for appointment of a receiver is
GRANTED IN PART.  The court appoints the
nominated receiver to manage, control, care for, and preserve UFS and its
assets; to perform an inventory of UFS’s property; and to engage in related
duties, as stated above with respect to Plaintiff’s proposed order. The request
for a preliminary injunction in aid of the receivership is GRANTED.  (See Proposed Order page 6, line 4 through page 7, line
6.)  The court DENIES
the request to appoint a receiver to “wind down operations of the Corporation and dissolve same.”  (Proposed Order ¶ 14.)
 
Receiver shall post an undertaking of $10,000.  Plaintiff shall post a preliminary injunction
undertaking of $10,000.  
 
///
Defendants’ Myers request to present oral
testimony is DENIED. Given the substance of the proffered testimony, the court
finds no good cause to take oral testimony for this motion.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
November 3, 2023                                                                ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


