 Case Number:  22STCP01880    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  86 LUCIO v. LOS ANGELES COUNTY CIVIL SERVICE
COMMISSION 
Case Number: 22STCP01880
Hearing Date: November 3, 2023 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE IN PART
 
 
Petitioner, Gerardo Lucio, seeks a writ of
administrative mandate directing Respondent, Los Angeles Civil Service
Commission (Commission), to set aside its final decision to sustain Petitioner’s
discharge as a sergeant with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
(Department) and to reconsider the case in light of the court’s opinion and
judgment. Real Parties in Interest, the County of Los Angeles, the Department,
and the Sheriff of Los Angeles County (collectively, the County) oppose the
petition.  
 
The parties’ joint request to correct the
administrative record to include the hearing officer’s November 30, 2020
written ruling is granted. (McGowan Decl. ¶¶ 7-9, Exh. C; Reply 4, fn. 1.)
 
BACKGROUND
 
September 9, 2014 Incident 
 
The hearing officer provided the following
summary of the case in his proposed decision:
 
 
[Petitioner]
was hired on December 27, 1994 and at the time of the incident leading to the
disciplinary issue at bar had almost 20 years of service. [Petitioner] was a
Sergeant assigned to the gang unit (Operation Safe Streets or OSS) at the Pico
Rivera Station. [Petitioner] supervised several detectives including Hector
Calderon, Steve Lopez, Miguel Balderrama and Steven Valenzuela. The gang (OSS)
unit had a separate chain of command from the other deputies assigned to Pico
Rivera Station. Lieutenant Martin Rodriguez was [Petitioner’s] direct report
and Captain Eddie Rivero was the next level supervisor. The gang unit worked
out of a trailer in the parking lot of the Pico Rivera Station. (AR 432-433.)
 
On September
9, 2014, [Petitioner], Valenzuela and Calderon drove from the OSS trailer to
Chili’s restaurant, where they met three female civilians. They arrived at the
restaurant shortly after 9:00 p.m. Detective Lopez had already gone home for
the day, and Detective Baldarrama [sic] stayed in the trailer to finish
some paperwork. [Petitioner], the two detectives and three females drank beer
and hard alcohol for approximately two hours. No food was consumed. They closed
out their bill at 11: 13 p.m. and returned to the OSS trailer. On the way back
to the trailer they stopped at a 7-11 store to pick up some snacks. Shortly
after the six arrived at the OSS trailer Detective Balderrama left and drove
home. (Ibid.)
 
At
approximately 12: 15 a.m. Detective Calderon left the OSS trailer, driving his assigned
department vehicle. Shortly thereafter Calderon was involved in a single car
accident on Rosemead Boulevard. The accident damaged a section of wrought iron
fencing in the median and badly damaged the county vehicle. Calderon, who was
injured, fled the scene of the accident, later abandoning the damaged county
vehicle. (Ibid.)
 
Responding Sheriffs deputies found a license plate at
the scene and determined a department vehicle was involved. The Pico Rivera
Station Watch Commander, Lieutenant Andrew Meyer instructed [Petitioner] to
determine if the vehicle was an OSS vehicle. [Petitioner] checked his roster
and determined it was assigned to Calderon. Lieutenant Meyers and Field
Sergeant Nichiporuk drove to the scene of the accident. Among the objects
recovered at the scene was one of Calderon's cell phones. When Lieutenant
Meyers returned to the station he had a brief conversation with [Petitioner].
During the conversation [Petitioner] told Meyers he had been out with Calderon
at Chili’s restaurant. [Hearing Officer’s footnote: There is some dispute as to
exactly what was said and if [Petitioner] told Lt. Meyers they had been
drinking at Chili’s.] Lieutenant Meyers also instructed [Petitioner] to call
his immediate supervisor, Lieutenant Martin Rodriguez. (AR 434 and fn. 1.)
 
              . .
. .
 
At 6:45 a.m. Captain Rivero called [Petitioner]. The
two discussed the incident for approximately eight minutes. While there is some
disagreement as to exactly what was said, [Petitioner] did not disclose he had
been at Chili’s restaurant with Calderon prior to the accident. Following the
conversation with Captain Rivero [Petitioner] called Lt. Rodriguez who was
still at the hospital. During the call [Petitioner] told Rodriguez he had been
drinking with Calderon and had not disclosed this to Captain Rivero during
their phone conversation. Lt. Rodriguez advised [Petitioner] to call Rivero
back and tell him the truth. [Petitioner] did call Captain Rivero back, but not
immediately. Phone records indicate he did not contact Captain Rivero until 9:
14 a.m. During the second phone conversation with Captain Rivero [Petitioner] fully
disclosed he had been with Calderon for several hours prior to the accident and
that he, Calderon and Valenzuela had been drinking. Captain Rivero ordered [Petitioner]
to complete a supplemental report, which [Petitioner] completed on September
16, 2014. (AR 435-436.)
 
Criminal Investigation 
 
The Department initiated a criminal
investigation into the incident on or about September 10, 2014. The details
related to the criminal investigation are relevant to Petitioner’s statute of
limitations defense, discussed infra. 
(AR 436.)  “On September 8, 2015,
misdemeanor charges of Driving Under the Influence (DUI) and Hit and Run were
filed against Detective Calderon. On March 24, 2017, Calderon was found guilty
of the charges after a jury trial. On August 24, 2017, the District Attorney's
office declined to file any criminal charges against [Petitioner], Detective
Lopez or Lt. Rodriguez.”  (AR 436.)  
 
Administrative Investigation and
Discharge 
 
Following the completion of the
criminal matter, the Department’s Internal Affairs Bureau (IAB) conducted an
administrative investigation into the September 9, 2014 incident. The Department
eventually determined Petitioner should be discharged. On or about July 2,
2018, the Department issued a Notice of Intent to Discharge to Petitioner based
on alleged violations of Department policy arising from the September 9, 2014
incident and subsequent administrative investigation, including Petitioner’s
failure to take appropriate action on September 9, 2014, making false
statements shortly after the September 9, 2014 incident, and makking false
statements during the administrative investigation in 2018. On or about October
1, 2018, after Skelly[1]
proceedings, the Department issued a Notice of Discharge to Petitioner. (AR
436-437, 1573-1587.)
 
Administrative Hearing and Decision
 
Petitioner appealed the Department’s discharge decision, and the
Commission conducted an administrative hearing. The hearing officer conducted
the hearing over multiple days. (AR 431.)
 
On December 5, 2018, the Commission
initially defined the issues for decision as follows: 
 
1. Are the allegations
contained in the Department's letter of October 1, 2018 true? 
 
2. If any or all are
true, is the discipline appropriate? (AR 432.)
 
On these two initial issues identified for hearing, “[t]he hearing was conducted on July 17, 18, 19,
September 26, November 25, 26, 2019, January 10, 14, 15, March 6, 12, and
November 17, 2020.” (AR 431-432.)
 
On October 14, 2020, the Commission
certified two additional issues for hearing: 
 
·      
Did the
Department violate the Petitioner’s pre-deprivation due process (Skelly) rights
as alleged? 
·      
If so, what is
the appropriate remedy? 
·      
Was there a
violation of the Public Safety Officer Procedural Bill of Rights Act,
Government Code Section 3304(d)?
·      
If so, what is
the appropriate remedy? (AR 432.)
 
The hearing officer scheduled “[a]n
additional hearing day . . . for January 16, 2021 to hear testimony on [these] additional
certified issues, but [he] determined testimony was not necessary as a decision
could be made on both issues based on briefs submitted by the parties.
Following the hearing, the parties submitted written argument on the merits,
which were received by the Hearing Officer on May 11, 2021.”  (AR 431-432.)
 
On June 7, 2021, the hearing officer issued a proposed decision
finding the allegations in the Department’s October 1, 2018 mostly true; Petitioner’s
discharge from the Department is the appropriate remedy; the Department did not
violate Petitioner’s Skelly rights; and the Department did not violate Government
Code section 3304, subdivision (d) of the Public Safety Officer Procedural Bill
of Rights Act (the Act), Government Code section 3300 et seq. (AR
467-470.)
 
On January 26, 2022, the Commission overruled Petitioner’s objections to
the hearing officer’s proposed decision and adopted the hearing officer’s
recommendation to sustain the discharge. 
(AR 692.)
 
Writ Proceedings 
 
On May 16, 2022, Petitioner filed his original
petition for writ of mandate. On April 4, 2023, Petitioner filed his operative,
first amended petition (FAP). On May 17, 2023, the County filed an answer to
the FAP. Petitioner did not file a replication to the answer.[2]
 
On April 5, 2023, at a trial setting conference,
the court set the petition for hearing and set a briefing schedule.  Neither party requested nor obtained leave to
file an extra-sized legal brief in support of the petition.  
 
On August 16, 2023, Petitioner filed his opening
brief in support of the FAP.[3]  The court has received the County’s
opposition, Petitioner’s reply, the administrative record, and the joint
appendix.  
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner
seeks relief pursuant Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, subdivision (b), the issues for review
of an administrative decision are: whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion.  An
abuse of discretion is established if the respondent has not proceeded in the
manner required by law, the decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd.
(b).)
 
Judicial
review here is under the court’s independent judgment because termination of Petitioner’s
employment with the Department concerns a fundamental vested right.
(See Wences v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 177
Cal.App.4th 305, 314. See also Bixby v.
Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143; Cipriotti v.
Board of Directors (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 144, 154; Sandarg v. Dental Bd. of California (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1440.)  
 
Under
the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines the
administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby v. Pierno,
supra, 4 Cal. 3d at 143.) The court may draw its own reasonable
inferences from the evidence and makes its own determinations as to the
credibility of witnesses. (Morrison v.
Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003)
107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.) Exercise
of independent judgment “does permit (indeed, [] requires) the trial court to
reweigh the evidence by examining the credibility of witnesses.” (Barber v.
Long Beach Civil Service Com. (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 652, 658.) Under
independent judgment, “abuse of discretion is established if the court
determines that the findings are not supported by the weight of the evidence.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd. (b).)
 
“In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.” (Fukuda v. City of Angels
(1999) 20 Cal. 4th 805, 817; see also Evid. Code, § 664.)
 
Petitioner bears the burden of proof to
demonstrate, by citation to the administrative record, that substantial
evidence does not support the administrative findings.  (Strumsky
v. San Diego County Employees Retirement Assn. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 28, 32; Steele v. Los Angeles County Civil Service Commission (1958) 166 Cal.
App. 2d 129, 137.) When an appellant
challenges “’the sufficiency of the evidence, all material evidence on the
point must be set forth and not merely [his] own evidence.” (Toigo v. Town
of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309, 317.)  A reviewing court “will not act as counsel
for either party to an appeal and will not assume the task of initiating and
prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of discovering errors not
pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v.
Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) 

 
Finally, “[o]n questions of law arising
in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.” (Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15
Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.) The interpretation of statute or regulation is a
question of law.  (See State Farm Mutual
Automobile Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.) “A challenge
to the procedural fairness of the administrative hearing is reviewed de novo on
appeal because the ultimate determination of procedural fairness amounts to a
question of law.” (Nasha v. City of Los
Angeles (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 470, 482.) 

 
ANALYSIS 
 
No Violation of Skelly 
 
Petitioner
contends the Department violated his due process rights under Skelly v. State Personnel Bd., supra,
15 Cal.3d at 194. Specifically, Petitioner argues the Department failed to
disclose, prior to his discharge, an investigator’s log pertaining to the
administrative investigation. (Opening Brief 4:1-7; see also AR 86-126 [investigator’s
log].) According to Petitioner, prior to removal from his employment he was
entitled to certain safeguards including all materials upon which the adverse
employment action is based. (Opening Brief 4:1-3.)
 
In Skelly v. State Personnel Bd., supra,
15 Cal.3d at 194, our Supreme Court determined “due process does not
require the state to provide the [permanent civil service] employee with a full
trial-type evidentiary hearing prior to the initial taking of punitive action.”
(Id. at 215.) The Supreme Court held, however, “due process does mandate
that the employee be accorded certain procedural rights before the discipline
becomes effective. As a minimum, these preremoval safeguards must include
notice of the proposed action, the reasons therefor, a copy of the charges and
materials upon which the action is based, and the right to respond, either
orally or in writing, to the authority initially imposing discipline.” (Ibid.
[emphasis added].)  
 
“What Skelly requires
is unambiguous warning that matters have come to a head, coupled with an
explicit notice to the employee that he or she now has the opportunity to
engage the issue and present the reasons opposing such a disposition.” (Gilbert
v. City of Sunnyvale (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1264, 1280.) If the materials
provided to Petitioner prior to the pretermination hearing “adequately provided ‘an
explanation of the employer's evidence’ (Cleveland Bd. of Educ. v.
Loudermill, supra, 470 U.S. at p. 546, []) and ‘notice
of the substance of the relevant supporting evidence’ (Brock
v. Roadway Exp., Inc., supra, 481 U.S. at p. 264, []), sufficient
to enable appellant to adequately respond at the pretermination stage,” then
there is no violation of Skelly. (Ibid.)
 
During the administrative proceedings,
both the hearing officer and Commission rejected Petitioner’s Skelly argument.
The hearing officer explained: 
 
Skelly established an [employee] is entitled
to all the "materials upon which the action is based." The question
posed here then is whether the investigators log is a document or material upon
which the disciplinary action was based. I find it was not. As noted in the
Department's brief, the disciplinary action in this case generated hundreds of
documents from the [Internal Criminal Investigations Bureau (ICIB)] and [Internal
Affairs Bureau (IAB)] investigations, including numerous reports, interviews,
statements and records. All this material was made available to [Petitioner]
and his representatives. Moreover, there is no proof the investigator's log was
reviewed, analyzed or in any manner considered either by the proposing
official, the deciding official or the panel members that reviewed the case.
Simply put, [Petitioner] has failed to establish the investigator's log is
evidence in the commonly accepted meaning of the word or that it was in any way
material in considering the disciplinary action in this case. (AR 443.)
 
The court finds the hearing officer’s reasoning
persuasive. Petitioner does not dispute the hearing officer’s finding he received
“hundreds of documents from the ICIB and IAB investigations, including numerous
reports, interviews, statements and records” prior to his Skelly hearing.
(See AR 1573-1577.) Petitioner does not identify any information from the investigator’s
log suggesting the Department’s decisionmakers relied on the log when they were
considering the disciplinary action. (AR 86-126.) Moreover, “ ‘materials’ as
used in Skelly” does not mean “each and every document” related to the Department’s
decision to discipline Petitioner. (See Gilbert v. City of Sunnyvale, supra,
130 Cal.App.4th at 1280.)
 
Petitioner argues
that “the Investigator’s Log contained information indicating that the Department
violated the one-year statute of limitations under Govt. Code §3303(d).” (Opening
Brief 4:8-9.)  However, Petitioner cites
no authority that Skelly requires disclosure of materials that could be relevant
to an affirmative defense prior to a pretermination hearing. Petitioner
acknowledges that he obtained additional documents, including the Investigator’s
Log, “during preparations for the hearing scheduled on September 26, 2020.” (Opening
Brief 4:18-19.)  Skelly is
concerned with Petitioner’s rights prior to termination, not with the conduct
of the appeal hearing itself. Petitioner’s due process arguments related to the
appeal hearing are next addressed.
 
The court finds Petitioner has not met
his burden of demonstrating the Department deprived him of his rights under Skelly
or otherwise violated Skelly. That is, Petitioner has not shown the
Department did not substantially comply with the pretermination requirements of
Skelly.
 
Other Due
Process / Fair Procedure Violations
 
Petitioner contends during the administrative
proceedings “[a]dditional hearing dates were set to allow Petitioner to issue
subpoenas to call witnesses and to produce documentary evidence, in support of
his violation of his due process and statute of limitations arguments.” (Opening
Brief 4:10-12.) Petitioner also asserts “Arbitrator Beauvais denied [him] due
process when he vacated those hearing dates, resulting in [Petitioner] being
unable to produce evidence in support of these two material affirmative
defenses.” (Opening Brief 4:12-14; see also Opposition 15:3-18.)  
 
              Additional
Procedural Background 
 
On July 23, 2010, the Commission notified all hearing
officers:
 
The Superior Court of the State of California has recently held that
the Civil Service Commission’s (‘Commission’) Hearing Officers may only
consider ‘Issues that have been certified by the Commission. . . . [I]n light
of the recent Court decision, Hearing Officers are directed to only address the
issues certified by the Commission and set forth in the ‘Hearing Notice.’ . . .
Petitioners, or their representatives, may file a request with the Commission
for certification of additional Issues, if needed. (AR 61.)  
 
On August 11, 2020, Petitioner’s counsel submitted a
request to the Commission for certification of additional issues, including
whether the Department violated the Act’s statute of limitations as set forth in
Government Code section 3304, subdivision (d). (AR 69.) As support for Petitioner’s
request of the Commission, Petitioner reported to the Commission he had
requested all investigator writings in a demand for discovery in July 2018; the
Department did not produce the investigator’s log in response to his demand;
and Petitioner had only recently obtained the investigator’s log, which
allegedly “contains information that indicates the Department violated
Government Code Section §3304(d).” (AR 69.) On September 20, 2020, the Department
opposed Petitioner’s request the Commission certify additional issues for
hearing. The Department’s opposition to certification included some legal
briefing on the merits of Petitioner’s defense based on the Act’s statute of
limitations. (AR 128-132.) On October 14, 2020, the Commission granted
Petitioner’s request and certified the statute of limitations as an issue to be
decided in the appeal. (AR 432.)  
 
On October 23, 2020, Petitioner served a subpoena duces
tecum on the Department’s custodian of records. Through the subpoena,
Petitioner sought the following documents: 
 
1. Email to Lieutenant Rios ICIB from the District Attorney permitting
for Department to proceed with an administrative investigation on or around
7-19-16.
 
2. Email from Sergeant Trent Dennison to Lieutenant Grall requesting if
Captain Roberts was made aware of DA allowing an administrative investigation
to move forward on or around 10-26-16. 
 
3. Email from Sergeant Trent Dennison to Attorney Cunningham stating
administrative case will move forward despite the criminal case not being over
on or around 2-07-17. 
 
4. Email from Sergeant Harman to Sergeant Trent Dennison indicating
Oscar Calderon was now sentenced and the DA will issue a reject in a week on or
around 7-07-17. 
 
5. Email from IAB Lieutenant David Grall to all IAB sworn staff indicating
that per Chief Mannis the date of sentencing would be used for the statute date
on or around 12-07-17.
 
6. A complete and unredacted copy of and/all investigators’ logs,
notes, pertaining to this investigation. (AR 135-136.)
 
On November 6, 2020, Petitioner submitted a brief to
the hearing officer entitled “Brief Outlining [the Act] and Skelly Violations.”
(AR 137-145.) On November 9, 2020, the Department submitted a motion to quash
the subpoena duces tecum served by Petitioner on the Department’s custodian of
records. (AR 193-205.)[4]
 
On November 30, 2020, the hearing officer issued a
procedural ruling. It provided in part: 
 
On October 22, 2020, the Hearing Officer ordered the parties to brief
the additional certified issues, with the intent of receiving and reviewing the
briefs before the next scheduled hearing date on November 17, 2020 (via
teleconference). However, due to a technical error, the Hearing Officer did not
receive all the briefing materials and was unable to render a decision
regarding subpoenas on November 17, 2020. However, the parties did conclude
testimony on the merits of the case and agreed on a subsequent date in January
2021 to hear testimony regarding the additional certified issues. The Hearing
Officer also committed to ruling on Respondent’s motion to quash subpoenas for
certain witnesses in advance of the January 2021 hearing date.
 
The Hearing Officer has subsequently had an opportunity to review the
briefs and motions submitted by the parties. Additionally, the Hearing Officer
reviewed citations, case law and evidence already submitted during the hearing.
I have determined that an evidentiary hearing on the additional certified
issues is not necessary and will address the additional issues in my
recommended decision. The subpoena issue is consequently moot. (McGowan Decl.
Exh. C.)
 
On or about April 1, 2021, Petitioner submitted a
157-page post-hearing brief, which included additional legal argument
concerning his statute of limitations defense under the Act. (AR 211-372.)  
 
On or about April 2, 2021, the Department submitted
its 48-page post-hearing brief, which also included argument concerning the Act’s
statute of limitations. (AR 374-427.) Department asserted, among other things,
Petitioner had obtained the investigator’s log illegally; the hearing
officer should not consider the investigator’s log as evidence in support of a defense
under the Act; Petitioner “produced absolutely no evidence to establish when a
person authorized to initiate an investigation discovered or should have
discovered that [Petitioner] committed misconduct”; Petitioner “simply assumes
that because Detective Oscar Calderon was under criminal investigation, this
also triggered the statute of limitations vis-a-vis [Petitioner]”; and “since
[Petitioner] has the burden of proof on the statute of limitations issue
(Evidence Code §500 and Civil Service Rule 4.12), the failure to offer any
evidence on this component of the statute means that [Petitioner] cannot
prevail on his affirmative defense.”  (AR
418-421.) The Department also noted some of Petitioner’s alleged misconduct
(false statements) occurred during the 2018 administrative investigation and
within one year of the July 2018 notice of intent to discharge. (AR 418-421.)  
 
In the proposed hearing officer’s decision, adopted by
the Commission, the hearing officer rejected Petitioner’s defense under the Act
concluding: 
 
Taken together, [the cited appellate] cases provide that (1) it is the
conduct of the officers that is being investigated and subject to prosecution,
(2) the tolling period continues so long as there is a pending investigation
into that conduct and (3) the investigation is no longer pending only when a
final determination is made by the prosecuting office. In the case at bar the
facts establish the criminal investigation started on September 10, 2014 when
the investigation was assigned to Lt. Harman and concluded on August 24, 2017,
when the Los Angeles County District Attorney declined criminal prosecution of [Petitioner],
Lopez and Rodriguez. (AR 446.)
 
///
 
              Exhaustion
of Administrative Remedies / Waiver 
 
The County argues Petitioner waived and/or failed to
exhaust his administrative remedies (Opposition 15:16-17)[5]
as to his complaint the hearing officer should have conducted additional hearings
on his affirmative defenses—the Act’s statute of limitations and due process.
(Opposition 15:11-18.) According to the County, “after the Hearing Officer
advised the parties that additional hearing dates would not be necessary,
Petitioner’s attorney was silent.” (Opposition 15:7-8.)
 
Exhaustion
of administrative remedies is “a jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial
review.” (California Water Impact
Network v. Newhall County Water Dist. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489.) “Before
seeking judicial review a party must show that he has made a full presentation
to the administrative agency upon all issues of the case and at all prescribed stages of the
administrative proceedings.” (Edgren
v. Regents of University of California (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 515, 520.) Generally,
“the exhaustion doctrine precludes review of an intermediate or interlocutory
action of an administrative agency. A party must proceed through the full
administrative process ‘to a final decision on the merits.’ ” (Alta
Loma School Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On School District
Reorganization (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 542, 554.)  
 
Here, the
hearing officer ruled on November 30, 2020 that the two additional scheduled
hearings were unnecessary. The hearing officer concluded it was not “necessary
for the parties to brief the additional certified issues unless they [had]
additional citations they wish[ed] the Hearing Officer to consider.” (McGown
Decl. Exh. C.) Although Petitioner did not seek reconsideration of the
cancellation of hearing dates in his post-hearing brief, the County cites no
authority suggesting Petitioner was required to do so to preserve the issue. The
hearing officer made clear he could not conduct further hearings as he had
contemplated. Under such circumstances, Petitioner was not obligated to request
reconsideration to exhaust the issue.  
 
Nonetheless,
Petitioner’s objections filed with the Commission expressly argued the hearing
officer “committed prejudicial error” by failing to conduct additional hearings
to address his statute of limitations defense and due process. (AR 494-500.)
Accordingly, the court finds Petitioner exhausted, and did not waive, his
argument the hearing officer prejudicially erred when he elected not to conduct
additional hearings on Petitioner’s defense based on the Act’s statute of limitations
and/or to permit Petitioner to pursue additional evidence through the then pending
subpoenas duces tecum.
 
Summary of
Applicable Law – the Act’s Statute of Limitations 
 
Government Code section 3304, subdivision
(d)(1) provides:
 
no punitive action . . . shall be undertaken for any act, omission, or
other allegation of misconduct if the investigation of the allegation is not
completed within one year of the public agency's discovery by a person
authorized to initiate an investigation of the allegation of an act, omission,
or other misconduct.  
 
“The one-year limitations period
under Government Code section 3304, subdivision (d)(1) begins to run
when a person authorized to initiate an investigation discovers, or through the
use of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the allegation of
misconduct.” (Pedro v. City of Los
Angeles (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 87, 101.) “ ‘[D]istinct types of wrongdoing . . .
should be treated separately’ in determining the date of discovery.”  (Garcia v. State Dept. of Developmental
Services (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 460, 469.) 

 
Government Code section 3304, subdivision
(d)(2)(A) provides: 
 
If the act, omission, or other allegation of misconduct is also the
subject of a criminal investigation or criminal prosecution, the time during
which the criminal investigation or criminal prosecution is pending shall toll
the one-year time period.   
 
“The act requires the
tolling of the one-year statute of limitations while a criminal investigation
is pending if the misconduct is the subject of that investigation.” (Breslin v. City and County of San Francisco (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 1064, 1078.) “The tolling provision of section 3304, subdivision (d)(2)(A), focuses on conduct,
not individuals, and the . . . conduct need not rise to the level of
criminality in order for tolling to apply.” (Daugherty v. City and County of
San Francisco (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 928, 961.)  
 
For purposes of Government Code section
3304, subdivision (d)(2)(A), a criminal investigation is “pending” when an
internal division of a police agency receives a file concerning an officer’s
possible misconduct and opens a criminal investigation into such conduct. (See Richardson v. City and County of San
Francisco Police Com. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 671, 693-695 [tolling started
on March 22, 2007 when Special Investigations Division “received the file and
opened its investigation”].) “A criminal investigation is no longer pending
when a final determination not to prosecute and to close the criminal
investigation is made. Interim decisions short of a final determination will
not stop the tolling.” (Bacilio v. City
of Los Angeles (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 717, 725.) Further, the Court of
Appeal has rejected an argument a criminal investigation must be “actual and
active” during the entire intervening period for the tolling provision to
apply. (Richardson v. City and County of
San Francisco Police Com., supra, 214
Cal.App.4th at 696-698.)  
 
Generally, the party asserting that a
statute of limitations has been tolled has the burden of proof on the issue. (See
Aryeh v. Canon Business Solutions, Inc. (2013)
55 Cal.4th 1185, 1197; Bacilio v. City of
Los Angeles, supra, 28 Cal.App.5th at 726-727.) Defenses based on the Act’s
statute of limitations are often factual in nature and turn on the specific circumstances
of each case. (See Bacilio v. City
of Los Angeles (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th at 726-727; Richardson v. City and County of San Francisco Police
Com., supra, 214
Cal.App.4th at 692-698.)  
 
Petitioner Did Not
Have Sufficient Opportunity to Present his Affirmative Defense Under the Act
 
“The essence of procedural due
process is notice and an opportunity to respond.” (Gilbert v. City of Sunnyvale, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at 1279.)
Similarly, under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5, “a fair
procedure requires ‘notice reasonably calculated to apprise interested parties
of the pendency of the action . . . and an opportunity to present their
objections.’ ”  (Doe v. University of Southern California (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
221, 240.)
 
The Commission did not certify
Petitioner’s statute of limitations defense as an issue that could be “heard”
or “considered” by the hearing officer until October 14, 2020. (AR 432.) The Commission’s rules prohibited the
hearing officer from considering a defense under the Act prior to the issue’s certification
by the Commission. (AR 61.) Thus, Petitioner was not permitted to submit
evidence regarding the defense on any of the hearing dates in 2019 or January
and March 2020. Although the hearing officer conducted a final hearing on
November 17, 2020, evidence for the Act’s statute of limitations defense was
not taken at that hearing.[6]
(See AR 5162-5169.)  
 
As noted by the hearing officer on November 17, 2020:
“We also have certified issues from the Commission that have been approved that
we need to discuss, but we're not going to discuss it at this time.” (AR 5168.)
When Petitioner’s counsel asked whether he was to “hold off” on submitting
evidence on the Act’s statute of limitations defense, the hearing officer
responded: “That is correct.” (AR 5169.) Accordingly, on November 17, 2020, the
parties “agreed on a subsequent date in January 2021 to hear testimony
regarding the additional certified issues.” 
(McGowan Decl. Exh. C.)  
 
Despite having scheduled a hearing date for the issues
newly certified by the Commission, on November 30, 2020, the hearing officer found
the additional hearings were “not necessary.” (McGowan Decl. Exh. C.) After making
such a finding, the hearing office did not consider the Department’s motions to
quash Petitioner’s subpoenas finding the issue moot. (McGowan Decl. Exh. C.) The
hearing officer concluded the additional hearings were unnecessary without stating
any explanation or reasons for depriving Petitioner an opportunity to obtain
and present evidence in support of his statute of limitations defense under the
Act. 
 
Thus, the procedural history demonstrates the Commission
deprived Petitioner of a fair trial as to his statute of limitations defense
under the Act—the Commission certified the issue for hearing but then failed to
allow Petitioner to introduce any evidence on the issue. The hearing officer’s
decision to eliminate scheduled hearing time precluded Petitioner from presenting
his defense despite the Commission having certified the issue for hearing. The
hearing officer’s finding the pending discovery issue was then moot also deprived
Petitioner of any opportunity to attempt to develop the facts for his defense. The
prejudice here is clear.
 
While any further
showing of prejudice is unnecessary, Petitioner has nonetheless demonstrated
prejudice with citations to the administrative record. As Petitioner notes (Opening
Brief 8:21-9:2), investigator reports dated September 10, 2014 and May 21, 2015
reveal the Department opened a criminal investigation on September 10, 2014 only
regarding an allegation that “Los Angeles County Deputy Sheriff Oscar
Calderon, #455961, was involved in an off duty hit and run collision while
driving a county vehicle.” (AR 1816, 1817-1891.) The documentary evidence from the
Department does not indicate Petitioner, his conduct, the conduct of any
officer other than Calderon, or conspiracy to obstruct justice allegations were
the subject of a criminal investigation in September 2014. Such evidence is in direct
contrast to a supplemental report dated almost three years later, on August 28,
2017, indicating the Department initiated a criminal investigation of
Petitioner on September 10, 2014 based on allegations of conspiracy to obstruct
justice against Petitioner and other officers. (AR 1895.)
 
Several reports
prepared by the Department appear to conflict as to whether and when the
Department had undertaken a criminal investigation of Petitioner and his acts. The
September 10, 2014 incident report indicates the Department opened a criminal
investigation of Calderon only on September 10, 2014. (AR 1816.) The investigator’s
log entry of September 17, 2014 suggests a “criminal monitor” as to Calderon
only as to the hit and run allegations—corroborating the September 10, 2014
report. (AR 86.) A supplemental report of May 21, 2015 indicates the Department
initiated a criminal investigation of Calderon on September 10, 2014. (AR
1817.) Again, there is no reference to Petitioner in the May 21, 2015 report. (AR
1817.) The investigator’s log entry of May 12, 2016 suggests Petitioner “[m]ay
be added to this case.” (AR 87.)[7]
The supplementary report of August 18, 2017 for the first time notes the
Department undertook a criminal investigation of Petitioner on September 10,
2014. (AR 1895.)
 
In the course of the
administrative proceedings, the hearing officer and the Commission never
provided Petitioner with an opportunity to examine the Department’s witnesses
concerning this conflicting evidence within the Department’s investigatory records.
A fair hearing requires that Petitioner be permitted to test and challenge the
evidence. Resolution of the conflicting evidence is directly relevant to a
statute of limitations defense under the Act.
 
The hearing officer’s
report does not address the conflicting information in the various reports.[8]
(AR 444.) The hearing officer broadly found “there is no question the ICIB
investigation was initiated on September 10, 2014 . . . .” (AR 444.) The
hearing officer, however, does not specify the target of the investigation. The
hearing officer does note “[t]here is also no question that Calderon was the initial
focus of the investigation.” (AR 444 [emphasis added].) The hearing officer
does not specify when Petitioner became part of the investigation. (AR
444.) While the hearing officer notes Petitioner and Calderon had been “drinking
at a Chilis’ restaurant prior to the vehicle accident,” the hearing officer
does not otherwise find when Petitioner actually became the subject of a
criminal investigation by the Department.
 
Petitioner served
subpoenas seeking various emails and other evidence related to his statute of
limitations defense under the Act. Since the hearing officer vacated the
hearings at which Department would have been required to respond to the
subpoenas, Petitioner never had the opportunity to develop, examine or present
this additional evidence to the hearing officer. Additionally, the hearing
officer did not consider and rule on the merits of the Department’s motion to
quash Petitioner’s subpoenas and did not determine they were improper in whole
or in part.
 
Notably, a substantial
portion of the alleged misconduct at issue in Petitioner’s discharge occurred in
September 2014. (See AR 1573-1577 [four of five charges].) The Department did
not serve its Letter of Intent to Discharge until July 2, 2018, substantially
more than a year after the September 9-10, 2014 incident. Despite the Department’s
contention Petitioner “produced absolutely no evidence to establish when a
person authorized to initiate an investigation discovered or should have
discovered that [Petitioner] committed misconduct” (AR 418-421), the hearing
officer did not find any delayed discovery of Petitioner’s alleged misconduct
arising from the September 9-10, 2014 incident. Thus, absent tolling,[9]
the charges against Petitioner arising from the September 9-10, 2014 incident
appear time barred by several years.
 
The hearing officer
relied on the tolling provision in Government Code section 3304, subdivision (d)(2)(A),
which provides: “If the act, omission, or other allegation of misconduct
is also the subject of a criminal investigation or criminal prosecution,
the time during which the criminal investigation or criminal prosecution is
pending shall toll the one-year time period.” (Emphasis added.) “The act requires the
tolling of the one-year statute of limitations while a criminal investigation
is pending if the misconduct is the subject of that investigation.”
(Breslin v. City and County of San
Francisco, supra, 146 Cal.App.4th at 1078 [emphasis added].) Since the Department
cites no authority to the contrary, the court concludes that the issue of when
Petitioner’s conduct became subject of a criminal investigation is a factual
one; one that cannot be resolved without reconciling conflicting evidence.  
 
The hearing officer apparently found,
as a factual matter, Petitioner and his conduct were the subjects of the
criminal investigation starting in September 2014 and that the limitations
period was tolled until August 24, 2017. (AR 443-446.) The hearing officer apparently relied on evidence
presented for the Department’s case in chief to decide the statute of limitations
defense. (AR 444.) However, as noted, Petitioner did not have the opportunity
to question the Department’s witnesses or present his own witnesses or
documentary evidence to demonstrate his statute of limitations defense under
the Act. Although the investigator’s log and other relevant reports are part of
the administrative record, Petitioner did not have an opportunity to question the
Department’s witnesses concerning statements in the investigator’s log or
elsewhere in the administrative record (the conflicting evidence) to attempt to
establish Petitioner and his conduct were not subjects of a criminal
investigation until as late as May 2016. 

 
As discussed earlier, the
County’s claim Petitioner waived or failed to exhaust his fair hearing claim is
unpersuasive.
 
The County also argues “the
Hearing Officer only made this decision after requesting and receiving Legal
Briefs from the parties on these additional issues.” (Opposition 15:5-7.) While
that may be true, the County does not address Petitioner’s persuasive claim the
hearing officer precluded him from submitting evidence directly relevant
to his statute of limitations defense. The County does not explain why depriving
Petitioner of the opportunity to elicit testimony and introduce evidence in
support of his statute of limitations defense is consistent with due process
and fair hearing requirements.
 
Finally, the County argues
the hearing officer’s decision to forgo the scheduled additional two hearings
was “well within the broad discretion of the Hearing Officer.” (Opposition
15:8-10.)  While the hearing officer has the
discretion to control the proceedings, he cannot abuse that discretion and
deprive a party of a fair hearing in the process. As noted, the hearing officer
concluded the additional hearings were unnecessary without providing any
explanation or reasons for depriving Petitioner of his opportunity to present
evidence in support of his statute of limitations defense under the Act.  
 
Based on the foregoing,
Petitioner has demonstrated the hearing officer and the Commission failed to proceed
as required by law and deprived Petitioner of due process and a fair hearing
when it precluded him from introducing evidence in defense of the charges. 
 
In determining whether
Petitioner received a fair trial, the court acknowledges “the tolling provision of section 3304, subdivision
(d)(2)(A), focuses on conduct, not individuals, and the cases discussed
above make clear that the conduct need not rise to the level of criminality in
order for tolling to apply.” (Daugherty v. City and County of San Francisco (2018)
24 Cal.App.5th 928, 961.) Thus, as the County argues, the conduct at issue in
the criminal and administrative investigations need not be identical for
tolling to apply. Arguably, and while the court does not decide the issue, there
was no need for Petitioner to be “identified” specifically in the criminal
investigation for tolling purposes. 
 
Nonetheless,
a criminal investigation into hit and run allegations against Calderon would
not necessarily “include” or “encompass” a criminal investigation into
obstruction, conspiracy to obstruct, or related conduct of Petitioner and other
officers. (See id. at 959 [“tolling applies where the criminal investigation ‘include[s]’
or ‘encompasse[s]’ the conduct in the administrative proceedings”].) The County’s
authorities do not establish a criminal investigation into a hit and run
by a Department employee will, as a matter of law, “encompass” any possible
conduct that could be subject of a future administrative action. There is a
factual issue of when the alleged misconduct of Petitioner became “subject” of
a criminal investigation and how long, if at all, the limitations period should
be tolled as to Petitioner based on such criminal investigation. That factual issue
may relate, to some extent, to when Department “discovered” Petitioner’s
alleged misconduct. But, again, Petitioner did not have the opportunity to examine,
develop or present evidence regarding such issues.  
 
For the reasons
discussed above, the court finds that the hearing officer prejudicially abused
his discretion in
the procedure he adopted to adjudicate Petitioner’s statute of limitations defense
under the Act. The hearing officer and the Commission deprived Petitioner of a
sufficient opportunity to develop and present his evidence for such defense
after the Commission certified the issue for hearing. The court concludes the
Commission deprived Petitioner of a fair hearing and the matter must be
remanded for further proceedings.  
 
Merits of the
Statute of Limitations Defense Under the Act 
 
Based on the court’s finding the Commission deprived
Petitioner of a fair hearing, the court does not reach the issue of whether the
weight of the evidence supports the hearing officer’s findings and conclusions concerning
the statute of limitations defense. (See AR 443-446.) The court cannot reach
the merits since Petitioner did not have a full and fair opportunity to
litigate the issue before the Commission. The court cannot consider the weight
of the evidence when Petitioner has been precluded from introducing evidence on
the issue.
 
Weight of the
Evidence Analysis 
 
Petitioner contends that the weight of the
evidence does not support the hearing officer’s Findings of Fact 6, 7, 11, 12,
15, and 17. (See Opening Brief 12:25-15:26.)[10]
The facts pertain to conduct occurring in September 2014 and could be subject
to Petitioner’s statute of limitations defense. The court therefore does not
address whether the weight of the evidence supports the findings given the
pending defense based on the statute of limitations.
 
The court notes Petitioner has not challenged the
Commission’s Findings of Fact 19 as well as Conclusions of Law 14, 15 and 16.
The finding and conclusions relate to alleged false statements made by Petitioner
during his IAB interview on March 21, 2018. (AR 466, 469.) The alleged false
statements occurred within one year of the Department issuing its Notice of
Intent in July 2018. Petitioner does not demonstrate his statute of limitations
defense under the Act would apply to the finding or conclusions. Additionally,
Petitioner has not cited any evidence to challenge Findings of Fact 19 and
Conclusions of Law 14, 15 and 16. Thus, Petitioner has not met his burden of
demonstrating error as to the findings or conclusions. (See Shenouda v. Veterinary Medical Bd. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 500, 513 [in administrative mandate the “challenger
must explain why th[e] evidence is insufficient to support th[e] finding[s]”].
See also Inyo Citizens for Better
Planning v. Inyo County Board of Supervisors (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 1, 14. [“We are not required to search the record to ascertain whether
it contains support for [the parties’] contentions.”])  
              
CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, 
 
·      
the petition is denied as to Findings of Fact 4
and Conclusions of Law 1. Petitioner has not met his burden of demonstrating
error based on a violation of Skelly;
·      
the petition is denied as to Findings of Fact 19
and Conclusions of Law 14, 15 and 16 concerning false statements made by
Petitioner in his March 21, 2018 IAB interview;
·      
the petition is granted as to Findings of Fact 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 and Conclusions of Law 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
8, 9, 11, 13, 17 and 18 and to the Commission’s final decision to sustain Petitioner’s
discharge based on the Commission’s failure to provide Petitioner with a fair
hearing as to his statute of limitations defense under the Act.
 
Accordingly, the court will issue a writ directing the Commission to set aside its
final decision as to as to Findings of Fact 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 11,
12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 and Conclusions of Law 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 13,
17 and 18 and to the Commission’s final decision to sustain Petitioner’s discharge.
The court will also remand the matter to the Commission for reconsideration of the
case in light of the court’s opinion and judgment. The Commission is directed
to conduct further hearings to allow Petitioner to present argument and
evidence concerning his statute of limitations defense under the Act.
Petitioner shall be permitted to re-serve the subpoenas that were pending when
the hearing officer deemed the discovery issue moot. The Commission shall hear
and determine any motion to quash filed by the Department in response to the
subpoenas. The Commission need not hear any additional evidence or argument on
the substantive merits of the underlying allegations. The remand concerns consideration
of Petitioner’s statute of limitations defense under the Act, and how that
defense might operate against the substantive charges only.
 
At the conclusion of remand, the Commission may
reconsider the penalty imposed based on Findings of Fact 19 and Conclusions of
Law 14, 15 and 16 as well as any other findings and conclusions made by the Commission
during the described remand.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
November 3, 2023                                                                                                                                                       
________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court  
 
 


