

 
[Plaintiff is reminded of the court’s First Amended General Order
filed May 3, 2019 requiring printed courtesy copies for any pleadings and
motions that include points and authorities or consist of more than 26 pages. Courtesy
copies were required here based on the size of Plaintiff’s filings.]
 
Plaintiff, Marvin Engineering Co., Inc., seeks a writ of
attachment against Defendant, American Valley Aviation, Inc., in the amount of $441,000.
Defendant opposes the application.
 
The application for a writ of attachment is GRANTED. 
 
Rulings on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections:
 
Objections 1, 3, 4, 9, 11, 12, 16
and 17 are overruled.
 
Objections 2, 6, 8, 13, 14 and 15
are sustained.
 
The following objections are
sustained in part: 4 (as to “the Navy . . . that”), 7 (as to “the contracts
with . . . contracts”) and 10 (as to “outlining the . . . non-performance”, “In
that same . . . Marvin would suffer”). As to Objection 7, there is no Exhibit 1
to the Cross-Complaint either in the copy provided to the court or the
electronically filed copy. Exhibits A and B to the Cross-Complaint are those
purchase orders introduced into evidence by Plaintiff.
 
STANDARD
OF REVIEW
 
“Upon the filing of the complaint or at any time thereafter, the
plaintiff may apply pursuant to this article for a right to attach order and a
writ of attachment by filing an application for the order and writ with the
court in which the action is brought.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.010.)
The application shall be executed under oath and must include:
 
(1)   a
statement showing that the attachment is sought to secure the recovery on a
claim upon which an attachment may be issued;
(2)   a
statement of the amount to be secured by the attachment;
(3)   a
statement that the attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the
recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based;
(4)   a
statement that the applicant has no information or belief that the claim is
discharged or that the prosecution of the action is stayed in a proceeding
under the Bankruptcy Act (11 U.S.C. section 101 et seq.); and 
(5)   a
description of the property to be attached under the writ of attachment and a
statement that the plaintiff is informed and believes that such property is
subject to attachment.
 
(Id., § 484.020.)
 
“The application [for a writ of attachment] shall be supported by
an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be
entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”  (Id., § 484.030.)  Statutory attachment procedures are purely creations of the legislature and
as such “are subject to ‘strict construction.’ ” (Hobbs v. Weiss (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 76, 79.) A judge does not have authority to order any attachment
that is not provided for by the attachment statutes. (Jordan-Lyon Productions, Ltd. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1466.) “The declarations in the moving papers must contain
evidentiary facts, stated ‘with particularity,’
and based on actual personal knowledge with all documentary evidence properly
identified and authenticated.” (Hobbs v.
Weiss, supra, 73 Cal.App.4th at
79-80.) 
“In contested applications, the court must consider the relative
merits of the positions of the respective parties and make a determination
of the probable outcome of the litigation.”  (Id. at 80 [cleaned up].)
 
The Court shall issue a right to attach order if the Court finds
all of the following:
 
(1)    The
claim upon which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be
issued.
(2)    The
plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon which the
attachment is based.
(3)    The
attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on the claim
upon which the attachment is based.
(4)    The
amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than zero.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges 4 causes of action, including breach
of contract, account stated services rendered, and quantum meruit. Plaintiff
alleges Defendant failed to pay amounts due to Plaintiff.
 
///
Probable Validity of Plaintiff’s Claims:[1]
 
“A claim has ‘probable validity’ where it is more likely than not
that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment against the defendant on that claim.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 481.190.)  
 
Defendant entered into two contracts with the United States Navy.
(Cross-Complaint ¶ 10.) To fulfill the contracts, Defendant entered into
subcontracts with Plaintiff. (Ibid.) The United States Navy approved only
Plaintiff to supply certain parts under the contract. (Id. at 



















 12.) That is Plaintiff was
the sole source vendor for its goods required for the contract. (Memo 7:10.)
 
On September 25, 2012, Defendant issued a purchase order (PO 28211)
to Plaintiff. (Deblois Decl., Exh. 1.) The purchase order indicated terms of
“NET 30.” (Ibid.) “As [Plaintiff] delivered various parts pursuant to PO
28211, it issued invoices for payment. [Defendant] delayed payment to
[Plaintiff] on virtually every invoice, claiming it could not invoice the Navy
until it delivered complete ‘ships’ or ‘ship sets’, which comprised of a
certain number of each of the [] parts ordered from [Plaintiff.]” (Id.,
¶ 7.) 
 
By July 2015, Defendant owed Plaintiff $1,009,450. (Id., ¶ 9.)
Defendant acknowledged the outstanding debt on July 13, 2015. (Id., Exh.
4.) Defendant advised Plaintiff payment “will be made as a wire transfer as
soon as the government pays for [Defendant’s] submitted invoices as of today.”
(Ibid.)
 
Over the years, Plaintiff provided goods to Defendant. (Id.,
¶¶ 7, 11.) Defendant does not dispute it received goods from Plaintiff. (St. Pierre
Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendant made some payments for the goods and against its growing
obligation to Plaintiff. (Deblois Decl., Exh. 6 [page 334], Exh. 12 [page 060].)
 
On May 11, 2016, Plaintiff advised Defendant it would not deliver
additional products to Defendant “without an acceptable plan that brings
[Defendant’s] payables current.” (Id., Exh. 8 [page 227].)  Defendant understood Plaintiff’s position
that it would ship no additional product. (Ibid.)
 
More than a year later, as of September 19, 2017, Defendant
acknowledged it owed Plaintiff $441,000. (Id., Exh. 13.) Defendant again
acknowledged owing Plaintiff $441,000 on June 27, 2019. (Choi Decl., Exh. 22
[page 2747].) On February 11, 2020, Defendant indicated to Plaintiff it would “start
paying back what we owe [Plaintiff] ([Defendant’s] largest vender debt showing
on [its] AP).” (Choi Decl., Exh. 22 [page 2746].)
 
Absent evidence to rebut Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim, Plaintiff
has established the probable validity of its claim against Defendant.
 
Defendant contends it is excused from performance under its
contract with Plaintiff: “the reason why [Defendant] did not pay that money is
that the equipment that [Plaintiff] was required to provide under those
subcontracts was delivered years late and it was noncompliant, or it was not
delivered at all.” (Memo 2:15-17; St. Pierre Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant explains
“noncompliant parts failed inspections” and Defendant “did not accept
non-conforming parts and made that very clear” to Plaintiff. (St. Pierre Decl.,
¶ 4.) Defendant also states Plaintiff’s “unsatisfactory performance . . .
preceded the payment issues . . .” suggesting Plaintiff failed to perform under
its contract with Defendant. (Ibid.)[2]
 
Defendant submits evidence William Pearce, then Defendant’s Chief
Executive Officer, attended a meeting in the Spring of 2015 at an air force
base to discuss Defendant’s contract with the United States Navy. (Pearce
Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff attended the meeting (through Bryan DeBlois and Bryan
Moore) with Defendant (through Andrew Moser) and two government contract
officers. (Ibid.)  The meeting
resulted from concern related to delays in Defendant’s shipments on the
contract. (Id., ¶ 4.) According to Pearce, Plaintiff attended the
meeting based on Defendant’s “assertion that the delays were caused by
[Plaintiff’s] failure to timely deliver conforming parts to [Defendant]
pursuant to the subcontracts with [Plaintiff].” (Ibid.)
 
At the meeting, “Bryan DeBlois from [Plaintiff] stated that the
delays were 100% [Plaintiff’s] fault and that [Defendant] had done everything
possible to ensure timely deliveries to the Navy.” (Id., ¶  5.) That evidence is unrebutted.
 
Based on Plaintiff’s performance, Defendant contends Plaintiff has
no “valid defense” to Defendant’s counterclaims . . . .” (Memo 2:9-10.) 
 
Defendant does not explain, however, why its ongoing acceptance of
goods from Plaintiff—allegedly in breach of the parties’ agreement—did not
operate as a waiver of any claim of nonperformance by Plaintiff.[3]
The evidence supports a finding Defendant continuously accepted goods from
Plaintiff—that is, affirmed the contract—and elected not to cancel the contract
in the face of Plaintiff’s alleged breaches. In fact, it appears Plaintiff did
not stop shipping goods to Defendant until well after Defendant breached the
parties’ agreement by nonpayment. Moreover, Defendant repeatedly acknowledged
the $441,000 obligation it owed to Plaintiff even years after Plaintiff stopped
shipping goods to Defendant.[4]
 
Defendant also contends Plaintiff has not reduced the amount of
the indebtedness it is claims Defendant owes it by “the amount of any
indebtedness of the plaintiff that defendant has claimed in a cross-complaint
filed in the action if the defendant’s claim is one upon which an attachment
could be issued.” (Memo 6:2-6 [quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 483.015, subd.
(b)(2)].) That it has asserted the claim, according to Defendant, “is
all that the statute requires in order to prevent a pre-judgment attachment.”
(Memo 7:6-7.) Defendant contends “the requirement is merely that [Defendant]
‘claim’ such amounts in a Cross-Complaint.” (Memo 6, fn. 5.)
 
Defendant is mistaken. “[I]n order to obtain the offset permitted
by section 483.015, [Defendant is] required to establish the probable validity
of its offsetting claims against [Plaintiff].” (Lydig Construction, Inc. v.
Martinez Steel Corp. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 937, 945. See also Pos-A-Traction,
Inc. v. Kelly-Springfield Tire Co., Div. of Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.
(C.D. Cal. 2000) 112 F.Supp.2d 1178, 1183.)
 
Defendant’s cross-complaint is not verified.[5]
Accordingly, whether Defendant has demonstrated the probable validity of its
claim depends on the evidence within the Declaration of William Pearce and the
Declaration of Rene St. Pierre. To demonstrate the probable validity of a
claim, “[t]he declarations in the moving papers must contain evidentiary facts,
stated ‘with particularity,’ and
based on actual personal knowledge with all documentary evidence properly
identified and authenticated.” (Hobbs v.
Weiss, supra, 73 Cal.App.4th at
79-80.) 

 
The evidence provided by Defendant in
support of its claim is extremely generalized. (See St. Pierre Decl., ¶¶ 4
[equipment “delivered years late”, “noncompliant parts failed inspections”, and
“unsatisfactory performance . . . preceded the payment issues”], 6 [“only
rejections under the prime contracts were rejections of [Plaintiff’s]
equipment”].)
 
Similarly, Defendant’s evidence of
damages sustained as a result of Plaintiff’s alleged breach of contract is non-specific
and generalized. Defendant reports it did not receive certain payments from the
United States Navy—$448,647, $712,099 and $1,529,352. (Ibid.) Defendant
assigns responsibility to Plaintiff for amounts Defendant did not receive from
the United States Navy. (Id., ¶ 12.) Defendant concludes “had
[Plaintiff] performed, [Defendant] would have received these amounts.” (Ibid.)
Defendant contends it would have “netted over $2 Million had [Plaintiff] fully
performed.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendant’s generalized
and conclusory evidence is repeated in its cross-complaint. (See, e.g., ¶¶ 20,
27, 30, 37.)
 
The court
cannot find based on the evidence submitted by Defendant that Defendant’s claim
for offset is probably valid.
 
Basis of Attachment:
 
The court shall issue a right to attach order if the claim upon
which the attachment is based is one upon which an attachment may be issued. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 484.090.) “[A]n attachment may be issued only in an action on a
claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or
implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily
ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of
costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).)
“If the action is against a defendant who is a natural person, an attachment
may be issued only on a claim which arises out of the conduct by the defendant
of a trade, business, or profession.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (c).)
 
Plaintiff’s claim is based on a contract and is in excess of five hundred
dollars. Accordingly, the court finds Plaintiff’s claim is a proper basis for
attachment. 
 
Purpose and Amount of Attachment:
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 484.090 states that the
Court shall issue a right to attach order if “the attachment is not sought for
a purpose other than the recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is
based . . . [and] the amount to be secured by the attachment is greater than
zero.”
 
Here, Plaintiff’s Vice President
of Program Management attests on Judicial Council Form AT-105 that Plaintiff’s application
for a writ of attachment is not sought for a purpose other than the recovery on
a claim upon which the attachment is based. (Judicial Council Form AT-105.) Accordingly,
the court finds Plaintiff has complied with Code of Civil Procedure sections
484.020 and 484.090.
 
Subject Property:
 
Code Civil Procedure section 487.010, subdivision (a)
provides that “[w]here the defendant is a corporation, all corporate property
for which a method of levy is provided” is subject to attachment. 
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks
attachment of $441,000 against Defendant. 
 
///
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the
application for a writ of attachment is granted.  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
489.210 requires Plaintiff to file an undertaking before issuance of a writ of
attachment. Code of Civil Procedure section 489.220 provides unless an
objection has been made, “the amount of an undertaking filed pursuant to this
article shall be ten thousand dollars ($10,000).” 
 
As
Plaintiff has not filed an undertaking, it must do so—in the amount of
$10,000—prior to a writ issuing.
 
IT
IS SO ORDERED.
 
November 3, 2023                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ________________________________
                                                                                                                   Hon.
Mitchell Beckloff
                                                                                                                   Judge of the Superior
Court
 
 


