


[1] It appears the clerk rejected Plaintiff’s application
for a writ of attachment. Plaintiff improperly indicated the application sought
an “order for the issuance of the writ”—as if the right to attach order had already
been granted. After the court grants a right to attach order, the court may
issue an “order for the issuance of the writ.” In any event, as discussed infra,
Plaintiff failed to provide proper notice of an application for a writ of
attachment.


[2] All further undesignated statutory references are to
this code.


[3] The rule concerning new evidence on reply is important for this kind of
application, which seeks an
order authorizing a levying officer to enter private property and take
possession of the vehicles, and which involves a compressed briefing schedule
with the reply due only two court days before the hearing. LJT has not had the opportunity to respond
to the new reply evidence. Plaintiff filed its application on June 30, 2023.
Plaintiff could have requested leave to file supplemental moving papers or,
alternatively, could have taken the application off calendar and noticed a new
application with updated information concerning the vehicles at issue. The
court denies the application, in part, because it is improperly based on new
evidence submitted for the first time in reply. LJT’s “sur-reply” filed
November 1, 2023 objecting to the new evidence is sustained. The court strikes
Exhibits 25 and 26. The court also notes the foundation for Zhan’s statements
is not specified.


[4] In reply, Plaintiff notes the following statements in
Defendant’s opposition brief: “Here, neither the Complaint nor the Application
accounts for the fact that the subject vehicles are no longer in Defendants’
custody and were either sold to bona fide purchasers (with some titles withheld
by Plaintiff) or repossessed by Plaintiff on or around November 7, 2022, the
legality of which remains at issue. (Thompson Decl. ¶¶ 6, 17). The majority,
if not all, of the vehicles for which a writ is sought are no longer in
Defendants’ possession, and certainly not at 28471 Marguerite Pkwy, Mission
Viejo, California 92691.” (Reply 3, citing Opposition 6:4-8 [emphasis added].) When
considered in full, the statements in opposition do not concede that LJT has
possession of any specific vehicles. Defendant’s evidence—not its argument—is
unequivocal. (Thompson Decl. ¶ 17 [“all of the identified vehicles
were either repossessed by [Plaintiff] or sold to bona fide purchasers months
ago”].) Further, the opposition brief does
not concede the location of any specific vehicles.  


[5] To the extent Plaintiff intends to rely on its
estimated fair market value of the collection of vehicles in the application,
there is no foundation for Plaintiff’s attorney’s statement.


[6] Plaintiff does not argue or suggest the value of each
vehicle can be discerned from exhibits to Zhan’s declaration or the declaration
of John Anthony Thompson. Moreover, the statements of value are provisions of Plaintiff’s
initial burden and therefore must be provided in the application or evidence (Plaintiff’s
supporting declaration). The court is not required to cull through the parties’
exhibits (much of which is entirely illegible) in an attempt to discern the
value of numerous different vehicles. (See e.g., Zhan Decl. Exh. 3.)

