  Case Number:  21STCV22872    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  SHANNON CLARK, Plaintiff,  vs.  REGUS MANAGEMENT GROUP, et al., Defendants.  Case No: 21STCV22872 Hearing Date: February 15, 2024      [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  ATTORNEY DAVID S. SHANKMAN’S MOTION TO APPEAR PRO HAC VICE TO REPRESENT DEFENDANTS REGUS MANAGEMENT GROUP, LLC, IWG PLC, MAILE GILLERES, AND MARK SORUM Attorney David S. Shankman’s Motion to Appear Pro Hac Vice to Represent Defendants Regus Management Group, LLC, IWG PLC, Maile Gilleres, and Mark Sorum is GRANTED.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.FACTUAL BACKGROUND This is an action for violations of the FEHA, retaliation, wrongful termination, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and Labor Code violations. Plaintiff alleges she was employed by Regus Management Group, LLC between January 2018 and December 2019. Plaintiff alleges that members of Defendants’ executive team treated her poorly based on her race, ancestry, color, sexual orientation, and disability. As a result of the hostile work environment, Plaintiff suffered serious stress, anxiety, and physical disability. After Plaintiff’s immediate supervisor resigned and Defendants failed to end the ongoing harassment, discrimination, and retaliation, Plaintiff resigned.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn February 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).On December 6, 2023, Defendants filed the instant application for attorney David S. Shankman to appear as counsel, pro hac vice for Defendants. DISCUSSION California Rules of Court 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon notice by mail to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.) The written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) Shankman applies to appear pro hac vice on behalf of Defendants Regus Management Group, LLC, IWG PLC, Maile Gilleres, And Mark Sorum. (Shankman Verification, ¶ 1.) Shankman’s Application contains: (1) his residence and office addresses (Shankman App., ¶ 1-2); (2) the courts to which Shankman has been admitted and dates of admission (Id., ¶ 2); (3) a declaration stating that he is a member in good standing of the Florida Bar and the courts to which he is admitted (Id.); (4) a declaration stating he has filed one application on November 6, 2023 to appear Pro Hac Vice in California in the preceding two years, (Id., ¶ 4); (5) a declaration stating he is not a member of the California Bar (Id., ¶ 5); and the name, address and telephone number of Quarles & Brady, LLP  who is the Counsel of Record in this action. (Id., ¶ 6.)Additionally, Shankman provides a declaration by Heather C. Davies, which states that she has caused the $50.00 fee along with a copy of the application to be served on the state Bar of California.  Accordingly, Attorney David S. Shankman’s Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.DATED: February 15, 2024                                                                      ________________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 