  Case Number:  24STCV04775    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MAKROOHI NISHANIAN, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
KECK MEDICAL CENTER OF USC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV04775
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR DETERMINATION
  OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 18, 2024



 
On
February 27, 2024, Plaintiffs Makroohi Nishanian, Maria Nishaian, Tina Boyajian-Nishanian,
and Makroohi Nishanian (as Successor-in-Interest for Taniel Nishanian) filed this
action against Defendants Keck Medical Center of USC, Ramon Ter-Oganesyan M.D.,
and County of Los Angeles.
On
September 19, 2024, Defendant County of Los Angeles filed an application for determination
of good faith settlement.
Any
party to an action with two or more joint tortfeasors may petition the court for
a determination of the issue of the good faith of a settlement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(1).)  The court’s approval of the settlement furthers
two sometimes-competing policies: (1) the equitable sharing of costs among the parties
at fault, and (2) the encouragement of settlements.  (Erreca’s v. Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th
1475, 1487.)  To demonstrate a lack of good
faith, a non-settling party must show that the settlement is so far “out of the
ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of Section 877.6.  (Nutrition Now, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)  The Court
will typically consider: (1) the plaintiff’s (roughly) approximated total recovery;
(2) the settlor’s share of liability; (3) the size of the settlement at issue; (4)
the distribution of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (5) the usual discount
value when plaintiffs settle before trial; the settlor’s financial condition and
insurance policy limits; and (6) whether there is evidence of “collusion, fraud,
or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”  (Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)  These factors
will be evaluated according to what information is available at the time of settlement.  (Ibid.)  “When no one objects, the barebones motion which
sets forth the ground for good faith, accompanied by a declaration which sets forth
a brief background of the case is sufficient” for the Court to grant a motion for
determination of good faith settlement.  (City
of Grand Terrace, supra, 192 Cal.App.3d at p. 1261.)
The
motion and counsel’s declaration set out the background of this case and the terms
of the settlement.  Under the settlement,
Defendant will pay Plaintiffs $550,000.00, which is 57% of the total known recoverable
damages available to Plaintiffs.  (Kiseskey
Decl. ¶¶ 7, 9.)  Defendant denies liability
for Plaintiffs’ claims, but it believes that the settlement amount is within the
reasonable range or ballpark of its alleged share of liability.  (Kiseskey Decl. ¶¶ 8, 10.)  Counsel declares that the settlement was the result
of negotiations and does not involve any collusion or wrongful conduct.  (Kiseskey Decl. ¶ 11.)  The Court also finds that there is no evidence
of collusion or fraud in the settlement. 
No party opposed the motion.
Based
on the record presented and the lack of any objection, the Court GRANTS the application,
finds this settlement was made in good faith, and orders that any other joint tortfeasor
or co-obligor is barred from asserting further claims against County of Los Angeles
for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based
on comparative negligence or comparative fault.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 18th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 