  Case Number:  20SCTV22026    Hearing Date:   July 18, 2024    Dept:  57  

Michael Mann (“Mann”) and
Marilyn Craig (“Craig”) (collectively, “the Plaintiffs”) sued Farmers Insurance
Exchange; Fire Insurance Exchange; Truck Insurance Exchange; Mid-Century
Insurance Company; Farmers New World Life Insurance Company (collectively, “Farmers”).  The
Plaintiffs also sued Arnoldo Jaquez (“Jaquez”).  The Plaintiffs
assert claims against Farmers and Jaquez for age discrimination in violation of
California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act and claims for violation of wage
and hour laws in California’s Labor Code.  

Pending before the Court
are four discovery motions that Jaquez filed arising from disputes over Requests
for Admissions (“RFAs”) and Form Interrogatories (“FROGs”) that Jaquez served
on the Plaintiffs.  The four motions are
as follows:  (i) Motion to Compel Mann to
Provide Further Responses to RFAs Set One, Request Number 18; (ii) Motion to
Compel Craig to Provide Further Responses to RFAs, Set One, Requests 1-35;
(iii) Motion to Compel Mann to Provide Further Responses to FROGs, Set 2, Number
17.1; and (iv) Motion to Compel Craig to Provide Further Responses to FROGs,
Set 2, Number 17.1.

The four motions originally
were set for hearing on July 11, 2018. 
In advance of that hearing, the Court issued a very brief, one sentence
tentative ruling that it was going to deny the four motions.  The Court continued the hearing, however, to
July 18 so that the Court could provide the parties with an explanation for the
rulings and to allow more time for oral argument on the motions.  (Time for oral argument was very tight on
July 11 because the Court already was set to hear that day four other discovery
motions that Jaquez had filed arising from disputes over Special Interrogatories
and Requests for Production of Documents that Jaquez served on the Plaintiffs.)  

Set forth below are the more
detailed explanations for the Court’s tentative rulings on the four motions on
calendar on July 18.   The rulings remain
tentative.

 

  MOTION TO COMPEL MANN TO PROVIDE FURTHER
RESPONSES TO RFAs, SET ONE, REQUEST NUMBER 18

The Court is denying this motion.

As amended by Jaquez following the parties
meet and confer process over the RFAs, Request Number 18 asked Mann to “[a]dmit
that JAQUEZ was not a MANAGING AGENT of FARMERS.”   As amended, RFA Number 18 defined “MANAGING
AGENT” to have “the same meaning herein as found in California Corporations
Code Section 327 and 300 et seq., California Labor Code Section 558.1, and
California Civil Code Section 3294.”  

In his supplemental response to Request 18,
Mann objected on the ground of relevance.  
Mann’s supplemental response also asserted the following objections: “Plaintiff objects to this request for
admission on the grounds that it is silent as to time period. Plaintiff objects
to this request for admission on the grounds that it is compound as to
definitions of “MANAGING AGENT,” and none of the cited statutes actually define
the term “MANAGING AGENT.”  Mann then proceeded
to respond to Request 18.  His response was
as follows: “Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objections Plaintiff
interprets the time period to be May 1, 2016 through June 2018. After a
reasonable inquiry Plaintiff can neither admit or deny this request for
admission due to a lack of knowledge and information, and Defendant’s lack of a
definitive definition.”  

Mann’s objection on relevance grounds
lacks merit.  Request Number 18 is
relevant to Mann’s claims in the case.  

Mann’s other objections were
well-grounded, however.  Mann is correct that
the provisions of the Civil Code, Corporations Code, and Labor Code to which
Request 18 referred Mann for the definition of “managing agent” do not actually
define that term.  

More importantly, the Court finds that the
reference to statutory provisions in the three Codes contravened Code of Civil
Procedure Section 2033.060(d).  Section
2030.060(d) is part of a provision of the Civil Discovery Act governing the
“[f]orm and content of [RFAs].” It requires that “[e]ach [RFA] shall be full
and complete in and of itself.”  The same
“full and complete” requirement is codified in Section 2030.060(d), which is a
part of a provision of the Civil Discovery Act governing the form and content
of interrogatories.  In Catanese v. Superior Court (Ray),
46 Cal.App.4th 1159, the Court of Appeal described Section 2030.060(d)'s
requirement that an interrogatory be “full and complete” as the "self-containment"
rule.  By that, the Court of Appeal meant
that the information necessary for the responding party to formulate an answer
to an interrogatory must be contained within the interrogatory itself such that
there is no need for the responding party to "resort . . . to other
materials in order to [answer]."  (Id.
at p. 1165.)  The Court of Appeal
applied the self-containment rule of Section 20230.060(d) to interrogatories
that incorporated questions and answers in multiple volumes of a
deposition.  The Court of Appeal held
that this incorporation of that material outside of the interrogatories
violated the self-containment rule. (Ibid.)  

Request Number 19 violates the
self-containment rule as to RFAs set forth in Section 2033.060(d).  It does so because it required Mann to refer
to materials outside of the RFA  in order
to respond to it.  Those materials are the
statutes in three different California Codes to which the RFAs pointed Mann.  This was impermissible under Section
2033.060(d).  (See Weil & Brown et
al. Cal. Prac. Guide: Civ. Pro. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶ 8.1352, at p. 8G-19 [an RFA is not “full and complete” within the
meaning of Section 2033.060(d) if, inter alia, it requires “that reference
must be made to other documents in order to respond.”

In any event, Mann did respond
to Request 18.  He stated that he could
not admit or deny the question after a reasonable inquiry due to lack of
knowledge or information (which is a permissible response under Section 2033.220(c)),
and due to the problems with the definition of the term “Managing Agent.”  

All told, the Court has
concluded that no further response to Request 18 is warranted, and Jaquez’s
motion to compel a further response to it is denied.

MOTION TO COMPEL CRAIG TO PROVIDE
FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFAs, SET ONE, NUMBERS 1-35

The Court is denying this motion. 

In the amended RFAs Jaquez served on Craig on February
2, 2024 following the parties’ meet and confer process, Jaquez defined “[t]he
terms ‘YOU’ and ‘YOUR’ [to] [refer to Responding Party, Plaintiff Michael Mann.”
 The terms “YOU” and/or “YOUR” were used in
every single one of the 35 RFAs, except for Numbers 22, 23, and 24.  The definition of “YOU” and “YOUR” to mean
Mann in RFAs served on Craig was a mistake by Jaquez.  “YOU” and “YOUR” obviously meant Craig, not
Mann.  

Craig seized on Jaquez’s mistake.  In supplemental responses to the RFAs, as
amended, that Craig served on Jaquez on March 4, 2024, Craig objected to the
RFAs on the ground that Jaquez “defined ‘YOU’ [and] ‘YOUR’  as the responding party and as Plaintiff
Michael Mann, but propounded them to Plaintiff Marilyn Craig, such that the
requests for admission are unintelligible.  Plaintiff Craig may not respond for Mr. Mann
as to requests for admission.”  Craig
repeated this objection in every amended RFA that used the terms “YOU and/or YOUR.”
As indicated, the terms appeared in 32 of the 35 amended RFAs.  

Once he saw Craig’s objections based on the mix-up
of the Plaintiffs’ names in the definitions of “YOU” and “YOUR,” Jaquez could
have met and conferred with Craig and informed her that he was submitting further
amended RFAs to correct the mistake.  Jaquez
did not do that.  Instead, on April 19,
2024, Jaquez filed the Motion to Compel Craig to Provide Further Responses to
the RFAs, Set One, Numbers 1-35, which was based on the erroneous definition of
“YOU” and “YOUR.”  Craig had no
obligation to respond to the amended RFAs that used that definition.  She was well within her rights to object, as
she did.  The Court is not compelling Craig
to provide further responses to the RFAs that use the erroneous definition of “YOU”
and YOUR.”

As for RFA Numbers 22-24, which, as indicated
above, do not use the erroneous definition of “YOU” and “YOUR” that Court is
not compelling Craig to provide further responses to them either.  The problem with those RFAs is that, like
Request Number 18 in the amended RFAs served on Mann, they violate the self-containment rule of Section
2033.060(d).  They violate that rule because
they require Craig to refer to material outside of the four corners of the RFAs
themselves in order to respond.  Those
materials are statutes codified in the California Civil, Corporations, and Labor
Codes.  

MOTIONS TO COMPEL MANN AND CRAIG TO PROVIDE
FURTHER RESPONSES TO FROGs, SET TWO, NUMBER 17.1

The Court is denying both of these motions. 

FROG Number 17.1 is tied to responses to RFAs.
Specifically, it asks if any response to an RFA constituted an unqualified
admission.  If the answer to that question
is no, FROG Number 17.1 then asks for certain information about any of the responses
to RFAs that were not unqualified admissions. 


Mann provided substantive responses to FROG
Number 17.1, not just objections.  It was
incumbent on Jaquez under California Rule of Court 3.1345(c) to set forth in
his separate statement in support of the motion to compel Mann to provide further
responses to FROG Number 17.1 “the factual and legal reasons for compelling
further responses . . . .”  In the Court’s
view, Jaquez’s separate statement is inadequate.  It fails to provide a sufficient basis for
the Court to compel Mann to provide further responses to FROG Number 17.1.  Jaquez’s memorandum in support of the motion
parroted the separate statement and thus is equally deficient. 

As indicated above, Craig provided only
objections to the RFAs.  Thus, her
responses to FROG Number 17.1 consisted only of objections as well.  For the reasons discussed above, Craig’s’
objection-only responses to the RFAs were warranted.  Thus, the Court finds no basis to compel
Craig to provide further responses to FROG Number 17.1.

MANN AND CRAIG’S REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IN
CONNECTION WITH JAQUEZ’S MOTIONS

In their oppositions to Jaquez’s motions, Mann
and Craig requested that the Court order sanctions against Jaquez and his attorneys
in the form of the attorney’s fees and costs Mann and Craig incurred in defending
against the motions.   The Court is denying
Mann and Craig’s request.  Although the
Court has ruled against Jaquez on each motion, the Court finds that the
positions that Jaquez took during the discovery disputes that led to the filing
of the motions were substantially justified; accordingly, sanctions are not
warranted.  Additionally, the Court finds
that sanctions would be unjust under the circumstances here.  That is because the Court finds that the tone
and rhetoric counsel for Mann and Craig employed in the communications with
Jaquez’s counsel in the meet and confer process and in the briefs that counsel for
Mann and Craig filed in opposition to the motions was unnecessarily and unreasonably
sharp and harsh.  The Court declines to
reward that over-the-line argument through the imposition of sanctions against Jaquez
and his counsel.