 Case Number:  23STLC06236    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  26  
Lupa-Chazan
v. Garcia, et al.MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, SET TWO; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS(CCP §§ 2031.300, 2023.030)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Plaintiff Daniel Lupa-Chazan’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses, Without Objection, to Request for
Production, Sets One and Two, and Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
    
ANALYSIS:
 
On
September 28, 2023, Plaintiff Daniel Lupa-Chazan, (“Plaintiff”), in pro se,
filed this action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence against
Defendants Alicia Garcia (“Defendant Alicia”) and Sergio Garcia (“Defendant
Sergio”). Following Defendants’ Motion to Strike, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint on March 11, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
filed the instant Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production, Sets One
and Two, and Request for Sanctions on June 11, 2024. Defendants filed an
opposition on June 24, 2024 and Plaintiff replied two days later. 
 
Discussion
 
Upon
receipt of responses to discovery requests, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses are evasive, incomplete, an objection is without merit or too
general. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) A motion for an order
compelling further responses shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2)) and notice of the
motion shall be given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
parties have agreed in writing, or the party requesting the order waives any
right to compel further responses (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).). Defendant served responses to Plaintiff’s Request for
Production of Documents, Sets One and Two, on April 29, 2024 and June 10, 2024,
respectively. The instant motion was timely filed 43 days after service of the
responses to Set One. The Motion is also accompanied by a declaration
demonstrating that Plaintiff sent defense counsel meet and confer letters on
April 30, 2024 and June 10, 2024. (Motion, Lupa-Chazan Decl., Exh. C.) The
parties are at an impasse regarding the discovery responses. (Id. at ¶4.)

 
Motions
to compel further responses to interrogatories, requests for production of
documents, and requests for admission must include a separate statement
providing all the information necessary to understand each discovery request
and response at issue. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.) The separate
statement must be full and complete so that no person is required to review any
other document in order to determine the full request and full response. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) The
Motion is accompanied by a separate statement. (Motion, pp. 11-13.) 
Finally, a motion
requesting an order compelling further responses to a demand for production of
documents must set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)
If good cause is shown, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify
any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) “[T]he
party who seeks to compel production has met his burden of showing good cause
simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (Ibid. [citing Weil
& Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2001) Discovery, ¶¶ 8:1495 to 8:1495.10, pp. 8H 24 to 8H 26]. Upon a
fact-specific showing of relevance, the burden shifts to the responding party
to justify its objections. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff moves to compel
Defendant Sergio’s further responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, Nos. 1 and 2, and Set Two, No. 3. Plaintiff also moves to compel
Defendant Alicia’s further responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, No. 1. The Court will consider each request in turn. 
 
Defendant Sergio, Set One,
Request No. 1 asks for production of “Sergio Garcia’s medical records.” The
First Amended Complaint alleges that Defendant Sergio has Type 2 Diabetes and
that drivers with this condition are responsible for alerting their car
insurance company and taking their medication. (FAC, p. 3:8-24.) It further
alleges that Defendant Sergio did not take his medication on the date of the
accident despite knowing a consequence might be hypoglycemia, and that
experiencing hypoglycemia while driving would make it probable that Defendant
Sergio would lose control of his truck and cause an accident. (Id. at p.
4:1-12.) Defendant Sergio allegedly continued to drive despite having multiple
opportunities to pull over and address his hypoglycemia. (Id. at p.
4:14-26.) Despite the allegations that Defendant Sergio’s medical condition is
relevant to the subject motor vehicle accident, Plaintiff has not shown good
cause for the production of Defendant Sergio’s medical records without
limitation. Defendant Sergio rightly objected that this request is
overbroad in scope and time but the Motion does not respond to this particular
objection.  The allegations regarding
Defendant Sergio’s Type 2 Diabetes only refer to the date of the accident but
the request seeks all of his medical records regardless of the date or the
conditions addressed. The request to compel a further response by Defendant
Sergio to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Request No. 1, is
denied.
 
Defendant Sergio, Set Two,
Request No. 3 similarly asks for “Sergio P. Garcia’s medical records pertaining
to his Type 1 diabetes, high blood pressure, bi-polar disorder, and obesity.”
Defendant Sergio objects that the request is overbroad in scope and time,
relevance, and medical privacy. First, the Court notes that the First Amended
Complaint does not allege that Defendant Sergio has Type 1 Diabetes, high blood
pressure, or bi-polar disorder. (FAC, p. 3:3-9.) The relevance of any of these
conditions to this lawsuit, therefore, has not been demonstrated by Plaintiff.
Also, although Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Sergio’s obesity is a factor in
causing his Type 2 Diabetes, the Motion does not provide facts otherwise
linking the obesity allegation to the accident. 
 
In the reply, Plaintiff argues
that Defendant Sergio’s medical records are sought to investigate a pattern and
practice of failing to manage his health conditions that demonstrate a willful
and knowing disregard for the safety of others. The reply cites case law for
the proposition that privacy rights must be “weighed in the balance” against
competing interests. (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994)
7 Cal.4th 1, 26.) The balancing of these interests, however, is not set forth
in either the moving or reply papers. The balancing test considers “the
strength of the countervailing interest sufficient to warrant disclosure of
private information varying according to the strength of the privacy interest
itself, the seriousness of the invasion, and the availability of alternatives
and protective measures.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 556.) Here, a privacy interest in medical records is extremely strong, and
the proposed invasion into Defendant Sergio’s entire medical history is quite
serious. Plaintiff does not offer any consideration of available alternatives
or protective measures, such as obtaining information through interrogatories,
requests for admission, or depositions, or agreeing to a protective order.
Therefore, the request to compel a further response by Defendant Sergio to
Request for Production of Documents, Set Two, Request No. 3, is denied.
 
Defendant Sergio, Set One,
Request No. 2 asks for Defendant Sergio’s driving history, to which he again
objected on grounds of overbreadth in time and scope, as well as relevance and
privacy. Plaintiff’s request for production of documents regarding Defendant
Sergio’s driving history is also problematic because it is without any
limitation. Plaintiff argues that the request is reasonable to evaluate whether
Defendant Sergio has a history of DUIs, careless and/or reckless driving, or
whether he has incurred other accidents due to his alleged health conditions.
No authority is cited in the Motion regarding obtaining a defendant’s entire
driving history. In the reply, Plaintiff cites a non-existent statute (Code of
Civil Procedure section 3032.210 et seq.) and general case law regarding the duty
to conduct a reasonable investigation to obtain responsive information (Regency
Health Services, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1496, 1504)
and that “the scope of permissible discovery is one of reason, logic and common
sense.’ ” (Seahaus La Jolla Owners Assn. v. Superior Court (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 754, 767). The request to compel a further response by Defendant
Sergio to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Request No. 2, is
denied.
 
Finally, Defendant Alicia, Set
One, Request No. 1 asks for production of “Current vehicle registration for
2021 Chevrolet Silverado, California license plate number 78975N3,” which was the
vehicle involved in the accident on March 26, 2023. Defendant Alicia only
responded with a relevance objection. The First Amended Complaint alleges that
the 2021 Chevrolet Silverado involved in the accident is registered to both
Defendants, making them jointly and severally liable. (FAC, p. 6:1-2.) In the
Motion, Plaintiff further explains that he was unable to obtain the
registration at the time of the accident because Defendant Sergio was
unconscious. While this explains Plaintiff need for the registration of the
subject vehicle at the time of the accident on March 26, 2023, it does not
explain why the demand seeks the “current” vehicle registration. The request to
compel Defendant Alicia’s further response to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, Request No. 1, is denied. 
 
Plaintiff requests an award of
monetary sanctions in connection with the instant Motion pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure sections 2023.010 and 2031.310. In light of the the Motion
being denied, the request for an award of monetary sanctions is also denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Daniel Lupa-Chazan’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses, Without Objection, to Request for
Production, Sets One and Two, and Request for Sanctions is DENIED.
 
 
Moving party to give
notice.  
 
 
 