Here is the YAML summary of the Tentative Ruling:

```
Case Number: 21BBCV00436
Plaintiff's Name: Rhonda Strauss, Mark Strauss
Defendant's Name: Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc.
People-Names: Rhonda Strauss, Mark Strauss, Joel L. Lofton
Company-Names: Templar Titan, Inc., Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: June 27, 2024, August 27, 2024, May 2, 2024, November 29, 2021, September 28, 2022
Events: Motion for Relief from Waiver of Jury Trial, Jury Trial Waiver, Case Management Conference
Money: $150 (jury fee), unknown (additional expense of flying witnesses out)
Intentions: Plaintiffs seek relief from waiver of jury trial, Defendant opposes
Facts: Plaintiffs failed to timely pay jury fees, Defendant argues it will be subjected to hardship and prejudice
Disputes: Whether Plaintiffs' waiver of jury trial was inadvertent, Whether Defendant will be prejudiced by a jury trial
Acts: Plaintiffs filed and posted jury fees, Defendant opposes motion for relief from waiver
Agreements: CCP section 631(a), CCP section 631(b), CCP section 631(c), CCP section 631(f), CCP section 631(g)
Laws: California Constitution, Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) sections 631(a)-(g)
Case Citations: Mackovska v. Viewcrest Road Properties LLC (2019), Boal v. Price Waterhouse & Co. (1985), Massie v. AAR Western Skyways, Inc. (1992), Johnson-Stovall v. Superior Court (1993), March v. Pettis (1977), Bishop v. Anderson (1980)
Statutes: CCP section 631(a)-(g)
Roles: Judge Joel L. Lofton, Plaintiffs Rhonda Strauss and Mark Strauss, Defendant Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc.
Significant Statements:
* "The right to a trial by jury as declared by Section 16 of Article I of the California Constitution shall be preserved to the parties inviolate." (Code Civ. Proc., § 631(a))
* "When there is doubt about whether to grant relief from a jury trial waiver, the court must resolve that doubt in favor of the party seeking a jury trial." (Mackovska, supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at 11)
* "The additional expense of flying witnesses out is not prejudice for purposes of this motion." (Id.)
* "As the court noted in Mackovska, supra, 40 Cal.App.5th at 11: In opposition to Mackovski's motion for relief from jury trial waiver, Viewcrest submitted the declaration of its attorney of record, who described as follows the prejudice Viewcrest would suffer if the court granted Mackovski's motion: 'Defendants have proceeded as if this case it [sic ] to be tried to the court. Significant additional expense will be incurred of [sic ] the case if [sic ] tried instead to a jury.' None of these reasons shows prejudice." (Id.)
```

And here is a summary of the Tentative Ruling in English text:

The Judge has granted the Plaintiffs' motion for relief from the waiver of jury trial. The Plaintiffs, Rhonda Strauss and Mark Strauss, had previously waived their right to a jury trial, but now seek to have the waiver lifted. The Defendant, Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., opposes the motion, arguing that it will be subjected to hardship and prejudice if the Plaintiffs are allowed to have a jury trial.

The Judge has determined that the waiver of jury trial was inadvertent and that the Plaintiffs have shown good cause to permit relief. The Defendant has not shown that it will suffer serious hardship if the motion is granted, and the Judge has found that the Plaintiffs have provided sufficient notice of their intention to have a jury trial.

The Judge has ordered that the Plaintiffs' motion for relief from waiver of jury trial is granted, and has instructed the Moving Party to provide notice.