 Case Number:  23AHCV01330    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June
27, 2023                          TRIAL DATE:  not set
                                                           
CASE:                         HEBEI WANG v. LIQIANG
ZHANG
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01330
 
 
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Specially
appearing defendant Fuxian Zhang
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     none
 
SERVICE:                             Served on plaintiff Hebei Wang on April 4, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                      none
 
REPLY:                                 none
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Specially appearing defendant
Fuxian Zhang moves to quash the service
of summons based on mistaken identity. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This is a contractual fraud case. On November
29, 2023, Plaintiff Hebei Wang (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) against defendants Liqiang Zhang (“Liqiang”), Ruoqi Zhang (“Ruoqi”),
Fuxian Zhang (“Fuxian”), and Does 1-10 alleging four causes of action for (1)
breach of contract, (2) unjust enrichment, (3) fraud, and (4) fraudulent
transfer. Plaintiff alleges that defendants defrauded Plaintiff on an
immigration visa or investment-based immigration project. The FAC alleges that
Plaintiff reached an oral agreement with Liqiang to help Plaintiff’s daughter
obtain an EB-5 green card, an investment-based green card. (FAC ¶ 9.) Plaintiff
transferred over 3,000,000 Chinese yuan to Liqiang. (Ibid.) However,
Liqiang never performed his end of the promise. (Id., ¶ 12.) After
Plaintiff demanded a refund, Liqiang fraudulently transferred sums paid by
Plaintiff to his own daughters, defendants Ruoqi and Fuxian. (Id., ¶
13.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Specially
appearing defendant Fuxian
Zhang’s motion to quash service of summons is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “A defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion . . . To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.” (Code of Civil Procedure section 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Specially appearing defendant Fuxian Zhang (“Moving
Defendant”) moves to quash service of
summons on the grounds that she is not the Fuxian Zhang named in the FAC.
 
            According to the FAC, defendant
Fuxian is defendant Liqiang’s daughter. Moving Defendant provides a copy of her
marriage certificate, which states that her father’s name is Taian Zhang.
(Zhang Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. 1.) Moving Defendant declares that she is an only child
and does not have a sister named Ruoqi. (Id., ¶ 6.) Moving Defendant
declares that her father is a Chinese government employee working in the
electricity industry, who has never worked in the field of immigration. (Id., ¶
7.) Moving Defendant notified Plaintiff’s counsel of their mistake. (Id.,
¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s counsel confirmed over the phone that the Chinese character
spelling of Moving Defendant’s name does not match that of defendant Fuxian,
and that Moving Defendant is not from the same Chinese province as defendant
Fuxian. (Id., ¶ 10.) Plaintiff’s daughter confirmed during a FaceTime call that
Moving Defendant is not defendant Fuxian. (Id., ¶ 11.) On December 11,
2023, Plaintiff’s counsel gave counsel for Moving Defendant written
confirmation that Moving Defendant is not defendant Fuxian. (Kim Decl., ¶ 3,
Exh. 1.) 
 
            The motion is unopposed.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Specially appearing defendant Fuxian Zhang’s
motion to quash service of summons is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice.
 
 
            
Dated:   June 27, 2024                                    ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
