  Case Number:  21BBCV00436    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:    June
27, 2024                                       TRIAL
DATE: August 27, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Rhonda Strauss, et
al. v. Templar Titan, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21BBCV00436
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR RELIEF FROM WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL

 
MOVING
PARTY:              Plaintiffs Rhonda
Strauss and Mark Strauss
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant Sedgwick Claims Management
Services, Inc.
 
SERVICE:                              Filed May 24,
2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed June 10, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed June 18, 2024 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED:  Plaintiffs move for relief from their waiver of the jury trial.
 
BACKGROUND
            The Complaint alleges that
Defendant Sedgwick Claims Management Services hired Templar to intentionally
invade Plaintiffs’ right to privacy by placing a tracking device on their
vehicles for the purpose of following and investigating Plaintiffs without a
search warrant.
            The
Complaint alleges cause a single cause of action for invasion of privacy
(intrusion).
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for relief from jury trial waiver is GRANTED.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The right to a trial by jury
as declared by Section 16 of Article I of the California Constitution shall be
preserved to the parties inviolate.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 631(a).)  CCP section 631 provides that “[a]t
least one party demanding a jury on each side of a civil case shall pay a
nonrefundable fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150), unless the fee has been
paid by another party on the same side of the case.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
631(b).)  The fee must be paid before the date scheduled for the initial
case management conference in the action.  (Id., § 631(c).)  A
party waives jury trial by failing to timely pay the fee, unless another party
on the same side of the case has paid that fee.  (Id., §
631(f)(5).) 
 
“The court may, in its discretion upon just terms, allow a
trial by jury although there may have been a waiver of a trial by jury.” 
(Id., § 631(g).)  “The trial court should grant a motion for relief
of a jury waiver ‘unless, and except, where granting such a motion would work
serious hardship to the objecting party.’”  (Mackovska v. Viewcrest
Road Properties LLC (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 1, 10 (quoting Boal v. Price
Waterhouse & Co. (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 806, 809).)  “When there is
doubt about whether to grant relief from a jury trial waiver, the court must
resolve that doubt in favor of the party seeking a jury trial.”  (Id.) 
 
“In a motion for relief from waiver of a jury trial, the
crucial question is whether the party opposing relief will suffer any prejudice
if the court grants relief.”  (Mackovska, supra, 40
Cal.App.5th at 10.)  “‘‘The prejudice which must be shown from granting
relief from the waiver is prejudice from the granting of relief and not
prejudice from the jury trial.’’”  (Id. (quoting Massie v. AAR
Western Skyways, Inc. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 405, 411).)  “‘The mere
fact that trial will be by jury is not prejudice per se.’”  (Id.
(quoting Johnson-Stovall v. Superior Court (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 808,
811).)  “Denying relief where the party opposing the motion for relief has
not shown prejudice is an abuse of discretion.”  (Id.) 
 
CCP section 631(g) authorizes the court, in its discretion
and upon just terms, to allow a trial by jury although there may have been a
waiver of a trial by jury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 631(g).)  “In
exercising its discretion, a court is entitled to consider many factors,
including the possibility of delay in rescheduling the trial for a jury, lack
of funds, timeliness of request and prejudice to all the litigants.”  (March
v. Pettis (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 473, 480.)  Whenever a doubt
exists as to the propriety of granting relief, such doubt, by reason of the
constitutional guarantee, should be resolved in favor of according a litigant a
trial by jury.  (Bishop v. Anderson (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 821,
823.)  Further, it is prejudicial to deny a request for a jury trial after
a waiver when no prejudice is shown to the other party or to the Court.  (Id.) 
“However, relief will be denied where the only reason for the demand appears to
be the party’s change of mind or where a demand for a jury is being used as a
‘pretext to obtain continuances and thus trifle with justice.’”  (March
v. Pettis (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 473, 480 (quoting Cowlin v. Pringle
(1941) 46 Cal.App.2d 472, 476).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiffs failed to timely pay
jury fees and thus waived trial by jury pursuant to CCP section 631(f). 
Plaintiffs assert the
waiver of jury trial was inadvertent.  Plaintiffs filed and posted jury
fees on May 2, 2024. (Stearn Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs also indicate that on
November 29, 2021 and September 28, 2022, they filed a Case Management
Statement indicating they wanted a jury trial. (Id., ¶¶ 2-3; Exhs. A.)
Defendant opposes and argues it will be subjected to hardship and undue
prejudice in that defense counsel will be required to conduct a substantial
amount of additional trial preparation including, but not limited to, drafting
motions in limine, preparing demonstrative trial exhibits, jury instructions,
verdict forms and other documents on short notice and without adequate time to
prepare them. Defendant also argues that it will be compelled to incur expenses
to fly out of town witnesses to Los Angeles for trial.
As the
court noted in Mackovska, supra,
40 Cal.App.5th at 11:
In opposition to Mackovski's
motion for relief from jury trial waiver, Viewcrest submitted the declaration
of its attorney of record, who described as follows the prejudice Viewcrest
would suffer if the court granted Mackovski's motion: "Defendants have
proceeded as if this case it [sic ]
to be tried to the court. Significant additional expense will be incurred of [sic ] the case if [sic ] tried instead to a jury. Defendants
will be prejudiced if they are forced  to
bear this additional expense where (a) Plaintiff has already waived the right
to a jury, (b) where the amount in dispute is less than $50,000 ... and (c)  there is no contract providing
for the recovery of attorneys fees to the prevailing party." None of these
reasons shows prejudice.
As discussed, prejudice from
having to try the case to a jury is not prejudice for purposes of a motion for
relief from a jury trial waiver. ( Johnson-Stovall , supra , 17 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 810-811, 21 Cal.Rptr.2d 494 ; Massie , supra , 4 Cal.App.4th at p. 411, 5
Cal.Rptr.2d 654.) Thus, counsel's assertion that a jury trial would impose
‘significant additional expense’ does not support the trial court's denial of
the motion.”
(Id.)
Here too. The additional expense of flying witnesses out
is not prejudice for purposes of this motion. Further, the court notes that
Defendant will have two months to prepare these documents, which is sufficient
time. “When there is doubt about whether to
grant relief from a jury trial waiver, the court must resolve that doubt in
favor of the party seeking a jury trial.”  (Id.) 
Defendant
argues Plaintiffs provide no evidence to show good cause. However, “[t]he trial court should grant a motion for relief of a
jury waiver ‘unless, and except, where granting such a motion would work
serious hardship to the objecting party.’”  (Mackovska, supra, 40
Cal.App.5th at 10.) As noted above, Defendant has not shown it will suffer
serious hardship if this motion is granted. 
As such, the Court finds there is good
cause to permit relief from waiver of jury trial in this case because of
counsel’s failure to timely post jury fees. Further, Plaintiffs put
Defendant on notice since November 2021 that they sought a jury trial. Defendant
has not shown it will be prejudiced other than having to try the case to a
jury.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for relief from jury trial waiver is
GRANTED.
 
            Moving Party
to provide notice.         
 
 
Dated:   June 27, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
