 Case Number:  24AHCV00231    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June
27, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         Kum Ran United
Methodist Church, et al. v. California-Pacific Annual Conference of the United
Methodist Church, et al.  
 
CASE NO.:                 24AHCV00231
 
 
 
DEMURRER
TO COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:              Defendants
California-Pacific Annual Conference of The United Methodist Church, Dottie
Escobedo-Frank, Board of Trustees of the California-Pacific Conference of The
United Methodist Church, et al. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiffs
Kum Ran United Methodist Church, et al. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed on April 11, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed on June 12, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed on June 20, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendants California-Pacific Annual Conference of The United
Methodist Church, Dottie Escobedo-Frank, and Board of Trustees of the
California-Pacific Conference of The United Methodist Church request the
demurrer to the complaint be sustained without leave to amend. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             On February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs Kum Ran United
Methodist Church, et al. (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants California-Pacific
Annual Conference of The United Methodist Church, et al. (“Defendants”). The
Complaint asserts seven (7) causes of action for:
 
            1.
Declaratory Relief
            2.
Judicial Modification, Termination, or Reformation of Trust
            3.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
            4.
Unjust Enrichment
            5.
Promissory Estoppel
            6.
Breach of Contract
            7.
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
            On
April 11, 2024, Defendants
California-Pacific Annual Conference of The United Methodist
Church, Dottie Escobedo-Frank, and Board of Trustees of the California-Pacific
Conference of The United Methodist Church (“United Methodist Defendants”) filed
the instant demurrer to the complaint. On June 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. On June 20, 2024, United Methodist Defendants filed a reply. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
             Defendants
California-Pacific Annual Conference of The United Methodist Church, Dottie
Escobedo-Frank, and Board of Trustees of the California-Pacific Conference of
The United Methodist Church’s Demurrer to Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendants California-Pacific Annual Conference of The United
Methodist Church, Dottie Escobedo-Frank, and Board of Trustees of the
California-Pacific Conference of The United Methodist Church are ordered to file their Answer within 30 days of this
order.
 
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            United
Methodist Defendants’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to
Evidence Code sections 452(d) and (h) (except as to the truth). 
 
            Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice is also GRANTED on the same basis. 
 
 
MEET AND CONFER 
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and
confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer
for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached through a
filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41.)¿¿¿ 
 
The Court finds that United Methodist Defendants have fulfilled this requirement prior to
filing the instant demurrer. (See Taylor Decl., ¶¶4-5, Exs. A-B.)
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “The primary function of a pleading is to give the other party notice so
that it may prepare its case [citation], and a defect in a pleading that
otherwise properly notifies a party cannot be said to affect substantial
rights.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203,
240.)¿¿¿ 
            
“A¿demurrer¿tests the legal sufficiency of the factual allegations in a
complaint.” (Ivanoff v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 719,
725.) The Court looks to whether “the complaint alleges facts sufficient to
state a cause of action or discloses a complete defense.” (Id.) The
Court does not “read passages from a complaint in isolation; in reviewing a
ruling on a demurrer, we read the complaint ‘as a whole and its parts in their
context.’ [Citation.]” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th
780, 804.) The Court “assume[s] the truth of the properly pleaded factual
allegations, facts that reasonably can be inferred from those expressly pleaded
and matters of which judicial notice has been taken.” (Harris, supra,
56 Cal.4th p. 240.) “The court does not, however, assume the truth of
contentions, deductions or conclusions of law. [Citation.]” (Durell v. Sharp
Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.)¿¿¿ 
 
A general demurrer may be brought under Code of Civil Procedure Section
430.10, subdivision (e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause
of action asserted or under section 430.10, subdivision (a), where the court
has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the
pleading. All other grounds listed in Section 430.10, including uncertainty
under subdivision (f), are special demurrers. Special demurrers are not allowed
in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92(c).)¿¿¿ 
            
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of
successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Id.)¿¿ 
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            United
Methodist Defendants demur to the entire complaint on the grounds that (1) this
Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction to make any determination altering or
interpreting the Book of Discipline and (2) the complaint fails to state a
cause of action. Specifically, United Methodist Defendants argue on the face of
Plaintiff’s Complaint, Plaintiffs’ seek adjudication of religious issues,
namely the disaffiliation process governed by the United Methodist Church’s
Book of Discipline. United Methodist Defendants also argue Plaintiffs’ claims
cannot be decided on neutral principles because the paragraphs of the Book of
Discipline at issue are church doctrine. Lastly, United Methodist Defendants
contend Plaintiffs fail to state sufficient facts to support the causes of
action against them. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend
United Methodist Defendants fail to identify how California courts should
resolve disputes over church property, i.e., how the disaffiliation process
described in this case requires the Court to adjudicate religious doctrine. Plaintiffs
further contend that United Methodist Defendants mistakenly apply holding
rather than the analysis of In re Episcopal Church Cases (2009) 45
Cal.4th 467, which is the leading case authority in California on how courts
should resolve disputes over church property. Moreover, Plaintiffs argue
United Methodist Defendants’ discussion of paragraph 2553 implicitly admits the
disaffiliation requires no adjudication of religious doctrine and confuse
church governing documents with religious doctrine. Finally, Plaintiffs assert
that their Complaint state sufficient facts to support causes of action against
United Methodist Defendants. 
 
In reply, United Methodist
Defendants argue the opposition recites allegations of the Complaint about the
legal effect of passages from the Book of Discipline that conflict with the
text of the exhibits to the Complaint and facts judicially noticeable. United
Methodist Defendants also assert the opposition fails to respond to many cases
cited in the instant demurrer including United States Supreme Court precedent.
Furthermore, United Methodist Defendants assert Plaintiffs’ incorrectly apply In re Episcopal Church
Cases, despite admitting the California Supreme Court held “States courts
must not decide questions of religious doctrine” and relies heavily on an
appellate case that the California Supreme Court disapproved of in the In re
Episcopal Church Cases. 
 
            
Subject Matter Jurisdiction
 
Here, the United Methodist Defendants
and Plaintiffs both cite to and contend that Episcopal Church Cases
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 467, as a leading case in California law on the issue before
this Court. Specifically, whether this Court has subject matter jurisdiction to
adjudicate the claims set forth in Plaintiffs’ Complaint. Plaintiffs’ also
seeks “to (1) compel Defendants to act in compliance with the governing
documents; (2) relief from the uncertainty, insecurity, and controversy arising
from Defendants’ refusal to allow them to disaffiliate from the UMC while
retaining their property; (3) reform or terminate the trust to conform
to the parties original intent; and most importantly, (4) protect Plaintiff
Churches’ freedom to assemble and worship as they see fit.” (Compl., ¶3.) 
 
In Episcopal Church Cases, the
court held “…secular courts called on to resolve church property disputes
should proceed as follows: State courts must not decide questions of religious
doctrine; those are for the church to resolve. Accordingly, if resolution of a
property dispute involves a point of doctrine, the court must defer to the
position of the highest ecclesiastical authority that has decided the point.
But to the extent the court can resolve a property dispute without reference to
church doctrine, it should apply neutral principles of law. The court should
consider sources such as the deeds to the property in dispute, the local church’s
articles of incorporation, the general church’s constitution, canons, and
rules, and relevant statutes, including statutes specifically concerning
religious property, such as Corporations Code section 9142.” (Episcopal
Church Cases (2009) 45 Cal.4th 467, 485.) Essentially, the court “may adopt
any one of various approaches for settling church property disputes so long as it
involves no consideration of doctrinal matters, whether the ritual and liturgy
of worship or the tenets of faith.” (Id. at 479.)
 
The Court finds that on the face of
Plaintiffs’ Complaint, Plaintiffs’ do not seek adjudication of religious
issues. Although the trust document was created by the Book of Discipline,
which is The United Methodist Church’s governing document, the trust document
is not a ritual, tenet of The United Methodist Church’s faith, or even manner
of worship. Similarly, the disaffiliation procedure is set forth in the book of
Discipline but itself does not constitute a tenet of faith, ritual, or liturgy
of worship. 
 
Therefore, this Court has subject
matter jurisdiction to resolve the property dispute at issue in this instant
action. 
 
First Cause of Action for
Declaratory Relief
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief
under section 1060, plaintiffs were required to show their action (as refined
on appeal) presented two essential elements: ‘(1) a proper subject of
declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the rights or obligations of a party.’” (Lee v.
Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527, 546.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges
Plaintiffs are local churches under the authority of United Methodist
Defendants. (Compl., ¶¶37-38.) The Complaint further alleges the Book of
Discipline paragraph 2553 states a disaffiliating local church has the right to
retain its real and personal, tangible property. (Compl., ¶106.) The Complaint
further alleges that a justiciable controversy exists between Plaintiffs and
United Methodist Defendants with respect to the property deeded to, titled to,
or otherwise owned by Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶107.) These allegations show that
Plaintiffs are the proper subject of declaratory relief because they are
affiliates of the United Methodist Defendants and the governing document
suggests that have a property interest. Furthermore, the allegations indicate
that purported right to retain the property is at issue. As such, the Complaint
states sufficient facts to support the declaratory relief cause of action. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer OVERRULED as
to the first cause of action. 
 
 
Second Cause of Action for Judicial
Modification, Termination, or Reformation of Trust
 
Probate Code section 15407(3)
states in pertinent part, “[a] trust terminates when any of the following
occurs… the trust purpose becomes unlawful.” (Prob. Code, § 15407(a)(3).)
 
“On petition by a trustee or
beneficiary, the court may modify the administrative or dispositive provisions
of the trust or terminate the trust if, owing to circumstances not known to the
settlor and not anticipated by the settlor, the continuation of the trust under
its terms would defeat or substantially impair the accomplishment of the
purposes of the trust. In this case, if necessary to carry out the purposes of
the trust, the court may order the trustee to do acts that are not authorized
or are forbidden by the trust instrument.” (Prob. Code, § 15409(a).)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges Plaintiffs
are the settlors and trustees of the trust purportedly created by the governing
document, the Book of Discipline with respect to their own church property and
intended to use the property in accordance with their affiliation with The
United Methodist Church. (Compl., ¶¶94a, 98, 112.) The Complaint further
alleges the trust provision was intended to protect Plaintiffs from the
Defendants’ aberrational doctrine and misconstruction The United Methodist’s
governing documents. (Compl., ¶100.) The Complaint also alleges Plaintiffs
relied on paragraphs 2548.2 and 2549 of the Book of Discipline upon joining The
United Methodist Church, which to their understanding and intent provided a
path to disaffiliate without abandoning their church property or paying an
unlawful or inequitable fine. (Compl., ¶118.) The Complaint also alleges
paragraph 2553 of the Book of Discipline is now the only means by which
Plaintiffs can disaffiliate with their property and divests Plaintiffs of their
vested property rights without their consent. (Compl., ¶¶94c-d, 95-46, 119.)
These allegations suggest that the trust’s purpose was to allow Plaintiffs the
right to disaffiliate without having to abandon their property or pay money to
retain such property, which the newly enacted paragraph 2553 purportedly
requires Plaintiffs do. Thereby the allegations demonstrate that the newly
enacted paragraph 2553 substantially impairs the accomplishment of the purpose
of the trust. As such, the Complaint states sufficient facts to support the
judicial modification, termination, or reformation of trust cause of action. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer OVERRULED as
to the second cause of action. 
 
 
Third cause of Action for Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The elements of a claim for breach
of fiduciary duty are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its
breach, and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.” (O'Neal v.
Stanislaus County Employees' Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184,
1215.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges
Defendants were all agents, employees, and/or representatives of each other,
thus jointly and severally liable to Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶31.) The Complaint
further alleges Defendants Board and Escobedo-Frank had a fiduciary duty to act
in good faith and in the best interests of Plaintiffs at the Defendant
Conference. (Compl., ¶¶125-127.) The Complaint further alleges Defendants Board
and Escobedo-Frank owed Plaintiffs a duty to disclose all material facts
related to the management of the Conference and its resources. (Compl., ¶127.)
The Complaint also alleges Defendants Board and Escobedo-Frank made false
statements to Plaintiffs such as the Conference would allow time for all
churches to go through the disaffiliation process under paragraph 2553 and
advised Plaintiffs not to rush the process, to extract a ransom from Plaintiffs
to unjustly enrich the bank accounts under Defendants’ control. (Compl.,
¶¶130-133.)  The Complaint also alleges
Defendants engineered this scheme for the sole purpose of denying Plaintiffs
their right to disaffiliate, causing injury to Plaintiffs. (Compl., ¶134.)
These allegations suggest that a fiduciary relationship exists between all
Defendants and Plaintiffs. The allegations also showcase that Defendants
breached their duty through the actions of Defendants Board and Escobedo-Frank
and causing Plaintiffs injury, i.e., being unable to disaffiliate. As such, the
Complaint states sufficient facts to support the breach of fiduciary duty cause
of action. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer OVERRULED as
to the third cause of action.
 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Unjust Enrichment
 
“The elements for a claim of unjust
enrichment are ‘receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the
expense of another.’ [Citation.] ‘The theory of unjust enrichment requires one
who acquires a benefit which may not justly be retained, to return either the
thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly
enriched.’ [Citation.]” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
759, 769.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges
Defendants accepted the benefit of the trust purportedly containing Plaintiffs’
church properties and unilaterally changed the disaffiliation rules to keep
these properties. (Compl., ¶142.) As discussed above, the Complaint
specifically alleges that Defendants advised Plaintiffs not to rush the
disaffiliation process and that the Conference would allow time for all
churches to go through the disaffiliation process under the newly enacted paragraph
2553. (Compl., ¶¶132-133.) The Complaint further alleges Defendants statements
and advisements were a scheme to cause Plaintiffs only recourse to either
abandon their property or pay a money to retain their property. (Compl., ¶133,
141.) These allegations suggest that Defendants have retained Plaintiffs’
church properties without allowing disaffiliation nor payment for the use of
these properties. As such, the Complaint states sufficient facts to support the
unjust enrichment cause of action. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer OVERRULED as
to the fourth cause of action.
 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for
Promissory Estoppel 
 
“The elements of a promissory
estoppel claim are ‘(1) a promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2)
reliance by the party to whom the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be
both reasonable and foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must
be injured by his reliance.’” (Jones v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges
Plaintiffs relied on the promise of the availability of paragraphs 2548.2, 2549
and 2553 as pathways to disaffiliation in making and maintaining their
affiliation with The United Methodist Church. (Compl., ¶¶145-147.)  The Complaint further alleges that paragraphs
2548.2 and 2549 were used as means to disaffiliate for decades. (Compl., ¶145.)
The Complaint further alleges Plaintiffs are now being refused their requests
to disaffiliate unless it is done under paragraph 2553, which requires
abandonment of their property or payment of financial obligations to retain
their properties. (Compl., ¶148.) These allegations indicate that there was a
promise that Plaintiffs could disaffiliate under the cited provisions of the
Book of Discipline. Furthermore, these allegations demonstrate that Plaintiffs
had been relying on the earlier provisions for at least 10 years, which is
reasonable and foreseeable. Moreover, these allegations showcase that
Plaintiffs have been injured by their reliance on the earlier paragraphs
because Defendants have told them only paragraph 2553 allows Plaintiffs to
disaffiliate. As such, the Complaint states sufficient facts to support the
promissory estoppel cause of action. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer OVERRULED as
to the fifth cause of action. 
 
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Breach
of Contract
 
Establishing a breach of contract
claim, requires plaintiff prove “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (D’Arrigo Bros. of
California v. United Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790,
800.) “Further, the complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is
written, oral, or implied by conduct.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac.
Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458–459.)
 
Here, the Complaint alleges
Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into a contract under the Book of Discipline,
which sets forth the terms all persons and entities within The United Methodist
Church agreed to be bound. (Compl., ¶42.) The Complaint further alleges that
paragraphs 2548.2, 2549, and 2553 set forth the means by which a local church
can disaffiliate. (Compl., ¶145.) The Complaint further alleges Plaintiffs
performed all that they were required to do under paragraphs 2548.2 and 2549
but Defendants refuse to allow Plaintiffs to disaffiliate under those
provisions. (Compl., ¶¶154-155.) The Complaint also alleges as a result of
Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiffs have suffered damages including deprivation of
valuable property rights. (Compl., ¶158.) These allegations suggest that
Plaintiffs and Defendants entered into a written contract under the Book of
Discipline, wherein Plaintiffs were provided with three provisions that allow
disaffiliation. These allegations also indicate that Defendants have breached the
contract by refusing to let Plaintiffs disaffiliate under paragraphs 2548.2 and
2549, which has resulted in Plaintiffs inability to retain their church
properties. As such, the Complaint states sufficient facts to support the
breach of contract cause of action. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer OVERRULED as
to the sixth cause of action.
 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 
 
“The [implied] covenant of good
faith and fair dealing [is] implied by law in every contract. The covenant is
read into contracts and functions ‘as a supplement to the express contractual
covenants, to prevent a contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while
not technically transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other
party's rights to the benefits of the contract.’” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v.
The Americana at Brand, LLC (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.) As such, “[a]
breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a breach of the contract.” (Id.)¿

 
As discussed above, the Complaint
sufficiently alleges a contract between Plaintiffs and Defendants, which
includes paragraphs for a disaffiliation process. The Complaint further alleges
Defendants’ conduct is refusing to allow Plaintiffs to disaffiliate under
paragraphs 2548.2 and 2549 prevents Plaintiffs from receiving the benefits
under the contract, i.e., Book of Discipline. (Compl., ¶163.) As such, the
Complaint states sufficient facts to support the breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing cause of action. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer OVERRULED as
to the seventh cause of action.
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Based on
the foregoing, Defendants California-Pacific
Annual Conference of The United Methodist Church, Dottie Escobedo-Frank, and
Board of Trustees of the California-Pacific Conference of The United Methodist
Church’s Demurrer to Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Moving Defendants
are ordered to file their Answer within 30 days of this order.
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   June 27, 2024                                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court

Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
