 Case Number:  23STCV03405    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D., et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03405




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Dignity Health, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October 16, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Stay
Moving Party: Defendants Dignity Health dba St.
Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson and Christopher Pook
Responding Party: Plaintiff Dr. Nayyer Ali, M.D.
 
T/R:      DEFENDANTS’
MOTION TO STAY IS DENIED.
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
On February 16, 2023, Plaintiffs Dr.
Nayyer Ali, M.D. and Dr. Mauricio Heilbron, M.D. sued Defendants Dignity Health
dba St. Mary Medical Center, Carolyn Caldwell, Charles Anderson, and
Christopher Pook, asserting causes of action for (1) intentional interference
with prospective economic relations; and (2) retaliation. Plaintiffs allege
Defendants retaliated against Plaintiffs for advocating for the medical staff
and patients. 
 
On June 15, 2023, the Court granted
Defendants’ anti-SLAPP motion in part.
 
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
the first amended complaint for retaliation and UCL violations. On March 22,
2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative second amended complaint. On June 17,
2024, the Court denied Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in
the interests of justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg
v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) 
 
Defendants move for an order
staying litigation of Plaintiff Ali’s claims based on the alleged
termination/non-renewal of his Residency Agreement, pending resolution of
Defendants’ appeal of the Court’s order denying their motion to arbitrate those
claims. 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 1294(a), “the perfecting of such an appeal [of an order denying a petition to
compel arbitration] shall not automatically stay any proceedings in the trial
court during the pendency of the appeal.” Defendants assert that a stay is
mandatory here because the agreement is governed by the FAA and the US Supreme
Court has held that that an appeal from a denial of a motion to compel
arbitration under the FAA stays the proceedings in federal district court. (See
Coinbase v. Bielski, 599 U.S. 736, 745 (2023).) 
 
Coinbase, of course, does not hold that the FAA preempts CCP
§ 1294(a); that issue was not before the Supreme Court. Nor does the Court’s
reasoning support that conclusion. The Court applied the principle in Griggs v. Provident
Consumer Discount Co., (1982) 459 U.S. 56, which dictates that a federal district court
must stay its proceedings during an interlocutory appeal on arbitrability. Defendants
have not shown that the Griggs rule applies in California state court,
effectively mooting CCP § 1294(a).
 
Defendants also have not shown
that the agreement at issue here is governed by the FAA. On its face, the
agreement does not state that it is governed by the FAA. Defendants argue that
the hospital receives federal funding and uses equipment and supplies from
other states, but Defendants have not established this factually, or shown how that
would make the residency agreement subject to the FAA. 
 
The Court declines to stay
the action pending appeal. CCP § 1294 does not require it. Delaying discovery
will prejudice Plaintiffs. The Court does not address at this time whether
trial will proceed as scheduled on February 10, 2025, if an appeal remains
pending at that time. Defendants’ motion to stay the litigation is DENIED.


 