 Case Number:  24STCV14954    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
The Romanian Orthodox Episcopate of
  America,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV14954




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Holy Trinity Romanian American
  Orthodox Church, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: October 16, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Strike Portions of the
Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Holy Trinity Romanian
American Orthodox Church
Responding Party: Plaintiff The Romanian Orthodox
Episcopate of America
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Defendants move to strike allegations containing references to non-party
Father Constantin Alesce on the ground that they
are irrelevant. Plaintiff, the national church under which the Defendant local church
used to operate, alleges Defendant improperly disassociated from Plaintiff to
join another national organization. Plaintiff alleges it is the rightful owner
of the real property used by the Defendant local church. Father Alesce acted as
the parish priest of the Defendant local church. Plaintiff alleges Father
Alesce acted on behalf of Defendant in disassociating from Plaintiff. The references
to Father Alesce are relevant to this action. 
 
Defendant’s motion to strike
is DENIED.
 