  Case Number:  22STCV23442    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  F49    Dept.    F49      Date:    3/14/24     Case    Name: Krystal Shin, by and through GAL You Sun Jang v. City of Los    Angeles, et al.     Case    # 22STCV23442      LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT DEPARTMENT F49    MARCH 14, 2024    MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT  PLAYCORE WISCONSIN INC.’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO PLAINTIFF’S SPECIAL  INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS  Los Angeles Superior  Court Case # 22STCV23442    Motion  filed: 9/27/23   MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Krystal Shin, by and through  her parent and guardian ad litem (“GAL”) You Sun Jang (“Plaintiff”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant PlayCore Wisconsin Inc.  (“Defendant” or “PlayCore”)  NOTICE: ok    RELIEF  REQUESTED: An  order from this Court compelling Defendant PlayCore to produce further  responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1, 3, 4, 6, 7,  8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, and 35 without objection  within 10 days, and imposing monetary sanctions in the amount of $4,400.00  against PlayCore and its counsel jointly and severally.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The  motion is GRANTED IN PART. The monetary sanction is DENIED.   BACKGROUND   This action arises from injuries sustained by a 5-year-old  Plaintiff on February 20, 2022, allegedly caused by the playground equipment  located at a Los Angeles City Community Park, 11075 Foothill Boulevard in Lake  View Terrace, California 91432 (the “Park”).   On July 20, 2022, Plaintiff initiated the present action against  Defendants City of Los Angeles, and Does 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges  the following causes of action: (1) dangerous condition of public property, (2)  negligence, and (3) strict liability.   On September 16, 2022, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed its  Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 to 20 for (1)  apportionment of fault, (2) declaratory relief, and (3) indemnification.   On February 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed her Amendment to  Complaint, substituting Defendant PlayCore for Doe 1.    On February 16, 2022, Defendant City of Los Angeles filed  its Answer.               On March  13, 2023, Defendant PlayCore filed its Answer to the Complaint.                On  September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to compel Defendant  PlayCore to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories,  Set One. Subsequently, PlayCore filed its Opposition on March 1, 2024, and  Plaintiff replied on March 5, 2024.               On  November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed another Amendment to Complaint, substituting  Defendant Evergreen Environment Inc. (“Evergreen”) for Doe 2.   ANALYSIS   “A propounding party may move  for an order compelling further response [to interrogatories] if the  propounding party deems … (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is  evasive or incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under  Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those  documents is inadequate. (3) An objection to the interrogatory is without merit  or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300 (a).)   “Each answer in a response to  interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information  reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2030.220, subd. (a).)   “The court shall impose a  monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully  makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories  unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification  or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.300 (d).) A.     All  Procedural Requirements Are Met   1.)     45-Day Rule “Unless notice of this motion  [to compel further responses to interrogatories] is given within 45 days of the  service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on  or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the  responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right  to compel a further response to the interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2030.300, subd. (c).)   Plaintiff filed and served this  Motion on September 27, 2023, within 45 days of receiving Defendant PlayCore’s  supplemental responses to the Special Interrogatories, Set One, on September  15, 2023. (See 9/27/23 Nazdjanova Decl., ¶ 12, 9/27/23 Proof of Service.) 2.)     Meet and Confer A motion to compel further  responses to interrogatories must be accompanied by a meet and confer  declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(1).)             Plaintiff met and conferred with  Defendant PlayCore on multiple occasions before filing the instant Motion. This  includes a meet and confer letter dated August 7, 2023, which outlines the  deficiencies in PlayCore’s initial response, and a second meet and confer  letter dated September 19, 2023, seeking to resolve the discovery dispute and requesting  supplemental responses. (9/27/23 Nazdjanova Decl., ¶¶ 6, 13.)                Therefore, the meet and confer  requirements per Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300 subdivision (b)(1)  are satisfied.   3.)     Separate Statement A motion to compel further  responses to interrogatories must be accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(2).) “A separate statement is a separate  document filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the information  necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that  are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).) Plaintiff  has met the above requirement by filing a separate statement explaining the  interrogatories at issue, Defendant PlayCore’s responses, and why further  responses to the interrogatories are necessary.   B.      Defendant  PlayCore’s Supplemental Responses The Court observes that PlayCore’s supplemental responses,  dated September 15, 2023, consist of the same generic, boilerplate answers to  all Special Interrogatories at issue. Specifically, each supplemental response  states,    “Objections:  Responding  party asserts all general and specific objections previously asserted all off  prior discovery; further objects on the grounds that the propounding party  refused a request for a time extension of time to respond to the instant  discovery based on the full disclosure to opposing counsel of the unavailable  of responding party to review and verify' said responses and that responding  party's attorneys are engaged to commence a multi-party trial with a month-long  trial estimate. In the spirit of discovery and cooperation, Propounding Party  was given a lengthy extension to file any motion to compel, if necessary, if  the discovery matter could not be resolved informally. Propounding party,  therefore, is acting bad faith and non-compliance with local court guidelines  for civility in litigation. Additionally, Propounding party's counsel served a  Notice of Unavailability which opposing counsel expects to be honored.”   Plaintiff correctly points out that “propounding party  refused a request for a time extension of time to respond ... and that  responding party’s attorneys are engaged to commence a multi-party trial with a  month-long trial estimate” does not warranty a failure to provide  code-compliant responses. A review of the records indicates that Plaintiff’s  counsel had granted a 30-day extension for the time to respond, around the end  of June 2023 (9/27/23 Nazdjanov Decl., ¶ 4), and later granted an additional  three-week extension on September 5, 2023. (Id., ¶ 9.) Consequently,  although the Court agrees that parties should make efforts to resolve discovery  issues, including scheduling and availability, the Court determines that  Plaintiff is not obligated to grant any additional time extensions and did not  act in bad faith in refusing the request from Defendant.   Since  PlayCore’s supplemental responses did not provide material answers beyond the  boilerplate objection. The Court now proceeds to review the answers and  objections provided in its initial response dated August 4, 2023. (9/27/23 Nazdjanova  Decl., Ex. “B.”)   C.     Plaintiff  Sufficiently Demonstrate Defendant PlayCore’s Further Responses are Warranted  as to Nos. 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 30, and 31.   1.)     Special  Interrogatories Nos. 1, 12, 13, 30, and 31   Special  Interrogatory No. 1 states, “Please IDENTIFY each PERSON who designed the SUBJECT PRODUCT.”  PlayCore’s response is “GameTime.” Furthermore, PlayCore acknowledged that  “[it] is able to supplement its response to identify the employees, one whom is  deceased. Aside from the aforementioned information.” (Def.’ Separate  Statement, at 3.)   Special  Interrogatory No. 12 states, “Please IDENTIFY each PERSON who installed the  SUBJECT PRODUCT at the PARK.” PlayCore’s response is “An authorized installer  installed the tractor climber. Discovery and investigation are continuing.”   Special  Interrogatory No. 13 states, “Please describe the nature of relationships  between YOU and each PERSON who installed the SUBJECT PRODUCT at the PARK.”  PlayCore responds, “An  authorized installer installed the tractor climber. Discovery and investigation  are continuing.”   Special  Interrogatory No. 30 states, in part, “please IDENTIFY each PERSON who was  responsible for assuring that the design of the SUBJECT PRODUCT conformed with  the prevailing design and safety standards.” PlayCore’s response is “The tractor climber is designed  to meet ASTM F1487-21 and CPSC by GameTime.”   Special  Interrogatory No. 31 states, in part, “please IDENTIFY each PERSON who was  responsible for the SUBJECT PRODUCT's conformance with prevailing design and  safety standards.” In its response, PlayCore states, “The tractor climber is designed  to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for Public Use Standard) and CPSC  by GameTime.”   Plaintiff  correctly points out that PlayCore’s responses to the above-listed  interrogatories are evasive and incomplete, as the definition of the “IDENTIFY”  for the above-listed interrogatories explicitly requires the responding party  to state the name, address, and legal status of the PERSON, rendering  PlayCore’s answers either irrelevant or incomplete. Consequently, further  responses to the above-listed interrogatories are warranted.   2.)     Special  Interrogatory No. 21   Special  Interrogatory No. 21 states, in part, “please IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS relating  to the design change made.” PlayCore responds, “Discovery and investigation are  continuing.”   Code  of Civil Procedure section 2030.220 subdivision (b) provides, “if an  interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent  possible.”   Here,  a response of “discovery is continuing” without further elaboration is  effectively equivalent to no response at all. Moreover, PlayCore has  acknowledged in its responses to Special Interrogatory No. 18 that there was a  design change in the subject product. (Def.’ Separate Statement, at 19.) Furthermore,  PlayCore has indicated that “[it] will provide the information sought.” (Def.’  Separate Statement, at 19.)     Based  on this, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that PlayCore’s initial response is incomplete  and evasive, necessitating supplemental responses.    3.)     Special  Interrogatory Nos. 7, 8   Special  Interrogatory No. 7 states, “Please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT that includes the  procedures relating to the manufacture of the SUBJECT PRODUCT.” PlayCore  responded, “The  tractor climber is designed and manufactured to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground  Equipment for Public Use Standard) and CPSC. Discovery and investigation are  continuing.”   Special  Interrogatory No. 8 states, “Please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT relating to the  production specifications YOU used in the manufacture of the SUBJECT PRODUCT.”  PlayCore’s response is “The  tractor climber is designed and manufactured to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground  Equipment for Public Use Standard) and CPSC.”   For  Nos. 7 and 8, PlayCore’s responses are evasive and incomplete, as it has  admitted to designing and manufacturing the subject product. (9/27/23  Nazdjanova Decl., Ex. “B,” at 4, 5.)  By contrast, ASTM represents an industrial standard and is not typically  regarded as covering a manufacturer’s proprietary internal procedures, where,  as here, PlayCore has not specified whether ASTM F1487-21 incorporates or  references any design and manufacturing practices it relies upon.    Consequently,  PlayCore’s response referring to an industrial standard without identifying  documents, as defined in the interrogatories, is evasive and incomplete.     4.)     Special  Interrogatory Nos. 9, 10   Special  Interrogatory No. 9 states, “Please describe each test YOU performed to  determine whether the SUBJECT PRODUCT was safe for its intended uses.” PlayCore  responds, “The  tractor climber is tested to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for  Public Use Standard) and CPSC.”   Special  Interrogatory No. 10 states, “Please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT that reflects all  tests YOU performed to determine whether the SUBJECT PRODUCT was safe for its intended uses.”  PlayCore’s response is “The  tractor climber is tested to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for  Public Use Standard) and CPSC. Discovery and investigation are continuing.”   For  Nos, 9 and 10, Plaintiff argues that “[ASTM F1487-21] is specifications for  Consumer Safety and Performance. It only sets standards and manufacturer has to  develop its own tests to ensure that its product is compliant with those  standards.” (Reply, at 6.)    In  its Opposition, PlayCore claims that “[t]hese industry group develop  comprehensive guidelines, test methods, specifications, and performance  requirements for manufacturers[.]” (Opp’n., at 4.) (Underlines added.)  However, PlayCore’s answer falls short of identifying any specific documents or  explicitly acknowledging that ASTM F1487-21 is a responsive document. Its evasive  statement that “[the subject product] is tested to meet ASTM,” however, fails  to provide a complete and straightforward answer regarding the specific tests  conducted. Additionally, while PlayCore admits that it relies on ASTM F1487-21  for safety codes and protocols, rather than test methods (Ibid), this  admission renders its response irrelevant to the interrogatory asking about  tests.    Consequently,  the Court finds PlayCore’s answers to Nos. 9 and 10 incomplete and invasive, necessitating  further responses.    5.)     Special  Interrogatories Nos. 16, 17   Special  Interrogatory No. 16 states, “Please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT which indicates  that the SUBJECT PRODUCT was installed at the PARK in accordance with the assembly  instructions of the SUBJECT PRODUCT.” PlayCore’s response states, “Installation instructions were  provided. Discovery and investigation are continuing.”   Here,  Plaintiff correctly points out that installation instruction does not demonstrate  compliance as is requested in this specific interrogatory, a point with which the  Court agrees.   Special  Interrogatory No. 17 states, “Please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT that reflects  protocols for tests YOU followed to determine whether the SUBJECT PRODUCT was  installed at the PARK in accordance with YOUR specifications.” PlayCore  responds, “Discovery  and investigation are continuing. See also document marked as Attachment F and  produced by defendant City of Los Angeles showing that on August 6, 2019, an  inspection was completed and certified as meeting the current CPSC, ASTM and  Title 24 codes.”               The responding party is responsible  for identifying any relevant documents in its possession, custody, or control.  Here, PlayCore fails to fulfill this responsibility by referencing documents  produced by another party without specifying whether these documents are  outside its possession, custody, or control, which cannot be reasonably  presumed as circumstances, in this case, suggest the contrary. Therefore,  PlayCore’s response to No. 17 should be found evasive and incomplete.                 Therefore, the Court GRANTS the  Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 16, 17,  21, 30, and 31.                    D.      Plaintiff Has Not Sufficiently Demonstrated  PlayCore’s Further Responses are Warranted as to Nos. 3, 4, 6, 11, 32, 33, 34,  and 35.   1.)     Special  Interrogatories Nos. 3, 4, 6, and 11   Special  Interrogatory No. 3 states, “Please describe all protocols intended to ensure that the  design of the SUBJECT PRODUCT  comported in all respects with such applicable statutes, ordinances, or  regulations.” PlayCore’s responses is “The tractor climber is designed to meet ASTM F1487-21  (Playground Equipment for Public Use Standard) and CPSC.”    Special  Interrogatory No. 4 states, “Please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT that includes all protocols  intended to ensure that the design of the SUBJECT PRODUCT compelled in all  respects with such applicable statutes, ordinances, or regulations.” In  response, PlayCore stated, “The  tractor climber is designed to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for  Public Use Standard) and CPSC.” (Def.’s Separate Statement, at 5.)   Special  Interrogatory No. 6 states, “Please describe quality control procedures relating to the  manufacture of the SUBJECT PRODUCT.” PlayCore responded, “The tractor climber is designed  and manufactured to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for Public Use  Standard) and CPSC. Discovery and investigation are continuing.” (Def.’s Separate  Statement, at 7.)   Special  Interrogatory No. 11 states, “Please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT that reflects  protocols for tests to determine whether the SUBJECT PRODUCT was safe for its intended uses.”  PlayCore responds, “The  tractor climber is tested to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for  Public Use Standard) and CPSC. Discovery and investigation are continuing.”   For  Nos. 3, 4, 6, and 11, Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s mere reference to an  ASTM standard does not constitute a proper response, arguing that ASTM F1487-21  does not contain specific protocols or quality control procedures (Reply, at  5); thus requiring PlayCore to identify and describe each protocol that it used  [other than the ASTM.]” (Def.’s Separate Statement, at 4.)    Importantly,  PlayCore contends that “[it] does not produce its own safety protocols, [relying  instead on] controlling standards generally by independent organizations.”  (Opp’n, at 4.) It claims to have fulfilled its discovery duties by “referring  Plaintiff to the independent standards” (Ibid), and argues that “standards  and protocols [] are not in Defendant’s specific possession, custody, or  control [as they are] publicly available information from independent  third-party organizations[.]” (Id., at 2.)    The  Court notes PlayCore’s reference to the specific ASTM F1487-21 within which it  claims its protocols and procedures are included. The Court agrees that if the  standards, protocols, and quality control procedures are indeed referenced in  the ASTM F1487-21 and are publicly accessible, PlayCore is not required to identify  every document separately. Specifically, the issue here concerns PlayCore's  compliance with the standards rather than the contents of the standards or  protocols within ASTM itself. Therefore, PlayCore’s citation of publicly  available standards and protocols would be deemed sufficient.    The  Court further observes that, unlike the other terms in Special Interrogatories,  Set One, Plaintiff, as the propounding party, does not define the terms  “protocol” or “procedure.” Consequently, without a clear definition to  distinguish between ASTM, CPSC, and the specific protocols and procedures  sought by Plaintiff, this dispute cannot be effectively resolved.    Accordingly,  the Court concludes that Plaintiff has not convincingly demonstrated that  PlayCore’s responses referring to the specific ASTM standards necessitate  further responses. Plaintiff is directed to provide definitions of the terms  “protocol” and “procedure” or to clearly distinguish their scope in relation to  the content of ASTM standards.    2.) Special Interrogatories Nos. 32, 33, 34, and 35   Special  Interrogatory No. 32, states, “Please describe each act YOU undertook to reduce the risk of  injury associated with the SUBJECT PRODUCT.” PlayCore responds, “The tractor climber is designed to meet ASTM  F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for Public Use Standard) and CPSC by GameTime.”               Special Interrogatory No. 33 states,  “As to each act YOU undertook to reduce the risk of injury associated with the SUBJECT PRODUCT, please  set forth the date that such activity was undertaken.” In response, PlayCore  states, “The  tractor climber is designed to meet ASTM F1487-21 (Playground Equipment for  Public Use Standard) and CPSC by GameTime.”   Special  Interrogatory No. 34, states, “As to each act YOU undertook to reduce the risk  of injury associated with the SUBJECT PRODUCT, please IDENTIFY each PERSON who  has knowledge of any facts relating to such act.” PlayCore responds, “The tractor climber is designed to meet ASTM F  1487-21 (Playground Equipment for Public Use Standard) and CPSC by GameTime.”   Special  Interrogatory No. 35 states, “As to each act YOU undertook to reduce the risk of injury  associated with the SUBJECT PRODUCT, please IDENTIFY each DOCUMENT relating to  such activity.”               The  Court finds the above-listed interrogatories lack specificity regarding the  term “risk of injury associated with the SUBJECT PRODUCT,” a term not clearly  defined. Furthermore, in response to interrogatory No. 36, which asks, “whether  YOU were aware of any condition of the SUBJECT PRODUCT which poses a risk of  bodily injury,” PlayCore explicitly answered, “No.” (9/27/23 Nazdjanova Decl.,  Ex. “B,” at 13.) Considering PlayCore’s denial of any known risk of injury in  its response to No. 36, with which Plaintiff has not sought further responses  in the instant Motion, the Court determines that Plaintiff is not entitled to  further responses for Nos. 32 and 33.               Therefore,  the Court DENIES the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special  Interrogatories Nos. 3, 4, 6, 11, 32, 33, 34, and 35.    E.      Objections Dated August 3, 2023   Defendant  PlayCore advanced various objections to the Special Interrogatories, including,  but not limited to, claims that the requests were “vague, ambiguous, and  overbroad.” (See generally Def.’s Separate Statement)   “By  objecting to the requests as a whole, without some attempt to admit or deny in  part, and by making no attempt to answer with an explanation of its inability,  it failed to show the “good faith” required by the statute.” (Cembrook  v. Superior Court In and For City and County of San Francisco (1961) 56  Cal.2d 423, 430.)   The  Court finds these interrogatories to be relevant and not overbroad.  Furthermore, Defendant’s mere assertion of vagueness and ambiguity does not  fulfill its burden to substantiate its objection. (See Coy v. Superior Court  of Contra Costa County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221; Fairmont Ins. Co.  v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)   However,  as previously discussed, Defendant’s references to ASTM standards and the  ensuing Plaintiff’s dispute over their adequacy highlight the necessity for Plaintiff  to amend Nos. 3, 4, 6, and 11 to clearly distinguish the protocols and  procedures sought by the interrogatories from ASTM standards.                          F.      Monetary Sanctions   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 2030.300, subdivision (d), the Court concludes that Defendant PlayCore  and its’ counsel may be properly subjected to the monetary sanctions against  them, jointly and severally, for unsuccessfully opposing the instant Motion.               However, as the Court has decided to  GRANT IN PART and DENY IN PART the Motion, consequently, Code of Civil  Procedure section 2030.300 subdivision (d) is inapplicable.    Accordingly, the Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.   CONCLUSION   Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant  PlayCore’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,  Set One, Nos. 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 30, and 31 is GRANTED.   Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel  Defendant PlayCore’s Further Responses to  Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 3, 4, 6, 11, 32, 33, 34, and 35 is  DENIED.   Plaintiff’s Request for Monetary  Sanctions is DENIED   Defendant PlayCore is ordered to  provide supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One,  Nos. 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 16, 17, 21, 30, and 31 within 15 days.   Moving party to give notice.  