  Case Number:  21STCV18162    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSE LUIS
  GONZALEZ CASTILLO, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
FRANCISCO CADENA, et al.,
                                                                              
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21SCTV18162
 
[PROPOSED] ORDER RE: CONTINUANCE OF
  HEARING ON 
DEFENDANTS’MOTION FOR UNDERTAKING
  PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE §1030
 
Date: April 12, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: January 27, 2025
 



AND
RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendants Hyundai Motor Company and Hyundai Motor America (collectively,
“Hyundai” or “Defendants”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Nayeli Viridiana Saldaña Canico, Gustavo Alfredo Saldaña
Canico, Jorge Uriel Saldaña Canico, and Ismael Saldaña Canico (collectively, “Canico
Siblings” or "Plaintiffs")
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 


 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of an alleged automobile accident.  The currently operative second amended
complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1) negligence; (2) product liability; and (3)
wrongful death and survival action. 
 
            On February 28, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant action. On March 29, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
On April 5, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants Hyundai move for a court order requiring
Plaintiffs to post an undertaking in the amount of $5,000 each for a total
undertaking of $20,000 on the grounds that Plaintiffs reside outside of
California, there is a reasonable possibility that Defendant will obtain a
judgment in its favor, and the requested amount of the undertaking is
reasonable. (Not. of Mot. p.1.) Plaintiffs argue that Hyundai failed to make an
evidentiary showing that there is a reasonable probability of obtaining a
judgment against the Canico Siblings, and the Canico Siblings are indigent.
(Opp’n p.9.) 
 
Legal Standard 
“When
the plaintiff in an action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or
is a foreign corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by
noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030(a).)  The plaintiff, however, will not be required
to file an undertaking unless “there is a reasonable possibility that the
moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special
proceeding.”  (Id., § 1030(b).)  The motion
must be accompanied by an affidavit stating the nature and amount of costs and
attorney’s fees the defendant has incurred and expects to incur.  (Id.)  
 
If
the motion is granted and the plaintiff fails to file the undertaking within
the time allowed, the plaintiff’s action or special proceeding shall be
dismissed as to the defendant in whose favor the order requiring the
undertaking was made.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§1030(d).)  “The determinations of the
court under this section have no effect on the determination of any issues on
the merits of the action or special proceeding and may not be given in evidence
nor referred to in the trial of the action or proceeding.”  (Id.,
§1030(f).)
 
Residence of Canico
Siblings
            It is undisputed by both parties that Plaintiffs reside
in Mexico. (Mem. of P&A p.7; Opp’n p. 8.) Residency in this context means
the actual residence rather than domicile at the time the court considers the
motion for an undertaking. (Myers v. Carter (1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 622,
626; Enter v. Crutcher (1958) 159 Cal.App.2d Supp. 841, 845. [“A
residence is established by personal presence in a fixed and permanent abode,
with the intent of remaining there.”].) Therefore, this requirement is
satisfied as to each of the Canico Siblings.          
 
Reasonable Possibility 
The
Canico Siblings assert three causes of action: (1) negligence; (2) product
liability; and (3) wrongful death (CCP § 377.60) and survival action (CCP §§ 377.30
and 377.32). A motion for summary judgment is scheduled to be heard on August
21, 2024.  The Canico Siblings argue that
the brakes of the vehicle which was in the alleged accident were defective.
Hyundai argues that Hyundai will likely prevail on its motion for summary
judgment because the Canico Siblings are unable to show there was a
manufacturing defect, a design defect or a warning defect. (Mem. of P&A pp.
8-12.) Alternatively, Hyundai argues that even if the motion for summary
judgment fails, they will prevail at trial. (Id. at p.12.) Hyundai
offers the following expert declarations in support of the motion: Declaration
of Greg Webster; Declaration of Robert Scheibe, Ph.D., P.E.; and Declaration of
John D. “Danny” Olivas. The experts found that the subject vehicle demonstrated
no abnormalities in its functionality or its component parts and therefore a
manufacturing defect did not exist. (Mem. of P&A p.9;Webster Decl. at ¶ 9;
Scheibe Decl. at ¶¶ 18,22-23,26; Olivas Decl. at ¶¶ 10-15.) 
 
Expert
Robert Schiebe, Ph.D., P.E. also found that there was no design defect because
“the evidence establishes that, at the time of the collision, the Subject
Vehicle’s brakes were operating as designed and had Cadena applied sufficient
force to the brake pedal, the Subject Vehicle would have stopped.” (Scheibe
Decl. at ¶ 26.) Hyundai also argues that there is no warning defect because
Plaintiffs fail to show that had an adequate warning been provided, the alleged
car accident would not have occurred because it is pure speculation that had
Co-Defendant Cadena read and understood the warning, he would not have sped at
almost 70 miles per hour in a 35 mile per hour zone while under the influence
of illegal drugs and alcohol. (Mem. P&A p.11.)
 
In
opposition, the Canico Siblings argue that the arguments of Hyundai are
conclusory. (Opp’n p.5.)  The Canico
Siblings fail to offer any expert declaration in support of their pedal-droop theory,
do not point to any testing or analysis, and do not offer any explanation as to
how this supposed defect came to exist, what caused it or how it caused the
subject incident because they state that additional discovery is required.
(Nunez Decl. ¶ 5.)  The Canico Siblings
argue that a continuance was granted for the motion for summary judgment to
allow for additional fact and expert discovery necessary to oppose the motion
for summary judgment and their opposition is not due until June 21, 2024.
(Nunez Decl. ¶ 2.) Additionally, the Canico Siblings argue that Hyundai
primarily, and inappropriately, relies on Shannon v. Sims Service Center,
Inc. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 907 and Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427 because arbitration had taken place in those cases
and is therefore required. The Court disagrees with this position. 
 
The
aforementioned cases do not require arbitration, mediation or the proposal of a
mediator for Code of Civil Procedure § 1030 to apply. Although both cited cases
involved motions in which the moving defendant relied on prior arbitration
awards to carry their burden of proving a reasonable possibility of prevailing
at trial, neither case articulated a rule that motions for an undertaking may
only be granted where there is a prior arbitration award. In Shannon, the
Court of Appeal held: “the statutory hearing procedure is the one usually
prescribed for pretrial motions, that is, the opportunity to present
declarations and other documentary evidence, the opportunity for both
counsel to be present, and the opportunity to be heard. (Shannon v. Sims
Serv. Ctr. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 907, 913.) (emphasis added.) In Baltayan,
the Court of Appeal stated: “[g]iven the fact of the arbitration award, as
well as the evidence submitted in support of each side's position, the
trial court properly found that there was a reasonable possibility that
respondents would win at trial. (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001)
90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1433.) (emphasis added.)
“[Defendants]
[are] not required to show that there was no possibility that [plaintiffs]
could win at trial, but only that it was reasonably possible that [defendants]
would win.” (Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427,
1432.)  Hyundai has shown that there is a
reasonable possibility that it may win at trial. 
 
Amount Requested is
Reasonable 
Hyundai
seeks an undertaking in the amount of $5,000 per Canico Sibling for a total
undertaking of $20,000. Here, this amount is reasonable considering the nature
and amount of the costs that Hyundai has incurred to date, including the
substantial expert fees that Hyundai has incurred since February 2023 when it
served 998 offers to compromise on each of the Canico Siblings that they
ultimately rejected. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).)
 
Indigency of Plaintiffs
Even
if Defendant establishes the grounds for an undertaking, the trial court may
waive the requirement if Plaintiffs establish indigency.¿(Alshafie v.
Lallande (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 421, 429.) ¿CCP section 995.240 states
that “[t]he court may, in its discretion, waive a provision for a bond in an
action or proceeding and make such orders as may be appropriate as if the bond
were given, if the court determines that the principal is unable to give the
bond because the principal is indigent and is unable to obtain sufficient
sureties, whether personal or admitted surety insurers.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
995.240.) ¿“In exercising its discretion the court shall take into
consideration all factors it deems relevant, including but not limited to the
character of the action or proceeding, the nature of the beneficiary, whether
public or private, and the potential harm to the beneficiary if the provision
for the bond is waived.” (Id.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that they do not have the money to file an
undertaking. (Opposition, pp.7-8.) In support, one of the siblings, Nayeli
Viridiana Saldaña Canico, offered her own declaration on behalf of herself and
her siblings. She declares that she is responsible for all of the household’s
finances and their combined weekly income is 5,800 MXN pesos. (Canico Decl. ¶¶ 2-7.)
She avers that they do not have the money to pay for the undertaking. (Canico
Decl. ¶¶ 7-9.) She also states that they do not own any real property, nor any
type of vehicle . . . any significant jewelry, furniture, stocks or bonds that
can be used as collateral . . . significant savings [and] . . . did not inherit
anything from [their] mother when she died. (Canico Decl. ¶¶ 8-9. )To the
extent that Plaintiffs are trying to argue that they are indigent for the
purposes of not paying the undertaking, this declaration is insufficient
because the declaration does not meet the Code of Civil Procedure  §2015.5 requirements and therefore cannot be
relied on. For instance, the declaration states “Executed on this 29th day of
March, 2024 at Mexico City, Mexico” rather than “I certify (or declare) under
penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
is true and correct.”  
 
The
Court therefore continues the hearing to allow the Canico Siblings to file
amended declarations with the necessary language by April 22, 2024.  If such declarations are not filed by that
date, the Court will GRANT the motion at the time of the continued hearing.
 
 
            Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
  
Dated this 12th day of April 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon.
  Holly J. Fujie
Judge
  of the Superior Court
 



 
 
 