 Case Number:  23STCV06136    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




JINHEE KIM, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
B&K ENTERPRISE, INC, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV06136
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT BRANDON
  KIM’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
8:30 a.m.
April 12, 2024
Dept. 56



 
MOVING PARTY:  DEFENDANT BRANDON KIM
 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:  PLAINTIFF JINHEE KIM
 
 
The Court
has considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.  
 
 
BACKGROUND 
            On September 7, 2023, Plaintiff Jinhee
Kim filed the operative Second Amended Complaint alleging causes of action for
(1) breach of oral agreement, (2) wrongful retention of security deposit per
Civ. Code §1950.7(C), (3) money had and received, (4) breach of covenant of
quiet enjoyment, and (5) California unfair competition under Cal. Bus. &
Prof. Code §§ 17200, et seq. 
 
            Defendant Brandon Kim seeks leave to
file a cross-complaint asserting claims for Plaintiff’s alleged failure to pay
$40,000 monthly from the total revenue collected by Plaintiff for a total due
of $422,500. Defendant alleges three causes of action for (1) breach of
contract, (2) common counts, and (2) common counts.  
            
            On December 26, 2023, Defendant
filed his cross-complaint. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to
Strike the entire cross- complaint filed on December 26, 2024. On February 26,
2024, the Court issued its ruling granting the Motion to Strike of Plaintiff in
the entirety without prejudice.
            
            On March 7, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion. On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April
5, 2024, Defendant filed his reply. 
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
            Plaintiff requests the Court take
judicial notice of the following pursuant to California Evidence Code Section
452 (d): Complaint Filed on 23STCV10421 on May 9, 2023, currently pending in
Dept. 68 of the Los Angeles County Superior Court, Stanley Mosk Courthouse - Exhibit
1.  The Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED,
but not for the truth of the matters stated therein. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant moves for leave to file
the cross-complaint because it is a compulsory cross-complaint. (Not. of Mot.
p.2.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant acted in bad faith and the motion is
untimely. (Opp’n p.4.) 
 
            


 
Legal
Standard 
            Parties generally must file a
cross-complaint against the party who filed the complaint before or at the same
time as the answer to the complaint. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(a).)  Parties
seeking to file untimely compulsory cross-complaints, however, may file with
the Court for leave to do so, even though the failure to timely file resulted
from oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause.  (Id.
§ 426.50.)  In such a case, after notice
to the adverse party, the Court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint if
the party acted in good faith. Courts liberally construe section 426.50 to
avoid forfeiture of causes of action.  (Ibid.) 
 
The
purpose of the compulsory cross-complaint statute is to prevent piecemeal
litigation.  (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949,
959.)  Compulsory cross-complaints
consist of those causes of action existing at the time of service of the answer
that the defendant must bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right
to bring them in any other action.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 426.30(a).)  Specifically,
compulsory cross-complaints consist of the causes of action that “arise out of
the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as
the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Id.
§ 426.10(c).)  To avoid piecemeal
litigation, courts liberally construe the term “transaction”—it is “ ‘not
confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . . . but may embrace a series
of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’ ” (Align Technology, at p. 960.)
 
Thus,
a motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint at any time during the course of
the action must be granted where forfeiture would otherwise result, unless the
moving party engaged in bad faith conduct. 
(Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) 
The determination that the moving party acted in bad faith must be
supported by substantial evidence. (Ibid.;
Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v.
Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902 [“We conclude that this
principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in
order to support a denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this
section”].)
 
Here,  Defendant submits the declaration of his
attorney, Tyler Porto. Tyler Porto states that Defendant filed his
cross-complaint on the same day that he filed his answer to the Second Amended
Complaint. (Porto Decl. ¶¶ 5-6,8; Ex. B-C.) However, Tyler Porto received a
notice of e-filing rejection of the Cross-Complaint from One Legal on December
26, 2023, which provided: “Reject Reason Other. Error in pleading. Party names
written on Item #1 does not match party caption. Item #1 has Brandon Kim, but
party caption for cross-complainant/plaintiff is Jinhee Kim, an individual. Do
not use ‘et al.’ ” (Porto Decl. ¶ 11; Ex. D.) Later that day, Brandon Kim fixed
those deficiencies and resubmitted the cross-complaint for e-filing, and this
time the cross-complaint was accepted. (Porto Decl. ¶ 12.) Nevertheless, the
Court finds that regardless of the reason for the delay in e-filing, the
cross-complaint was untimely by four days. Additionally, on February 26, 2024,
the Court stated that Defendant’s untimely filing “violates CCP § 428.50(c)’s
requirement to obtain leave from the court” and therefore granted Plaintiff’s
motion to strike in its entirety, without prejudice to Brandon Kim’s seeking
leave to file his Cross-Complaint by motion. (Minute Order 02/26/24.) 
 
            Parties seeking to file untimely
compulsory cross-complaints, however, may file with the Court for leave to do
so, even though the failure to timely file resulted from oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause. 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.)  In
such a case, after notice to the adverse party, the Court must grant leave to
file the cross-complaint if the party acted in good faith. Courts liberally
construe section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.  (Ibid.)
            
            Defendant argues that he is not
acting in bad faith because the cross-complaint is directly related to the
allegations made by Plaintiff in the Second Amended Complaint. (Mem. P&A
p.12.) Plaintiff argues that Defendant acted in bad faith because the
cross-complaint is a defensive tactic. (Opp’n p. 4.)  The Court is unpersuaded by Plaintiff’s
argument because Plaintiff fails to provide any evidence showing that Defendant
acted in bad faith in seeking leave to file the cross-complaint, but rather only
provides conclusory arguments.  
            
Accordingly,
the motion for leave to file the cross-complaint is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to file his
Cross-Complaint within five (5) court days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
          
Dated this 12th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 