 Case Number:  23STCV14403    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GLASS HOUSE
  BRANDS INC., et al.
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SOUTH CORD HOLDINGS LLC, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV14403
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
Date: April 12, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Glass House Brands Inc. (“Plaintiff GHB”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
South Cord Holdings, LLC (“Defendant SCH”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On June 20, 2023, Plaintiffs Glass House
Brands Inc., Kyle D. Kazan, and Graham Farrar (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
filed a Complaint against Defendants South Cord Holdings LLC, South Cord
Management LLC, Elliot Lewis, Damian Martin (collectively, “Defendants”), and
DOES 1 through 100, inclusive for: (1) Defamation Per Se; (2) Defamation
Per Quod; and (3) Violation of California Business & Professions
Code § 17200. 
On
February 22, 2024, the Court ruled on various discovery motions (the “Discovery
Motions”) as follows: (1) Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoena – granted; (2)
Motion to Compel Deposition of Custodian of Records – denied; (3) Motion to
Compel Party Deposition – granted in part; (4) Motion to Compel Requests for
Admissions – granted in part; (5) GHB Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories –
granted in part; (6) GHB Motion to Compel Special Interrogatories – granted;
(7) Martin, Lewis, and SC Request for Production Motions – denied; and (8)
Martin and Lewis Special Interrogatories Motion – denied. 
 
            On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff GHB
filed the instant Motion for Reconsideration (the “Motion”) of the Court’s
ruling on the Discovery Motions. On March 27, 2024, Defendant SCH filed an
opposition to the Motion. On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff GHB filed a reply to the
opposition. 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
             In support of its motion, Plaintiff GHB submits
the declarations of Michael Garfinkel (the “Garfinkle Declaration”) and Mark
Vendetti (the “Vendetti Declaration”). Defendant SCH objects to portions of
these declarations. The Court rules as follows:
 
OVERRULED: 1-11 as
to the Vendetti Declaration and 106 as to the Garfinkel Declaration
SUSTAINED:  None
 
DISCUSSION
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1008, subdivision (a), “[w]hen an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application
to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application
shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what
judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd.
(a).) 
 
As
it relates to new or different facts, circumstances, or law under Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1008, subdivision (a), “the moving party must provide a
satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier
time.”  (Shiffer v. CBS Corp. (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 246, 255.)
Furthermore, “facts of which the party seeking reconsideration was aware at the
time of the original ruling are not “new or different.” (In re Marriage of
Herr (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1468.) 
 
Timeliness 
A
formal notice of ruling is required to set the time limit running to file a
motion for reconsideration. The 10-day time limit runs from service of notice
of entry of the order. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)   
 
            The Court’s ruling on Motions to
Compel Further Discovery was served on the parties on February 26, 2024.
Plaintiff GHB filed this instant motion 10 (10) days later. Thus, Plaintiff GHB’s
Motion for Reconsideration is timely because it was filed within ten (10) days
of formal notice of the ruling on the Motions to Compel Further Discovery. 
 


 
Motion for Reconsideration 
            Plaintiff GHB moves for
reconsideration of the Court’s February 22, 2024 Minute Order (“Discovery
Order”) and to modify, amend, or revoke such Discovery Order. Specifically,
Plaintiff GHB requests that the Court amend or modify the Discovery Order as it
relates to: Defendant SCH’s Special Interrogatories (“SPROGs”), Set One, Nos.
7-18 (Plaintiff GHB’s customer list for its bulk sale of cannabis biomass), and
Nos. 21 and 24 (requests seeking information about “white labeling” to the
extent that it implicates the same information); and the Request for Production
of Documents (“RFPs”) attached to Defendant SCH’s Notice of Deposition to
Plaintiff GHB’s Custodian of Records (“COR”) that seek the same confidential
and proprietary information, such as FRPs Nos. 1-11, 18, 23, 28, 29, 30, 31,
33, 43, 53, 55, 56, and 62. 
 
First,
Plaintiff GHB argues on February 21, 2024, California’s Department of Cannabis
Control (“DCC”) launched 4 new data dashboards that display publicly, for the
very first time, aggregated data from 2020, 2021 and 2022, and partial year
data for 2023 reflecting sales, pricing, harvest, and licensing information.
Plaintiff GHB contends this data proves with absolute certainty that the
underlying “math” employed by Defendant Lewis as the sole justification for his
false and defamatory statements and, saliently, the discovery challenged
hereunder, is demonstrably false because it shows that Plaintiff GHB’s market
share ranged between approximately 1.7% and 8.2% of cannabis plants, 0.6% and
6.2% of pounds of wet weight cannabis, and 0.24% and 2.14% of pounds of dry
weight cannabis during 2020, 2021, 2022, and partially 2023. 
 
In
fact, Plaintiff GHB contends that the DCC dashboards disprove Defendants’
hypothesis to such a degree that they should not be able to “test it” through
an invasive and improper fishing expedition where the entire basis for it rests
on faulty assumption. Second, Plaintiff GHB argues on February 22, 2024, Defendant
Elliot Lewis utilized a platform at a premier cannabis investor conference,
sponsored by and featuring Plaintiff GHB, to repeat his defamatory statements
about Plaintiff GHB and to intimidate investors in attendance so that they would
reconsider or decide not to invest in Plaintiff GHB. Furthermore, Plaintiff GHB
argues Defendant Lewis's reprehensible behavior confirms Plaintiff GHB’s prediction
outlined in the opposition to the COR motion and Interrogatory motion that Defendants
are pursuing Plaintiff GHB’s confidential, proprietary, sensitive, and trade
secret information for the express purpose of harassing Plaintiff GHB’s customers
and investors, thereby destroying Plaintiff GHB’s business. Specifically,
Plaintiff GHB contends Defendant Lewis accused Plaintiff GHB of massive
diversion and its investors of being complicit in criminal activity at the both
the conference, in multiple videos posted on the @atalyst_ceo Instagram
account, and in a rant posted on his personal LinkedIn account. 
 
Plaintiff
GHB further contends that while not directly identifying Plaintiff GHB or Kazan
and Farrar by name, Defendant Lewis made clear that he was talking about
Plaintiff GHB by referencing being in deep litigation was the company. As such,
Plaintiff GHB asserts to provide its trade secrets to Defendants would
substantially and unnecessarily prejudice Plaintiff GHB insofar as its most
confidential information would be disclosed to a competitor who had repeatedly
telegraphed its intent to wreak havoc and cause Plaintiff GHB financial harm.
Moreover, Plaintiff GHB asserts the potential harm outweighs any probative
value in its customer list because Plaintiff GHB only needs to establish that
its cultivated cannabis was transferred through METRC, which can be produced by
Plaintiff GHB and confirmed by the DCC without the need of disclosing the
identities of its customers. Lastly, Plaintiff GHB contends the existence of
the Stipulated Protective Order does not solve this present dilemma because Defendants
have made it clear that they would have defy or circumvent the Stipulated
Protective Order by issuing subpoenas to all of Plaintiff’ GHB’s customers. 
 
            In opposition, Defendant SCH argues that
while the DCC dashboard data, which is expressly disclaimed by the DCC as to
its reliability, factually supports Defendant Lewis’ alleged statements, it
does not prove or confirm them. In fact, Defendant SCH asserts that the DCC
discloses: “Data Sources – The information contained in the accompanying tabs
was derived from data entered into the California Cannabis Track-and-Trace
system by licensed cannabis businesses. The Department does not make any
warranties or guarantees regarding the accuracy of the source data.” (Augustini
Decl. ¶, Ex. C.) 
 
Furthermore,
Defendant SCH asserts that the dashboard data shows that since 2020, between 80
and 93% of all cultivated cannabis that entered the METRC system was diverted
to the illicit market prior to final retail sale. (Lewis Decl. ¶¶ 4-11, Exs.
A-I.) Thus, Defendant SCH contends the discovery Plaintiff GHB has been ordered
to provide is aimed at demonstrating the diversion of Plaintiff GHB’s cannabis
and will assist in Defendant SCH is determining whether Plaintiff GHB’s
specific diversion rate is equal to if not greater than that of the industry as
a whole. Similarly, Defendant SCH argues most of the dashboard data heralded by
Plaintiff GHB is irrelevant or inapposite, and the package weight data factually
supports Defendant Lewis’ challenged statements because (1) the category of “plant
count” provides no information whatsoever about the amount of cannabis Plaintiff
GHB cultivates, produces, transfers or is diverted; Defendant Lewis comments did
not refer to “wet weight” in the challenged videos only “dry” cannabis; and the
“package weight” data supports a much higher diversion rate for Plaintiff GHB than
the 70-80% referenced in Defendant Lewis’ alleged defamatory statements. 
 
Defendant
SCH argues that the Court should disregard Plaintiff GHB’s new trade secret
objection because it did not assert that objection in its original discovery
responses, and thus it has been waived. Likewise, Defendant SCH contends Plaintiff
GHB’s counsel undoubtedly knew before filing this motion that this objection
was waived and could not form a new fact supporting reconsideration but
improperly asserted it anyway. Defendant SCH also argues all of the so-called new
facts supporting its purported trade secret objection were, by definition, in Plaintiff
GHB’s possession or readily available to it long before it opposed Defendant
SCH’s motions and Plaintiff GHB provided no declaration testimony, as legally
required, showing it could not have asserted before, nor any new information
that with reasonable diligence it could not have obtained earlier. 
 
Defendant
SCH further asserts that Plaintiff GHB does not attempt to establish the legal
requirements for trade secret protection. Finally, Defendant SCH argues
Defendant Lewis’ comments at the Benzinga Conference are not new facts or
circumstances that support reconsideration because Plaintiff GHB provides no
evidence showing Defendant Lewis has ever improperly disclosed or misused
information that Plaintiff GHB designated as confidential or highly
confidential under the Stipulated Protective Order; presents no evidence
Defendant Lewis or his counsel intends to violate the Stipulated Protective
Order; and only provides evidence that Lewis referenced Plaintiff GHB’s
publicly disclosed, non-confidential Quarter 3 2023 financial information when
making comments. 
            
In
reply, Plaintiff GHB argues Defendant SCH does not dispute that the new DCC
dashboard establishes that Plaintiff GHB may represent only a small percentage
of cultivated cannabis. Plaintiff GHB further argues Defendant SCH does not
dispute Defendant Lewis’ Benzinga tirade is new evidence and confirms it will
violate the Stipulated Protective Order by using the highly confidential
customer list. Moreover, Plaintiff GHB contends Defendant SCH’s opposition
makes clear that this discovery is all aimed at improperly seeking information
about downstream transactions. In addition, Plaintiff GHB asserts Defendant SCH
falsely claims that it is seeking to block all discovery because since the
court order Plaintiff GHB has produced thousands of pages of documents that
substantiate that it sells cannabis through METRC, while also producing
documents relating to its procedures and protocols to ensure compliance with
the applicable rules and regulations. Plaintiff GHB also asserts Defendant SCH
falsely claims that Plaintiff GHB waived its trade secrets objections when it
was asserted in response to each interrogatory and request at issue. Last,
Plaintiff GHB argues Defendant Lewis’ latest mathematical calculations are
irrelevant because it beyond the permissible scope of discovery. 
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff GHB has not shown that the new facts or
circumstances warrant modification, amendment or revocation of the present
Discovery Order. First, the dashboard data was available on February 21, 2024,
a day prior to the hearing giving rise to the present Discovery Order and
Plaintiff GHB has not explained why this information was not produced at an
earlier time. Also, information known to Plaintiff GHB at the time of the
original ruling are not “new” facts or circumstances. Further, Plaintiff GHB’s
evidence appears to show that the February 22, 2024 statements allegedly made
by Defendant Lewis were made prior to the original hearing. As such, these
statements are not “new” facts or circumstances and Plaintiff GHB does not
provide any explanation why this information was not produced at an earlier
time. Nevertheless, Plaintiff GHB’s evidence does not support that the
dashboard data is reliable and/or accurate and Plaintiff GHB’s CFO Mark
Vendetti admits as much in his declaration. Lastly, Plaintiff GHB’s evidence
does not support that Defendant Lewis has in the past or will in the future
disclose highly confidential, proprietary information provided through
discovery. 
 
Therefore,
the motion for reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 12th day of April 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



