 Case Number:  24PSCV00170    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Brenda
Limbrick’s Motion for Preferential Trial Setting is GRANTED. 
Background   
Plaintiff Brenda Limbrick (“Plaintiff”)
sustained injuries in a February 24, 2022 pedestrian
v. motor vehicle accident in San Dimas.
On
January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a cause of action
against Jose Faustino Zaragosacuevas, Urban Graffiti Enterprises, Inc. and Does
1-50 for:
1.                 
Negligence 
A
Case Management Conference is set for June 17, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A party to a civil action who is over
70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if the court makes both of the following findings:
(1) The party has a
substantial interest in the action as a whole. 
(2) The health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party’s interest in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).). 
“An affidavit
submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of
Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based
upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any
party. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5.)
If a motion for
preference is granted, the court must set a trial date not more than 120 days
from the date that the motion is granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (f).)
Finally, subdivision (c)(1) requires that all essential parties be served with
process or have appeared in the action in order to grant a motion for
preference.
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the
court, per Code of Civil Procedure § 36, subdivision (a), for an order granting
trial preference in this action. Plaintiff contends that she is entitled to
preference in this action, on the basis that she is over the age of 70 and has
a deteriorating health condition.
Plaintiff’s counsel Mark Iodice (“Iodice”)
attaches a copy of some of Plaintiff’s medical records, which reflect that her
birthdate is May 28, 1951 (i.e., making her 73 years old). (Iodice Decl., ¶ 7, Exh.
A.) The court finds that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in
the action because she is the only Plaintiff in the case and alleges that she
was injured.
The court further finds that Plaintiff’s health is such that
a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing Plaintiff’s interest in the
litigation, pursuant to subsection (a). “The standard under subdivision (a), unlike under
subdivision (d), which is more specific and more rigorous, includes no
requirement of a doctor's declaration. To the contrary, a motion under
subdivision (a) may be supported by nothing more than an attorney's declaration
‘based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of
any party.’ (§ 36.5; accord Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶ 12:247.1, p. 12(I)-44
[attorney declaration under section 36.5 ‘can consist entirely of hearsay and
conclusions’].).” (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th
529, 534). Iodice attests that Plaintiff’s health is declining and that
she suffers from End Stage Renal Disease, “which requires her to undergo
dialysis multiple times a week to stay alive,” and that she has “multiple
serious health conditions.” (Iodice Decl., ¶ 6).
Further, “[t]he application of section 36, subdivision (a)
does not violate the power of trial courts to regulate the order of their
business. Mere
inconvenience to the court or to other litigants is irrelevant. Failure to
complete discovery or other pretrial matters does not affect the absolute
substantive right to trial preference for those litigants who qualify for
preference under subdivision (a) of section 36. The trial court has no power to
balance the differing interests of opposing litigants in applying the
provision. The express legislative mandate for trial preference is a
substantive public policy concern which supersedes such considerations.” (Swaithes
v. Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085-1086).
Plaintiff’s counsel has not provided the court with a
declaration attesting that all essential parties and defendants have been
served with process in this action; however, a review of the procedural history
of this case on ecourt reflects that all defendants (i.e., Kohls, DMG and LFR)
have, in fact, been served and have appeared, as have all cross-defendants
(i.e., DMG and LFR).
Accordingly, the court grants trial preference. The Trial
and Final Status Conference dates will be set at the time of the hearing.