 Case Number:  22STCV03515    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to Dismiss
Moving Party:             Defendant
Beth Hubbard
Opposing Party:          Plaintiff
Alena Reznick 
Tentative Ruling:         Denied
BACKGROUND
This case arises out of a car collision which occurred
on January 28, 2020. Plaintiff brought the case against both Seth Paradox
(“Paradox”), Nathan Hallie (“Hallie”), and Beth Hubbard (“Hubbard”), alleging
that he sustained injuries in the incident. 
Plaintiff filed his Summons and Complaint against Hallie, Paradox, and
Hubbard on January 28, 2022, and filed proofs of service as to Hallie and
Paradox on February 14, 2022 and March 2, 2022, respectively. On January 3,
2023, plaintiff filed a request for dismissal as to Hallie and Paradox. Hubbard
was not served by this point in time.
On November 2, 2023, the Court held an Order to Show
Cause Re: Failure to File Proof of Service. Counsel for plaintiff requested
additional time to file a proof of service and the hearing was continued to
February 5, 2024. On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff again requested additional
time to file a proof of service and/or proceed with an application for
publication, but the Court ordered no further continuances and a final Order to
Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Failure to Serve/Prosecute, scheduled for April
30, 2024. At the hearing on April 30, 2024, the Court granted, Plaintiff’s
Order for Publication. 
A new Order to Show Cause hearing was set for June 7,
2024, in Department T at the Alhambra Courthouse. Plaintiff was ordered to
publish the Summons, Complaint, Statement of Damages, and related documents in
the Los Angeles Daily Journal at least once per week for four weeks. The Order
for Publication is dated April 30, 2024. The Court continued the Show Cause
hearing from June 7, 2024 to August 20, 2024, at 8:30 a.m., because no judge
was available on the earlier date. On June 10, 2024, three days after the
hearing would have occurred, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a Proof of Publication,
indicating that the required documents were published in the Los Angeles Daily
Journal on May 17, 2024, May 24, 2024, May 31, 2024, and June 7, 2024.
MOVING PARTY POSITION
Defendant argues that the Court should dismiss
Plaintiff’s action due to Plaintiff’s unreasonable delay in prosecution.  
OPPOSITION
Plaintiff argues he made diligent efforts to serve
Defendant, who was not amenable to service. 
Plaintiff also requests that the Court grant sanctions
against Defendant on the basis that Defendant’s motion to dismiss is a
baseless, bad-faith delay tactic.
REPLY
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s opposition was
untimely.  On the merits, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s delayed prosecution has caused substantial prejudice because
Plaintiff dismissed other defendants prior to serving Defendant.
Defendant also argues the Court should deny
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions for failing to demonstrate Defendant’s motion
to be frivolous. Defendant in turn requests sanctions against Plaintiff for his
conduct and actions, which Defendant characterizes as in bad faith, frivolous,
and intended to cause unnecessary delay.
ANALYSIS
Under California Code of Civil Procedure §§
583.410-583.430, a party may seek relief for delay in prosecution if service is
not made within two years after the action is commenced against a defendant
(C.C.P. §583.420(a)(1)).  
Service requirements “are mandatory and are not
subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by
statute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 583.250, subd. (b).) “The standard of excuse for
delay in service of summons is more stringent than that applicable to a delay
in bringing a matter to trial.” (Scarzella v. DeMers (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th
1762, 1770.) A plaintiff has the burden of establishing facts to bring a case
within an exception to the general rule requiring dismissal. (Inversiones
Papaluchi S.A.S. v. Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1062.)
In addition to the foregoing authorities, the Court is
guided by strong public policy that “…all things being equal, we deem it
preferable to apply our decisions in such a manner as to preserve, rather than
foreclose, a litigant's day in court on the merits of his or her action.”
(Sierra Club v. San Joaquin Local Agency Formation Com. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 489,
509.)
Here, Plaintiff failed to serve Defendant for over two
years—ultimately serving Defendant via publication.  Defendant’s motion to dismiss this action
relies on Plaintiff’s lack of showing of excusable delay. However, Defendant’s
argument effectively establishes only that the court has discretion to dismiss
the case if Plaintiff fails to show a good reason for excusable delay. 
The Court exercises its discretion to consider the
late-filed opposition and in that opposition 
Plaintiff does provide an explanation for the delay. Namely, Plaintiff
made several attempts to locate and serve Defendant throughout the
two-and-a-half-year period before providing service via publication.
(Opposition p. 4-5.)  True, Plaintiff
could have been more diligent and completed service more quickly, but
Plaintiff’s explanation satisfies the Court that dismissing the case is not an
appropriate remedy and would not serve the interest of justice.  Because the record fails to show a pattern of
misconduct or unexplained delay, the Court declines to dismiss the case.  Plaintiff’s case against Defendant.
II.         SANCTIONS
CCP §128.5 states that a trial court may order a
party, the party's attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or
tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or
solely intended to cause unnecessary delay. The court may award attorney fees
incurred by a party as result of other party's bad-faith actions or frivolous
tactics to provide appropriate compensation to the prevailing party and
discourage burdensome and unnecessary legal tactics. (Pacific Trends Lamp &
Lighting Products, Inc. v. J. White, Inc. (App. 4 Dist. 1998) 76 Cal.Rptr.2d
918, 65 Cal.App.4th 1131, modified on denial of rehearing.)
While both Plaintiff and Defendant request sanctions
against the other on identical grounds—that each are engaged in frivolous
bad-faith tactics—neither Plaintiff nor Defendant provide evidence to suggest
the other has acted in bad faith. Rather, both parties solely rely on brief
conclusory allegations of the other’s bad faith. Finding neither party sets out
a substantive request support for sanctions, the Court thus finds that neither
Plaintiff nor Defendant are entitled to sanctions.
RULING
Defendant’s motion to dismiss is DENIED. Both parties’
motions for sanctions are DENIED.  
 