 Case Number:  22SMCV02549    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
VST 2020-NPL1 REO, LLC v. Ashley
Aarons et al., Case No. 22SMCV02549
Hearing Date November 1, 2023
Defendant Aarons’ Motion to Vacate
Summary Judgment Order
 
Defendant Aarons
moves to vacate the court’s prior order granting summary judgment, arguing the court’s
ruling was contrary to law and failed to consider all evidence and arguments. 
 
The motion
re-asserts various arguments raised in prior motions and oppositions –
including the claim the action was subject to a bankruptcy stay and expert
testimony shows prior transfers of the note were void. The court previously considered
and rejected these arguments, finding there was no effective bankruptcy stay
and the purported expert evidence was inadmissible. Aarons argues the court
“failed to issue a decision regarding the Debrunner case and whether or
not the assignment of deed of trust must state that both the note and deed of
trust was [SIC] assigned.” Motion to vacate pg. 10. 
 
The previously considered
and rejected this argument. The reasoning is reproduced below: 
 
Debrunner
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 433
does not stand for the proposition that an assignment of a deed of trust is of
no legal effect without the actual transfer of the corresponding promissory
note. Defendants’ reliance on Debrunner argument misstates the holding.
Defendants rely on a portion of Brunner that analyzes the Ninth Circuit’s
decision in In re Veal (9th Cir. BAP 2011) 450 B.R. 897. Veal
concluded that transfer of the note was required for an assignee’s foreclosure
to be valid. The Debrunner court, however, declined to apply Veal,
finding that California law did not require a promissory note to be explicitly
assigned alongside a deed of trust. Debrunner, supra 204 Cal. App. 4th
at 441-442. Instead, the Debrunner court relied on other California
authority stating “[t]here is no stated requirement in California’s
non-judicial foreclosure scheme that requires a beneficial interest in both the
Note and the Deed of Trust to commence a non-judicial foreclosure sale.
Rather, the statute broadly allows a trustee, mortgagee, beneficiary, or any of
their agents to initiate non-judicial foreclosure.” Id. at 441. 
 
The
court considered and rejected defendants’ arguments multiple times. The MSJ
ruling is final. Further attempts to revisit these arguments will be treated as
frivolous and subject to sanctions. DENIED. 