 Case Number:  24STCP00180    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
In re Petition of:
J.G. WENTWORTH ORIGINATIONS, LLC,
                        PETITIONER,
            AND
            
DARRYL SAVALA,  
                        Real
  Party-In-Interest/ Transferor


 
 Case No.: 24STCP00180
 
 Hearing Date: February 28, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
FIRST amended PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF
  TRANSFER OF STRUCTERED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS
 



 
Background    
             On January 18, 2024, Petitioner J.G. Wentworth
Originations, LLC (“Petitioner”) filed the instant petition seeking the court’s
approval of the transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights by Darryl
Savala (“Payee”) to Petitioner. 
            On February 2, 2024, filed the
operative first amended petition.  No opposition
has been filed.  
 
Legal
Standard
            “‘Structured settlements are a type of settlement
designed to provide certain tax advantages. In a typical personal injury
settlement, a plaintiff who receives a lump-sum payment may exclude this
payment from taxable income under [the Internal Revenue Code]. However, any
return from the plaintiff's investment of the lump-sum payment is taxable
investment income. In contrast, in a structured settlement the claimant
receives periodic payments rather than a lump sum, and all of these payments
are considered damages received on account of personal injuries or sickness and
are thus excludable from income. Accordingly, a structured settlement
effectively shelters from taxation the returns from the investment of the
lump-sum payment.’” (321 Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 1059, 1064.)
            Under federal law, the transferee of the structured
settlement payment rights must pay a federal tax on the transaction, unless the
transferee obtains court approval of the transfer in advance in a qualified
order. (26 U.S.C. § 5891(a), (b).) A “‘qualified order’ [is] a final order,
judgment, or decree which [¶] (A) finds that the transfer ... [¶] (i) does not
contravene any Federal or State statute or the order of any court or
responsible administrative authority, and [¶] (ii) is in the best interest of
the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's
dependents.” (26 U.S.C. § 5891(b)(2)(A).)
The qualified order must be issued “under the authority of an
applicable State statute by an applicable State court.” (26 U.S.C. §
5891(b)(2)(B)(i).) In California, the Structured Settlement Protection Act
(Ins. Code § 10134 et seq.) is the applicable
state statute.
Insurance Code section 10139.5 provides that a transfer of structured
settlement payment rights is not effective unless the transfer has been
approved in advance in a final court order based on the following express
findings by the court that:
(1)   The transfer is in the best interest of the
payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee’s dependents.
(2)   The payee has been advised in writing by the
transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and
has either received that advice or knowingly waived that advice in writing.
(3)   The transferee has provided the payee with a
disclosure form that complies with Section 10136 and the transfer
agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.
(4)   The transfer does not contravene any
applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority.
(5)   The payee reasonably understands the terms of
the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure
statement required by Section 10136.
(6)   The payee understands and does not wish to
exercise the payee’s right to cancel the transfer agreement.
(Ins. Code § 10139.5(a).)
            “When determining whether the proposed transfer should be
approved, including whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the
payee’s best interest, the court shall consider the totality of the
circumstances, including, but not limited to: (1) the reasonable preference and
desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account
the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level;
(2) the stated purpose of the transfer; (3) the payee’s financial and economic
situation; (4) the terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is
transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her
future payments; (5) whether the future periodic
payments were intended to pay for future medical care of the payee related to
the incident that was the subject of the settlement; (6) whether the payee has
other means of income or support sufficient to meet the payee’s future
financial obligations for support of payee’s dependents, such as child
support; (7) whether there were previous transactions involving payee’s
structured settlement payments; and (8) whether the payee and his or her
dependents are facing a hardship situation.” (Ins. Code § 10139.5(b).) 
            Procedurally, Insurance Code section 10136 provides that
ten or more days before the payee executes a transfer agreement, the transferee
shall provide the payee with a separate written disclosure statement,
accurately completed with the information that applies to the transfer
agreement in at least 12-point type or 14-point font as specified in the
example given in the section. (Ins. Code § 10136(b).) 
            The court-approval process requires the transferee to file
a petition in the county in which the transferor resides for approval of the
transfer.  (Ins. Code §
10139.5(f)(1).)  In addition, the
following elements are required to be served and filed not less than 20 days
prior to the scheduled hearing on any application for approval of a transfer of
structured settlement payment rights:
(A) A copy of the transferee’s current and any
prior petitions.
(B) A copy of the transfer agreement.
(C) A listing of each of the payee’s dependents,
together with each dependent’s age.
(D) A copy of the disclosure required in
subdivision (b) of Section 10136.
(E)  A copy of the annuity contract, if available.
(F)  A copy of any qualified assignment agreement,
if available.
(G) A copy of the underlying structured settlement
agreement, if available.
(H) If a copy of a document described in
subparagraph (E), (F), or (G) is unavailable or cannot be located, then the
transferee is not required to attach a copy of that document to the petition or
notice of the proposed transfer if the transferee satisfies the court that
reasonable efforts to locate and secure a copy of the document have been made,
including making inquiry with the payee. If the documents are available, but
contain a confidentiality or nondisclosure provision, then the transferee shall
summarize in the petition the payments due and owing to the payee, and, if
requested by the court, shall provide copies of the documents to the court at a
scheduled hearing.
(I)    Proof of service showing compliance with the
notification requirements of this section. 
(J)   Notification that any interested party is
entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond to the transferee’s
application, either in person or by counsel, by submitting written comments to
the court or by participating in the hearing.
(K) Notification of the time and place of the
hearing and notification of the manner in which and the time by which written
responses to the application must be filed, which may not be less than 15 days
after service of the transferee's notice, in order to be considered by the
court.
(L)  If the payee entered into the structured
settlement at issue within five years prior to the date of the transfer
agreement, then the transferee shall provide notice to the payee’s attorney of
record at the time the structured settlement was created, if the attorney is
licensed to practice in California, at the attorney’s address on file with the
State Bar of California. The notice shall be delivered by regular mail.
 (Ins. Code § 10139.5(f)(2))
            Lastly, the court shall retain continuing jurisdiction to
interpret and monitor the implementation of the transfer agreement as justice
requires.  (Ins. Code § 10139.5(i).)  
 
Discussion
            Petitioner seeks the transfer of 48 monthly payments of
$3,500.00 beginning March 1, 2024 and ending on February 1, 2028.  In return for this structured settlement
payments totaling $168,000.00 split over four years, Payee would receive $128,500.00.
 
Procedural Requirements
Venue is proper.  Payee is
domiciled in Los Angeles County.  (Savala
Decl. ¶ 1.)  The proof of service filed
indicates that the second amended petition and notice, including exhibits, were
served on all interested parties on February 2, 2024 by overnight and regular
mail – more than twenty days before this hearing.  The proof of service reflects service on
Payee, the annuity obligator, and the annuity issuer.  Accordingly, this petition is timely, and all
interested parties have been served.   
Petitioner’s petition includes the required documents under Insurance
Code section 10139.5(f)(2): (A) copy of the current petition (no previous
petition has been filed), (B) a copy of the transfer agreement (Exh. A); (C)
that Payee has a no spouse or minor children, (Savala Decl. ¶ 8), (D) a copy of
the disclosures for the transfer agreement (Exh. B); (E) a copy of the annuity
contract (Exh. C); (H) as a copy of the underlying settlement agreement is
unavailable, an affidavit from Payee setting forth that reasonable efforts to
locate such settlement agreement were made (Exh. D); (I-K) proof of service of
notice on interested parties that they are entitled to respond to this petition
and of the time and place of the hearing; and (L) as the structured settlement
was made in 1996 a courtesy copy is not necessary to Payee’s attorney of record
at the time.
Accordingly, Petitioner has fulfilled the requirements of Insurance
Code section 10139.5(f)(2).  
 
Factual Findings
The disclosure (Exh. B) complies with the requirements of Insurance
Code section 10136.  Moreover, the
transfer agreement complies with Insurance Code section 10138 as no prohibited
language is included in the transfer agreement. 
(Exh. A.)  Accordingly, the Court
finds that the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138, as
required by Section 10139.5(a)(3).  (Ins.
Code § 10139.5(a)(3).)  
Here, the Petitioner sufficiently shows that the transfer is in the
Payee’s best interest.  The payment
amount represents 86.10% of the estimated current value of the payments.  (Exh. A.) 
The settlement payments were not intended to pay for the future medical
care and treatment relating to the incident that was the subject of the
settlement nor for necessary living expenses. 
(Savala Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)  Payee has
no court ordered obligation to pay child support.  (Savala Decl. ¶ 8.)  Payee has two dependents, a 17-year-old minor
child, and a 8-year-old minor child who resides with Payee.  (Savala Decl. ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff is married and has a steady income
through his spouse’s employment, from his unemployment benefits, and from SSI.  (Savala Decl. ¶ 8.)  However, “[Payee] [is] currently experiencing
a financial hardship. If approved, [Payee] will use the money received from the
proposed settlement to start a business, more specifically a General
Contracting company with specialization in Electrical work as [he] ha[s] many
years of experience in this field as well as all the necessary certifications
from [his] past. [Payee] would also need to purchase tools, and other business
necessities in order to operate. [Payee] [is] currently working a Business Plan
to lay out [his] goals for [his] future company.”  (Savala Decl. ¶ 11.)
Given these factors, the instant transfer appears to be in Payee’s best
interest.  Payee does not wish to
exercise his right to cancel the transaction. 
(Savala Decl. ¶ 13.)  In addition,
Payee was advised in writing by Petitioner to seek independent professional
advice regarding the transfer and knowingly waived this right.  (Savala Decl. ¶ 12; Exh. E.)
In sum, the (1) transfer is in the Payee's best interest, taking into
account the welfare and support of the Payee's dependents, (Ins. Code §
10139.5(a)(1)); (2) Payee has been advised in writing by the Petitioner to seek
independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received
that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive this
advice, (Ins. Code § 10139.5(a)(2)); (3) the Petitioner complied with the
notice requirements in Insurance Code § 10139.5(f)(2), the disclosure complies
with Insurance Code § 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with Insurance
Code § 10138, (Ins. Code § 10139.5(a)(3)); (4) the transfer does not contravene
any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority,
(Ins. Code § 10139.5(a)(4)); (5) the Payee understands the terms of the
transfer agreement, (Ins. Code § 10139.5(a)(5)); and (6) the Payee understands
and does not wish to exercise the Payee's right to cancel the transfer
agreement, (Ins. Code § 10139.5(a)(6)).
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Based on the foregoing reasons, Petitioner J.G. Wentworth
Originations, LLC’s petition approving transfer of structured settlement
payment rights is GRANTED.
Pursuant to Insurance Code § 10139.5(i),
the Court retains jurisdiction to interpret and monitor the implementation and
closing of the transaction that is the subject of the transfer agreement as
justice requires.
Petitioner is ordered to provide notice of this order and file proof of
service of such. 
 
DATED: February ___, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court