 Case Number:  22STCV34211    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  57  
Sirena Hovagimyan is the daughter
and heir of Mary Babayan, Hovagimyan alleges in her complaint that on or about
October 15, 2021, Babayan was admitted to Defendant CHA Hollywood Presbyterian
Medical Center (“Hollywood Presbyterian”), where she was denied adequate,
reasonable medical care and treatment and, as a result, died on October 26,
2021. Hovagimyan’s operative pleading is her First Amendment Complaint (“the
FAC”).   The FAC seeks relief for herself
in her individual capacity and on behalf of Babayan’s estate in her capacity as
Babayan’s successor in interest.  In addition
to Hollywood Presbyterian, the FAC names several medical doctors as Defendants.
Pending before the Court are the demurrer to the FAC and motion to strike portions
of the FAC that were filed by three of those doctor Defendants, Nelson Owyoung,
Joseph Nussbaum, and Khaldoun Sroujieh (“the Moving Defendants”).  
The first cause of action in the
FAC, which is for wrongful death based on medical negligence, and the fifth
cause of action, which is for wrongful death based on elder abuse, are brought
by Hovagimyan in both her individual capacity and as successor in interest.  The Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the first and
fifth causes of action is sustained without leave to amend to the extent that
Hovagimyan is bringing those causes of action as successor in interest because she
lacks standing to bring a wrongful death claim in that capacity.  She may bring those claims only in her
individual capacity.   Even as to her
individual capacity, however, the allegations in the FAC are insufficient to
state a claim against the Moving Defendants for wrongful death based on medical
negligence or elder abuse.   The Moving
Defendants’ demurrer to the first and fifth causes of action is thus sustained
with leave to amend to the extent that Hovagimyan is bringing those cause of action
in her individual capacity.
The second cause of action is for
medical malpractice/medical negligence and is brought by Hovagimyan as successor
in interest.  The allegations in the FAC
are insufficient to state a medical malpractice/medical negligence claim
against the Moving Defendants.  Accordingly,
the Moving Defendants demurrer to the second cause of action is sustained with
leave to amend.
The third cause of action is for
medical malpractice and is brought by Hovagimyan in her individual
capacity.  That cause of action can only
be brought by Hovagimyan as a successor in interest.   Therefore,
the Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained
without leave to amend.   The second
cause of action is the medical malpractice action that Hovagimyan can bring,
for that cause of action is asserted in her capacity as successor in interest.
The fourth cause of action is for
elder abuse and is brought by Hovagimyan as a successor in interest.  The allegations in the FAC are insufficient to
state an elder abuse claim against the Moving Defendants.  Accordingly, the Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the fourth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
The sixth cause of action is for
fraud and concealment and is brought by Hovagimyan as successor in
interest.  The allegations in the FAC fail
to satisfy the heightened pleading requirements for fraud claims.  Accordingly, the Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to the sixth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
The eighth cause of action is for violations
of Health and Safety Code Section 1430 and is brought by Hovagimyan in her
individual capacity and as successor in interest.  The Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the eighth
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend to the extent that
Hovagimyan brings that cause of action in her individual capacity, which she
cannot do.   The demurrer to the eighth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend to the extent that Hovagimyan
brings that cause of action as successor in interest because the allegations in
the FAC are insufficient to support the proposition that the Moving Defendants are
licensees of a skilled nursing facility, which is essential for a Section 1430
claim.
The seventh cause of action is for unlawful
and unfair competition under Business and Professions Code Section 17200 and is
brought by Hovagimyan as successor in interest.  The Moving Defendants demurrer to the seventh cause
of action is sustained with leave to amend because the allegations in the FAC
are insufficient to establish a predicate act by the Moving Defendants that
would support a claim under Business and Professions Code Section 17200.
In light of the Court’s ruling on
the Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC, their motion to strike targeting
the FAC is denied as moot.