 Case Number:  22STCV20019    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
reviewed the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 20, 2022, Plaintiff Amanda Montano
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”) and Does
1-100 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
July 27, 2022, Metro filed an answer. 
On
February 21, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Defendant Joseph
Aquino (“Aquino”) as Doe 1. 
On March
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Metro’s further responses to request
for production of documents, set three, and for sanctions.  The motion was set for hearing on April 11,
2024.  On March 28, 2024, Metro filed an
opposition.  On April 2, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 20, 2024. 
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
The
parties participated in an IDC on April 4, 2024. 
B.       Timeliness of motion 
A
notice of motion to compel further responses must be given within 45 days of
the service of the responses, or any supplemental responses, or on or before
any specific later date to which the parties have agreed in writing. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c) [demand for inspection].) Failure to file a motion
within this time period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel further
responses to a demand for inspection. 
On March
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Metro’s further responses to
request for production of documents, set three.  Metro does not dispute the timeliness of the motion. 
C.   Meet and confer 
“A
motion to compel must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2) [demand for inspection].)  “A meet and confer declaration must state
facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
Plaintiff
has provided a meet and confer declaration. 
D.      Separate statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345,
requires that any motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Plaintiff
has provided a “Statement of Response in Dispute.” 
APPLICABLE LAW 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 provides in part: 
“(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: 
“(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete. 
“(2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 
“(3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
each of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(3) In lieu of a separate statement required under
the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a
concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute. 
“(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45
days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party
and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any
right to compel a further response to the demand. 
* * *
 “(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h).) 
DISCUSSION 
Propounded:          January 17, 2024           
Responses:             February 21, 2024                  
Motion
filed:          March 13, 2024 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to compel further responses to her request for “All DOCUMENTS
reflecting results of all drug testing of Joseph Aquino, identified by badge
number 88853, for the thirty(30) day period immediately after the incident
described in the Complaint in this action.” 
Metro
objected that the request violated Aquino’s privacy rights and was overbroad,
vague, and ambiguous. 
Even
highly relevant, nonprivileged information may be shielded from discovery if
its disclosure would impair a person’s right to privacy under State or federal
law.  (See L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:293, p. 8C-97
(Cal. Practice Guide).) 
“Unlike
privilege, the protection afforded is qualified, not absolute.  In each case, the court must carefully
balance the right of privacy against the need for discovery [citation].  The showing required to overcome the
protection depends on the nature of the privacy right asserted; in some cases,
a simple balancing test is sufficient, while in others, a compelling interest
must be shown.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:294, p. 8C-98.)  “The burden is on
‘the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the
seriousness of the prospective invasion,’ and then the court must ‘weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
The
Court has weighed Plaintiff’s need for documents responsive to the request against
Aquino’s privacy rights.  The Court finds
that the request will not violate Aquino’s privacy rights if the request is
limited to one week after the incident. 
Therefore, with this modification, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel. 
The
Court denies both parties’ requests for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Amanda Montano’s motion to
compel Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority's further
responses to requests for production of documents, set three, and orders
Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority to provide
further verified, code-compliant responses to requests for production, set two,
number 33, limited to one week after the incident, and to produce the
documents, electronically stored information, and/or other things requested, limited
to one week after the incident, by May 10, 2024. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Amanda Montano’s request for sanctions. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s
request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.