 Case Number:  22STCV25289    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On August
5, 2022, Plaintiff Matt Sivaborvorn (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Everytable, PBC, Harvest Fresh Foods, PBC, dba Harvest Fresh Foods,
Ryder System, Inc., Patrick August Gorse, and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort
and general negligence. 
On
December 7, 2022, Defendants Everytable, PBC, Harvest Fresh Foods, PBC dba Harvest
Fresh Foods, Ryder System, Inc., and Patrick August Gorse filed an answer. 
On
February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant Patrick August Gorse (“Gorse”) and for sanctions.  Gorse has not filed an opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 25, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to compel Gorse to appear for a deposition and to impose
sanctions on Gorse and his counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. 
*
* *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
On
December 9, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Gorse’s deposition for December 21, 2023.  Gorse did not serve a timely objection to the
deposition notice.  On December 20, 2023,
the day before the scheduled deposition, Gorse’s counsel told Plaintiff’s
counsel that the deposition would not take place and that Gorse’s counsel would
provide new deposition dates.  Despite Plaintiff’s
counsel’s repeated requests, however, Gorse’s counsel did not provide new
deposition dates and had not provided new dates by the time Plaintiff filed
this motion. 
The
Court grants the motion because Gorse failed to attend a properly noticed deposition
without first serving a valid objection. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff's counsel has met and conferred with Gorse's counsel in an attempt to reschedule
Gorse’s deposition, without success. 
Plaintiff
requests sanctions of $1,310.00 under Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450,
subdivision (g)(1), based on five hours of attorney time at a rate of $250.00
per hour and one $60.00 filing fee. 
Counsel’s time included meeting and conferring with defense counsel,
preparing the moving papers, drafting the anticipated reply, and appearing at
the hearing. 
The
Court awards sanctions of $560.00 based on two hours of attorney time and one
filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS
Plaintiff
Matt Sivaborvorn’s motion to
compel the deposition of Defendant Patrick August Gorse.  The Court orders Defendant Patrick August
Gorse to appear for a deposition within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff
Matt Sivaborvorn’s request for sanctions. 
The Court imposes $560.00 in sanctions on Defendant Patrick August Gorse
and his attorneys Maxine D. Harvey, Esq., and Case Harvey Fedor, Esq., jointly
and severally, to be paid to Plaintiff Matt Sivaborvorn within 30 days of the
hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.