 Case Number:  21STCV28050    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  28 The rental
company that leased a car to an allegedly negligent driver who lives abroad
filed an answer on the driver’s behalf to the lawsuit filed by the allegedly injured
plaintiff.  However, when the plaintiff
sought to depose the driver, the rental company asserted it had no contact with
the driver and was not responsible for producing him for deposition.  The plaintiff has moved to compel the driver’s
deposition or to strike his answer. 
BACKGROUND 
On
July 30, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Lourdes Acosta (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Ren Yang (“Yang”), PV Holding Corp.
dba Avis (“Avis”), and Does 1-50 for negligence/negligence per se. 
On
October 12, 2021, Defendant PV Holding Corp. filed an answer. 
On
July 13, 2023, Yang (served on Avis on behalf of its renter under the provisions
of Civil Code section 1939.33) filed an answer. 
On
September 28, 2023, Avis filed an amended answer for Yang clarifying that Avis's counsel
represented “Defendants PV Holding Corp.,
and Avis, A Delaware Corporation [(]on behalf [of] its Renter Ren Yang Under the
Provisions of California Civil Code §1939.33).” 
On
October 3, 2023, the Court dismissed Defendant PV Holding Corp. without
prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Yang’s deposition and for
sanctions.  The motion was set to be
heard on April 11, 2024.  On March 27,
2024, Defendants PV Holding Corp. and Avis (on behalf of its renter Ren Yang under
the provisions of Civil Code section 1939.33) filed an opposition.  On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for July 17, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court (1) to compel Yang to appear for a deposition and award sanctions
and (2) to strike Yang’s answer if counsel cannot produce him for a deposition. 
Avis
asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Deposition 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when
the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance. 
*
* * 
“(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
B.   Civil Code section 1939.33 
Civil Code section 1939.33 provides: 
“(a) When a
rental company enters into a rental agreement in the state for the rental of a
vehicle to any renter who is not a resident of this country and, as part of, or
associated with, the rental agreement, the renter purchases liability
insurance, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1758.85 of the Insurance
Code, from the rental company in its capacity as a rental vehicle agent for an
authorized insurer, the rental company shall be authorized to accept, and, if
served as set forth in this section, shall accept, service of a summons and
complaint and any other required documents against the foreign renter for any
accident or collision resulting from the operation of the rental vehicle within
the state during the rental period. If the rental company has a registered
agent for service of process on file with the Secretary of State, process shall
be served on the rental company’s registered agent, either by first-class mail,
return receipt requested, or by personal service. 
“(b) Within
30 days of acceptance of service of process, the rental company shall provide a
copy of the summons and complaint and any other required documents served in
accordance with this section to the foreign renter by first-class mail, return
receipt requested. 
“(c) Any
plaintiff, or his or her representative, who elects to serve the foreign renter
by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint and any other required
documents to the rental company pursuant to subdivision (a) shall agree to
limit his or her recovery against the foreign renter and the rental company to
the limits of the protection extended by the liability insurance. 
“(d)
Notwithstanding the requirements of Sections 17450 to 17456, inclusive, of the
Vehicle Code, service of process in compliance with subdivision (a) shall be
deemed a valid and effective service. 
“(e)
Notwithstanding any other law, the requirement that the rental company accept
service of process pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not create any duty,
obligation, or agency relationship other than that provided in subdivision (a).” 
(Civ. Code, § 1939.33.) 
DISCUSSION 
          On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff served a deposition notice
setting Yang’s deposition for March 7, 2024. 
Plaintiff served the deposition notice on counsel for Avis. 
          On February 27, 2024, Avis, “on behalf of its Renter Ren
Yang Under the Provisions of California Civil Code §1939.33,” served objections to the deposition notice stating (1) the deposition notice violated
the location requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.250,
subdivision (a), (2) since Yang lives in China, Plaintiff was required to
notice his deposition using Hague Convention procedures, (3) the request for
production of documents included in the deposition notice was improper because Yang
“is not a party to the action,” and (4) the deposition notice violated Code of
Civil Procedure section 2031.030, subdivision (c)(2) because it did not specify
a reasonable time for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling that is at
least 30 days after service of the demand. 
The objection stated: “This responding defendant has no contact with Mr.
Yang, therefore, Ren Yang will not be appearing.” 
          Plaintiff moves to compel Yang’s deposition, arguing that Yang
is a party to the action and is subject to Plaintiff’s deposition notice. Plaintiff relies
on Anthony v. Xiaobin Li (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 816 (Anthony), where
the plaintiff filed a lawsuit to recover damages for personal injuries
sustained in a car accident between himself and the defendant in San
Francisco.  At the time of the accident,
the defendant lived outside of the United States and was driving a vehicle
rented from PV Holding Corporation, doing business as Avis Rent-A-Car (“PV
Holding”). The plaintiff had purchased a $1 million liability insurance policy
from PV Holding.  The complaint named
both PV Holding and the renter/driver as defendants.  (Anthony, supra,
47 Cal.App.5th at p. 818.) 
The
plaintiff served the summons and complaint on PV Holding as a named defendant
and separately served the pleadings on the renter/driver as a named defendant
by service on PV Holding under former Civil Code section 1936 [now § 1939.33].
 (Anthony, supra, 47
Cal.App.5th at p. 818.)  The
renter/driver and PV Holding, represented by the same counsel, filed separate
answers and separate discovery responses. 
(Ibid.) 
The case
later went to trial, resulting in a verdict against the renter/driver
defendant.  (Anthony,
supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at p. 820.)  The trial court granted the renter/driver’s
motion to tax costs.  (Ibid.) 
On
appeal, the Court of Appeal held that the trial court properly taxed expert witness
fees because the plaintiff’s 998 offer to both the renter/driver and PV Holding
was invalid. (Anthony, supra,
47 Cal.App.5th at pp. 820-822.)  The
Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiff “could have avoided a finding of
invalidity as to [the renter/driver] by serving a section 998 offer solely to [the
renter/driver] (even if [the plaintiff] had served a separate offer to PV
Holding).  [Citation.] Instead, and
without explanation, [the plaintiff] chose to direct his one section 998 offer
to both [the renter/driver] and PV Holding; an offer that required entry of judgment
against both defendants and acceptance of the offer by both defendants.”  (Id. at p. 822.) 
“Finally,
[t]he plaintiff] complain[ed] [that] [the renter/driver] was not a proper party to
whom to direct a Code of Civil Procedure section 998 offer because [the
renter/driver] was named as a defendant solely to reach insurance as allowed
under Civil Code section 1939.33, and [the renter/driver] was not participating
in the action which was being litigated by PV Holding, as the ‘real party’
insurer. [The plaintiff] thus contend[ed] that ‘[a]ddressing the settlement
offer solely to a non-participating foreign national who did not even know
about the lawsuit, and against whom [the plaintiff] was not allowed to collect
since he had agreed to limit his recovery to insurance, was ... an inadequate
approach.’ ” (Anthony, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at p. 823.) 
The
Court of Appeal disagreed, reasoning: “[The renter/driver] was a proper party
defendant to whom [the plaintiff] could direct a section 998 offer. Had the
section 998 offer been directed solely to [the renter/driver], and rejected,
any judgment entered against [the renter/driver] after trial, which exceeded
the offer, would have permitted [the plaintiff] to seek a discretionary award
of expert witness fees. The fact that [the plaintiff] would then have to bring
a second direct action against PV Holding, as the insurer, to recover any
judgment and statutory cost award entered against [the renter/driver] [citation] did not make a Code of Civil Procedure section
998 offer solely to [the renter/driver] ‘an inadequate approach.’ ”  (Anthony, supra, 47 Cal.App.5th
at p. 823.) 
Avis
contends the Court of Appeal’s statement in Anthony that the
renter/driver was a “proper party defendant” is “dicta.”  (Opposition p. 15.)  The Court of Appeal’s conclusion was not
dicta but instead was an integral part of the court’s ruling on the validity of
the plaintiff’s section 998 offer.    
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel Yang’s deposition because Plaintiff
has not shown that she served the deposition notice (or the motion to compel) on
Yang.  As Plaintiff and Avis both
acknowledge, under Civil Code section 1939.33, once Avis accepted service of process
on Yang’s behalf and mailed him the summons and complaint, Avis had no further
legal obligation to act on his behalf. 
(Motion p. 5; Opposition pp. 2, 11; see Civ. Code, § 1939.33, subd. (e)
[“Notwithstanding any other law, the requirement that the rental company accept
service of process pursuant to subdivision (a) shall not create any duty,
obligation, or agency relationship other than that provided in subdivision (a)”].)  Therefore, Plaintiff’s service of the
deposition notice and motion to compel on Avis’s counsel did not result in
service on Yang. 
Plaintiff
argues that if Avis, as it argues, “has no contact” with Yang, then Avis was
not authorized to file Yang’s answer and the Court should strike it.  The Court will not consider this argument because Plaintiff has not filed a motion to strike Yang’s
answer. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s and Avis’s requests for sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Maria Lourdes Acosta’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant
Ren Yang. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Maria Lourdes Acosta’s request for sanctions. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant PV Holding Corp.
dba Avis’s request for sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.