 Case Number:  20STCV44434    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  VERONICA JOSEPH, ET AL. Plaintiff(s),  vs.  HATHAWAY RECOVERY CENTER, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV44434  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR AN ORDER ALLOWING PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF MINOR TO BE FILED UNDER SEAL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 17, 2024  I. BACKGROUND On April 23, 2024, plaintiff Veronica Joseph (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant motion for an order allowing the petition for approval of compromise, pertaining to Kyle Machado, to be filed under seal. The petition sought to be sealed was initially filed on January 10, 2024, in which the Court instructed Plaintiff to tailor the proposed redactions more narrowly. (Min. Order, April 16, 2024.) On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a new petition, and has lodged the unredacted electronic copies with the Court for review.  The Court will now consider the motion to seal on the merits. No parties oppose the motion.  II. MOTION TO SEAL  Legal Standard California Rules of Court, rule 2.551(b)(1) states, “[a] party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing.”  CRC 2.550(d) makes clear that records cannot be sealed without appropriate findings.  It provides:   The Court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:  (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;  (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record;  (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;  (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and  (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).)    Discussion & Conclusion Here, Plaintiff provides the parties reached an agreement that the settlement amount would be subject to confidentiality. Plaintiff has lodged unredacted and redacted copies of the proposed petition to approve compromise and proposed order on Judicial Council form MC-351 (contained as part of MC-350 rather than separately filed). Plaintiff refers to a Settlement Agreement and moves to seal on the grounds that the terms and conditions contain a confidentiality provision.  The Court agrees that a confidential settlement agreement may support sealing of court records. Plaintiff cites to Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283. There, the court considered the issue of whether a confidential settlement agreement can be redacted at length. The Universal court concluded, “We agree with defendant that its contractual obligation not to disclose can constitute an overriding interest within the meaning of rule 243.1(d).” However, Plaintiff has not provided a copy of the Settlement Agreement upon which the overriding interest contention is premised on. The Court is unable to locate a copy of the referenced agreement in either the moving papers or contained as part of the lodged unredacted petition.   The motion to seal the petition for approval of compromise is therefore continued to provide Plaintiff the opportunity to lodge with the Court the absent agreement. The Hearing on Motion to Seal Application for an Order Sealing Portions of the Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action is continued to ___________________. Plaintiff must lodge the document at least five court days prior to the hearing.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  