 Case Number:  22TLC04451    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



OLD REPUBLIC
  SURETY COMPANY, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CALIFORNIA POOL MEN INC., et al.
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22TLC04451 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR ORDER TO DISTRIBUTE FUNDS
  PREVIOUSLY DEPOSITED WITH THE COURT 
 
Date: May 29, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:             Defendant/Cross-Complainants
Ryan Junsay (“Junsay”), Wendy Delgado (“Delgado”), Verbhert Malilim (“Malilim”)
and Princess Malilim (“Princess”)[1]
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        None as of May 28, 2024
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition or reply papers
were filed.
 


 
BACKGROUND
             Plaintiff Old Republic Surety Company issued Bond
No. GCL5921726 in the amount of $15,000 in consideration of an application
filed by Defendant California Pool Men, Inc. 
(“California”). Plaintiff received claims against the bond from
Defendants Junsay, Delgado,  Malilim and
Princess.  Defendant California
instructed Plaintiff not to pay Defendants Junsay, Delgado, Malilim or Princess’
claims.  In response, Plaintiff filed
this action in interpleader on July 6, 2022. 

 
            On September 15, 2022, Princess and Malilim
filed a cross-complaint against Defendants California, Andrew O’Neill (“O’Neill”),
Adam Aguirre (“Aguirre”), Anthony Aguirre (“Anthony”), Hthiku Oneill (“Oneill”),
Robert Vega (“Vega”) and Plaintiff alleging (1) interpleader; (2) breach of
contract; (3) breach of covenant to perform work in good and competent manner;
(4) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
fraud-misrepresentation; (6) negligent misrepresentation (“Malilim
Cross-Complaint”).  
 
            On September 15, 2022, Delgado and Junsay
filed a cross-complaint against California, O’Neill, Aguirre, Anthony, Oneill,
Vega and Plaintiff alleging (1) interpleader; (2) breach of contract; (3)
breach of covenant to perform work in good and competent manner; (4) breach of
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) fraud-misrepresentation; (6)
negligent misrepresentation. 
 
            On July 26, 2023, the Court granted
Plaintiff’s Motion for Order to Deposit by Stakeholder, for Discharge of
Stakeholder and Request for Attorney’s Fees. 
The motion was unopposed.
 
            On January 3, 2024, the Court
entered dismissals of Delgado and Junsay’s cross-complaint and the Malilim cross-complaint.  On March 12, 2024, the Court set aside those
dismissals and reinstated the cross-complaints.
 
DISCUSSION
            Legal Standard
            “Any person, firm, corporation,
association or other entity against whom double or multiple claims are made, or
may be made, by two or more persons which are such that they may give rise to
double or multiple liability, may bring an action against the claimants to
compel them to interplead and litigate their several claims…The action of
interpleader may be maintained although the claims have not a common origin,
are not identical but are adverse to and independent of one another, or the
claims are unliquidated and no liability on the part of the party bringing the
action or filing the cross-complaint has arisen. The applicant or interpleading
party may deny liability in whole or in part to any or all of the claimants.
The applicant or interpleading party may join as a defendant in such action any
other party against whom claims are made by one or more of the claimants or
such other party may interplead by cross-complaint; provided, however, that
such claims arise out of the same transaction or occurrence.”  (CCP §386(b).)  “Except in cases where by the law a right to
a jury trial is now given, conflicting claims to funds or property or the value
thereof so deposited or delivered shall be deemed issues triable by the court,
and such issues may be first tried.” 
(CCP §386(e).)  
 
            “In an interpleader action, the
court initially determines the right of the plaintiff to interplead the funds;
if that right is sustained, an interlocutory decree is entered which requires
the defendants to interplead and litigate their claims to the funds.  Then, in the second phase of an interpleader
proceeding, the trial court also has the power under Code of Civil Procedure
section 386 to adjudicate the issues raised by the interpleader action
including: the alleged existence of conflicting claims regarding the
interpleaded funds; plaintiffs' alleged position as a disinterested mere
stakeholder; and ultimately the disposition of the interpleaded funds after
deducting plaintiffs' attorney fees.”  (Southern
California Gas Co. v. Flannery (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 477,
487.)  
 
Moving parties
fail to establish entitlement to distribution of the funds as requested
 
            Defendants Junsay, Delgado, Mailim
and Princess ask that the court distribute the interplead funds to them
equally.  According to Defendants, they
agree that they should each receive an equal share of the interpleaded funds
and they are represented by the same counsel. 

 
            Absent from the motion, however, is
any signed stipulation by all parties. 
Moving parties are essentially asking the court to enter a judgment
awarding each of them an equal share of the interpleaded funds.  Such a request would require submission of a
Stipulated Judgment.  
 
            Moving parties also fail to cite any
authority that would allow them to obtain a judgment in this matter by way of a
“Motion for Order to Distribute Funds.”  “The
interpleader proceeding is traditionally viewed as two lawsuits in one. The
first dispute is between the stakeholder and the claimants to determine the
right to interplead the funds. The second dispute to be resolved is who is to
receive the interpleaded funds.”  (Dial
800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 43.)  Resolution of the conflicting claims in the
“second lawsuit” can be done summarily by a motion for summary judgment. (City
of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1127 (“there
is no basis for Seltzer’s suggestion that completion of stage one…prevents
summary disposition of stage two”) (affirming order granting summary judgment
of law firm claimant to interpleaded funds).) 

 
            Defendants rely on Nationwide
Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. Eason (“Nationwide”) (1984) 736 F.2d 130 to
support their position that they are entitled to disbursement of funds.  Nationwide is federal authority
interpreting federal bankruptcy law and is inapposite.  Moreover, the quote relied on by Defendants
addresses a situation that does not exist here: 
“Following the default of the named defendants, the trustee was the single
remaining claimant to the fund. Although interpleader is proper only where
there are two or more claimants to a fund, we do not think that the court in
this case was bound to dismiss the action following the entry of the default
judgment. Clearly, if all but one named interpleader defendant defaulted,
the remaining defendant would be entitled to the fund.”  (Nationwide, supra, 736 F.2d at
133, fn. 4.)  
            
            Here, there are still four claimants
to the interpleaded funds.  Even if they
are all in agreement regarding the amount they should each receive from the
interpleaded funds, there is not  “a
single remaining claimant to the fund.” 
(Id.)
 
            While summary judgment of competing
claims is allowed, moving parties fail to cite any authority that would permit
resolution of conflicting claims on a simple motion for disbursement. To the
extent Defendants have reached an agreement regarding their respective shares
of the interpleaded funds, they must submit a Stipulated Judgment to the
court.  
            
            Defendants’ Motion for Order to
Distribute Funds is DENIED.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 29th day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 


