 Case Number:  23STCV17147    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GREISYLE PARADA,
  ET AL. 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA, ET AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV17147 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET ONE)
 
Date: 
  May 29, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs
Greislye Parada and Bryan Andrew Carrillo
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        None as of May 28, 2024 
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition or reply papers
were filed.
 
BACKGROUND
             On July 21, 2023, Plaintiffs Greisyle Parada
and Bryan Andrew Carrillo filed a complaint for violations of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act against Hyundai Motor America.  Plaintiffs alleged causes of action for: (1)
violation of Civil Code §1793.2(d); (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2(b); (3)
violation of Civil Code §1793.2(a)(3); (4) violation of breach of express
warranty (Civil Code §1791.2(a); 1794); and (5) breach of the implied warranty
of merchantability (Civil Code §§1791.1 and 1794).
 
MEET AND CONFER
            Plaintiffs submit a meet and confer
declaration as required under CCP §§2016.040 and 2031.310(b)(2).  Plaintiffs corresponded with Defendant regarding
the discovery responses but the parties were unable to reach an agreement.  (Bedwan Dec., ¶¶16-25.)   In its meet and confer correspondence,
Defendant indicated it would be filing a Motion to Compel Arbitration and argued
discovery should not be discussed until after it was heard.  Defendant has not filed a Motion to Compel
Arbitration and there is no such motion on calendar.  
 
DISCUSSION
            Legal Standard
Song-Beverly Act
            The Song Beverly Act is a remedial
measure intended for protection of consumers and should be given a construction
consistent with that purpose.  To succeed
on a claim brought under the Act, the plaintiff bears the burden of proving, by
a preponderance of the evidence, several elements, including nonconformity of a
vehicle that substantially impaired its use, value or safety; presentation of
vehicle to manufacturer or authorized representative for repair; and failure to
repair the defect after a reasonable number of attempts.  (Ibrahim v. Ford Motor Co. (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 878, 886-887.)  A buyer may
also be entitled to a civil penalty of up to two times the actual damages upon
a showing that the manufacturer willfully failed to abide by any of its
obligations under the Act.  (Civ. C.
§1794(c).)
 


 
Scope of Discovery
and Discovery Obligations in Song-Beverly Act litigation 
CCP § 2017.010 
Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may relate to the claim or defense
of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.
 
CCP §2031.220
A
statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling has been directed will comply with the particular demand shall state
that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related
activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in part, and that all
documents or things in the demanded category that are in the possession,
custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is being made will
be included in the production.
 
CCP §2031.230
A
representation of inability to comply with the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search
and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand.
This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because
the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.
 
CCP § 2031.310
(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
            (2) A representation of inability to
comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
(b)
A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
            (1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.
            (2) The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
            (3) In lieu of a separate statement
required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving
party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in
dispute.
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
            The burden is on the moving party to
show both relevance to the subject matter and specific facts justifying
discovery.  (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.)  Once good cause is established by the moving
party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure.  (Hartbrodt
v. Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)    
 
            “Relevant evidence is defined in
Evidence Code section 210 as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove
or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of
the action.’ The test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically,
naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts.  The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 (evidence of post-warranty repairs relevant to
action based on warranty repairs because they could demonstrate that vehicle
was not repaired to conform to warranty during warranty period.) 
 
            In Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.
(2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, plaintiff alleged violation of the Song Beverly Act
based on the defendants’ failure to repair, repurchase, or replace a Bentley
that had an obnoxious odor in the interior. 
(Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at 971.).  The following discovery requests were deemed
“highly relevant” and failure to readily produce them prior to trial should
have resulted in terminating sanctions:  
 
“all documents
relating to (1) customer complaints concerning the rust inhibitor used on the
2002 Bentley Arnage; (2) all notices to Bentley dealers for the period 2001 to
date concerning the rust inhibitor used on the Bentley Arnage; (3) all warranty
repairs during the period of January 2002 to date of the Bentley Arnage related
to the rust inhibitor used on the 
vehicle; (4) all customer complaints of a wax oil smell caused by the
rust inhibitor on the 2002 Bentley Arnage; and (5) vehicle tests conducted on
the 2002 model year Arnage to confirm whether there was a wax oil smell arising
from the vehicle's rust inhibitor.”
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses is
GRANTED
            Plaintiffs move to compel further
responses to Requests for Production (“RFPs”) Nos. 16-21.  Defendant objected to each of the RFPs on the
ground that they were overinclusive. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ claims are limited to their own
specific vehicle and discovery into other vehicles is irrelevant. 
 
            Plaintiffs establish good cause for
further responses.  Plaintiffs’ RFPs seek
production of documents relating to the “Powertrain Defect” allegedly present
in their vehicle.  Plaintiffs seek
documents relating to that defect as it was present in vehicles of the same,
year, make and model.  As Plaintiffs
explain, whether the defect was present in other vehicles of the same year,
make and model and whether there were bulletins, customer complaints and
internal communications about this defect is relevant to Defendant’s knowledge
of the defect, Defendant’s ability to cure the defect, whether Defendant
undertook reasonable investigations as to whether the defect could be cured and
if so how.  Defendant’s knowledge of
these issues is relevant to the civil penalties available under the Song
Beverly Act, as well as whether Defendant undertook reasonable efforts to cure
the defect.  
            Having established good cause for
further production, the burden therefore shifts to Defendant to justify its
objections as meritorious.  Defendant did
not file an opposition. 
 
            Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to RFP is GRANTED in that Defendant is ordered to serve further,
complete, Code-compliant, verified responses to the RFPs within 20 days of the
date of this Order.   Although the motion requests that the
objections in the original responses be stricken, the Court has no authority to
do so, and therefore the objections stand, although Defendant is ordered to
provide substantive responses to the RFPs, together with all responsive
documents.  Plaintiffs did not request
sanctions and, as such, no sanctions are ordered.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 30th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



