  Case Number:  23VECV00851    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Michael Mizrachi,
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
John
  Kyle Rosen, et al.
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV00851           107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Sanctions
 
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
This court grants Plaintiff’s
motion for sanctions against Cross-Defendants’ counsel in the reduced amount of
$4,714.50.
 
I.
BACKGROUND
 
On July 9, 2022, plaintiff
Michael Mizrachi (“Plaintiff”) entered a lease (the “Lease”) to rent
residential real property (the “Property”) from defendants John
Kyle Rosen (“John”), Layne M. Rosen (“Layne”), and JKLMRO Trust (the “JKLMRO”
and, together with John and Layne, “Defendants”). (Complaint p. 1.) Two days
later, Plaintiff paid Defendants $72,000, half of which was a security deposit
and half of which was two months’ worth of rental payments. (Id. at p.
2; Cross-Complaint p. 3.) On August 9, 2022, Plaintiff refused possession of
the Property and on September 20, 2022, Plaintiff demanded return of the
$72,000, but Defendants provided neither an accounting nor the money to
Plaintiff. (Complaint at p. 2.) Plaintiff alleged to Defendants’ bank that the paid
money were stolen funds and the bank consequently “froze [Defendants’] liquid
assets for approximately three (3) months during the resulting investigation.”
(Cross-Complaint p. 3.)
 
On February 4, 2023, Plaintiff initiated the instant
lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging a single cause of
action for failure to return security deposit and rent pursuant to Cal. Civ.
Code § 1950.5. 
 
On June 2, 2023, Defendants filed a cross-complaint (the
“Cross-Complaint”) against Plaintiff, Marina Mizrachi (“Marina”), and MBM
Empire Trust (“MBM” and, together with Plaintiff and Marina, the
“Cross-Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) intentional interference
with contractual relations, (2) fraud — intentional misrepresentation, (3)
fraud — negligent misrepresentation, (4) negligence, and (5) declaratory
relief. 
 
Cross-Defendants failed to appear at case management
conferences on June 30, 2023 and August 14, 2023. (Motion p. 3.)
 
In August 2023, Defendants served Cross-Defendants with
discovery requests to which Cross-Defendants did not respond. (Id. at p.
4.)
 
On August 31, 2024, Cross-Defendants answered the
Cross-Complaint. (Ibid.)
 
Cross-Defendants failed to appear at a case management
conference on November 29, 2023. (Ibid.)
 
On February 6, 2024, at a case management conference at
which Plaintiff’s counsel appeared late, this court provided that Defendants
“may file a noticed motion for sanctions.” (Minute Order 02/06/24 p. 1.)
 
On February 13, 2024, Defendants filed the instant
unopposed motion for sanctions (the “Motion”).
 
II.
PARTY’S ARGUMENTS
            
Defendants seek $5,249.50 in attorney’s fees and costs in
sanctions from Cross-Defendants. (Motion p. 5.)
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has “done next to nothing
to litigate the case” since instigating this action “nearly one [] year ago.” (Id.
at p. 3.) Because Cross-Defendants have “chronically failed to adhere to their
statutory obligations since the inception of this case,” “this Court has had to
expend valuable judicial resources unnecessarily on this matter and Defendants
have had to incur needless expenses simply attempting the Plaintiffs-who filed
this case-to participate in the litigation.” (Id. at p. 5.)
 
Defendants argue that because Plaintiff failed to respond
to the Cross-Complaint within 30 days, Defendants’ counsel had to send
“multiple e-mail warning[s]” before Plaintiff filed an answer. (Id. at
p. 3; Dreblow Decl. p. 6.) Defendants further argue that because Plaintiff’s
counsel refused to accept service for Marina, who is Plaintiff’s wife, or MBM,
which is Plaintiff’s trust, “Defendants were required to conduct numerous
service attempts as well as surveillance before the Cross-Complaint was finally
served.” (Dreblow Decl. p. 6.) Defendants further contend they incurred costs
attending the case management conferences at which Cross-Defendants failed to
appear and in the preparation and defense of the Motion. (Id. at pp.
7–8.)
            
III. ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants seek a total of
$5,249.50 for attorney’s fees and costs. (Motion p. 5) This sum is based on
5.20 hours of attorney time spent appearing at the three case management
conferences at which Cross-Defendants’ counsel failed to appear at a rate of $535.00
per hour; 2.50 hours of attorney time preparing the instant Motion; a projected
1.00 hour of attorney time spent analyzing Cross-Defendants’ opposition to the
Motion and preparing a reply to such opposition; and a projected 1.00 hour of
attorney time spent appearing at the hearing on the Motion. (Dreblow Decl. pp.
7–8.) Additionally, Defendants incurred $60.00 of costs to file the Motion in
filing fees. (Id. at p. 8.)
 
Per the Cal. Rules of Court
2.30, subd. (b), “[i]n addition to any other sanctions permitted by law, the
court may order a [party, a party's attorney, a witness, and an insurer or any
other individual or entity whose consent is necessary for the disposition of
the case], after written notice and an opportunity to be heard, to pay
reasonable monetary sanctions to the court or an aggrieved person, or both, for
failure without good cause to comply with the applicable rules.” A party may
move for sanctions under Cal. Rules of Court 2.30, and such motion must “(1)
state the applicable rule that has been violated, (2) describe the specific
conduct that is alleged to have violated the rule, and (3) identify the
attorney, law firm, party, witness, or other person against whom sanctions are
sought.” (Cal. Rules of Court 2.30, subd. (c).) Additionally, “the court may
order the person who has violated an applicable rule to pay to the party
aggrieved by the violation that party's reasonable expenses, including reasonable
attorney's fees and costs, incurred in connection with the motion for
sanctions.” (Cal. Rules of Court 2.30, subd. (d).)
 
Per the Cal. Rules of Court
3.722, subd. (c), “[a]t the [case management] conference, counsel for each
party and each self-represented party must appear in person or remotely as
provided in rule 3.672; must be familiar with the case; and must be prepared to
discuss and commit to the party's position on the issues listed in rules 3.724
and 3.727.” 
 
Furthermore, per Local Rule
3.37, “[t]he court may impose appropriate sanctions for a failure by a party or
counsel to comply with these [Local Rules], including… monetary sanctions in
the amount of costs and actual expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred by other parties.” Per Local Rule 3.25, subd. (a)(1), at all case
management conferences, “counsel must appear and be fully prepared.” Local
Rules sanctions are permitted by Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 575.2, subd. (a):
“Local rules promulgated pursuant to Section 575.1 may provide that
if any counsel, a party represented by counsel, or a party if in pro se, fails
to comply with any of the requirements thereof, the court on motion of a party
or on its own motion may strike out all or any part of any pleading of that
party, or, dismiss the action or proceeding or any part thereof, or enter a
judgment by default against that party, or impose other penalties of a lesser
nature as otherwise provided by law, and may order that party or his or her
counsel to pay to the moving party the reasonable expenses in making the
motion, including reasonable attorney fees.”
 
Here, Defendants appropriately move for sanctions under Cal. Rules of Court 2.30. Defendants cite
Cal. Rules of Court 3.722, subd. (c) as the rule being violated, specifically
describe which case management conferences Cross-Defendants have failed to
appear at, and name Cross-Defendants and Cross-Defendants’ counsel as the party
against whom Defendants now seek sanctions. (Motion pp. 3–5.) 
 
Further, Cross-Defendants are
sanctionable under Local Rule 3.37 in the amount of Defendants’ reasonably
incurred attorney’s fees and costs for their repeated violations of Local Rule
3.25, subd. (a)(1).
 
Defendants seek sanctions
against both or either of Cross-Defendants and Cross-Defendants’ counsel.
(Motion p. 5.) Sanctions for violation of the Cal. Rules of Court’s pretrial
rules must be imposed only on counsel if the violation is
counsel's responsibility. (Levitz v. The Warlocks (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
531, 535–36.) Additionally, for sanctions for violations of the Local Rules,
“if a failure to comply with these rules is the responsibility of counsel and
not of the party, any penalty shall be imposed on counsel and shall not
adversely affect the party's cause of action or defense thereto.” (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 575.2, subd. (b).) 
 
Here, the person who was
required to appear at the three case management conferences but who failed to
do so and therefore warrants sanctions was not Cross-Defendants themselves but
their counsel. We therefore believe that sanctions are warranted against only
Cross-Defendants’ counsel and not against Cross-Defendants.
 
Thus, we find that monetary
sanctions are appropriately imposed against Cross-Defendants’ counsel only and
awarded to Defendants in the amount of Defendants’ reasonably incurred
attorney’s fees and costs. We observe that the Motion is unopposed and therefore
Defendants’ counsel never had to analyze any opposition or prepare a reply.
Otherwise, we find that the remaining 8.70 hours of attorney’s fees at a rate
of $535 per hour is reasonable, for a total of $4,654.50, plus the $60.00
filing fee for the Motion, for a sum of $4,714.50.
 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS
the Motion against Cross-Defendants’ counsel in the reduced amount of
$4,714.50.
 
 
Dated:             March
11, 2024                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court