 Case Number:  22STCV01502    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


February
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV01502




MOTION


Motion
  to Continue Trial




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants/Cross-Complainants/Cross-Defendants
  Alhambra Valley Properties, LLC and Chase Center Management, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
On
January 13, 2022 Plaintiff Marc Anthony Olague (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants City of Alhambra, Alhambra Valley Properties, LLC,
Chase Centers Management, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges he was injured on a raised sidewalk. 
 
On November 29, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants/Cross-Defendants
Alhambra Valley Properties, LLC and Chase Center Management, Inc. (“Defendants”)
moved to continue trial and all related dates to accommodate a summary judgment
motion. No opposition has been filed.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on January
13, 2022. 
 
            Defendants’ answer and cross
complaint was filed on February 16, 2022.  
 
            On April 4, 2022, City of Alhambra
answered the complaint and filed a cross complaint against Defendants.
Defendants answered the cross-complaint on May 6, 2022. 
 
            On February 14, 2023, pursuant to
stipulation, the Court continued trial and all related dates to January 11,
2024. 
 
On September 20, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued
trial and all related dates to May 1, 2024. 
 
On October 2, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment,
set to be heard on October 7, 2024. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants request the Court continue trial in this case to
30 days after the October 7, 2024 summary judgment hearing. In the alternative,
Defendants ask the Court to advance the hearing date to the first convenient
date no later than April 1, 2024. A
party that timely files a motion for summary judgment under Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c has a right to have their motion heard before the start
of trial. (Cole v. Superior Court¿(2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 84, 88.) If
served electronically, a motion for summary judgment must be made at least 107
days before trial. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(a)(2), (3).) Therefore, a motion
for summary judgment in this case needed to be filed by January 15, 2024.  
 
 Defendants timely filed their motion for summary
judgment on October 2, 2023. Defendants argue that the earliest date available
for a summary judgment hearing was October 7, 2024. (Hall Decl. ¶ 14.) Since
that date is after trial, Defendants
request that the Court continue the trial date to allow for the motion for
summary judgment to be heard. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Therefore, since
Defendants have filed a timely summary judgment motion, the Court finds good
cause to continue trial.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to continue trial. 
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to October 24,
2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
Trial is continued to November 7, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
All discovery
and pre-trial motion cut-off dates shall be in accordance with the new trial
date.¿¿ 
 
Defendants shall give notice of this order, and file a
proof of service of such. 
 