 Case Number:  21STCV46421    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46421




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Further Responses to Requests for Admissions, Set One 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff David L. Yen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ernesto Ramos Esparza  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 20, 2021, Plaintiffs David L. Yen and Rosa Yen filed a
complaint against Defendants V&V Hauling, Inc., Ernesto Ramos Esparza,
Maria Ramirez Villegas, Josue J. Valerio, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries
resulting from a motor vehicle accident.
 
On April 10, 2023, Plaintiff David L. Yen (“Plaintiff”) propounded
Requests for Admissions, Set One on Defendant Ernesto Ramos Esparza
(“Defendant”). (Padgette Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Extensions to respond were granted
until May 26, 2023. (Id. ¶ 3.) On October 3, 2023, Defendant served a response.
(Id. ¶ 5, Exh. 4.) 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to Requests for
Admissions, Set One. Plaintiff argues Defendant has only asserted boilerplate
objections. Plaintiff requests full and complete responses without objections. The
parties have agreed to waive the Separate Statement requirement. (Id. ¶ 9.) Defendant
opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
Plaintiff scheduled an informal discovery conference (IDC) pursuant to
the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. On October 31, 2023, an IDC was held
and the issues were not resolved. Therefore, Plaintiff has met the IDC
requirement. (Min. Order, 10/31/23.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply: 
 
(1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or
incomplete. 
(2) An objection to a particular request is without merit
or too general. 
 
If a party fails to serve a timely response, they waive any objection
to the requests, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on
motion, may relieve that party from this waiver. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2033.280(a).) 
 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further
response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the
sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(d).) 
 
Request
for Admissions, Set One
 
Plaintiff
moves to compel each Request for Admissions in set One on the basis that the
objections lack merit. To each of the 33 requests for admissions, Defendant
responded: 
 
“Objection: Not
relevant or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. The request fails to comply with Code of Civil Procedure §2033.060.
The request calls for speculation. The request is compound. The request is
overbroad as to scope and time. The request is vague, ambiguous and
unintelligible. This request is unduly burdensome, oppressive and harassing.
The request seeks information contained in public records to which Propounding
Party has equal access. Responding Party further objects that this request
seeks information which is protected from disclosure by the attorney-client
privilege. Further, this request seeks information protected from disclosure by
the work product doctrine. Moreover, this request improperly seeks expert
witness information and opinions not yet discoverable pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §2034.210. As a further objection, the request seeks Responding
Party's confidential, proprietary information and trade secrets. The request
violates the privacy interests of parties and non-parties to the action.”
 
According to the
parties, Defendant cannot be located. It appears Defendant’s prior counsel, who
served the responses, was also not in contact with Defendant. Therefore, it
appears Defendant could not respond, resulting in his counsel asserting general
objections. In opposition, Defendant states that new defense counsel has been
retained in this matter and that counsel hired an investigator to locate
Defendant.  
 
However, given
that the objections lack merit, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses
to Requests for Admission, Set One is granted. 

 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff seeks $5,220 in sanctions against Defendant and his counsel
of record, representing an hourly rate of $600 and the $60 filing fee. (Kasparian
Decl. ¶ 4.) The
Court finds sanctions are warranted because the objections lack merit. However,
the amount requested is excessive. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the
amount of $1,260.00 (2 hours of attorney time to file and appear at the
hearing, plus the $60 filing fee).
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Requests for Admissions, Set One. Defendant shall serve further
responses, without objections, within 10 days. 
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $1,260 against Defendant.[1]
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Moving party to give notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the parties
are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV46421




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Form Interrogatories, Set Two




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  David L. Yen 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ernesto Ramos Esparza 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff David L. Yen
(“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Ernesto Ramos Esparza (“Defendant”) to
serve verified responses, without objections, to Form Interrogatories, Set Two.
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff
replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories, Set Two on Defendant on
April 10, 2023. (Padgette Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) The responses were due May 26,
2023. (Id. ¶ 3.) Since then, no responses have been served.[2] (Id.
¶ 4.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendant’s counsel states that he was recently retained and cannot
locate Defendant. An investigator has been retained to locate Defendant. Defendant
requests the Court hold sanctions in abeyance so long as Defendant provides
compliant responses. 
 
In reply,
Plaintiff argues sanctions should be imposed since Defendant has failed to
respond. Therefore, because responses have not been served since
May 26, 2023, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Plaintiff
also requests $1,860.00 in monetary sanctions against Defendant and his
counsel, representing an hourly rate of $600 and the $60.00 filing fee.
(Kasparian Decl. ¶ 4.) The Court finds sanctions are warranted because
Defendant has failed to respond. However, the amount requested is excessive due
to the type of motion at issue. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in the
amount of $960.00 (1.5 hours of attorney time to file and appear at the
hearing, plus the $60 filing fee).
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set
Two is GRANTED. Defendant Ernesto Ramos Esparza shall provide verified
responses, without objections, within 10 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant Ernesto Ramos Esparza in the reduced amount of $960.00.[3]
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 
 


