 Case Number:  22STCV04787    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV04787




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Beatriz Naranjo




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor, Michael Tucker, age 9. The Court denies the
petition without prejudice for the following reasons. 
 
First, Petitioner selected a box under 3c and included attachment
3. This is unnecessary unless judgment will be or was entered for Claimant.
 
Petitioner selected 12b(5)(a) but listed lienholders in
12b(5)(b). Petitioner must instead select and complete box 12b(5)(a)(ii). 
 
Petitioner indicates that $5,394.52 will be paid from the
proceeds for medical expenses. (See Item 12a(4).) However, the values in 12b do
not add to that amount. Additionally, it is unclear if the $194.52 attributed
to the Medi-Cal lien is duplicative of the lien purportedly held by LAC+USC
Medical Center in 12b(5)(b)(i). 
 
All the information in 12b(5) must be completed including
the provider’s name, the amount paid, and any negotiated reductions. 
 
The value in item 12a(4) must match the value in 16b. 
 
Petitioner did not include the entire address in 17b(3). 
 
In item 18a, Petitioner indicates there is a guardianship
of the estate of Claimant. This is different from a having a guardian ad litem
for this case. If this was selected in error, then Petitioner should instead select
18b and an appropriate subsection. If Petitioner seeks to deposit the funds in
a blocked account under item 18b(2), she must complete attachment 18b(2). 
 
Petitioner requests $35,375 in attorney fees which
represents 25% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this amount to be
reasonable. 
 
Petitioner must also file and complete an Order (MC-351).
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 