 Case Number:  22STCV16462    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


February
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV16462




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Judgment on the Pleadings   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Deborah Sedarsky Nonberg




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Erika Dominguez and James Roman Arevalo 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 18, 2022, Plaintiffs Erika Dominguez and James Roman Arevalo (“Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Deborah Sedarksy Nonberg (“Defendant”) for
injuries related to a motor vehicle accident. On November 17, 2023, Defendant
filed an answer.
 
Defendant now moves for judgment on the pleadings arguing that
Plaintiff Erika Dominguez (“Dominguez”) was deceased before this action was
filed, and thus lacks standing to sue. Alternatively, Defendant moves to strike
the complaint in its entirely, or to dismiss under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128. Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be judicially
noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1205, 1216.) 
Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may be treated as part
of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the parties. Matters
which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be specified in the notice
of motion, the supporting points and authorities, or as the court otherwise
permits. (Id.) The motion may not be supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker
v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant, he must demonstrate
either of the following exist:  
                                           
i.The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of
action alleged in the complaint.  
 
                                         
ii.The complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(i)-(ii).)   
 
“[I]n order for judicial
notice to support a motion for judgment on the pleadings by negating an express
allegation of the pleading, the notice must be of something that cannot
reasonably be controverted…The same is true of evidentiary admissions or concessions.”
(Columbia Casualty Co. v. Northwestern Nat. Ins. Co. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 457, 468.)   
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice of Dominguez’s Certificate of
Death is granted. (See People v. Terry¿(1974) 38 Cal.App.3d 432, 439 [judicial
notice may be taken of a death certificate].) 
 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating an attempt to meet and confer in person or by
telephone, at least five days before the date a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.) Here, Defendant’s counsel
declares that she emailed and telephoned Plaintiffs’ counsel asking for the
complaint to be amended. (Cunningham Decl. ¶ 5.) Therefore, it appears the meet
and confer requirement has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
“Only a real party in interest has standing to prosecute an action,
except as otherwise provided by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 367.) A party who
is not the real party in interest lacks standing to sue. [Citation.] ‘A real
party in interest ordinarily is defined as the person possessing the right sued
upon by reason of the substantive law.’ [Citation.] A complaint filed by
someone other than the real party in interest is subject to general demurrer on
the ground that it fails to state a cause of action. [Citation.]” (Redevelopment
Agency of San Diego v. San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2003) 111
Cal.App.4th 912, 920–21.) “A civil action can be maintained only against a
legal person, i. e., a natural person or an artificial or quasi-artificial
person; a nonentity is incapable of suing or being sued.” (Oliver v. Swiss
Club Tell (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 528, 537.) 
 
“A cause of action that survives the death of the person entitled to
commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent's successor in
interest, subject to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 7000) of Part 1 of
Division 7 of the Probate Code, and an action may be commenced by the
decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.30.) 
 
The
person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a pending
action or proceeding as the decedent's successor in interest under this
article, must execute a declaration pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
377.32. However, this declaration is not required prior to commencing the
action. (Parsons v. Tickner (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1513, 1523–24.) 
 
Here,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff Dominguez passed away on September 14, 2020.
(Cunningham Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) However, this action was filed on May 18, 2022
by Plaintiffs. Therefore, Defendant argues that Dominguez lacks standing to sue
since she is essentially a “nonexistent entity” and no successor in interest
has been appointed. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs state that they filed a motion to appoint a successor in
interest for Dominguez, which is currently scheduled on April 16, 2024. Plaintiffs
also point out that the motion for judgment on the pleadings cannot be granted
since Plaintiff James Roman Arevalo has standing to sue. “A motion for
judgment on the pleadings is the functional equivalent of a general demurrer. [Citation.]
Ordinarily, a general demurrer does not lie as to a portion of a cause of
action, and if any part of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the demurrer
will be overruled. [Citation.]” (Fire Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) In reply, Defendant does not address that a cause of
action still exists as to Plaintiff James Roman Arevalo. Accordingly, the
motion for judgment on the pleadings is denied.[1]
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


