 Case Number:  22STCV23697    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


February
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV23697




MOTIONS


Motion
  to Substitute 




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  Orlando Garcia Ramos




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff Orlando Garcia Ramos (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.31, substituting Oscar Manuel
Ramirez, Plaintiff’s son, in his capacity as successor in interest to the
deceased Plaintiff, under Code of Civil Procedure Section 377.11. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
section 377.31 provides that the decedent’s personal representative or, if
none, the decedent’s successor in interest may continue a decedent’s pending
action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30; see Adams v. Superior Court (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 71, 78-79.) A successor in interest is the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of the cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Section 377.33 provides that the court
in which an action is continued may make any order concerning parties that is
appropriate to ensure proper administration of justice, including the
appointment of the decedent’s successor in interest as a special administrator
or guardian ad litem.  
 
Section 377.32 provides that a
person who seeks to commence such an action as the decedent’s successor in
interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing certain information,
including the decedent’s name, date and place of decedent’s death, and
statements regarding whether the estate has been administered and that the
affiant or declarant is the successor in interest on decedent’s claim. (Id.,
§ 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must also be
attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).)
 
            Plaintiff passed away on May 13,
2023. A certified copy of Plaintiff’s death certificate has been attached. (Ramirez
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) The Court finds that Oscar Manuel Ramirez has filed a
declaration, under penalty of perjury, that he is Plaintiff’s successor in
interest to Plaintiff’s interest in this action. Therefore, the motion to
substitute is granted. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants the motion to substitute Oscar Manuel
Ramirez as successor in interest to Orlando Garcia Ramos, deceased. 
 
Moving Party shall give notice of the Court’s orders, and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 