  Case Number:  23TRCV00646    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                          Tuesday, October 22, 2024 Department M                                                                                                        Calendar
No. 7
 
 
 
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rachel
Perez, et al. v. Antoon Enterprises, Inc., et al.
23TRCV00646
1.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions
Admitted as to Antoon Enterprises, Inc.
2.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions
Admitted as to Sherif Antoon
3.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions
Admitted as to Rania Sunroor 
4.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions
Admitted as to Trinity Management, Inc.
5.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions
Admitted as to Ramona 26 Properties, LLC
6.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form and
Special Interrogatories from Rania Sunoor and Request for Sanctions
7.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Compel
Responses to Form and Special Interrogatories and Request for Production of
Documents from Trinity Management, Inc. and Request for Sanctions
8.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form and
Special Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents from Sherif Antoon and Request for Sanctions
9.      Rachel Perez’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form and
Special Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents from Ramona 26
Properties, LLC and Request for Sanctions
10.  Rachel Perez’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form and
Special Interrogatories and Request for Production of Documents from Antoon
Enterprises, Inc. and Request for Sanctions
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Motions to Deem Requests for Admissions
are denied.
 
Plaintiff’s Motions to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents, and Requests for Sanctions are deemed moot, in part, and denied, in
part. 
 
Background 
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on March 6, 2023. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs were tenants at 1608 Plaza Del Amo,
Torrance, California 90501. Plaintiffs claim damages for alleged violations of
the warranty of habitability as well as numerous other causes of action.  
 
            Motions to
Compel/Deem Admitted
 
            CCP § 2030.290 states: “If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply…The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  
 
            CCP § 2031.300 states: “If a party to whom a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response to it, the following rules shall apply: The party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(b)).
 
            Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280 states:
            “If a party to whom requests for admission are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply:
            (a) The party to whom the requests for admission are
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:
            (1) The party has subsequently served a response that is
in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230.
            (2) The party's failure to serve a timely response was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
            (b) The requesting party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010).
            (c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
 
            Plaintiff served upon Defendants Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, and Requests for Admissions, Set One, on May 16, 2024. (Decls., Rachel Perez.)  Plaintiff contends that no responses were
served to the discovery requests.  (Id.) 
 
            Defendants’ counsel filed declarations stating that
verified responses were served to the Requests for Admissions, Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents. (Decls., Kevin M. Badkoubehi.)
 
            Therefore, the motions to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, are deemed moot. The motions to deem Requests
for Admissions, Set One, admitted are denied. 
 
            Sanctions
 
            Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions are denied. 
 
            First, no sanctions were requested with the Request for
Admissions motions. Second, the notices of motion for the motions to compel are
defective with respect to sanctions. Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 states, in relevant
part: “A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of motion, identify every
person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is sought, and specify
the type of sanction sought.”  Here, the
notices of the motions failed to identify every person, party, and attorney
against whom the sanctions are sought. The notices of the motions also failed
to identify the type of sanction sought. Third, while it is unclear how the
amount of $700 per motion was derived, self-represented litigants cannot
recover attorney fees as discovery sanctions. Argaman v. Ratan (1999) 73
CA4th 1173, 1179.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.