  Case Number:  23STCV24258    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  072 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



ROBERT ARIAS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
FLOYD’S 99 BARBERSHOPS, INC.,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV24258
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 12, 2024
 Calendar Number:  Add-On



 
 
 
Plaintiff Robert Arias (“Plaintiff”) moves for declaratory
relief that that Labor Code § 240.11 requires employees at salons/barbershops
be paid all hours worked at twice-the-minimum wage when commission is included
as part of their compensation, and that the Compensation Plan for Barbers
instituted by Defendant Floyd’s 99 Barbershops, Inc. (“Defendant”), required
that all hours worked by barbers like the Plaintiff be paid at twice the
minimum wage because commissions were part of the compensation.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for declaratory relief.  The issue in this case, involving 11 days of
work ending in January 2023, is not appropriate for a motion for declaratory
relief.  Plaintiff may attempt to
litigate these issues through a summary judgment motion, trial, or through some
other appropriate procedure. 
 
Background
 
This is an employment action.
 
Plaintiff began his employment with Defendant on December
19, 2022 as a hair stylist. Plaintiff has been an actively licensed
cosmetologist since 2004.
 
Through December 2022, Plaintiff worked a total of 11 workdays.
Plaintiff injured his foot and was placed on medical leave. Plaintiff resigned
from his position on January 11, 2023, due to dissatisfaction with the pay
structure.
 
Plaintiff was paid a base hourly rate of $16.25 per hour.
 
In addition to the base rate, Plaintiff and Defendant agreed
to an incentive compensation system. Plaintiff contends that this system was a
commission system, while Defendant contends that it was not. The system in
question was as follows (see generally O’Brien Decl. ¶¶ 3-4):
 
An employee’s “Service Dollars Per Hour” (“SD/H”) is
calculated bi-weekly. An employee’s SD/H is equal to the total revenue charged
for the services that the employee provides to clients, divided by the
employee’s production hours (i.e., their hours spent performing services rather
than, e.g. taking a rest break or waiting in between clients).
 
If an employee’s biweekly SD/H is greater than $57.00, the
employee earns an additional incentive payment for that pay period. To
calculate the payment, Defendant takes the excess of the SD/H over $57.00, and
multiplies it by a rate which varies between 40 and 55 percent, depending on
the employee’s promotion level.
 
In other words, employees earn a biweekly incentive payment
of 40-55% of the hourly revenue that they generate in excess of $57.00 per
hour.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on October 5, 2023. The
Complaint raises claims for (1) violation of Labor Code, section 204.11; (2)
violation of Labor Code, section 226, subd. (a) (inaccurate wage statements);
(3) violation of Labor Code, sections 226.2 and 226.7 (failure to provide meal
and rest breaks); (4) violation of labor code sections 200-204 (waiting time
penalties; and (5) violation of Labor Code, sections 2698, et seq. (“PAGA”).
 
Plaintiff filed this motion for declaratory relief on
September 12, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any person interested under a
written instrument ..., or under a contract, or who desires a declaration of
his or her rights or duties with respect to another ... may, in cases of actual
controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties,
bring an original action ... for a declaration of his or her rights and duties
in the premises, including a determination of any question of construction or
validity arising under the instrument or contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.)
 
“A complaint for declaratory
relief is legally sufficient if it sets forth facts showing the existence of an
actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the parties under
a written instrument or with respect to property and requests that the rights
and duties of the parties be adjudged by the court. [Citation.] If these
requirements are met and no basis for declining declaratory relief appears, the
court should declare the rights of the parties whether or not the facts alleged
establish that the plaintiff is entitled to favorable declaration.” (Wellenkamp
v. Bank of America (1978) 21 Cal.3d 943, 947, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in Fidelity Federal Sav. and Loan Ass'n v. de la
Cuesta (1982) 458 U.S. 141, 169-170.)
 
A cause of action for declaratory
relief should not be used as a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues raised in another cause of action. (General of America Insurance Co. v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d
465, 470.) “The availability of another form of relief that is adequate will
usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief” (California Insurance Guarantee Association v. Superior Court (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624), and a duplicative cause of action is subject to
demurrer (Palm Springs Villas II
Homeowners Association, Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290).
Further, “there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are
involved.” (Osseous Technologies of
America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 357,
366, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Discussion
 
Compensation Requirements for Hair Stylists
 
Legal Scheme Prior to S.B. 490
 
“Every employer shall pay to each employee, on the
established payday for the period involved, not less than the applicable
minimum wage for all hours worked in the payroll period, whether the
remuneration is measured by time, piece, commission, or otherwise.” (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 8, § 11020 (“Wage Order No. 2”), subd. (4)(b).)
 
Payment “on a piece-rate basis, … differs from an hourly
wage method in that [workers] are paid primarily on the basis of … tasks
completed.” (Gonzalez v. Downtown LA Motors, LP (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
36, 41.)
 
“Commission wages are compensation paid to any person for
services rendered in the sale of such employer's property or services and based
proportionately upon the amount or value thereof.” (Lab. Code, § 204.1.) “Labor
Code section 204.1 sets up two requirements, both of which must be met before a
compensation scheme is deemed to constitute ‘commission wages.’ First, the
employees must be involved principally in selling a product or service,
not making the product or rendering the service. Second, the amount of their
compensation must be a percent of the price of the product or service.” (Keyes
Motors, Inc. v. Division of Labor Standards Enforcement (1987) 197
Cal.App.3d 557, 563 [emphasis in original].)
 
            Thus,
under California law, hair stylists could be paid hourly or by piece-rate.
However, their ability to be paid by commission was unclear, because a stylist
primarily renders services.
 
S.B. 490
 
There are a number of heightened accounting, recordkeeping,
and reporting requirements placed on employers who pay employees on a
piece-rate basis. “Employees shall be compensated for rest and recovery periods
and other nonproductive time separate from any piece-rate compensation.” (Lab.
Code, § 226.2, subd. (a)(1).) Such an employee’s wage statements must include
the total hours of compensable rest and recovery periods, the rate of
compensation, and the wages paid for those periods. (Lab. Code, § 226.2, subd.
(a)(2).) Employees paid by piece-rate must be compensated at the higher of (1)
an average hourly rate determined by dividing the total compensation for the
workweek, exclusive of compensation for rest and recovery periods and any
premium compensation for overtime, by the total hours worked during the
workweek, exclusive of rest and recovery periods, or (2) the applicable minimum
wage. (Lab. Code, § 226.2, subd. (a)(3).) Other nonproductive time must be
compensated at the minimum wage. (Lab. Code, § 226.2, subd. (a)(4).)
 
In 2017, California adopted S.B. 490, which created Labor
Code, section 204.11 and permitted hair salons to elect to pay stylists on
commission in order to give hair salons an option to avoid the heightened
piece-rate requirements laid out in section 226.2.
 
“Historically, the majority of hair salons in California
compensated employees with a simple commission structure. Recent court cases
concerning piece-rate employees created uncertainty for hair salons. Working
with labor and associations representing the plaintiff’s bar, SB 490 has been
crafted to provide certainty on these commission arrangements, so long as
employees receive at least twice the minimum wage for all hours worked.” (California
Senate Bill No. 490, California 2017-2018 Regular Session, at p. 4 (ver. Aug.
31, 2017).) 
 
“Hair salons are unique in that stylists tend to develop
their own books of business within salons, which often follow them if they move
to a new salon. Stylists are thus constantly selling products and services in a
way that classic piece-rate employees are not. Rules relating to piece-rate
required expensive and time-consuming accounting systems, in order to account
for time not actually spent cutting hair. The result was unsatisfactory for
both stylists and salons.” (Ibid.)
 
“It is critical to note that nothing in SB 490 requires
salons to adopt the model articulated in the bill. Salons are free to apply
piece-rate rules if they wish, or to simply pay stylists on an hourly basis.
The bill benefits those who choose to compensate on an hourly plus commission
basis.” (Ibid [emphasis added.)
 
Labor Code, section 204.11 now lays out the requirements for
barbers paid by commission.
 
            “For
any employee who is licensed pursuant to the Barbering and Cosmetology Act
(Chapter 10 (commencing with Section 7301) of Division 3 of the Business and
Professions Code), wages that are paid to that employee for providing
services for which such a license is required, when paid as a percentage or a
flat sum portion of the sums paid to the employer by the client recipient of
such service, and for selling goods, constitute commissions, provided that the
employee is paid, in every pay period in which hours are worked, a
regular base hourly rate of at least two times the state minimum wage rate for
all hours worked in addition to commissions paid. The employee and employer
may agree to a commission in addition to the base hourly rate. An employee
may be compensated for rest and recovery periods at a rate of pay not less than
the employee's regular base hourly rate. Nothing in this section shall be
interpreted to limit any rights or remedies otherwise available under state or
federal law, including the right to overtime compensation.” (Lab. Code, §
204.11 [emphasis added].)
 
            A
hair salon may therefore either (1) pay stylists on an hourly basis; (2) pay
stylists on a piece-rate basis and comply with section 226.2, including the
heightened accounting, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements; or (3) opt
out of section 226.2 and pay stylists on a commission basis in compliance with
section 204.11, including the heightened minimum wage requirement.
 
The Controversy at Hand
 
Procedural Appropriateness
 
Defendant argues that the controversy is not ripe for
determination.
 
“Before a controversy is ripe for
adjudication it must be definite and concrete, touching the legal relations of
parties having adverse legal interests. It must be a real and substantial
controversy admitting of specific relief through a decree of a conclusive
character, as distinguished from an opinion advising what the law would be upon
a hypothetical state of facts.” (Otay Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co.
(2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 556, 562 [quotation marks and citations omitted].)
 
Defendant argues that the relief
that Plaintiff requests is not ripe because “it requires the Court to adopt the
factual and legal inaccuracies presented in Plaintiff’s Motion”. (Opposition at
p. 4:23-24.) Defendant characterizes Plaintiff’s statement of facts as “a
hypothetical version of the facts, which Defendant disputes as untrue.”
(Opposition at p.5:11-12.) Defendant cites no authority indicating that
disagreement between the parties on the law or facts is a basis to find that a
controversy is not ripe for adjudication. Here, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant committed a wrong in the past. The commission of that alleged
wrong has now terminated, because Plaintiff terminated his employment with
Defendant. The controversy between the parties is therefore definite and
concrete.
 
The problem is that this is
precisely the type of situation where declaratory relief is not available. 
 
“Declaratory relief operates
prospectively, serving to set controversies at rest before obligations are repudiated,
rights are invaded or wrongs are committed. Thus the remedy is to be used to
advance preventive justice, to declare rather than execute rights.” (Kirkwood
v. California State Automobile Assn. Inter-Ins. Bureau (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 49, 59; see also Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC, supra,
191 Cal.App.4th at p. 366 [“there is no basis for declaratory relief where only
past wrongs are involved”, quotation marks omitted].)
 
            Here,
there is no future wrong to be prevented. Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant
has already terminated, and his claims in this action relate to that period of
employment. Thus, Plaintiff’s allegations as to the wage he was owed are
properly litigated alongside the rest of Plaintiff’s wage and hour claims.
 
            The
Court therefore denies the motion for declaratory relief.