 Case Number:  24STCV12346    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  072 SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



YAZMIN SAMBRANO, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
KAREN MANUCHARYAN, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  24STCV12346
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 12, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendants Karen Manucharyan (“Manucharyan”) and Karen
Yesayan (“Yesayan”) (collectively, “Moving Defendants”) move to strike the
prayer for punitive damages in the Complaint filed by Plaintiff Yazmin Sambrano
(“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court GRANTS the motion to strike.
 
Background
 
            This
is a personal injury case relating to an automobile collision. The following
facts are taken from the Complaint.
 
            The
underlying incident occurred on March 24, 2023. Plaintiff alleges that a motor
vehicle owned or operated by Moving Defendants collided with Plaintiff’s
vehicle, damaging Plaintiff’s vehicle and injuring Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on May 15, 2024. The Complaint raises claims for (1) motor
vehicle negligence; and (2) negligence per se. Plaintiff seeks punitive damages
under her second claim only.
 
            Moving
Defendants filed this motion to strike on October 3, 2024. Plaintiff did not
file an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
 
Discussion
 
Punitive damages are appropriate when a defendant acted with
malice, oppression, or fraud. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is
defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct
carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of
others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent.
Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable
conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious
disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.)
“Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a
material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property,
rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.)

 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Ibid.)
“In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.”
(Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are
insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud
or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges, in very short fashion, that Moving
Defendants negligently caused the collision, and that Moving Defendants
operated their vehicle in a way that violated the Vehicle Code and gave rise to
the collision. Plaintiff does not allege facts that would show oppression,
malice, or fraud. 
 
The Court therefore grants the motion to strike.