

 
            This is an
action brought under the Song-Beverly Act by Plaintiffs
Aaron Caver (Caver) and Tynisha Knox (Knox) against Defendant Kia Motors
America, Inc. (Kia) and DOES 1-10. Plaintiffs are co-owners of a 2016 Kia Soul
(Vehicle). Initially, Knox leased the Vehicle by herself in December 2015 from
Kia of Downtown. Then, in January 2020, Knox and Caver purchased the Vehicle
together. 
 
On March 20, 2023, Defendant Kia filed
a demurrer to the First Amend Complaint. Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer.  The Court sustained the demurrer based on
uncertainty. 
 
            The
Second Amended Complaint alleged claims for (1) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d), (2) Plaintiff
Knox’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(b), (3) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subdivision (a)(3), (4) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of action for breach of
express written warranty, (5) Plaintiff Knox’s cause of action for breach of
implied warranty of merchantability, (6) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of action for violation
of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d), (7) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of
action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b), (8) Plaintiff
Caver’s cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3), (9) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of action for breach of express written
warranty, and (10) Plaintiff Caver’s cause of action for breach of implied
warranty of merchantability.
 
Defendant
Kia then demurred to the entire SAC. The Court sustained the demurrer as to the first through
tenth causes of action with leave to amend. 
 
Now, on the Third Amended Complaint,
only Plaintiff Knox remains. The TAC alleges causes of action for (1.) a violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subdivision (d), (2.) a violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (b), (3.) a violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3), (4.) a breach of express written warranty, and (5.) a breach of implied
warranty of merchantability.
 
Defendant
Kia demurred to the entire TAC. Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. The Court
sustains the demurrer in its entirety with leave to amend.
 
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of Item No. 1 is granted (See SAC ¶ 6.) and Exhibit
A is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a
pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the
complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley v.
Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting
all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court
liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has
been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
            
            Defendant Kia argues the TAC remains uncertain, the
second cause of action fails to state a claim, and the matter must be dismissed
for failing to join an indispensable party.
 
Failure
to Join an Indispensable Party
 
            Defendant Kia demurs to the entire TAC on the grounds
that Plaintiff Knox has failed to join Plaintiff Caver, who, Kia claims, is an
indispensable party to this action.
 
A necessary
party is one “(1) in [whose] absence complete relief cannot be accorded among
those already parties or (2) [who] claims an interest relating to the subject
of the action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in his
absence may (i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect
that interest or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject to a
substantial risk of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent
obligations by reason of his claimed interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 389, subd.
(a); Doe v. Regents of University of California (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th
282, 301[a person meeting the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 389,
subd. (a) “ ‘is often referred to as a “necessary party” ’ ”].)
 
A person who
is a necessary party is “regarded as indispensable” if the court determines “in
equity and good conscience” the action must be dismissed in the person's
absence by considering factors that include: “(1) [the] extent [to which] a
judgment rendered in the person's absence might be prejudicial to him or those
already parties; (2) the extent to which, by protective provisions in the
judgment, by the shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be
lessened or avoided; (3) whether a judgment rendered in the person's absence
will be adequate; (4) whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an
adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
389, subd. (b).)
 
“A
determination that the persons are necessary parties is the predicate for the
determination whether they are indispensable parties.” (Deltakeeper v.
Oakdale Irrigation Dist. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1100.) “Whether a
party is necessary and/or indispensable is a matter of trial court discretion
in which the court weighs ‘factors of practical realities and other
considerations.’ ” (Hayes v. State Dept. of Developmental Services
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1523, 1529.)
 
            To the extent that Plaintiff Knox is suing under the
purchase of the Vehicle, Defendant Kia argues that Plaintiff Caver is an indispensable
party. As stated in the purchase agreement (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex
A.), Caver is the purchaser of the subject vehicle and Plaintiff Knox is the
co-buyer. Defendant argues that it cannot effectuate complete relief because it
cannot repurchase the Vehicle without consent from all legal owners of the
vehicle.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff Knox argues that former Plaintiff
Caver is not an indispensable party because there are no factual allegations involving
him.  That is not the point.
 
            The only issue raised on this indispensable party argument
concerns the repurchase remedy. Because Defendant cannot effectuate a repurchase
of the Vehicle from Plaintiff Knox without Plaintiff Caver renders Caver an
indispensable party. 
 
The
repurchase remedy does not render Plaintiff Caver an indispensable party because
alternative remedies are available. Plaintiff Knox’s reliance on Martinez v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 187 is
instructive; this case demonstrates that when the option of repurchase is no
longer available under the SBA, the statutory relief can still be effectuated.
(Id. at 199 [“In sum,
there is no requirement under the statutory provisions of the Act that, as a
matter of law, a consumer must maintain ownership or control of the
nonconforming vehicle for purposes of claiming the benefits of the Act. Nor is
there any statutory support for the notion that a consumer loses the protection
of the Act once the nonconforming vehicle is repossessed.”].) 
 
Thus, Defendant’s argument that “relief
cannot be accorded among the parties to this action” in the absence of
Plaintiff Caver is not well taken. The
demurrer based on a failure to join an indispensable party is overruled. 
 
Uncertainty
as to the First through Fifth Causes of Action 
 
Defendant
Kia also argues the first through fifth causes of action are uncertain because
Plaintiff Knox fails to allege whether she bought or leased a new motor
vehicle. Rather, Plaintiff’s allegations appear to be deliberately vague: she pleads
she “obtained” the Vehicle. (TAC ¶ 6.) 
 
The
opposition argues that the Complaint is clear and the SBA covers both lease and
purchase vehicles. That is, Plaintiff argues that “whether the vehicle was leased
or purchased” “is not relevant.” (Opp., 3:25-26.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition is correct to some extent; that is, as Plaintiff well knows from previous
demurrer rulings, she can state a claim for both a purchase and a lease;
however, the remedies and rights are different depending on whether the
transaction is for lease or purchase and whether the lease or purchase was for
a new or used vehicle. 
 
For
example, Section 1794 describes two
different remedies available for consumers seeking relief under Song-Beverly
for a breach of the implied warranty of merchantability. If the buyer has
rightfully rejected or justifiably revoked acceptance of the goods or has exercised
any right to cancel the sale, “ ‘the buyer may ... recover[ ] so much of the
price as has been paid ....’ ” (Mocek v. Alfa Leisure, Inc. (2003) 114
Cal.App.4th 402, 406; see § 1794, subd. (b)(1).) However, “[w]here the buyer
has accepted the goods, ... the measure of damages shall include the cost of
repairs necessary to make the goods conform.” (§ 1794, subd. (b)(2).) So, the
remedies under Song-Beverly hinge upon whether the buyer has rejected or
accepted the goods. It is only when the buyer has rightfully rejected the goods
that the buyer can recover the purchase price or what he or she paid under the
lease. 
 
Thus,
whether a Plaintiff purchased or leased the Vehicle and then accepted or rejected
the goods, dictates the remedy available and the defenses against such claims. Plaintiff
cannot deliberately avoid committing to a set of facts for pleading purposes. 
 
The
failure to identify a purchase or lease and subsequent facts renders the nature
of the claim and Defendant’s liability uncertain. The demurrer to the first
through fifth causes of action are sustained.
 
Failure to State Claim  
 
            Finally,
Defendant Kia specifically argues the second cause of action for violation Civil
Code, section 1793.2(d) fails to state a claim. 
 
            A cause of action
for violation of Civil Code, section 1793.2, subdivision (d), must allege that Defendant
or an authorized repair facility “failed to begin repairs within a reasonable
time or complete repairs within 30 days so as to conform to the applicable
warranty.” (CACI 3205.) 
 
            The Complaint
does not allege that any repairs were not started in a reasonable time or were
not completed within 30 days. Instead, in opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant,
having multiple opportunities to demur on this ground, cannot now raise this
issue. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).) 
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b), states: “A party demurring to
a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to an earlier version of the
pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion of the amended complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer on grounds that could have been raised by demurrer
to the earlier version of the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer.”
 
            In
reply, Defendant Kia does not address this argument. Defendant could have
asserted this ground in its earlier demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint,
because the allegations of this cause of action were substantively identical in
both versions of the complaint. Because Defendant did not assert this ground in
its demurrer to the first or second amended complaint, the Court cannot sustain
the demurrer to the TAC on this ground.


            The
demurrer on this ground is overruled. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer is sustained in its
entirety. Plaintiff shall have leave to amend. The amended complaint shall be
served and filed on or before April 5, 2024.
 
 
 