  Case Number:  22STCV15691    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  14 La Maison de Fashion vs. MRO Elliott ManagementCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that their landlord
negligently failed to repair a water leak, which led to a plumbing failure and
a flood.
 
Complaint
 
            On May 11,
2022, Plaintiffs filed their form Complaint for (1) Negligence and (2) Breach
of Contract against Defendants MRO Elliot Management, Inc (“MRO”), Sean Healy
Presents, Inc. (“Healy”), and DOES 1-50.
 
            On March 8,
2023, Defendant MRO filed its Answer.
 
            On April 5,
2023, Defendant Healy filed its Answer.
 
MRO Cross-Complaint
 
            On March 8,
2023, Defendant MRO filed its Cross-Complaint for (1) Implied Indemnity, (2)
Contribution, and (3) Declaratory Relief against ROES 1-100.
 
            On August
7, 2023, Cross-Complainant MRO filed two “Amendments to Complaint” substituting
Cross-Defendants Healy and Midvale Indemnity Co. (“Midvale”) in lieu of ROES
1-2, respectively.
 
            On September
5, 2023, Cross-Defendant Healy filed its Answer.
 
Healy Cross-Complaint
 
            On April 5,
2023, Defendant Healy filed its Cross-Complaint for (1) Equitable Indemnity,
(2) Contribution, and (3) Declaratory Relief against Cross-Defendant MRO and MOES
1-50.
 
            On May 8,
2023, Cross-Defendant MRO filed its Answer.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for September 9, 2024.
 
Instant Pleading
 
            Cross-Defendant
Midvale now demurs to the complaint, on the ground that it cannot be sued in
the same action as its insured.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend.
 
Discussion
 
            Insurance
Code § 11580(b)(2) authorizes a judgment creditor to recover a debt by
bringing a separate action against the judgment debtor’s insurer. Such an
action can only be brought after the judgment becomes “final” – meaning after
any appeals have been concluded or the time to appeal has passed. McKee v.
National Union Fire Ins. Co. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 282, 285.
 
            Cross-Defendant
Midvale argues that this rule prevents anyone from suing an insurer if
their insured is already part of the same lawsuit. But neither the statute nor McKee
announce such a broad rule. And neither the statute nor McKee facially apply
to this situation.
 
            Cross-Complainant
MRO says that it has sued Midvale because it has a contract with Midvale in
which Midvale agrees to pay for any claims that Plaintiff may bring against
MRO. Neither Section 11580 nor McKee bar the insured from filing
a breach of contract claim against its own insurer.
 
            The real
problem here is that the Cross-Complaint does not contain any specific pleading
of the indemnity contract, or any specific discussion of Midvale. This is not uncommon
when parties are added by Roe Amendment, but it is still a defect that needs to
be remedied. Cross-Complainant MRO has added two defendants now by way of Roe
Amendment; it is time for MRO to update its Cross-Complaint and explain
specifically why these two named defendants are here.
 
            The
demurrer and reply express some concerns about prejudice that may occur if all
the claims in this case are tried at the same time to the same jury. Those
issues are best addressed in a motion to bifurcate, which the court would hear
at the final status conference pursuant to Local Rule 3.25(f)(2).
 
Conclusion
 
            Because the
two named Cross-Defendants were brought in via Roe Amendment, Cross-Complainant
MRO needs to plead facts showing why each of them specifically is being sued. For
that reason only, the demurrer is SUSTAINED, with 10 days leave to amend.
 