 Case Number:  22STCV38658    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JAIME AGUAYO, et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
839 S CARONDELET STREET, LLC, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV38658
 
[TENTATIVE] GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO
  STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 26, 2023



 
On
December 12, 2022, Plaintiffs Jaime Aguayo and Giovani Tzul filed this action against
Defendants 839 S. Carondelet Street LLC and J.K. Residential Services Inc.
On
April 7, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to strike.
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendants
move to strike allegations relating to and the prayer for punitive damages.  A plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort
cases where “the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed
is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.  [Citation.] 
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but
facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim. [Citation.]”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166, fn. omitted.)
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiffs suffered uninhabitable living conditions due to
Defendants’ failure to maintain the property despite knowing about the substandard
conditions.  (E.g., Complaint ¶ 20-38.)  These conditions include cockroach, termite, mosquito,
rat, bedbug, and flea infestation; mold contamination; dysfunctional plumbing systems
and electrical supplies; inoperable HVAC system; insufficient ventilation; inadequate
weatherproofing; insufficient fire protection systems; improperly installed windows;
and insufficient security.  (E.g., Complaint
¶¶ 21, 43.)  Defendants knew about the conditions
from direct complaints from tenants, but they responded inconsistently and ineffectively,
or not at all.  (Complaint ¶¶ 26, 28, 32,
36.)  If
Plaintiffs prove that Defendants failed to respond to complaints about these conditions,
a jury could conclude that Defendants acted with oppression or malice.  
However, a corporate employer can be
liable for punitive damages only when an officer, director, or managing agent of
the corporation had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others, authorized
or ratified the wrongful conduct, or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  The Complaint contains only conclusions, no facts,
about Defendants’ ratification.  (E.g., Complaint
¶¶ 3-4, 13, 16, 36, 42.)
The
motion to strike is GRANTED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 26th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 