 Case Number:  23STCV08115    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  29 Ramirez v. Uber
Technologies, Inc.
23STCV08115
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial.
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
Background
On April 12, 2023, Plaintiff Jose Miguel Ramirez (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Uber Technologies, Inc.; Rasier, LLC; Rasier-CA, LLC; Jose
Carbajal; and Does 1 through 50.
On August 17, 2023, Defendant Jose Carbajal filed an answer.
On January 24, 2024, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC,
and Rasier-CA, LLC (“Defendants”) filed an answer.
On filing, the case was assigned a trial date of October 9, 2024.
On June 10, 2024, the Court, on the stipulation of the parties,
continued the trial date to February 6, 2025. 

On December 11, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to continue
trial.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on
December 23, and Defendants filed a reply on December 30.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 128,
subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. “The
power to determine when a continuance should be granted is within the
discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the matter of
calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.” (Park
Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendants
seek to continue trial for 90-120 days. 
Separate and apart from their arguments about the merits (see Walshok
Decl., ¶¶ 5-7), which of course are entirely irrelevant to a request for a
continuance, Defendants argue that the testimony of Plaintiff in his
deposition, taken on October 16, 2024, is inconsistent with some of the medical
records, requiring additional discovery. 
(See id, ¶ 8.)  In addition,
Plaintiff received additional treatment, including a procedure to remove
hardware from his knee, on October 29, 2024. 
(Id., ¶ 10.)  Defendants have
subpoenaed records from the surgeon, with production set for January 6,
2025.  (Ibid.)  Additionally, Plaintiff’s medical examination
is scheduled for December 17, 2024, and various depositions are scheduled
between December 19, 2024 and January 10, 2025. 
(Id., ¶¶ 13-14.)
The
Court has substantial concerns about the diligence of Defendants.  Defendants appeared in the case in January
2024, and there is no explanation offered as to why much of the discovery crush
that was anticipated (as of the filing of the motion) to occur in December and
early January could not have been completed months earlier.
Having
said that, there has been a substantial change in the case, as Plaintiff had a
procedure related to the accident in late October 2024.  Defendants should be given time to conduct discovery
to prepare for the trial, and the Court notes that if the Defendants had
conducted a physical examination of Plaintiff in (for example) the summer of
2024, the information they obtained might have been outdated by the time of
trial, in light of the significant procedure performed in October 2024.
The
Court finds good cause to grant the motion in part.  Trial is continued for approximately 30 days,
with all deadlines reset based on the new trial date.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS IN PART the motion to
continue trial.
The Court CONTINUES the trial date by
approximately 30 days.
The Court RESETS the Final Status Conference
and all discovery deadlines based on the new trial date. 
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.