 Case Number:  22STCV25443    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  29 Wiley v. The Kroger Co.
22STCV25443
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background 
 
On August 5, 2022, Plaintiff Benjamin Lee Wiley filed a complaint
against The Kroger Co., Ralphs, and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of
action for premises liability and negligence arising out of an alleged slip and
fall on August 8, 2020, at a Ralphs Grocery Store on Sepulveda Boulevard in
Torrance.
 
On April 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint correcting
the location of the store to an address on Carson Street in Torrance.
 
On May 16, 2023, Ralphs Grocery Company dba Ralphs (erroneously
sued as Ralphs) (“Defendant”) filed an answer to the amended complaint.
 
On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed a request to dismiss The Kroger
Co.
 
On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name American
Guard Services, Inc. as Doe 1.
 
On June 26, 2024, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against American
Guard Services, Inc. and Roes 1 through 30.
 
On October 7, 2024, Defendant amended the cross-complaint to name
Allied Universal Security as Roe 1.
 
On October 9, 2024, Defendant filed a request to dismiss American
Guard Services, Inc. from the cross-complaint.
 
On November 27, 2024, Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied
Universal Security Services (erroneously sued as Allied Universal Security) (“Universal”)
filed an answer to the cross-complaint. 
On the same day, Universal filed a cross-complaint against Defendant and
Moes 1 through 50.
 
On January 2, 2025, Defendant filed an answer to the
cross-complaint.
 
As it relates to the matter set for hearing on January 7, 2025,
Defendant filed this motion to continue trial on December 5, 2024.
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Trial is currently set for January 28, 2025. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subdivision (a), “[t]o ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates
assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard the
date set for trial as certain.” Under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subdivision (b), “[a] party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” 
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c)
states that “[a]lthough continuances of trials are disfavored, each request
for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.” Circumstances
that may indicate good cause include:
 
“(1) the unavailability of an essential lay or expert
witness due to death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2) the unavailability of a party due to death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances;
(3) the unavailability of trial counsel due to death,
illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(4) the substitution of trial counsel where there is an
affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of
justice;
(5) the addition of a new party if
(A) the new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial, or
(B) the other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6) a party’s excused inability to obtain essential
testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) a significant, unanticipated change in the status of the
case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.”  (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (d)
sets forth more factors that are relevant in determining whether to grant a
continuance:
 
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;
(2) Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time,
or delay of trial due to any party;
(3) The length of the continuance requested;
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion or application for a continuance;
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a
result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the
reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the
need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance
on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.”
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
moves to continue the trial to a date on or after October 14, 2025. 
 
Defendant
argues that Universal first appeared in this matter on November 27, 2024, and that
more time is needed to complete discovery. (Decl. McIntosh, ¶ 7.) Defendant’s
counsel reports that all parties have stipulated to continue the trial. (Decl.
Intosh, ¶ 5.) 
 
Good cause has
been shown.  The motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS the motion to continue trial.
 
The Court
CONTINUES the trial to a date on or after October 14, 2025.
 
The Final
Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial date. 
 
Moving party to give notice.