  Case Number:  21STCV26485    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  29 Enlow v. Starline Tours of Hollywood
21STCV26485
Motion to Set Aside Default filed by GAW Capital Investments, LLC dba Ovation
Hollywood and DJM Capital Partners, Inc.
 
Tentative
 
The hearing on the motion is continued for procedural
reasons.
 
Background
On July
19, 2021, Cheryl D. Enlow (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Starline
Tours of Hollywood, Inc. (“Starline”) and Does 1 through 20 for negligence
arising out of an incident on July 26, 2019, in which Plaintiff alleges that
she was injured while attempting to board a tour bus or other tour vehicle. 
On April
3, 2023, Starline filed an answer. 
On
February 2, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Gaw Capital
Investments, LLC dba Ovation Hollywood (“Gaw”) as Doe 1 and DJM Capital
Partners, Inc. dba Ovation Hollywood (“DJM”) as Doe 2.  
On June
28, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name CIM Group, L.P. as Doe 3 and CIM
Group Acquisitions, LLC as Doe 4.
After their
demurrer was overruled and their motion to strike was granted, CIM Group, L.P.
and CIM Group Acquisitions, LLC (collectively, the “CIM Defendants”) filed an
answer on October 2, 2024.
As it
relates to the matter before the Court and set for hearing on January 7, 2025,
the default of Gaw and DJM (“Defendants”) was entered on June 21, 2024.
On November 27,
2024, Defendants filed this motion to set aside the default. 
No opposition
has been filed.
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) provides
for both discretionary and mandatory relief from dismissal. 
As to discretionary relief, the statute states: “The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473,
subd. (b).) Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the
motion must be accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be
filed; “otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides for mandatory relief from dismissal,
default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application for relief is made no more than six
months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect … unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.”  
(Ibid.)
 
A request for discretionary relief under section 473,
subdivision (b), must be made (subject to certain exceptions) “within a
reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months.”  (Ibid.)  A request for mandatory relief must be made
within six months.  (Ibid.) 
Discussion
Defendants seek discretionary relief from default under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). According to Defendants, they
failed to answer the complaint “was not sent to our risk manager” as “a result
of inadvertence and miscommunication.” 
(Gomez Decl., ¶ 17.)  “Specifically,
there was confusion about which DJM Capital employee was tasked with providing
the summons to the risk manager.”  (Ibid.)
 
When a party seeks discretionary relief from default, however,
a mandatory statutory requirement is that the party seeking relief must accompany
the motion with “a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  Here, Defendants have not satisfied this
mandatory requirement.
 
The hearing is continued for approximately 30 days.  No less than 16 court days prior to the
hearing, Defendants must file a copy of their proposed answer or other proposed
pleading.  If they do not do so, “the
application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)
 
Conclusion
 
The Court CONTINUES the hearing on this motion for
approximately 30 days so that Defendants may satisfy the mandatory procedural
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b).
 
The Court ORDERS Defendants to file and serve a copy of
the answer of other pleading proposed to be filed at least 16 court days prior
to the new hearing date.
 
Moving Party is to give notice.