 Case Number:  20STCV30377    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel the Deposition of Witness Oliver
Villamil filed by Plaintiff Ramiro Martinez Gomez.
 
Tentative
The motion is DENIED without prejudice.
Background
On August
11, 2020, Plaintiff Ramiro Martinez Gomez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants DAMCO International, DAMCO Distribution Services, Inc, DAMCO
USA, INC., Victor Flores, and Does 1 to 100, asserting claims for motor vehicle
negligence and general negligence arising out of forklift accident on August 20,
2018.
Defendants
DAMCO Distributions Services, Inc., and Victor Flores each filed an answer to
the complaint on November 29, 2021.
On or
about September 23, 2022, Plaintiff issued a deposition subpoena to Oliver
Villamil, a non-party witness.  (Wacker
Decl., Exh. B-3.)  Mr. Villamil was
served on September 29, 2022.  (Ibid.)  Mr. Villamil did not appear for the
deposition.  (Id., Exh. A.)
On or
about December 8, 2023, Plaintiff issued another deposition subpoena to Oliver
Villamil, a non-party witness.  (Wacker
Decl., Exh. B-2.)  Mr. Villamil was
served on December 11.  (Ibid.)  The deposition was scheduled for December 20,
but Mr. Villamil did not appear.  (Id.,
Exh. B.)
On December
27, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Oliver Villamil to appear and
testify at his deposition.
No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure § 2025.450(a) provides: 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an
organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” 
 The motion shall “(1) set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice” and “(2) be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition
and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things
described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
“Any party
served with a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing
with Section 2025.210) waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three
calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the
party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom
the deposition notice was served.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410(a).)
“A meet
and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
A court
shall impose monetary sanctions in favor of the moving party if the motion to
compel is granted, unless “the one subject to sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(g)(1).)
Discussion
Plaintiff
has presented evidence that non-party witness Oliver Villamil was properly
served with a deposition subpoena on two occasions and that Mr. Villamil failed
both times to appear for his deposition and testify.  (Wacker Decl., ¶¶ 5-7 & Exhs. A-B.)
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1346, however, requires that a nonparty deponent must be
personally served with a motion to compel, unless the deponent agrees to mail service
or electronic service.  Plaintiff has
filed proof of personal service of the motion to compel on Mr. Villamil.
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel Oliver Villamil to appear for
deposition without prejudice for lack of proper service.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel
without prejudice.
Moving party to give notice.
Moving Party is to give notice.
 