  Case Number:  20STCV19067    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Pre-Trial Discovery (Pitchess Motion)
filed by Plaintiffs
 
Tentative
The
motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
Background
 
On May 19, 2020, Plaintiffs Alvin Mount and Nella Mount (“Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Defendants California Highway Patrol, Alfredo
Gutierrez, State of California and Does 1 through 100, asserting causes of
action for wrongful death and negligence. Plaintiffs allege that on or about
October 27, 2019, decedent Cezannie Mount was killed by Defendant Alfredo
Gutierrez, who was riding his CHP motorcycle at an unlawful and excessive speed
while in the course and scope of his employment. (Complaint, ¶ 10.)
Defendant State of California, acting by and through the California
Highway Patrol (“CHP”), filed its answer on July 10, 2020.  Defendant Alfredo Gutierrez (“Gutierrez”)
filed his answer on August 21, 2020.
This case was stayed for approximately two years while a criminal
prosecution against Gutierrez was pending. 
The criminal trial apparently ended in a hung jury, after which all charges
were dismissed.  The stay in this case was
lifted on April 21, 2023.
Plaintiffs initially filed a motion for discovery of peace officer personnel
records on August 8, 2023.  They withdrew
that motion on September 19, 2023.
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a new motion for discovery
of peace officer personnel records.  CHP filed
an opposition on December 26, and Plaintiffs filed a reply on January 2.  Defendants filed an additional declaration
from counsel on January 4, setting forth certain information and requesting
that the Court condition any disclosure on entry of a protective order to
maintain the confidentiality of the information.
The hearing on Plaintiffs’ motion was
initially set for January 9.  The Court,
on its own motion, continued the hearing to January 22.
Legal Standard
A motion to
obtain discovery of a law enforcement officer’s personnel file or other police
agency records is called a Pitchess motion. (Pitchess v. Super. Ct. (1974)
11 Cal.3d 531, 536-540.) The procedures for a Pitchess motion have
been codified, at least in part, in Evidence Code sections 1043 through 1047
and Penal Code sections 832.5, 832.7, and 832.8. (People v. Mooc (2001)
26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226.) Within the scope of their provisions, these
statutes provide the exclusive means of discovery of such records in both
criminal and civil proceedings. (County of Los Angeles v. Super.
Ct. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1609-1610.)
Evidence Code
section 1043 provides, in pertinent part, as follows:
(a)  In
any case in which discovery or disclosure is sought of peace or custodial
officer personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 of
the Penal Code or information from those records, the party seeking the
discovery or disclosure shall file a written motion with the appropriate court
or administrative body upon written notice to the governmental agency that has
custody and control of the records ….


(b)  The
motion shall include all of the following:


(1)  Identification
of the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking
discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are
sought, the governmental agency that has custody and control of the records,
and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be
heard.    
 
(2)  A
description of the type of records or information sought.
 
(3)  Affidavits
showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the
materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation
and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency identified has
the records or information from the records.
For purposes of a Pitchess motion, the term “personnel records”
is defined to include “any file maintained under that individual's name by his
or her employing agency and containing records relating to any of the
following:¿ 
(1) Personal data,
including marital status, family members, educational and employment history,
home addresses, or similar information.¿ 
(2) Medical
history.¿ 
(3) Election of
employee benefits.¿
(4) Employee
advancement, appraisal, or discipline.¿ 
(5) Complaints, or
investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction in which he or
she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining to the manner in
which he or she performed his or her duties.¿ 
(6) Any other
information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of
personal privacy.¿ 
(Penal
Code, § 832.8, subd. (a).)¿
A party seeking discovery of a peace officer’s
personnel records must follow a two-step process. (Warrick v. Superior Court (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1011,
1019.) “First, the party must file a written motion
describing the type of records sought, supported by affidavits showing good
cause for the discovery…, setting forth the materiality thereof to the
subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable
belief that the governmental agency identified has the records or
information from the records. This initial burden is a ‘relatively
relaxed standard.’  Information is material if it will
facilitate the ascertainment of the facts and a fair
trial. A declaration by counsel on information and belief is
sufficient to state facts to satisfy the ‘materiality’ component of that
section.” (Haggerty v. Super. Ct. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th
1079, 1085-1086 [citations omitted].) The motion must provide a “specific
factual scenario” that establishes the materiality of the discovery
sought. (City of Santa Cruz v. Municipal Ct. (1989) 49 Cal.3d
74, 85-86.) The documents must be requested “with adequate specificity” to
preclude the possibility that the moving party is engaged in a “fishing
expedition.” (People v. Memro (1985) 38 Cal.3d 658, 678
[overruled on other grounds in People v. Gaines (2009) 46
Cal.4th 172, 181, n. 2].) Nonetheless, the good cause standard is in this
context a “relatively
low threshold.” (Santa Cruz, supra, 49 Cal.3d at p.  83; see also, e.g., Gaines, supra, 46
Cal.4th at p. 179.)
“Second, if the trial court concludes [a
party] has fulfilled these prerequisites and made a showing of good cause,
the custodian of records should bring to court all documents ‘potentially
relevant’ to the [requesting party’s] motion…. The trial court ‘shall
examine the information in chambers, out of the presence and hearing
of all persons except the person authorized to possess the records and
such other persons the custodian of records is willing to have present…. Subject
to statutory exceptions and limitations ...the trial court should then
disclose to the defendant such information that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending litigation.” (Haggerty, supra,
117 Cal.App.4th at p. 1086 [citations omitted]; see also, e.g., Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th
at 1019.)
In determining relevance, the trial
court is to exclude facts “that are so remote as to make disclosure of little
or no practical benefit.”  (Evid. Code, §
1045, subd. (b)(2).)  
If the court orders any disclosure,
the court must also “order that the records disclosed or discovered may not be
used for any purpose other than a court proceeding pursuant to applicable law.”  (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (e); see also Alford
v. Super. Ct. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1033, 1042-1043.)
Discussion
Plaintiffs
seek seven areas of records in regards to Defendant Alfredo Gutierrez. These
seven areas include the following:
(1)  Any
traffic violations, collisions, or accidents whether or not there was any
property damage or personal injury to any third person or GUTIERREZ;
(2)  Any
violations, citations or tickets for speeding, whether on the job or during
personal time;
(3)  An
incident wherein which the use of force resulted in death or great bodily
injury;
(4)  Any
notice of or discipline against GUTIERREZ for being late to work, or late to any
work related duties;
(5)  Any
disciplinary action taken against GUTIERREZ involving false statements or perjury;
(6)  Any
records relating to GUTIERREZ’S eyes, detached retina and/or eye injury including
but not limited to medical documents, records, reports, memos, emails, any
work-related documents concerning his eyes, and his fitness to drive with his eye
injury and any documents related to his off-work status as a result of the eye injury,
clearance to return to work as a result of his eye injury;
(7)   Any sustained finding involving dishonesty
directly relating to the reporting, investigation, or prosecution of a crime,
including, but are not limited to, any sustained finding of perjury, false
statements, filing false reports, destruction, falsifying, tampering with, or
concealing of evidence, receipt or solicitation of bribes, loans, favors, or
gifts, misappropriation of property, obstructing an investigation, or
influencing a witness.
(Motion,
1-2:9-28, 1-3.)
Categories 1 and 2
Plaintiffs
have shown good cause as to the records in these two categories.  
CHP asks
the Court to impose a limitation on the time period.  In this specific context, the Court will
consider the concern about whether violations, citations, collisions, accidents,
etc., that are remote in time are relevant in connection with the second step
of the Pitchess review process.  (Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (b)(2).)  
Category 3
Plaintiffs have not shown good cause as to the records in
this category.  The allegations in this
case involve negligent operation of a motorcycle, not use of force.
Category 4
Plaintiffs have shown good cause as to the records in this
category.  The Court understands that there
is a factual dispute regarding whether Gutierrez was late to work at the time
of the accident; Plaintiffs are entitled to pursue discovery that will support
their factual contentions, including that Gutierrez may have been operating the
motorcycle negligently because he was late to work.
Categories 5 and 7
Plaintiffs
have shown good cause as to records in Category No. 5.
Plaintiffs
have shown good cause in part as to the records in Category No. 7.
The
Court understands that there is a factual dispute regarding whether Gutierrez
has made true or false statements about the accident; Plaintiffs are entitled
to pursue discovery that will support their factual contentions, including that
Gutierrez has made false statements about the accident.
Plaintiffs
have not shown good cause, however, as to sustained findings relating to “receipt
or solicitation of bribes, loans, favors, or gifts, misappropriation of
property, obstructing an investigation, or influencing a witness.”  This type of misconduct is not at issue in
this case.
Category 6
Plaintiffs
have shown good cause as to the records in this category.  CHP does not contend otherwise.
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Plaintiffs’ Pitchess motion.
Conclusion
The Court
GRANTS in part and DENIES in part Plaintiffs’ Pitchess motion. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion as to the records in categories 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6.
The
Court GRANTS the motion in part as to the records in category 7.  The Court ORDERS that the category be
narrowed to “Any sustained finding involving dishonesty directly relating to
the reporting, investigation, or prosecution of a crime, including, but are not
limited to, any sustained finding of perjury, false statements, filing false
reports, destruction,
falsifying,
tampering with, or concealing of evidence.” 
As narrowed, the Court GRANTS the motion.
The
Court DENIES the motion as to the records in category 3.
The
custodian of records of CHP is ordered to bring to the Court on ___________,
2024, all records in categories 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, and 7 (as narrowed) for in
camera review by the Court.
Moving
Party is ORDERED to give notice.
 