 Case Number:  21STCV23847    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Consolidate filed by Defendant Angelica Bianca Diaz
 
Background 
 
On June 28,
2021, in this case (Case No. 21STCV23847), Plaintiffs Luis Felix Marinero, Ana
Rodriguez, and Nathaly Rodriguez filed a complaint for negligence and
negligence per se against Defendant Angelica Biana Diaz and Does 1 through 25 arising
from a multi-vehicle automobile accident on July 6, 2019, near the Adams Exit
on the 101 North Highway in Los Angeles (the “Marinero Action”).  Defendant Angela Blanca Diaz (“Diaz”) filed
her answer on August 20, 2021.
 
On July 1,
2021, in Case No. 21STCV24492, Plaintiff Lloyd Smith filed a complaint for
negligence against Defendants Angelica Bianca Diaz, Luis Rodriguez, and Does 1
through 50, arising out of the same accident (the “Smith Action”).   On February 1, 2023, Diaz and Luis Rodriguez
each filed their answers.  Diaz and Luis
Rodriguez each filed Cross-Complaints as well.
 
On March
15, 2023, the Court determined that the Marinero Action and the Smith Action
are related cases.
 
On March
27, 2023, Diaz filed this motion to consolidate the Marinero Action and the
Smith Action.
 
No
opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending
before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the
matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 1048,¿subd. (a).)¿ The purpose
of consolidation is to enhance trial court efficiency by avoiding unnecessary
duplication of evidence and the danger of inconsistent adjudications.¿ (See
Todd-Stenberg v.¿Dalkon¿Shield Claimants Trust¿(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976,
978-979.)¿ 
 
A Notice of Motion to consolidate cases must¿(A) include a list of
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record; (B) include the captions of all
the cases sought to be consolidated; and (C) be filed in each case sought to be
consolidated.¿ (Cal. Rules of¿Court, rule 3.350, subd. (a)(1).)¿¿¿ 
 
“Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same
department.  A motion to consolidate two
or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.”¿ (Super. Ct. L.A. County,
Local Rules, rule¿3.3, subd. (g)(1).)¿ 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant Diaz moves to consolidate cases the Marinero Action and
the Smith Action, arguing that the facts and issues
presented in both cases are nearly identical, and consolidation would promote judicial
economy.  Both cases arise from the same
alleged four-vehicle rear end auto accident that occurred on July 6, 2019.  
¿ 
The two actions have been related and are pending in this department.  The motion thus complies with Local Rule
3.3(g). 
 
Further, the Court finds the notice of motion includes a list of all
named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, the names of
their respective attorneys of record, and the captions of all the cases sought
to be consolidated.  The motion thus
complies with California Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(1)(A)-(B).
 
Diaz filed this motion in the Marinero Action but did not file it
in the Smith Action.  The motion thus
does not meet the requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(1)(C).  
 
Accordingly, the Court cannot grant the motion at this time.
 
The Court CONTINUES the hearing to allow Diaz to cure this procedural
defect and satisfy the requirements of the Rules of Court. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly, the motion to consolidate is CONTINUED.¿¿ 
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 