 Case Number:  23AHCV01995    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MICHELE WOERMBKE, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CHRISTOPHER
   PEREZ,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01995
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSES TO FORM
   INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE) AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET ONE) 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   5, 2024



 
On August 30,
 2023, plaintiff Michele Woermbke (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against defendant Christopher Perez (“Defendant”) arising from a motor
 vehicle collision. On January 30, 2024 Defendant
served Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Special Interrogatories (Set One) on Plaintiff.
Extensions were provided but no responses have been received. Defendant filed
this motion on October 10, 2024. 
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) A party that fails to serve timely
responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.290, subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff
did not oppose the motion and it is undisputed responses were not served. However,
Defendant should have filed two motions and paid two filing fees. Therefore,
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED on the condition that Defendant pays an
additional filing fee and files proof of payment with the Court. Plaintiff is
ordered to serve verified responses, without objections, to Form
Interrogatories (Set One) and Special Interrogatories (Set One) within 20 days
after Defendant files proof of payment of this additional filing fee. Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED and imposed against Plaintiff
and counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $235
for 1
 hour at defense counsel’s hourly rate of $355
and $120
in filing fees, to be paid within 20 days after Defendant files proof that the
additional filing fee has been paid. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 5th
day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar.
 