 Case Number:  23GDCV01391    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LIDA ZOHRABIANS, BY AND THROUGH HER SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST,
   ANAHID MINASKANIAN, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CENTRAL
   CONVALESCENT HOSPITAL OF GLENDALE INC. dba CHANDLER CONVALESCENT, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23GDCV01391
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT;
   MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   5, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On July 5,
2024, plaintiff Anahid Minaskanian (“Plaintiff”), individually and as
successor-in-interest of Lida Zohrabians (“Zohrabians”), filed this action
against defendants Central Convalescent Hospital of Glendale Inc. dba Chandler
Convalescent Hospital (“Facility”) (erroneously sued separately as “Central
Convalescent Hospital of Glendale Inc. dba Chandler Convalescent
Hospital-Glendale” and “Chestnut Ridge Post Acute LLC dba Chandler Convalescent
Hospital-Glendale”) and Renew Health Consulting Services (“Management”).
Plaintiff also named Vartan Vartanians and Mary Boudaghians as nominal
defendants. 
Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on May 8, 2024. Just like
the original complaint, the FAC includes causes of action for: (1) elder abuse
and neglect (Welfare & Institutions Code section 15600 et seq.), (2)
violations of Residents’ Bill of Rights (Health & Safety Code section
1430(b), (3) negligence, and (4) wrongful death. 
          On
June 7, 2024, Facility and Management (collectively, “Defendants”) filed a
demurrer. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s causes of action for elder abuse
and violation of the Residents’ Bill of Rights are insufficiently pled. Defendants
also served a motion to strike which was scheduled to be heard at the same time
as the demurrer. Defendants move to strike Paragraphs 44, 45, 55, 56,
Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs. 
On October
24, 2024, the hearing was continued so that Defendants could file a copy of the
motion to strike with the Court. The motion was filed later that same day. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.’ [Citation]” (Ibid.)
The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435,
or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: 
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(b) Strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) The grounds for a motion to strike
shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which
the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd.
(a).) Where the motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may take
judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such
matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points
and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit. (Id., subd.
(b).) 
III.    DISCUSSION
A.   Allegations of the FAC
On July 13, 2022, after being
hospitalized from COVID, Plaintiff was admitted as a resident at Facility to increase
her functional mobility and ability to perform activities of daily living due
to weakness and difficulty walking. (FAC, ¶ 17.) Upon admission, Zoharabians “was
alert but had periods of forgetfulness and short term memory issues.” (FAC, ¶
18.) Zohrabians was assessed to need “extensive one person physical assist for
dressing, personal hygiene, transferring, toilet use, eating, and bed
mobility.” (Ibid.) She was also occasionally
incontinent. (Ibid.) Defendants allegedly identified that Zohrabians was
at a high risk of falls based upon the medications she was taking, poor safety
awareness, and problems with her balance and memory. (FAC, ¶ 19.) Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants knew they needed to ensure that Zohrabians’s call
lights were answered promptly and put her on a toileting schedule, among other
things. (Ibid.) 
After the Court sustained Defendants’
demurrer to the original complaint, Plaintiff amended it to add that the
Facility “did not have sufficient staff assigned to work on each shift which
inhibited them from executing care plans and providing the care and supervision
each resident, including Zohrabians, needed.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges
that this understaffing specifically led to the Facility’s failure to implement
a toileting schedule and ensure Zohrabians “received the appropriate
supervision and assistance in using the restroom.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff
adds that Facility, “via their managing agents”, set the schedule and budget for
their staff and was aware of the number of residents and their needs. (FAC, ¶
21.) The Facility also allegedly understood that understaffing meant that the
residents would not receive the care and supervision required and that
residents would be at risk of sustaining injury. (Ibid.) 
Plaintiff alleges that due to
understaffing, Zohrabians experienced significant delays when she attempted to
use her call light for assistance to use the restroom, which caused significant
distress. (FAC, ¶ 23.) Plaintiff also alleges that Zohrabians preferred using
the toilet, but she was kept in diapers and not put on a toileting program or schedule.
(Ibid.) 
On August 4, 2022, at approximately
7:40 a.m. Zohrabians suffered an unwitnessed fall. (FAC., ¶ 24.) Zohrabians
“was attributed with stating she got up because she needed to use the
restroom.” (FAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that at 7:25 a.m., Zohrabians was
seen by a staff member, but the staff member did have time or ability to assist
or offer to assist Zohrabians to the restroom. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants had recently moved Zohrabians to a new room and were aware this
could confuse or disorient Plaintiff causing her to need closer monitoring and
supervision. (FAC, ¶ 26.) Following the fall, Plaintiff had a bump on her head
and was in significant pain. (FAC, ¶ 27.) She was transferred to the hospital
where she was diagnosed with a hip fracture and underwent surgery, but passed
away on August 14, 2022, due to “[t]he trauma of the surgery and her subsequent
condition.” (FAC, ¶ 27.) 
B.  
Demurrer:
First Cause of Action for Elder Abuse and Neglect 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s first
cause of action for elder abuse and neglect, which is brought on Zohrabians’s
behalf pursuant to the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act
(“EADACPA”) Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600 et. seq. 
Abuse of a dependent adult or elder
will justify heightened remedies when the cause of action includes facts
showing the following: “(a) Physical abuse, neglect, financial abuse,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical
harm or pain or mental suffering[; or] [¶] (b) The deprivation by a care
custodian of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or
mental suffering.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07.) Acts of simple or even
gross negligence will not justify the additional civil damage remedies. (Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783-785 (“Covenant
Care”).) Where the elder or dependent adult has died, the neglect or abuse
resulting in pain or mental suffering must amount to recklessness, oppression,
fraud or malice, in order to justify the heightened remedies. (Mack v. Soung
(2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 966, 972.) The facts constituting neglect and
establishing a causal link between the neglect and the injury must be pled with
particularity. (See Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790; Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407.)  
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Zohrabians
experienced “significant delays” when using her call light for assistance to
use the restroom “[d]uring the course of her residency.” A facility’s alleged
pattern of knowingly violating staffing regulations in order to cut costs at
the expense of patient care, if proven true, may support a factfinder’s
conclusion that the facility acted with recklessness. (Fenimore v. Regents
of University of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1139, 1350-1351.) In Fenimore,
the Second Appellate District overruled a demurrer where a pleading “identified
the staffing regulation the [h]ospital knowingly violated” because “[a] jury
may see knowingly flouting staffing regulations as part of a pattern and
practice to cut costs, thereby endangering the facility’s elderly and dependent
patients, as qualitatively different than simple negligence.” 
Here, Plaintiff’s allegations remain
too conclusory to state a claim for elder abuse. Plaintiff only alleges that
Zohrabians experienced “significant delays” when attempting to use her call
light, without specifying the length of time which would make such a delay
“significant.” Plaintiff also fails to specifically plead the regulations that
were knowingly violated in pursuit of profit which led to Zohrabians’ injury. Plaintiff
only refers to inadmissible deficiencies issued for a general failure to
provide patient care without stating how those deficiencies specifically relate
to Zohrabians’ injuries. In the absence of these specifics, Plaintiff
essentially alleges that during her 3-week residency, Zohrabians was kept in
diapers and “not assisted to the restroom or asked if she needed to use the
restroom” by a staff member on one occasion, which consequently led to a fall.
These facts do not constitute a claim for neglect rising to the level of elder
abuse and do not evidence recklessness, fraud, malice, or oppression. (Worsham
v. O’Connor Hospital (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331 [no allegations of elder
abuse where facility was alleged to be “chronically understaffed”]; Carter,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 405 [oppression, fraud, and malice involve
intentional, willful, or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious
nature].) Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the First Cause of Action is
SUSTAINED.  
C.  
Demurrer:
Second Cause of Action for Violation of Residents’ Bill of Rights
Health & Safety Code section 1430
(b) permits a current or former resident or patient of a skilled nursing
facility to bring “a civil action” against the licensee of a facility that
“violates any rights” set forth in the Patients Bill of Rights (Cal. Code
Regs., tit. 22, § 72527), or “any other right provided for by federal or state
law or regulation.” (H&S Code, § 1430, subd. (b).) Its remedy provision
states that “[t]he licensee shall be liable for up to five hundred dollars
($500), and for costs and attorney fees, and may be enjoined from permitting
the violation to continue.” (Ibid.) The $500 maximum applies “per civil
action rather than per violation.” (Jarman v. HCR ManorCare, Inc. (2020)
10 Cal.5th 375, 392; Nevarrez v. San Marino Skilled Nursing &
Wellness Centre, LLC (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 102, 137.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails
to allege any facts sufficient to state a cause of action because there are no
allegations identifying the specific rights which were violated and the manner
in which they were violated. However, Plaintiff adequately identifies
Zohrabians’ rights at issue and sufficiently pleads that Facility violated them
by alleging the following: 
-     
Health
& Safety Code section 1599.1(a) and California Code of Regulations, tit.
22, section 72329.1(a), (g)(1): the right to provision of sufficient numbers of
qualified personnel to appropriately staff the facility and care for her needs.
Plaintiff alleges Facility failed to have a sufficient number of staff members
working on each shift during Zohrabians’ residency.
-     
California
Code of Regulations, tit. 22, section 72527(a)(12).) The right to treatment of
consideration, respect, and full recognition of dignity in care of personal
needs. Plaintiff alleges Facility staff failed to timely respond to call lights
and change Zohrabians’ diaper, which “forced Zohrabians to have to soil her
self [sic] and sit in her own excrement for extended periods of time.” 
-     
California
Code of Regulations, tit. 22, sections 72311(a)(1)(B0, (a)(1)(C), and (a)2: The
right to have a care plan developed, implemented, reviewed, and updated that
indicates what care is necessary and which goals the care plan aims to achieve.
Plaintiff alleges Facility failed to implement a toileting program and offer
assistance with toileting at specific intervals. 
-     
Code
of Federal Regulations, tit. 42, section 483.25(d): The right to adequate
supervision and assistance devices to ensure a hazard-free environment.
Plaintiff alleges Facility failed to provide Zohrabians with supervision and
assistance with using the restroom which cause her to fall and injure herself. 
(FAC, ¶ 75.) Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the Second
Cause of Action is OVERRULED. 
D.  
Motion
to Strike
Defendants move to strike Paragraphs
44, 45, 55, 56, Plaintiff’s allegations requesting punitive damages (¶¶ 71, 78),
attorneys’ fees (¶¶ 78), and Plaintiff’s prayer for attorneys’ fees, punitive
damages, and costs of suit. (p. 22, ¶¶ 5-7.) 
As an initial matter, the Court deems
the motion to strike Paragraphs 55, 56, and 71 moot because the demurrer to the
elder abuse claim is sustained. 
Next, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to strike paragraphs 44 and 45 which describe different
violations/citations issued by the DPH. In Nevarrez v. San Marino Skilled
Nursing & Wellness Centre, LLC (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 102, 122-123, the
Second Appellate District found that a trial court abused its discretion by
allowing a citation issued by a DPH into evidence. Plaintiffs argue that the
citations are not to be used as admissions, but as evidence of Defendant’s
knowledge of the cited issues. (Opp., p. 8.) This is a distinction without a
difference, because concluding that a party knew of certain circumstances requires
assuming (or admitting) that those circumstances exist. 
In addition, the Court GRANTS the
motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in paragraph 78 and
paragraph 6 of the prayer for relief. Plaintiff fails to allege fraud,
oppression, or malice with the requisite specificity pursuant to Civil Code
section 3294 in connection with the alleged violations of the Residents’ Bill
of Rights. 
Last, the Court DENIES Defendants’
motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for costs and attorneys’ fees in paragraph
78 and paragraphs 5 and 7 in the prayer for relief; both are recoverable under
Health and Safety Code section 1430 (b). 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED as to
the First Cause of Action and OVERRULED as to the Second Cause of Action. Defendant’s
motion to strike is GRANTED in part and the Court strikes paragraphs 44, 45,
and Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages. Plaintiff is granted 20 days
leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 5th
day of November
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 