  Case Number:  22AHCV01323    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIA DE LA LUZ SANTACRUZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ALDI
  SUPERMARKET COMPANY,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV01323
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PHILIP HOLGUIN-CABAN
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
  18, 2024



 
Plaintiff Maria De La Luz Santacruz
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Aldi Inc. (“Defendant”)
(erroneously named as “Aldi Supermarket Company”) for premises liability and
general negligence arising from a slip and fall. On May 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this motion for an order compelling the deposition of Philip Holguin-Caban
and imposing sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record in the
amount of $3,150. 
Mr. Holguin-Caban was working as the
associate/shift manager of Defendant’s store when Plaintiff slipped and fell on
January 5, 2021. (Motion, p. 4.) Plaintiff argues that his deposition is critical
because there is no video footage of the incident or the period before the
incident because the cameras were not operating on the day of the incident. Defendant
identified Holguin-Caban as someone who had knowledge of various matter
relating to the incident, including the alleged dangerous condition and the incident
report. (Motion, Boris Decl., Ex. 1.) Multiple efforts were made to schedule
Mr. Holguin-Caban’s deposition from January 4 to March 13, 2024, before defense
counsel informed Plaintiff’s counsel that Mr. Holguin-Caban was not capable of testifying
as a percipient witness due to an illness which rendered him incompetent. (Motion,
Boris Decl., Ex. 9.) 
Evidence Code § 701(a) disqualifies a
person as a witness “if he or she is: (1) Incapable of expressing himself or
herself concerning the matter so as to be understood, either directly or
through interpretation by one who can understand him; or (2) Incapable of
understanding the duty of a witness to tell the truth.” (Evid. Code, § 701,
subd. (a).) The burden of proving a witness's incompetence lies with the
objecting party. (People v. Augustin (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 444, 448.) 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
has not shown that Mr. Holguin-Caban is incapable of testifying because even if
he has some cognitive impairment, a mental status exam, which appears to have
been conducted on April 26, 2023, showed that his thought process and thought
content were “normal” and his insight and judgment was “good.” (Motion, Ex.
14.) Although the exam results noted that Mr. Holguin-Caban “[d[emonstrated
word-finding difficulties”, this cursory statement is insufficient to
demonstrate that he is disqualified as a witness for being incapable of
expressing himself. (See People v. Augustin, supra, 112
Cal.App.4th at p. 448-449 [“A witness who is merely difficult to understand is
not inherently or automatically incompetent under section 701.”])
In opposition, Defendant merely refers
to the records included in Plaintiff’s moving papers and reiterates that Mr. Holguin-Caban
has been diagnosed with health issues which impair his ability to sit for a deposition.
(Opp., p. 3.) Defendant asserts that compelling a deposition would “cause undue
hardship and potentially exacerbate his medical condition” but does not submit
any recent evidence, such as a doctor’s note, to support this assertion. (Ibid.)
Defendant also argues that sanctions should not be imposed because they acted
with substantial justification in refusing to produce Mr. Holguin-Caban to be
deposed. 
It does not appear that Mr.
Holguin-Caban remains employed by Defendant because Plaintiff’s notice of
motion states that Mr. Holguin-Caban is Defendant’s former employee. Also,
Defendant refers to Mr. Holguin-Caban as an “ex-employee” who was employed as a
Shift Manager at the time of Plaintiff’s incident. This is significant because the
service of a deposition notice is only effective to require any deponent “who
is a party to the action or an . . . or employee of a party to attend and to
testify. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) “The attendance and
testimony of any other deponent, . . . requires the service on the deponent of
a deposition subpoena. . . ” (Id., subd. (b).) “The requisite
“party-affiliated” relationship must exist at the time of the deposition
notice.” (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc.
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566, 600.) Since Plaintiff did not issue a subpoena to
Mr. Holguin-Caban the Court cannot compel him to appear and testify at a
deposition. 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is
DENIED. No sanctions are imposed. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 18th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 
 