  Case Number:  22STCV05593    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



LAURA GONZALEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
MARIA ROSARIO VILLAGRANA; JAIME VILLAGRANA; MARIA ROSARIO
  VILLAGRANA, as Successor Trustee of the Jose G. Gonzalez Living Trust dated December
  18, 2006; all persons unknown, claiming any legal or equitable right, title, estate,
  lien or interest in the property described in the complaint adverse to Plaintiffs’
  title, or any cloud on Plaintiffs’ title thereto; and DOES 1 through 50,
  Inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV05593
 Hearing Date:   12/4/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Maria Rosario Villagrana’s Demurrer to Second Amended
  Complaint.



 
Background
Plaintiff Laura Gonzalez sues
Defendants Maria Rosario Villagrana (individually and as Successor Trustee of
the Jose G. Gonzalez Living Trust dated December 18, 2006), Jaime Villagrana
(spouse of Maria Villagrana), and all other persons claiming title to
Plaintiff’s title to the real property otherwise known as 12136 Lowemont
Street, Norwalk, CA 90650 (Subject Property) pursuant to an July 25, 2023
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging claims of (1) Declaratory Relief for
Equitable Reimbursement on Real Property, and (2) Unjust Enrichment.
The claims arise from allegations
that Maria Villagrana obtained deeds conveying the Subject Property from Jose
Gonzalez (Maria’s deceased father and Laura’s deceased husband, who purchased
and secured the Subject Property as sole and separate property prior to
marrying Laura) to Maria as Maria’s sole and separate property, thus denying
Laura of the community property interest she gained in the Subject Property
prior to Jose’s death on February 28, 2021. Due to the grant deeds transferring
the Property to Defendant, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant steps in the shoes
of Jose Gonzalez and takes the Property subject to Plaintiff’s Reimbursement
rights. The Court may refer to the parties by their first names for ease of
reference only, no disrespect is intended.
On July 6, 2023, the Court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended Complaint with leave to
amend only insofar as a new reimbursement claim may be filed in this action.
On July 25, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the operative SAC.
On August 25, 2023, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer to the SAC with motion to strike.
On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff
opposed the motion. On November 27, 2023, Defendant replied.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
The Court
TAKES Judicial Notice of the deeds, substitution of trustee documents, and the
Court’s July 6, 2023 minute order filed by Plaintiff in opposition to the
demurrer, as attached to the SAC. (Opp’n, RJN, pp. 1-3; see SAC, Exs. A-H; see
also Evid. Code, §§ 452, subd. (c), 453.)

 
Demurrer
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION FOR
DECLARATORY RELIEF FOR EQUITABLE REIMBURSEMENT ON REAL PROPERTY: OVERRULED.
The Court determines that Plaintiff
withstands the demurrer on her first claim for declaratory relief.
Defendant argues that there is no
independent claim that may be asserted against her or the real property.
Defendant states that the only two people who could be parties to this cause of
action for equitable reimbursement are Plaintiff and her husband Jose Gonzalez
and that there is nothing in the holdings or reasoning of In re Marriage of
Moore (1980) 28 Cal.3d 366, 371-372 (Moore) nor In re Marriage of
Marsden (1982) 130 Cal.App.3d 426, 437 (Marsden) which suggests that anyone
other than the spouse owes the other spouse reimbursement of community funds
used to pay for a separate property asset. Defendant asserts that equitable
reimbursement is a family court claim supported by family law cases only. 
            Additionally,
Defendant states that Plaintiff’s claim for reimbursement was personal to Jose
Gonzalez and is now time-barred because it was not brought against his estate
within one year of his death pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 366.2.

            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s interpretation of the law is
incorrect because if there had been a divorce between Plaintiff and Jose after
25 years of marriage as opposed to Jose passing away February 28, 2021,
Plaintiff would have been able to make a claim to the Property in the family
law Court. Plaintiff argues that she should not be denied an ownership interest
in the Property simply because she is now a widow. 
            Plaintiff claims
she has a valid claim for declaratory relief as she has set forth facts showing
the existence of an actual controversy relating to the rights and duties of the
respective parties in the situations provided in Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1060 and requests that these rights and duties be adjudged by the
court. Plaintiff argues that Defendant has failed to cite any legal authority
specifically barring Plaintiff’s declaratory relief action.
            In reply, Defendant
points out that there is no law that allows a Court to order a third-party to
pay the debt owed by Plaintiff’s deceased husband or any law that makes real
property subject to spousal reimbursement after the spouse lawfully transferred
the property. Further, Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to overcome the
following: (1) Moore/Marsden is a Family Court holding for calculating
how much money one spouse owes another spouse; it does not authorize family
court spousal reimbursement claims against third parties (such as Defendant) in
civil court; (2) Plaintiff has no right to an equitable lien against the
property itself, only against the person that owes her for the reimbursement;
and (3) Plaintiff’s claim is time-barred by the applicable Statute of
Limitations. 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 1060 provides that a person may bring an action for
declaratory relief if he or she “desires a declaration of his or her rights or
duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property . .
. .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.) To state a declaratory relief claim, the
plaintiff must allege a proper subject of declaratory relief and an actual
controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or
obligations. (See Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213
Cal.App.4th 872, 909.) 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that an
actual controversy exists between Plaintiff and Defendant and a question has
arisen as to whether Plaintiff is entitled to seek reimbursement of community
property assets by way of an equitable lien on the subject real property, or
whether Defendant is entitled to a 100% full ownership interest in the
property. (Compl. ¶¶ 5-7, 26-30.) The Court finds these allegations to be
sufficient to state a declaratory relief cause of action against Defendants.
Although Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to provide any case authority
allowing recovery of spousal reimbursement from third parties, the Court finds
that the Moore/Marsden line of cases may support Plaintiff’s alleged
reimbursement rights to the Property via equitable lien.
The Court finds Code of Civil
Procedure section 366.2 inapplicable in this context. That statute by its
language presumes the existence of a cause of action against a decedent before
he dies, and provides a statute of limitations that will apply to his estate
upon his death. Here, by contrast, Plaintiff had no basis for a claim against
her husband or his estate until the property actually passed upon his death.
Even if she had learned about the language of the trust years in advance in
which he signalled his intent to pass the property to his daughter, he could
have changed his mind; and in any event she would have suffered no damage until
the transfer actually occurred.
Though not cited by either party,
the court finds the case of Patrick v. Alacer Corp. (2011) 201
Cal.App.4th 1326 (“Patrick”) to be instructive. That case involved the
calculation of a wife’s community property interest in a business founded by
her husband, who died while the parties were married. While the court there was
dealing with the calculation of a community interest in a business along the
lines of Pereira v. Pereira (1909) 156 Cal. 1 and Van Kamp v. Van
Kamp (1921) 53 Cal.App. 17, the Court finds it equally relevant and helpful
for a calculation of a community property interest in a property per Moore/Marsden,
supra. The court there rejected the argument that plaintiff’s declaratory
relief cause of action was time barred under Code of Civil Procedure section
366.2 or other statutes. Rather, the court found that, as a claim requesting a
determination of the rights of ownership in community property under Family
Code section 1101, there was no statute of limitations other than laches. (Patrick,
supra, 201 Cal.App.4th at p. 1336-1337.) 
The court in Patrick also
rejected the argument made by the defendant there and here that the declaratory
relief claim is barred by the failure to file a timely creditor’s claim in
probate. (Id. at p. 1338-1339.) There, as here, without a dissolution, “plaintiff
could not enforce her community interest against [husband] before his death,” and
plaintiff had a present existing interest in community property, not a mere
money claim; whereas creditor’s claims must be filed for “debts or demands
against the decedent as might have been enforced against him in his lifetime by
personal actions for the recovery of money and upon which only a money judgment
could have been rendered.” (Id.at p. 1338 [cleaned up].) Thus, the court
in that case held that no creditor’s claim was necessary for plaintiff to
pursue her declaratory relief claim to determine her community property
interest in her deceased husband’s business. (Id. at p. 1339.) 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the first
cause of action for declaratory relief is OVERRULED. 
SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION FOR
UNJUST ENRICHMENT: SUSTAINED.
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff
cannot state a claim for unjust enrichment because there was nothing unjust
that occurred. Defendant states that Jose lawfully transferred his home to his
Trust in 2006, and the Trust thereafter lawfully transferred the Property to
Defendant. Indeed, Plaintiff concedes that she is neither a trustee nor
beneficiary of the Trust, which means the Property never would have become hers
even if had not been transferred prior to her husband’s death.
Plaintiff argues that she has a
valid claim for unjust enrichment on account of the fact that Defendant is
seeking a 100% ownership interest of the Property at the expense of Plaintiff’s
equitable reimbursement lien. Plaintiff argues that Jose cannot grant 100% of
the Property to Defendant due to Plaintiff’s equitable reimbursement lien on
the Property and that Defendant must take the Property subject to said lien. 
In reply, Defendant argues that
since Jose lawfully transferred his separate Property to his Trust in 2006, and
the Trust thereafter lawfully transferred the Property to Defendant, the
Property never would have become Plaintiff’s even if had not been transferred
prior to her husband’s death. Thus, nothing unjust occurred and she cannot
maintain her claim for unjust enrichment.
In California, there is no cause of
action for unjust enrichment. (See Rutherford Holdings LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014)
223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231; Levine v. Blue Shield of California (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 1117, 1138.) While unjust enrichment is not a cause of action,
courts have stated that unjust enrichment is synonymous with restitution and
allowed recovery where the plaintiff asserts a proper basis for recovering
restitution. (See Durrell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
1350, 1370; McBride v. Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387-88.) Such
bases include quasi-contract, fraud, duress, conversion, or similar conduct.
(See Durrell, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 1370; McBride, supra,
123 Cal.App.4th at 387-88.)  
However, here, the Court has
already sustained a demurrer as to the original complaint. The Court sustained
the demurrer as to the first two causes of action and allowed the Plaintiff
leave to amend the third, for declaratory relief. “Following an order
sustaining a demurrer . . . with leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or
her complaint only as authorized by the court’s order.” (Harris v. Wachovia
Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) “The plaintiff may not
amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without having obtained
permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within the scope of the
order granting leave to amend.” (Ibid.) Here, the new cause of action is
not within the scope of the order granting leave to amend.
Accordingly, the demurrer to the second
cause of action for unjust enrichment is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. No
new causes of action should be added to the complaint without filing a motion
for leave to amend.
 
Motion
to Strike
            Defendant
requests that the Court strike the following allegations from the SAC:
Paragraph 5(f): Defendant … seeks
100% ownership interest in the Property.
Paragraphs 6, 7, 17, 21, 22, 23,
29, 30, 32, 34(b), Prayer for Relief Number 3.
Paragraph 32: “In addition,
community funds were used to pay property taxes and
insurance on the Property.”
Defendant points out in her reply
that Plaintiff failed to oppose the motion to strike.
            Despite
the lack of opposition, the Court independently reviewed the paragraphs and
portions thereof cited above. Given the Court’s ruling above that
Plaintiff properly maintains at least her claim for declaratory relief
regarding the property, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to strike in full. 
Conclusion
 Defendant Maria Rosario Villagrana’s Demurrer
to Second Amended Complaint is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action, and
SUSTAINED as to the second cause of action without leave to amend. No new
causes of action should be added to the complaint without filing a motion for
leave to amend.