 Case Number:  23STCP02964    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WANG SHOUTU
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LING YANDONG, and DOES 1-50
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCP02964
 Hearing Date:   12/4/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Petition to
  Enforce Foreign Country Judgments



 
Background
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff Wang
Shoutu filed a complaint for entry of California Court Judgment pursuant to the
Uniform Foreign-Country Judgments Recognition Act (“the Act”), Code of Civil
Procedure section 1713, et seq. against Defendants Ling Yandong, and Does 1-50.
Plaintiff alleges that the Higher
People’s Court of Jiangsu Province (Appellate Court) in in the People’s
Republic of China entered judgment against Defendants Suzhou Dingi and Shanghai
Dingjin to pay Plaintiff 50,000,000 yuan, with interest, with Defendant Ling to
have joint liability for satisfaction of the judgment. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Ling has failed and refused to pay the judgment. 
On August 24, 2023, the Court
scheduled an OSC hearing for 12/4/23 to show why sanctions should not be
imposed for Plaintiff’s failure to file proof of service. To avoid a mandatory
appearance, the notice specified that all required documents were to be filed
at least 5 days prior to the date of the hearing.
 
Petition
to Enforce Foreign Country Judgments
As explained by the Court in Hyundai
Securities Co., Ltd. v. Lee (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 682, 688-689, the Act,
which is based on the Uniform Foreign–Country
Money Judgments
Recognition Act (13 (Part.II) Uniform Laws Annotated, Civil Procedural and
Remedial Laws (2012 Supp.) 18), applies to foreign-country judgments that
grant or deny recovery of a sum of money and that are final, conclusive, and enforceable
under the law of the foreign country.
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 1715(a), 1724 [all further statutory citations herein are
to the Code of Civil Procedure].) The Act, contained in Code of Civil Procedure
Part 3—“Of Special Proceedings of a Civil Nature”—sets forth the procedure for
recognition of a foreign-country
money judgment
by providing the requirement that “the issue of recognition shall be raised by
filing an action” or by “counterclaim, cross-claim, or affirmative defense.” (§
1718, subds.(a), (b).) The Act contains a 10–year period of limitations for
bringing an action to recognize a foreign-country
money judgment.
(§ 1721.) It allocates the burden of proof for establishing whether a foreign-country money judgment is
within the scope of the Act and whether there is any ground for not recognizing
the existence of the judgment.
(§§ 1715, subd. (c), 1716.) The party seeking recognition of a foreign-country money judgment has
the burden to establish entitlement to recognition under the Act, while the
party resisting recognition has the burden of establishing a specified ground
for nonrecognition. (Ibid.) The Act specifies that if the court finds
that a foreign-country
money judgment
is entitled to recognition in California then, to the extent the judgment
grants or denies recovery of a sum of money, it is conclusive between the
parties to the same extent as the judgment of a sister-state entitled to
full faith and credit in this state would be conclusive, and the foreign-country money judgment is enforceable in
the same manner and to the same extent as a judgment rendered in this state. (§
1719.)
The Act provides
for various defenses if the foreign-country
money judgment
is final, conclusive, and enforceable where rendered. These include, in essence,
when the foreign-country
money judgment
was rendered under circumstances that violated due process or lacked
impartiality or integrity, was without jurisdiction, was without notice, or was
in conflict with California public policy or another judgment. (§ 1716.) Unless one of the
specified defenses applies, the court “shall recognize a foreign-country judgment to
which [the Act applies].” (§ 1716, subd. (a).) The Act does not apply, inter
alia, to a fine or penalty. (§ 1715, subd. (b)(2).) 
In
Hyundai, the court held that the trial court could not recognize
foreign-country money judgments merely upon the filing of a petition, such as
with truncated procedures like a petition to compel arbitration or for
recognizing a sister state judgment. (Hyundai Securities Co., Ltd.,
supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at pp. 690-693.)  It reasoned that “[a]s the Act requires an
action, and does not provide for any procedures other than those procedures
applicable to actions, a plaintiff, in order to obtain recognition of a foreign-country money judgment must
proceed in accordance with the normal procedures applicable to actions and not
by way of a motion or petition
to recognize the foreign-country
money judgment.”
(Id. at p. 693.) It further stated, “[i]f Hyundai wishes to have its
contentions dealt with summarily, it must do so by way of a motion for summary
judgment or judgment on the pleadings. [citation omitted]. If it does not
succeed in a summary judgment motion or a judgment on the pleadings, the issues
will require a trial.” (Id.at p. 694.) 
Similarly,
here, even if Plaintiff had filed a proof of service (which he has not), the
Court cannot enter judgment for Plaintiff by way of petition alone as it would
be procedurally improper to do so. “The trial court may not employ special
procedures that circumvent the procedures required by statute.” (Hyundai
Securities Co., supra, 215 Cal.App.4th at 693.) Further, the Court
notes that an OSC hearing is set for the same day as the hearing on this
petition, for why sanctions should not be imposed for Plaintiff’s failure to
file proof of service. The Court also notes that Plaintiff has not filed all
required documents at least 5 days prior to the date of the hearing. 

Conclusion
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
petition to enter foreign-country judgment for failure to file a proof of
service, and failure to file the necessary dispositive motion.