 Case Number:  23STCV16390    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling Judge Kevin C. Brazile  Department 20  Hearing Date:                         Friday, October 6, 2023 Case Name:                            Bespoke  Financial, Inc. v. Treasure Management, Inc., et al. Case No.:                                23STCV16390 Motion:                                  (1) Motion for  Change of Venue                                                 (2)  Motion for Change of Venue                                                 (3)  Motion for Change of Venue Moving Party:                         (1)  Defendants Treasure Management Inc., Euphoric  Life Inc. and Aiden Rafii                                                 (2)  Defendants Treasure Management Inc., Euphoric  Life Inc. and Aiden Rafii                                                 (3)  Defendants Treasure Management Inc., Euphoric  Life Inc. and Aiden Rafii Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Bespoke Financial  Inc.  Notice:                                    OK       Ruling:                                    The  Motions to Change Venue are DENIED.   Moving party to  give notice.   If counsel do not  submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by  LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.       BACKGROUND             Plaintiff Bespoke Financial Inc.  (“Bespoke”) entered into a Payables Servicing and Security Agreement (“Loan  Agreement”) with Defendant Treasure Management, Inc. (“Treasure”) on February  17, 2022.  Concurrently with the Loan  Agreement, Plaintiff entered into a Suretyship Indemnification and Security  Agreement (“Indemnification Agreement”) with Defendant Aiden Rafii.  Plaintiff entered into a First Amendment of  the Loan Agreement with Treasure on November 16, 2022.               Plaintiff alleges Treasure and its  subsidiary, Euphoric Life, Inc. (“Euphoric”), have failed to repay $70,679 in  loans under the Loan Agreement.  Plaintiff  alleges Rafii has also failed to repay the loans in breach of the  Indemnification Agreement.               Plaintiff filed a complaint on July  12, 2023 alleging (1) breach of contract (against Treasure and Euphoric); (2)  breach of contract (against Rafii); (3) promissory estoppel (against all  Defendants); (4) open book account (against all Defendants); (5) account stated  (against all Defendants); (6) quantum meruit (against all Defendants).               On August 20, 2023, Defendants Treasure,  Euphoric and Rafii jointly filed three separate, identical motions for change  of venue pursuant to CCP §395.  On  September 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a consolidated opposition to all three  motions.   On September 29, 2023,  Defendants filed a consolidated reply to the consolidated opposition.  DISCUSSION Applicable  Law             “Except as otherwise provided by law  and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as  provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the defendants  or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court  for the trial of the action… Subject to subdivision (b), if a defendant has  contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, the superior court  in the county where the obligation is to be performed, where the contract in  fact was entered into, or where the defendant or any defendant resides at the  commencement of the action is a proper court for the trial of an action founded  on that obligation, and the county where the obligation is incurred is the  county where it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract in  writing to the contrary.”  (CCP §395(a).)               “A corporation or association may be  sued in the county where the contract is made or is to be performed, or where  the obligation or liability arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county  where the principal place of business of such corporation is situated, subject  to the power of the court to change the place of trial as in other cases.”  CCP §395.5.   “Where a corporation and an individual are properly joined as defendants  and the action is commenced in the county where the corporation has its  principal place of business the individual defendant may not have the action  moved to the county of his residence, if different, for trial.”  (Hale v. Bohannon (1952) 38 Cal.2d  458, 472.)               “The general rule is that venue is  proper only in the county of the defendant's residence. It is well established  that a defendant is entitled to have an action tried in the county of his or  her residence unless the action falls within some exception to the general  venue rule.”  (Williams v. Superior  Court for County of Contra Costa (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 101, 108 (quoting  Brown v. Sup.Ct. (C.C. Myers, Inc.) (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 488)(plaintiff’s  allegation of physical ailment as a result of harassment claim based on emails  did not qualify as “injury to person” under CCP §395(a); defendant therefore  entitled to transfer of the action to her county of residence).               “Thus, the right of a plaintiff to  have an action tried in a county other than that of the defendant's residence  is exceptional. If the plaintiff would claim such right he must bring himself  within the exception.  Moreover, when the  plaintiff contends that the case fits within an exception to the general rule  that venue is proper in the county of defendant's residence, any ambiguities in  the complaint must be construed against the plaintiff towards the end that the defendant  will not be deprived of the right to a trial in the county of his or her  residence.”  (Id. at 109.) Application  to Facts             Defendants Treasure, Euphoric and  Rafii jointly filed three separate identical motions.  Defendants argue that (1) venue is improper as  to all three defendants because Santa Clara County is their residence principal  place of business, not Los Angeles County; (2) the contract was not entered into  or breached in Los Angeles County; and (3) none of the exhibits attached to the  Complaint establish an agreement executed by Euphoric.               In response, Plaintiff argues venue  is proper in more than one county.  Although  Defendants’ residence or principal places of business are located in Santa  Clara County, Plaintiff argues Los Angeles County is the proper venue, because  the Loan Agreement and Indemnification Agreement were entered in Los Angeles  County and performance was to be made in Los Angeles County.  Plaintiff argues Defendants conducted  business in Los Angeles County by applying for Plaintiff’s loan services in  Santa Monica.  Plaintiff argues  Defendants received money from and made required payments to Plaintiff’s bank  account in Los Angeles County.  In  addition, Plaintiff argues both the Loan Agreement and Indemnification  Agreement contain forum selection clauses under which Los Angeles County is the  proper venue.               On reply, Defendants argue Euphoric  is not a party to either the Loan Agreement or the Indemnification Agreement.  Defendants argue the only proper venue as to  Euphoric is Santa Clara County.   Defendants also argue the agreements were signed in Santa Clara County,  making Santa Clara County the place where the contract was made.  Defendants argue their decision not to honor further  payment was made in its offices in San Jose, CA.  Defendants argue where the payments were made  under the Loan Agreement does not determine venue.  Defendants also deny that the agreements  contained forum selection clauses identifying Los Angeles County as the  selected forum.  Defendant argues venue  and forum are also different concepts.  Defendants  argue they are entitled to reasonable attorney fees.  Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s RJN of the truth  of its complaint allegations must be denied as improper.               As moving party, Defendants have the  burden of demonstrating that the plaintiff's venue selection is not proper  under any of the statutory grounds.  (Fontaine  v. Supr. Ct. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)  Defendants have the burden of “negating the  propriety of venue as laid on all possible grounds,” i.e., it must show  that the county selected by plaintiff was not the place of injury or  contracting, etc.  (Karson Indus.,  Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Triangle Auto Sales, Inc.) (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 7, 8-9.)               Defendants fail to negate proper venue  on all possible grounds.  Defendants’  evidence only establishes that Defendant Euphoric’s principal place of business  is located in San Bonito County, Treasure’s principal places of business are  located in San Jose, CA, Santa Clara County and that Defendant Rafii resides in  Los Gatos, CA, Santa Clara County.  (Motion,  A. Rafii Dec I, ¶3; A. Rafii Dec. II, ¶¶1, 2.)   Defendants do not present any evidence refuting alternate grounds for  venue in Los Angeles County.  In  particular, Defendants do not present any evidence establishing that the  Agreements were not made in Los Angeles County or that parties intended performance  to be in Santa Clara County, not Los Angeles County.               In addition, Plaintiff submits  evidence that the place of performance was Los Angeles County.  Defendants’ performance was payment of the  loan payments.  Place of performance of  an agreement is the place where the obligation was entered, unless there is a  special writing designating the place of performance.  (CCP §395(a.)   However, in the case of a corporate defendant, such a special writing is  not required and the place of performance is a question of fact determined by  examining the parties’ conduct.  (CCP  §395.5; Anaheim Extrusion Company, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d  1201,1203)             The Loan Agreement and  Indemnification Agreement are silent on the place of performance.  Neither agreement identifies an address where  payments are to be sent. However, Plaintiff submits evidence that Defendants’  payments were all made to 730 Arizona Ave., Santa Monica, CA 90401 in Los Angeles  County.  (Knecht Dec., ¶7.)  On reply, Defendants do not submit any  evidence refuting that loan payments were made to Plaintiff Bespoke in Santa  Monica.  Where the parties intended  payments to be made is a question of fact.   (Anaheim Extrusion Company, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 170  Cal.App.3d 1201,1203.)  The only evidence  submitted indicates parties intended payments be made to Bespoke in Santa  Monica, CA.  Thus, where the breach  occurred—failure to make the loan payment—also occurred in Santa Monica,  CA.                  As to Euphoric, Rafii submits a  declaration denying that Euphoric signed any agreements with Plaintiff and denying  that it is a dba, parent company, holding company, owner or subsidiary of  Treasure.  (Motion, Rafii Dec. I,  ¶2.)  However, Plaintiff alleges Rafii  completed the original “New Client Application Form” and listed Treasure as the  “Company Name” and Euphoric as the d/b/a or name of the licensed entity and  submits a copy of the application.  (Knecht  Dec., ¶5, Ex. 2.)  Rafii does not address  this allegation in his declaration or the application on reply.  In addition, the “Automatic Payment  Authorization Form” attached to the Loan Agreement identifies a deposit account  under Euphoric’s name for deposit of the loan disbursements.  (Complaint, Ex. A, Exhibit 1.1.2, “Automatic  Payment Authorization.”)                Finally, as to all Defendants,  Plaintiff is alleging that they are all liable on the agreements as alter egos  of one another.  (Complaint, ¶14.)  Defendants’ evidence does address Plaintiff’s  alter ego allegations.              Defendants fail to establish that Plaintiff’s  joinder of Euphoric is a sham or that it fails as an issue of undisputed fact  or law.  “It is enough … that the cause  of action purported to be stated against the corporation defendant was  apparently pleaded in good faith, and is not, prima facie, so glaringly and  vitally defective as to be beyond correction by amendment.”  (Freeman v. Dowling (1933) 219 Cal.  213, 216.)               Moreover, Defendants are asking that  venue be changed to Santa Clara County.   Euphoric’s principal place of business is located in Bonito County, not  Santa Clara County.  (Motion, A. Rafii  Dec I, ¶3.)                With regard to the forum selection  clauses, paragraph 31.1 of the Loan Agreement is an arbitration clause, not a  forum selection clause for civil litigation.   (Complaint, Ex. A, ¶31.1.)  However,  paragraph 16.1 of the Indemnification Agreement is a venue selection clause  that designates “any court sitting in the state in which the Controlling City  is located” as the proper place for venue.   “Controlling City” is defined as the location of Plaintiff’s chief  executive office.  (Complaint, Ex. B,  ¶16.)  “Chief executive office” is not  defined in the Indemnification Agreement, but notices to Plaintiff are to be  sent under the agreement to 1043 12th St., #5, Santa Monica, CA 90403.  (Id. at ¶9.)  Plaintiff’s principal place of business is 1043  12th St., #5, Santa Monica, CA 90403 in Los Angeles County.  (Knecht Dec., ¶3.)  Because Plaintiff and Defendant Rafii agreed  that Los Angeles County would be the proper venue for any litigation between  them on the Indemnification Agreement, and Los Angeles County is the proper  venue for such litigation as the place of performance and breach, venue is  proper as to Rafii on both statutory and contractual grounds.  (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc. v. Sup.Ct.  (Yard House USA, Inc.) (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 315 (venue selection  clauses valid and enforceable if they select a statutorily permissible county).)   Request for Judicial Notice             Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial  Notice of the Complaint is granted as to the fact that the complaint was filed  and the allegations made.  Judicial  notice of the truth of the allegations therein is denied.                CONCLUSION             The Motions to Change Venue are  DENIED.               Moving Party to give notice.             If counsel do not submit on the  tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than  in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.