  Case Number:  23AHCV00659    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PASEO PASADENA HOTEL INVESTMENT, LLC, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ONNI
   CAPITAL, LLC, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00659
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT/CROSS-COMPLAINANT ONNI PASEO LLC’S MOTION FOR
   LEAVE TO AMEND CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   19, 2024



 
          On October
31, 2024, defendant/cross-complainant Onni Paseo LLC (“Landlord”) filed this
motion for leave to file a First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FAXC”) and for an
order continuing trial, which is currently set for March 17, 2025. The motion
is unopposed. 
Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Cross-Complaint
The court may, in its discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading, including adding or striking out the 223name of any
party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “Public policy dictates
that leave to amend be liberally granted.” (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.) A motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment
or amended pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from
previous pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).) The
motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of
the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 1.324(b).)
Landlord’s proposed FAXC adds the City
of Pasadena (“City”) as a cross-defendant and asserts a claim for declaratory
relief. This action arises from a dispute between Landlord and Paseo Pasadena
Hotel Investment, LLC (“Tenant”) over the responsibility of paying parking fees
to the City for the exclusive use of certain parking spaces within a parking
garage owned by City. Landlord argues that City must be added as a party due to
its recent involvement in this parking fee dispute, namely that in June of
2023, City and Tenant entered into a parking license agreement that purportedly
grants Tenant the exclusive right to use the same parking stalls that Landlord
already designated for Tenant’s exclusive use in the lease. The FAXC seeks a
determination that Landlord has the sole right to designate the exclusive use
of those parking spaces in the Parking Garage under an agreement entered into
between the City and Landlord’s predecessor-in-interest in 2000. Landlord received
a copy of the Tenant’s parking license agreement with the City on July 23,
2024, and subsequently determined that a cross-claim against the City for
declaratory relief was necessary. 
Landlord’s motion is unopposed and the motion
complies with CRC rule 3.1324. Accordingly, the unopposed motion is GRANTED and
Landlord is ordered to file the proposed FAXC within 10 days of the date of
this Order. 
Motion to Continue Trial 
          Landlord
requests a continuance of the trial date in order to conduct additional
discovery. Trial continuances may be granted upon an affirmative showing of
good cause. (CRC 1.332.) Circumstances which indicate good cause include the
addition of a new party and providing an opportunity for that new party to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial. (Id., subd. (c)(5).) 
Here, Landlord states it will need to
propound written discovery and depose the City about its agreement with Tenant.
Tenant and City may also need to conduct discovery in order to defend against
Landlord’s claims. The Court additionally notes that this case was filed on
March 24, 2023, Tenant’s parking agreement with the City was entered into on
July 23, 2024, and Tenant’s parking agreement with the City was only recently produced
on July 23, 2024. Accordingly, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial
date from March 17, 2025, to _________________. The final status conference is
continued from March 6, 2025, to __________. Discovery and motion cut-off
deadlines are to be based on the new trial date. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 19th
day of December
2024
 



 

 


 

 



 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 













 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 