 Case Number:  24STCV08362    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  57  
On April 3, 2024, Edwin and Gerardo Perez (collectively, “the
Plaintiffs”) sued Ford Motor Company ("Ford") for breaches of express
and implied warranties under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
("Song-Beverly Act") and for fraudulent inducement through concealment
arising from the Plaintiffs’ purchase of a 2018 Ford F150 ("the Subject
Vehicle"), which Plaintiffs allege was manufactured and distributed by
Ford.  Plaintiffs also sued Ford of Montebello
for negligent repair of the Subject Vehicle. 

 
Pending before the Court is
the demurrer of Ford and Ford of Montebello to all of the causes of action in
the Plaintiffs’ complaint.  The Court is
overruling Ford’s demurrer as to Plaintiffs' claims for breach of express
warranty (the first, second, and third causes of action).  Contrary to Ford's contention, these claims
are not barred on the face of the Plaintiffs’ complaint by the applicable
four-year statute of limitations.  The
Court is sustaining Ford’s demurrer with leave to amend as to the claim for
breach of implied warranty (the fourth cause of action) and the claim for
fraudulent inducement-concealment (the sixth cause of action) on the ground
that these claims are barred on the face of the complaint by the applicable
statutes of limitations.  The Court is overruling
Ford of Montebello’s demurrer to the clam for negligent repair (the fifth cause
of action).  Ford of Montebello’s
demurrer is based on the economic loss rule. 
The Court cannot, however, determine from the face of the Plaintiffs’
complaint whether the economic loss rule, or the exception to the rule in cases
of negligent provision of professional services, applies here.
           
Express
Warranty Claims (First Through Third Causes of Action) 
  
The statute of limitation on a claim for breach of an express warranty
is four years.  (Krieger v. Nick Alexander Imports, Inc. (1991)
234 Cal.App.3d 205, 213-215 ["Krieger"].)  The complaint
alleges that Plaintiffs entered into a warranty contract with Ford related to
the Subject Vehicle on April 25, 2018.  Plaintiffs sued Ford almost six years
later on April 3, 2024.  Hence, says Ford, Plaintiffs' claims for breach
of the express warranty related to the Subject Vehicle are
time-barred.   
  
Ford is incorrect.  The Song-Beverly Act states that a manufacturer
must commence repairs within a reasonable time after a vehicle with defects is
presented to the manufacturer’s authorized representative for repair and that
the representative must have those repairs completed to conform to the
manufacturer's warranty within 30 days of presentation.  (Civil Code
Section 1793.2(b).)  The Song-Beverly Act also requires the manufacturer
to replace a buyer's vehicle or reimburse the buyer when the manufacturer’s authorized
representative is unable to repair the vehicle after a reasonable number of
attempts.  (Id. Section 1793.2 (d).)  Both of these provisions
render the buyer's discovery of the manufacturer's failure to carry out its
obligation to perform the specified tasks related to the warranty (that is,
making repairs and taking steps if the repairs cannot be made after attempts to
repair) as the date that claims for breach of the express warranty
accrue.  (Krieger, supra, 234 Cal.App.3d at p.
215; Galvez v. Ford Motor Co., No. 2:17-cv-02250-KJM-KNV (E.D.
Cal. Sept. 30, 2018) 2018 WL 4700001, at *4.)  The Court cannot conclude
on the face of the allegations in the complaint that Plaintiffs discovered
Ford's failure to carry out its warranty obligations more than four years
before Plaintiffs brought suit.  Accordingly, Ford’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ claims for breach of express warranty is
overruled. 
 
Implied Warranty Claim (Fourth Cause of Action)  
The statute of limitations on a claim for breach of an implied warranty
of merchantability is four years.  (Montoya v. Ford Motor Co. (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 493, 495.)  The claim “accrues when the breach occurs,
regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach.  A
breach of warranty occurs when tender of delivery is made. . . . .” 
(Commercial Code § 2725(2).)  In short, Section 2725 of the Commercial
Code is clear: there is no delayed-discovery rule with respect to accrual of a
claim for breach of an implied warranty.  (Cardinal Health 301, Inc. v.
Tyco Electronics Corp. (2008) 169 Cal. App. 4th 116, 129, 134.) 
If the contract expressly extends the warranty to “future performance” of the
goods, then the claim accrues when the breach is discovered or should have been
discovered.  But absent such an explicit extension, accrual occurs at the
time of the breach, which is the time of delivery of the goods in
question.  (Id. at p. 129.)   
 
Here, the complaint does not allege that the sales agreement for the
Subject Vehicle extends the implied warranty to a future performance date by
Ford.  Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of the implied warranty of
merchantability thus accrued when the Subject Vehicle was delivered to
them.  According to the Plaintiffs’ complaint, that occurred on or about April
25, 2018.  Plaintiffs did not sue Ford until almost six years later. 
Thus, the Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of the implied warranty related to the
Subject Vehicle is time-barred on the face of the complaint. 
 Plaintiffs contend that Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 1297, stands for the proposition that the statute of
limitations on a claim for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability of
a consumer good is tolled for the duration of the period of the express
warranty on the good when the good’s defect is latent.   That is not
so.  The Court in Mexia said flat out that “[i]n the case
of a latent defect, a product is rendered unmerchantable, and the warranty of
merchantability is breached, by the existence of the unseen defect, not by its
subsequent discovery.” (Id. at 1304-1305.) 

For the foregoing reasons, Ford’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ claim for
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability is sustained with leave to
amend. 
 
Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment (Sixth Cause of Action) 
  
The statute of limitations on claims for fraudulent inducement through concealment
is three years.  (Code of Civil Procedure Section 338(d).)  Ford
argues that, on the face of the complaint, Plaintiffs’ fraud claim accrued more
than years before Plaintiffs sued Ford for fraud and therefore the claim is
time-barred.  Ford is correct. 
  
In their opposition to Ford’s demurrer, Plaintiffs invoke the “discovery
rule” to avoid the three-year statute of limitations on the fraud claim. 
The discovery rule “postpones accrual of a cause of action until
the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of
action.”  (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 797, 807.)  Put another way, “[t]he discovery rule only
delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the
cause of action.”  (Ibid.)  This means that
plaintiffs “are required to conduct a reasonable investigation after becoming
aware of an injury, and are charged with knowledge of the information that
would have been revealed by such an investigation.”  (Id. at
p. 808.)  “The limitations period begins once the plaintiff has
notice or information of circumstances to put a reasonable person on
inquiry.”  (Alexander v. Exxon Mobil (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 1236, 1251, citation omitted).  The discovery
rule imposes a pleading requirement on a party seeking the protection of the
rule in the face of a demurrer.  Specifically, “[i]n order to rely on
the discovery rule for delayed accrual of a cause of action, ‘a plaintiff
whose complaint shows on its face that his claim would be barred without the
benefit of the discovery rule must specifically plead facts to show (1)
the time and manner of discovery, and (2) the inability to have made earlier
discovery despite reasonable diligence.’”  (Fox, supra 35
Cal.4th at p. 809, citation omitted.)   
  
Plaintiffs have failed in the complaint to plead within the ambit of the
discovery rule.  The complaint alleges that (1) Plaintiffs did not
discover Ford’s fraud until shortly before Plaintiffs sued Ford, and (2) within
the time period of any applicable statute of limitation, Plaintiffs could not
have discovered through the exercise of reasonable diligence that Defendant was
concealing the default.  Missing from the
complaint, however, are facts regarding the time and manner of discovery
and facts establishing why Plaintiffs were unable to have made this
discovery earlier through the exercise of reasonable diligence. 
Plaintiffs merely recite the pleading standard without any alleging any facts
to back up their assertion that the discovery rule applies.   Thus, the Court is sustaining Ford’s demurrer
to Plaintiffs’ claim for fraud on statute of limitations grounds with leave to
amend.  
 
Ford also argued in
its demurrer as to the fraud claim that Plaintiffs failed to plead the defect
that Ford allegedly concealed, that Ford had a duty to disclose the alleged
defect, and that Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is foreclosed by the economic loss
rule.  Because the Court has determined that the fraud claim is barred by
the statute of limitations, the Court declines to address Ford’s other
arguments at this time. 
 
           Negligent Repair (Fifth Cause of Action)
Ford of
Montebello argues that the Plaintiffs’ claim against it for negligent repair of
the Subject Vehicle is barred by the economic loss rule.  The Court disagrees.
 The economic
loss rule provides that, “[i]n general, there is no recovery in tort for
negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied
by physical or property damage.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.)  In cases where the parties to the litigation
have a contract, the rule “defer[s] to [the] contract,” and thereby preserves
the distinction between contract law and tort law.  (Ibid.)  However, there
is a “recognized exception to the economic loss rule for consumers who contract
for certain kinds of professional services.”  (Id., at 933.)   The exception is intended to “ensure[] that
the consumer receives the services the professional agreed to provide.  In
such settings, professionals generally agree to provide ‘careful efforts’ in
rendering contracted for services, but ‘most clients do not know enough to
protect themselves by inspecting the professional’s work or by other
independent means.’”  (Id. (citations omitted).)  “Given this
disparity, a claim for professional negligence can serve the important purpose
of ensuring that professionals render the ‘careful efforts’ they have
contracted to provide.”  (Id. (citations omitted).) 
 
There are several factors that must be
considered in determining whether the professional services exception to the
economic loss rule applies.  These factors
are: “(1) the extent to which the transaction was intended to affect the
plaintiff, (2) the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, (3) the degree of
certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, (4) the closeness of the
connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury suffered, (5) the
moral blame attached to the defendant’s conduct, and (6) the
policy of preventing future harm.” (North American Chemical Co. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 782.)
 
Here, through their warranty with Ford,
Plaintiffs contracted with Ford of Montebello for the performance of the professional
service of repairing the Subject Vehicle to conform to the Song-Beverly Act
warranties.  At the pleading state, the
Court cannot exclude the possibility that the professional services exception
to the economic loss rule may apply. 
Accordingly, Ford of Montebello’s demurrer to the Plaintiffs’ negligent
repair claim is overruled.
 