  Case Number:  23VECV02099    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  W ARAZ ARABIAN v.
ALEJANDRO HUGO NAVARRO
 
DEFENDANT
ALEJANDRO HUGO NAVARRO'S MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM PLAINTIFF'S COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        November
3, 2023                            Trial
Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV02099
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Alejandro Hugo Navarro 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Araz Arabian 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff Araz Arabian
filed a complaint against Defendant Alejandro Hugo Navarro for negligence and
negligence per se. This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision that
occurred on May 14, 2021 when Defendant’s  vehicle collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle,
causing Plaintiff injuries. Plaintiff further alleges Defendant operated his
vehicle while under the influence of alcohol. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant Alejandro Hugo Navarro’s
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
discussion
 
Defendant Alejandro Hugo Navarro moves
the court for an order striking punitive damages and exemplary damages from
Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds Plaintiff’s allegations against Defendant
do not amount to the despicable conduct necessary to support a claim for
punitive damages.[1]

 
In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  These statutory elements include allegations
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code §
3294(a).) Allegations that a defendant exhibited a conscious disregard for
the safety of others are sufficient to show malice. (Taylor v. Superior
Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895-96.) In Taylor, the court concluded
that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an
act of "malice" under section 3294 if performed under circumstances
which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.
“One who wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication,
knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining
sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable of great
force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the
safety of others.” (Id., at p. 897.)
 
Taylor fell short, however, of holding that punitive damages are always
appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated. The court noted, “we
have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may
constitute an act of ‘malice’ under §3294 if performed under circumstances
which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Id.
at 892.) Notably, a subsequent decision held that driving while intoxicated
does not always give rise to a claim for punitive damages. “[W]e do not agree
that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides
nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk
created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at
65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon
on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while
intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable. The
risk of injury to others from Mardian's conduct under the circumstances alleged
was probable.” (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82.)
 
The court went on to note, “In contrast, in the case at bench, as
previously noted, petitioners pleaded specific facts from which the conscious
disregard of probable injury to others may reasonably be inferred. Justice
Franson aptly noted the distinction in his article on punitive damages in
vehicle accident cases: Allegations of intoxication, excessive speed, driving
with defective equipment or the running of a stop signal, without more, do not
state a cause of action for punitive damages. [Par.] On the other hand, if the
facts show that the defendant intentionally drove his vehicle at a high speed
into an intersection crowded with pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed
through a crowded residential area where children were playing in the street, a
legitimate inference of actual malice perhaps could arise. This would be
particularly true if the defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he
was not under the influence to the point where he was incapable of being aware
of the situation confronting him. Under these circumstances, it reasonably
might be said that the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible
manner that the jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial
certainty of injury to others.” (Dawes, supra, 111 Cal.App.3d at
p. 90.) 
 
In light of the above, the court finds that the complaint fails to
allege facts warranting the award of punitive damages. The complaint herein
does not allege Defendant’s level of intoxication or any “aggravating factors”
in compliance with Dawes. As discussed in Taylor and Dawes,
specific factual circumstances in addition to the intoxication must be pleaded
which show that the risk of injury was probable, e.g. weaving through lanes of
traffic, a previous conviction for driving under the influence of alcohol, or
driving while simultaneously drinking alcohol. The complaint alleges only that
the CHP officers questioned Defendant Navarro and administered a DUI evaluation
on him (Compl. ¶11), Defendant Navarro admitted he operated his vehicle at a
speed above the speed limit at the time of the crash (Compl. ¶11), admitted to
consuming multiple alcoholic beverages prior to the Incident (Compl. ¶11),
failed the sobriety test (Compl. ¶11), and Defendant was placed under arrest
for driving under the influence and causing bodily injury at the scene (Compl.
¶11). The complaint contains even more general allegations that Defendant
Navarro operated his vehicle at an unsafe speed and in an unsafe manner, failed
to keep a proper look out for other vehicles on the road, failed to maintain
adequate distance between his vehicle and other vehicles on the road, including
Plaintiff’s Vehicle, and failed to maintain control of his vehicle. (Compl.
¶¶10, 18.) These allegations alone do not rise to the level described by Taylor
and Dawes. At most, Defendant Navarro showed signs of intoxication, admitted
to drinking and driving, and was arrested. As such, the facts pleaded in the
complaint do not warrant the imposition of punitive damages.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
 
