 Case Number:  23VECV04600    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



AARON SMITH, an individual,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
EXER URGENT CARE, a
  corporation; JIAMI UY, an individual and DOES 1 through 15, inclusive,
 
                    Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV04600
 
ORDER
  DENYING PLAINTIFF’S ATTORNEY STEPHEN L. COOPER'S MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS
  COUNSEL 
 
 



 
I.        INTRODUCTION
          Stephen
L. Cooper (“Cooper”) moves to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff Aaron
Smith (“Plaintiff”). This instant motion arises out of Cooper’s claim that
there are irreconcilable differences between Plaintiff and Cooper, rendering it
challenging to represent Plaintiff effectively pursuant to Model Rule
1.116(b)(7). (See Declaration of Stephen L. Cooper filed August 13, 2024
(“Cooper Decl.”) ¶ 2.)
///
///
II.      PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On October 16,
2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint alleging one cause of action related to
Medical Malpractice. 
On August 13,
2024, Cooper filed his motion to be relieved as counsel of record and attached
his supporting declaration (Form MC-052) and notice of motion (MC-051). Cooper
also attached proofs of service to the moving papers indicating these forms
were served on all parties to the action. 
III.     LEGAL
STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure[1]
§ 284(1) allows for a change or substitution of attorney “[u]pon the consent of
both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes.”
If both parties do not consent to a substitution of attorney, Code of Civ.
Proc. § 284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the order of the court, upon
the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the
other.” 
Under California Rules of Court Rule
3.1362, an attorney seeking to withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the
client is required to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. (Cal.
Rules of Ct., Rule 3.1362(a-e).) The motion requires an MC-051 notice of motion
form to be filed with the court, accompanied by an MC-052 declaration form stating,
“in general terms, and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1).” (Id. at (c).) A proposed order prepared on form MC-053
must also be lodged with the court with the moving papers. (Id. at (e).)
The motion, notice of motion, the
declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client and all other
parties who have appeared in the case. (Id. at (d).) If the notice is served
by mail or e-mail, the notice must be accompanied by a declaration stating
facts that show that either the service address is current or that “[t]he
service address is the last known residence or business address of the client
and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved.” (Id.)  
IV.     ANALYSIS
A.            
Cooper’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is Denied 
          Section “3. Service” of the MC-052 form
is incomplete, as Cooper failed to indicate how the motion was served on
Plaintiff. Based on the response in section “3. Service,” subsection “b.” the
Court assumes Cooper served the Plaintiff via mail at the Plaintiff’s last
known address. However, Cooper failed to state how he confirmed
Plaintiff’s last known address or that whether he even tried. Simply stating
that Plaintiff was served notice by “mail and email” does not indicate that
Cooper confirmed the Plaintiff’s last known address within the last 30 days as
required. (See Declaration of
Stephen L. Cooper filed August 13, 2024 (“Cooper Decl.”) ¶ 2.) 
V.       CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing analysis, the Court
DENIES Cooper’s motion to be relieved as counsel.
DATED:      September 23, 2024



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


