 Case Number:  22STCV14121    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  48  
                                                                                                   
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GONZALO CETINA, et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CITY OF BALDWIN PARK,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV14121
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTIONS TO COMPEL
  FURTHER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 9, 2024



 
On
December 19, 2023, Defendant City of Baldwin Park filed three motions to compel
further responses from Plaintiffs Gonzalo Cetina, Jorge Huerta, Jose Jimenez, Edwin
Parra, Francisco Real, and Luis Valdivia.
The
motion for Defendant’s First Set of Requests for Production of Documents seeks to
compel further responses from (1) Gonzalo Cetina, (2) Edwin Parra, and (3) Luis
Valdivia.
The
motion for Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – Employment, Set One seeks to compel
further responses from (1) Gonzalo Cetina, (2) Jose Jimenez, (3) Jorge Huerta, (4)
Edwin Parra, (5) Francisco Real, and (6) Luis Valdivia.
The
motion for Defendant’s Form Interrogatories – General, Set One seeks to compel further
responses from (1) Gonzalo Cetina, (2) Jorge Huerta, (3) Edwin Parra, and (4) Francisco
Real.
Each
set of discovery should have been filed as a separate motion, with separate filing
fees and hearing reservations.  Despite being
scheduled as only three motions and three hearings, the total substance is that
of thirteen motions.  This unfairly allows
the parties to take only three hearing reservations (instead of thirteen) and results
in an inaccurate projection and accounting of the Court’s workload, inconveniencing
both the Court and other litigants. 
All
parties are ordered not to do this again and are warned that continued action of
this type may result in monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section
177.5.  For any future discovery motions,
the parties must file a separate motion for each set of discovery, or the Court
may strike or deny the motions for being improperly filed.
Defendant
is ORDERED to pay ten additional filing fees within 10 days.  A Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Payment of Additional
Filing Fees is scheduled for May 22, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Because
the improper filing of these motions disrupted the balance of the Court’s calendar
and workload, the Court must continue the hearings.
The
motions to compel further are CONTINUED to August 20, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 