 Case Number:  23STCV09475    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



G.B., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DOE 1,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV09475
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE AMENDED ANSWER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 9, 2024



 
On
April 27, 2023, Plaintiff G.B. filed this action against Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District.  On June 30, 2023, Defendant
filed an answer.  On March 18, 2024, Defendant
filed a motion for leave to file an amended answer.  Plaintiff did not oppose the motion.
The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Defendant
provides a redlined copy of the proposed amended answer showing all amendments.  (Hicks Decl., Ex. 2 [“Amended Answer”].)  Defendant seeks to add an affirmative defense
under Education Code section 44808, which provides immunity for off-campus conduct.  Defendant first learned of this defense on November
2, 2023, when Defendant conducted Plaintiff’s deposition.  (Hicks Decl. ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff testified that the abuse occurred off-campus.  (Hicks Decl. ¶ 3 & Ex. 1 [deposition excerpts].)  The amendment is necessary and proper to ensure
Defendant’s due process right to allege and try an affirmative defense.  (Hicks Decl. ¶ 4.)
The
unopposed motion is GRANTED.  Defendant is
ordered to file and serve the amended answer within 5 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 