  Case Number:  20STCV25735    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HILDA RODRIGUEZ-GUZMAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE ACCELERATED SCHOOLS, et al.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV25735
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 9, 2024



 
On July 9, 2020, Plaintiff Hilda
Rodriguez-Guzman filed this action against Defendants The Accelerated Schools (“TAS”)
and Jonathan Williams, alleging (1) whistleblower retaliation under the Labor Code;
(2) sexual harassment in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”);
(3) disability discrimination in violation of FEHA; (4) discrimination and retaliation
based on association with a member of a protected class; (5) failure to prevent
harassment and retaliation; (6) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (7) age discrimination;
(8) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (9) wrongful termination;
(10) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention; and (11) failure to accommodate
in violation of FEHA.
On
October 25, 2023, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication.
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice of Dr. Bains’s PERB Hearing Testimony (Exhibit 13) and
Mr. Rob French’s PERB Testimony (Exhibit 40) is denied.  Plaintiff relies on the substance of the testimony,
not just its existence.  The Court cannot
take judicial notice of the truth of these contents.
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Defendant’s
Reply states that it is filed concurrently with Defendants’ Objections to Plaintiff’s
Evidence in Support of Opposition to Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment.
No
objections were filed with the Court.
BACKGROUND
FACTS
TAS
is a nonprofit public benefit corporation that operates three charter schools: an
elementary and middle school known as TAS K-8, the Accelerated Charter Elementary
School, and the Wallis Annenberg High School. 
(Undisputed Material Fact “UMF” 1.)
Plaintiff
began working for TAS in 2007 as the Health Office Aide.  (UMF 3.) 
Plaintiff became the Health Services Coordinator in 2012, where her job was
to, among other things, administer first aid and medication to care for ill, medically
fragile and/or injured children.  (UMF 4-5.)  She was also responsible for assisting with new
student enrollment by ensuring that all incoming students had a signed health history
form from the parent or legal guardian, and that children’s immunizations were up
to date, entered into the Student Information System (“SIS”), and then printed onto
the California School Immunization Record (“CSIR”) card.  (UMF 6.) 
The position also required that Plaintiff have current CPR and first-aid
certificates, but did not require a college degree or state license.  (UMF 7.) 
Plaintiff has a high school diploma, but no college degree.  (UMF 2.)
Johnathan
Williams was the Chief Executive Officer of TAS until he was removed from the position
by the Board of Trustees on February 28, 2019, and he thereafter was placed on leave
pending reassignment.  (UMF 8.)  Mr. Williams was appointed President of the Office
of Development and Government Affairs on March 12, 2019.  (UMF 9.)
Plaintiff
made four complaints about Mr. Williams between September and November 2014.  (UMF 22.) 
A report concerning those complaints was issued on February 24, 2015.  (UMF 23.) 
Defendants hired a third party (Mike Hines) to investigate Plaintiff’s claims
in September 2015, but she refused to participate in the investigative process.  (UMF 24.) 
A report was subsequently issued. 
(UMF 24.)
Plaintiff
filed a uniform complaint on October 31, 2016 for discrimination, retaliation, harassment,
and intimidation.  (UMF 25.)  Defendants provided her with a response to the
uniform complaint on December 8, 2016.  (UMF
26.)
Plaintiff
complained about Mr. Williams again on November 27, 2018.  (UMF 27.) 
A report of the investigation was provided to Plaintiff on May 16, 2019.  (UMF 28.)
On
April 30, 2018, Plaintiff filed an administrative complaint with the Civil Rights
Department (“CRD”) alleging disability discrimination and denial of reasonable accommodations.  (UMF 30.) 
Plaintiff alleged that she submitted documentation with permanent modified
restrictions on August 8, 2017 that included no lifting, pushing, or pulling more
than 10 pounds, no repetitive bending, and to alternate between sitting, standing,
and walking as needed.  (UMF 31.)  She claimed that it was agreed to by the parties
that a file cabinet would be purchased to assist her with filing records, and that
the cabinet had not yet been purchased.  (UMF
31.)  The CRD issued the right-to-sue notice
on this charge on April 25, 2019.  (UMF 32.)
On
June 19, 2018, Plaintiff had a meeting to discuss the cabinet.   (UMF 42.) 
After the meeting, the cabinet was purchased, but it ended up being the wrong
one.  (UMF 42.)  All Plaintiff wanted was another cabinet so she
could put her records away, but her office was also too small to house all the records.  (UMF 43.) 
Plaintiff believed that the only reasonable solution was for her to get a
larger office.  (UMF 44.)  Plaintiff and TAS had ongoing conversations about
her getting a bigger office.  (UMF 45.)
Plaintiff
injured herself while assisting a student in October 2018.  (UMF 46-47.) 
She further injured her right arm in March 2019 when she was getting onto
an ambulance to ride along with an injured student.  (UMF 48.) 
Her right arm was in a sling, and she could not move it.  (UMF 49.)
Plaintiff
had permanent restrictions of no lifting/pushing/pulling any more than ten pounds,
no repetitive bending/limited to once an hour, alternating between sitting/standing/walking
as needed to control symptoms, and then five-minute stretch breaks every hour to
use a heating pad.  (UMF 50.)  She had an accommodation meeting on March 26,
2019.  (UMF 52.)  As of this date, Plaintiff was struggling to manually
write health records, which was an essential function of her position, and there
was no one else in the office who could assist due to limited staffing.  (UMF 53.) 
Plaintiff was unable to write, and she also could not take temperatures,
which was another essential function of her position.  (UMF 54-55.) 
As a result, Plaintiff was put on leave in April 2019.  (UMF 56.) 
She received temporary disability benefits during this time.  (UMF 57.)
While
Plaintiff was out on leave, TAS was going to remodel the South Central Family Health
space and move her into that office so that when she came back in July 2019 she
would have adequate space.  (UMF 58.)
Plaintiff
was contacted in July 2019 and advised that her position was being eliminated so
TAS could hire a full-time RN.  (UMF 59, 67.)
In
response to March 2019 and April 2019 surveys, approximately 20% (16 out of 84 total
survey respondents) of the parents who responded provided unprompted comments that
they would like a school nurse.  (UMF 60-62.)  In the subsequent April 2019 surveys, several
comments were again made by parents regarding the need to upgrade services in the
Front Office, which includes Health Services. 
(UMF 63.)  After evaluating parent
comments, the needs of the school, and the current healthcare needs of students,
TAS ultimately determined that its healthcare services needed to be overseen by
a licensed professional.  (UMF 64.)  To come to this decision, TAS put together a working
group who between April and May 2019 discussed whether to move forward with eliminating
the Health Services Coordinator position in order to establish the Registered Nurse
(“RN”) position.  (UMF 65.)  The RN position not only administers students’
day-to-day healthcare needs, but also develops and maintains a broad program of
health education and services to protect, maintain, and enhance the health of students
by providing higher-level health care service. 
(UMF 68.)  This position requires a
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (“SBN”) Degree. 
(UMF 68.)
On
February 6, 2020, Plaintiff filed an administrative complaint alleging age discrimination,
disability discrimination, and retaliation. 
(UMF 33.)  She alleged that she provided
medical documentation verifying her work restrictions in 2018, which included no
lifting, carrying, pushing, or pulling more than 15 pounds, and no repetitive movements
with her right hand and arm for more than 15 consecutive minutes at a time.  (UMF 34.) 
Plaintiff claimed that TAS stopped honoring her work restrictions on April
16, 2019 when she was placed on involuntary disability leave.  (UMF 34.) 
She alleged that she was unlawfully terminated on July 11, 2019, and denied
reasonable accommodations.  (UMF 34.)  This complaint was dismissed due to Plaintiff’s
May 8, 2020 complaint that raised the same issues.  (UMF 35.)
On
May 8, 2020, Plaintiff filed an administrative complaint generically alleging harassment,
discrimination, and retaliation.  (UMF 37.)  In particular, Plaintiff claimed that she had
been discriminated against and harassed based on age, disability, sex, and her association
with a member of a protected class.  (UMF
38.)  She also claimed that she was retaliated
against for reporting or resisting discrimination and/or harassment, for participating
as a witness in a discrimination or harassment complaint, and for requesting reasonable
accommodations.  (UMF 38.)  She further claimed that Defendants “created a
false reason to terminate her.”  (UMF 38.)  The CRD issued the right-to-sue notice on May
8, 2020.  (UMF 39.)
Plaintiff’s
union (on her behalf) filed unfair labor practices charges claiming that TAS interfered
with Plaintiff’s protected rights, unilaterally eliminated Plaintiff’s position
without bargaining, and retaliated against her by laying her off for engaging in
protected activities.  (UMF 69.)  Formal hearings were conducted on July 20, 21,
22, and 23, 2021; November 18 and 30, 2021; December 2, 2021; and January 18, 2022,
and post-hearing briefing was filed.  (UMF
70-71.)  In regards to the retaliation claim,
the ALJ indicated that PERB considered a charging party’s discrimination or retaliation
claim under the same framework, and that once a prima facie case is established
the employer may prove that it would have taken the exact same action even absent
protected activity.  (UMF 72.)  The ALJ found that the evidence supported TAS’s
decision to eliminate Plaintiff’s position and hire an RN.  (See UMF 73-74.)  Consequently, the ALJ concluded TAS had established
it would have taken the same course of action (eliminating Plaintiff’s position)
even if Plaintiff did not engage in any protected activity.  (UMF 75.)
On
March 17, 2023, PERB issued a final decision confirming that TAS did not retaliate
against Plaintiff.  (UMF 78.)  Like the ALJ, after weighing the evidence and
credibility, PERB concluded that the evidence showed TAS would have reached the
same decision even had Plaintiff not engaged in protected activity.  (UMF 79; see UMF 80-81.)  PERB held that TAS based its eventual decision
to eliminate Plaintiff’s position on legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons.  (UMF 82; see UMF 83.)
DISCUSSION
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce
“substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162-163.)
A.        The PERB Proceeding Conclusively Established
That There Was No Whistleblower Retaliation (First Cause of Action).
Labor
Code “section 1102.6, and not McDonnell Douglas, supplies the applicable
framework for litigating and adjudicating section 1102.5 whistleblower claims.”  (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc.
(2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 712 (Lawson).)  After a plaintiff demonstrates by a preponderance
of the evidence that his protected activity was a contributing factor in the adverse
employment action, the employer must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence
that the adverse employment action would have occurred for legitimate, independent
reasons even if the employee did not engage in the protected conduct.  (Lab. Code, § 1102.6.)  Under this standard, “plaintiffs may satisfy their
burden of proving unlawful retaliation even when other, legitimate factors also
contributed to the adverse action.”  (Lawson,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at pp. 713-714.)
Defendants
argue that collateral estoppel bars relitigation of whether TAS would have taken
the same actions even if she did not engage in protected activities.  (Motion at pp. 19-22.)
“Collateral
estoppel precludes relitigation of issues argued and decided in prior proceedings.  [Citation.] 
Traditionally, we have applied the doctrine only if several threshold requirements
are fulfilled.  First, the issue sought to
be precluded from relitigation must be identical to that decided in a former proceeding.  Second, this issue must have been actually litigated
in the former proceeding.  Third, it must
have been necessarily decided in the former proceeding.  Fourth, the decision in the former proceeding
must be final and on the merits.  Finally,
the party against whom preclusion is sought must be the same as, or in privity with,
the party to the former proceeding.  [Citations.]  The party asserting collateral estoppel bears
the burden of establishing these requirements.” 
(Lucido v. Superior Court (1990) 51 Cal.3d 335, 341, footnote omitted.)
“The
issue, wrongfulness of the discharge, is identical in the administrative proceeding
and this suit.  ‘The “identical issue” requirement
addresses whether “identical factual allegations” are at stake in the two proceedings
. . . .’’”  (Castillo v. City of Los Angeles
(2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 477, 481 (Castillo).)  Plaintiff’s union claimed, on her behalf, that
TAS interfered with Plaintiff’s protected rights, unilaterally eliminated Plaintiff’s
position without bargaining, and retaliated against her by laying her off for engaging
in protected activities.  (UMF 69.)  Those are the same allegations in this action.  (See, e.g., Complaint ¶¶ 28, 62, 70.)
An
issue is actually litigated when it is properly raised, by the pleadings or otherwise,
is submitted for determination, and is determined.  (Castillo, supra, 92 Cal.App.4th at p.
482.)  The issue was actually litigated through
formal hearings, post-hearing briefs, and reply briefs.  (UMF 70-71.)
An
issue is “necessarily decided” when the issue was not “entirely unnecessary” to
the judgment in the prior proceeding.  (Castillo,
supra, 92 Cal.App.4th at p. 482.)  The
propriety of Defendants’ actions was the focal issue in both the prior proceeding
and this action.  After weighing the evidence
and credibility, PERB concluded that the evidence showed TAS would have reached
the same decision even had Plaintiff not engaged in protected activity.  (UMF 79.) 
PERB held that TAS based its eventual decision to eliminate Plaintiff’s position
on legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons. 
(UMF 82.)
The
PERB decision was also final and on the merits. 
On March 17, 2023, PERB issued a final decision confirming that TAS did not
retaliate against Plaintiff.  (UMF 78.)  No party petitioned the court for extraordinary
relief after PERB’s final decision.  (UMF
84.)
Defendants
have met their initial burden of showing that collateral estoppel applies, and TAS
based its decision to eliminate Plaintiff’s position on legitimate, nondiscriminatory
and nonretaliatory reasons.  (See Motion at
p. 22.)
Plaintiff
argues that PERB has no jurisdiction to enforce the Labor Code, Government Code,
and other statutes.  (Opposition at pp. 17-21.)  However, Defendants’ argument is not that the
claims themselves were previously litigated. 
Rather, the factual issue of the reasons for Plaintiff’s termination was
litigated.  This “essential element”—not the
entire causes of action—was conclusively established.  (See Reply at pp. 5-6.)
Plaintiff
has failed to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact regarding collateral
estoppel.
Summary
adjudication of the first cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
B.        Plaintiff Was Not a Qualified Individual
For Her Claims of Disability Discrimination or Failure to Accommodate (Third, Eleventh
Causes of Action).
An
employee’s prima facie claim of discrimination requires “(1) the employee’s membership
in a classification protected by the statute; (2) discriminatory animus on the part
of the employer toward members of that classification; (3) an action by the employer
adverse to the employee’s interests; (4) a causal link between the discriminatory
animus and the adverse action; (5) damage to the employee; and (6) a causal link
between the adverse action and the damage.” 
(Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  If an employee makes a prima facie showing, the
burden shifts to the employer to articulate a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason
for the adverse action.  (Id. at p.
714.)
“To
establish that an employer has discriminated on the basis of a disability in violation
of FEHA, the plaintiff employee has the burden of proving he or she could perform
‘the essential functions of the job with or without reasonable accommodation.’”  (Atkins v. City of Los Angeles (2017) 8
Cal.App.5th 696, 716 (Atkins).)  “Under
FEHA, ‘reasonable accommodation’ means ‘“a modification or adjustment to the workplace
that enables the employee to perform the essential functions of the job held or
desired.”’ [Citations.]  While the reasonableness
of an accommodation is ordinarily a question of fact [citations], FEHA does not
require employers to eliminate essential functions of a job to accommodate a disabled
employee.”  (Id. at p. 719.)
“The
essential elements of a failure to accommodate claim are: (1) the plaintiff has
a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e.,
he or she can perform the essential functions of the position); and (3) the employer
failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.  [Citation]” 
(Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766.)
To
accommodate Plaintiff’s August 8, 2017 permanent modified restrictions, Defendants
attempted to purchase a new filing cabinet. 
(UMF 21, 42-45.)  Plaintiff required
a larger office for that cabinet.  (UMF 44-45.)  While Plaintiff was out on leave in April 2019,
TAS was going to remodel and move her into an office with adequate space.  (UMF 58.) 
Defendants have shown that they reasonably accommodated Plaintiff for these
restrictions.  (Motion at p. 29.)
As
of Plaintiff’s March 26, 2019 accommodation meeting, Plaintiff was struggling to
manually write health records, which she admitted was an essential function of her
position, and there was no one else in the office who could assist due to limited
staffing.  (UMF 52.)  Plaintiff also could not take temperatures, which
was another essential function of her position. 
(UMF 54-55.)  Plaintiff was therefore
put on leave in April 2019 and received temporary disability benefits.  (UMF 56-57.) 
Because Plaintiff could not perform the essential functions and “FEHA does
not require employers to eliminate essential functions of a job to accommodate a
disabled employee,” Defendants have shown that they did not fail to accommodate
this disability.  (Atkins, supra, 8
Cal.App.5th at p. 719; Motion at p. 29.)
In
sum, because Plaintiff was not a “qualified individual” who could perform the essential
functions of the position, Defendants have met their initial burden of showing no
disability discrimination and no failure to accommodate.
Plaintiff
argues that she was able to do other requirements of the job, but she does not dispute
that she could not perform the above-identified essential functions.  (Opposition at pp. 26-27.)
Summary
adjudication of the third and eleventh causes of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
C.        Collateral Estoppel Also Bars the Claims
For Disability Discrimination, Discrimination/Retaliation Based on Association,
FEHA Retaliation, Age Discrimination (Third, Fourth, Sixth, Seventh Causes of Action).
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff is estopped from refuting that TAS had legitimate, nondiscriminatory
and nonretaliatory reasons for its actions given the conclusions made by PERB.  (Motion at pp. 24-25.)
Plaintiff
has failed to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact regarding collateral
estoppel for this issue.
Summary
adjudication of the third, fourth, sixth, and seventh causes of action is granted
in favor of Defendants.
C.        Plaintiff Did Not Exhaust Her Administrative
Remedies for the Sexual Harassment Claim (Second Cause of Action).
“Under
the FEHA, the employee must exhaust the administrative remedy provided by the statute
by filing a complaint with the [DFEH] and must obtain from the Department a notice
of right to sue in order to be entitled to file a civil action in court based on
violations of the FEHA.  [Citations.]  The timely filing of an administrative complaint
is a prerequisite to the bringing of a civil action for damages under the FEHA.”  (Romano v. Rockwell Internat., Inc. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 479, 492; see Gov. Code, §§ 12960, 12965, subd. (b).)  Prior to 2020, an employee was required to file
an administrative complaint with DFEH within one year after the alleged unlawful
action.  (Govt. Code, § 12960, subd. (d) [effective
Jan. 1 2018 to Dec. 31, 2019].)  When Government
Code section 12960 was amended as of January 1, 2020, Assembly Bill 9 made it clear
that the amendment “shall not be interpreted to revive lapsed claims.”  (2019 Cal. Legis. Serv. Ch. 709 (A.B. 9).)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff did not exhaust her administrative remedies for her claims
of sexual harassment.  (Motion at pp. 22-23.)  Plaintiff alleges sexual harassment by Williams
between 2011 and May 2017.  (E.g., Complaint
¶¶ 22.)  Williams was removed as CEO on February
28, 2019 and was rarely on campus in his reassigned role.  (UMF 8, 10.) 
Plaintiff filed administrative complaints on April 30, 2018 and February
6, 2020, but neither alleged sexual harassment. 
(UMF 30, 33.)  The only administrative
complaint alleging sexual harassment was filed on May 8, 2020.  (UMF 37.) 
This was after the one-year period for Plaintiff to file a complaint based
on conduct occurring through May 2017.  Defendants
have met their burden of showing that Plaintiff did not administratively exhaust
her claim for harassment.
Plaintiff
argues that “the continuing violation doctrine provides that Defendants are liable
for the entire course of conduct including their acts that predated the statutory
period and those that occurred within in the statutory period.”  (Opposition at p. 22.)  She argues that her “complaint of harassment continued
until the time she was terminated on July 19, 2019, as there had been no action
to rectify the ongoing harassment, she had experienced for past several years.”  (Id. at p. 23.)  However, Plaintiff provides no evidence to create
a triable issue of material fact regarding the timing of Williams’s actual harassment.
Summary
adjudication of the second cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
D.        Because Defendants Prevail on the Underlying
Claims, They Cannot Be Liable for Failure to Prevent (Fifth Cause of Action).
Defendants
argue that because there was no harassment or retaliation, they also cannot be liable
for failing to prevent harassment or retaliation.  (Motion at pp. 25-26.)  “[C]ourts have required a finding of actual discrimination
or harassment under FEHA before a plaintiff may prevail under [Government Code]
section 12940, subdivision (k).”  (Carter
v. California Dept. of Veterans Affairs (2006) 38 Cal.4th 914, 925, fn. 4.)
For
the reasons discussed above, summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action is
also granted in favor of Defendants.  (See
Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 47, 56.)
E.        There Was No Extreme and Outrageous Conduct
for IIED (Eighth Cause of Action).
“‘[T]o
state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention
of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress;
(3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’  [Citation.]  ‘Conduct, to be ‘outrageous’ must be so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’  [Citation.]” 
(Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA,
Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.) 
“While the outrageousness of a defendant’s conduct normally presents an issue
of fact to be determined by the trier of fact [citation], the court may determine
in the first instance, whether the defendant’s conduct may reasonably be regarded
as so extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.”  (Trerice v. Blue Cross of California (1989)
209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)  When a plaintiff
does not suffer physical injury, the conduct must involve “extreme and outrageous
intentional invasions of one’s mental and emotional tranquility.”  (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970)
2 Cal.3d 493, 498.)
Defendants
argue that there was no timely, outrageous conduct.  (Motion at pp. 26-27.)
With
respect to Williams, any IIED based on his conduct is barred by Plaintiff’s failure
to exhaust her administrative remedies, as discussed above.  Williams was removed as CEO on February 28, 2019
and was rarely on campus in his reassigned role.  (UMF 8, 10.) 
Plaintiff did not timely file an administrative complaint after this.
With
respect to TAS, the only allegedly wrongful conduct was placing Plaintiff on leave
and eliminating her position.  These personnel
actions are insufficient to establish IIED. 
“In order to properly manage its business, every employer must on occasion
review, criticize, demote, transfer and discipline employees.  Employers are necessarily aware that their employees
will feel distressed by adverse personnel decisions, while employees may consider
any such adverse action to be improper and outrageous.  Indeed, it would be unusual for an employee not
to suffer emotional distress as a result of an unfavorable decision by his employer.”  (Cole v. Fair Oaks Fire Protection Dist.
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 148, 160.)
Defendants
have met their initial burden of showing that there was no outrageous conduct for
IIED.
Plaintiff
argues that Williams’s conduct was extreme and outrageous.  (Opposition a pp. 24-25.)  However, Plaintiff does not dispute that she did
not timely exhaust her administrative remedies for this conduct.  (See UMF 8, 10.)
Summary
adjudication of the eighth cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
F.         Plaintiff Cannot Establish Harm For Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention (Tenth Cause of Action).
Plaintiff
alleges that she was harmed by TAS’s negligent hiring, supervision, and retention
of Williams.  (E.g., Complaint ¶¶ 357-364.)
As
discussed above, the alleged conduct by Williams is time-barred because Plaintiff
failed to timely exhaust administrative remedies.  (See UMF 8, 10.)  Plaintiff therefore cannot use this conduct to
establish her harm due to TAS’s alleged negligence.  (See Motion at pp. 28-29.)
Summary
adjudication of the tenth cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
G.        Plaintiff Cannot Assert a Common Law Wrongful
Termination Claim Against Defendant TAS (Ninth Cause of Action).
Generally,
an employee may bring a tort cause of action when his employer terminates his employment
in contravention of public policy.  (Tameny
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980) 27 Cal.3d 167, 177 (Tameny).)
A
public entity is not liable for an injury arising from an act or omission of the
entity, a public employee, or any other person except as provided by statute.  (Gov. Code, § 815.)  “[S]ection 815 bars Tameny actions against
public entities.”  (Miklosy v. Regents
of University of California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 900.)  Defendants have met their initial burden.  (Motion at pp. 27-28.)
Plaintiff
argues that her wrongful termination claim is derivative of her statutory claims.  (Opposition at p. 27.)  However, for all the reasons discussed above,
her statutory claims fail.
Summary
adjudication of the ninth cause of action is granted in favor of Defendants.
H.        There Is No Basis For Punitive Damages.
For
the reasons set forth above, Plaintiff cannot establish an underlying claim upon
which punitive damages may be awarded.  (See
Motion at pp. 29-31.)
Additionally,
public entity is not liable for punitive damages or other damages imposed primarily
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.  (Gov. Code, § 818.)
Summary
adjudication of the issue of punitive damages is granted in favor of Defendants.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendants
are ordered to submit a proposed judgment within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Submission of Proposed Judgment is scheduled for
May 17, 2024 at 9:00 AM.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 