Here is the YAML summary of the Tentative Ruling:

```
Case Number: Not specified
Plaintiff's Name: Wei Chen, Weifeng International, Inc., and AIIC 17 YM Culver City, LLC
Defendant's Name: Yalla Acquisition, LLC, Yalla Mediterranean Franchising Company, LLC, and FAT Brands Management, LLC
People-Names: Mr. Chen
Company-Names: Weifeng International, Inc., AIIC 17 YM Culver City, LLC, Yalla Acquisition, LLC, Yalla Mediterranean Franchising Company, LLC, FAT Brands Management, LLC, CalPrivate Bank, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., and Citibank, N.A.
Places: Culver City, California
Dates: January 2018, May 2019, May 2022, September 20, 2022
Events: Franchise transaction, sale of restaurant, mismanagement of funds
Money: $770,000
Intentions: Plaintiffs seek rescission and restitution, while Defendants seek to quash four business record subpoenas
Facts: Plaintiffs allege that Defendants misrepresented the ownership of a restaurant and induced them to enter into a franchise agreement; Defendants contend that the subpoenas are overbroad and invade their privacy
Disputes: Whether the subpoenas are reasonable and necessary to facilitate litigation
Acts: Entry into franchise agreement, sale of restaurant, mismanagement of funds
Agreements: Franchise agreement, securities law and regulations
Laws: California Franchise Investment Law, California Corporate Securities Law, Code of Civil Procedure ยง 1987.1, Civil Code ยง 3295
Case Citations: Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal. App. 3d 770, Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 579, SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741
Statutes: California Franchise Investment Law, California Corporate Securities Law, Code of Civil Procedure ยง 1987.1, Civil Code ยง 3295
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements:
* The Court will narrow the definitions of Yalla Acquisition, Fat Brands, and the other entities that are similarly defined, to the corporation itself because the definitions are overbroad.
* The temporal scope of the requests is narrowed to May 2019 (when the parties met for the franchise transaction) to May 2022.
* The subpoenas seek financial documents that would ordinarily be subject to privacy rights, but the Court will balance the relevance of the discovery to the subject matter of the pending dispute against the corporate right of privacy.
* Given the slight privacy interest articulated by Defendants and the potential relevance of the documents at issue, on balance, the discovery will be allowed, but subject to the narrowing discussed above.
```

Here is a summary of the Tentative Ruling in English text:

The Court has issued a tentative ruling on the motion to quash four business record subpoenas issued to CalPrivate Bank, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., and Citibank, N.A. The subpoenas seek financial documents related to the franchise transaction between Plaintiffs and Defendants. The Court has narrowed the definitions of Yalla Acquisition, Fat Brands, and the other entities that are similarly defined, to the corporation itself because the definitions are overbroad. The Court has also narrowed the temporal scope of the requests to May 2019 (when the parties met for the franchise transaction) to May 2022.

The Court has balanced the relevance of the discovery to the subject matter of the pending dispute against the corporate right of privacy and has determined that the discovery will be allowed, but subject to the narrowing discussed above. The Court has declined to award sanctions and has granted the motion in part.