 Case Number:  BC623542    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative RulingJudge Kevin C. BrazileDepartment 20Hearing Date:                         Friday, December 8, 2023Case Name:                             Running et al v. Covina Irrigating Company et alCase No.:                                BC623542Motion:                                  Motion for an Award of Defense Costs Moving Party:                         Defendants City of Azusa and Azusa Valley Water CompanyResponding Party:                  Plaintiffs Praxedes E. Running, Praxedes E. Running TrustNotice:                                    OK  Ruling:                                    The Motion for Defense Costs is DENIED. Moving Party to give notice. If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  BACKGROUND            On March 20, 2017, Plaintiffs Praxedes E. Running and the Praxedes E. Running Trust filed the operative Third Amended Complaint against Covina Irrigating Company (“CICO”), City of Azusa (“City”), Azusa Valley Water Company (“AVWC”), San Gabriel River Water Committee (“SGRWC”), George Morrow, Fran Delach, Chet Anderson, William McIntyre, Andrew McIntyre, and Canyon Water Company arising            On August 10, 2023, Defendants City of Azusa and Azusa Valley Water Company (“Defendants”) filed the instant motion for an award of defense costs. On October 3, 2023, Plaintiffs opposed. On October 9, 2023, Defendants replied.DISCUSSIONApplicable LawCode of Civ. Proc., § 1038(a)“In order to recover defense costs under section 1038, the court must ‘determine whether or not the plaintiff, ... brought the proceeding with reasonable cause and in the good faith belief that there was a justiciable controversy under the facts and law which warranted the filing of the complaint.’ [Citation.] [internal quotations removed] This inquiry ‘encompasses not only the filing of an action, but also its continued maintenance.’ [Citation.]” (Suarez v. City of Corona (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 325, 336.)             Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.420(a)Section 2033.420 provides that if, in response to a request for admission, a responding party fails to admit the genuineness of any document or the truth of any matter, and if the requesting party is forced to and subsequently does prove the genuineness of that document or the truth of the matter, the requesting party may move the court for an order requiring the responding party to pay the reasonable expenses incurred in making the proof, including reasonable attorneys’ fees.¿ An award is mandatory unless the Court finds any of the following: (1) an objection to the request was sustained or a response to it was waived under CCP § 2033.290; (2) the admission sought was of no substantial importance; (3) the party failing to make the admission had reasonable ground to believe that that party would prevail on the matter; and (4) there was other good reason for the failure to admit.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.420, subd. (b).)¿ The determination of whether there were no good reasons for denying the requested admission, whether the requested admission was of substantial importance, or the amount of expenses to be awarded, if any, is within the sound discretion of the trial court.¿ (Bloxham v. Saldinger (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 729, 753.)¿ If it is clear from the evidence introduced by either party that the party who denied for lack of information or belief had access to the information at the time the requests for admission were propounded, sanctions are justified because the party who denied the admission has a duty to investigate.¿ (Smith v. Circle P Ranch Co. (1978) 87 Cal.App.3d 267, 275.)¿ A request for admission has “substantial importance” when the matter requested is central to the disposition of the case.¿ (Brooks v. American Broadcasting Co. (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 500, 509.)¿ In evaluating whether there was “good reason” to deny a request to admit “a court may properly consider whether at the time the denial was made the party making the denial held a reasonably entertained good faith belief that the party would prevail on the issue at trial.¿ (Laabs v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1276.)¿¿¿ Application to Facts Code of Civ. Proc., § 1038(a)            Defendants argue that they are entitled to an award of defense costs pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1038 subdivision (a) because the case was not maintained in good faith or with reasonable cause.“The good faith determination, [] involves a factual inquiry into the plaintiff’s state of mind.” (Bosetti v. United States Life Ins. Co. in City of New York (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1208, 1226.) Here, the Court finds that Plaintiffs maintained the case in good faith based on the Court of Appeal’s reversal of summary judgment on the financial elder abuse and contract causes of action. On remand, this Court found that there were triable issues of fact as to City Defendants and AVWC’s duties. Plaintiffs state that they “submitted extremely extensive separate statements supported by extremely extensive evidentiary cites and declarations amounting to thousands of pages” and that they “had every reason to believe they would prevail at trial and they maintained this action in good faith on complicated legal issues and despite ever evolving theories advanced by defendants.” (Opp. p. 32:11-15.) The Court finds this sufficient to show Plaintiffs’ honest belief in the viability of the claims. Further, Defendants fail to point to any specific evidence uncovered in discovery that would defeat Plaintiffs’ subjective belief. “ ‘Reasonable cause’ is an objective standard which asks whether any reasonable attorney would have thought the claim tenable. [Citation.] For purposes of section 1038, ‘reasonable cause’ is synonymous with ‘probable cause.’ [Citation.] ‘[W]hen, ... the facts known by the attorney are not in dispute, the probable cause issue is properly determined by the trial court under an objective standard; it does not include a determination whether the attorney subjectively believed that the ... claim was legally tenable.’ [Citation.] [internal citations removed]” (Suarez v. City of Corona (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 325, 336.)             As to the elder abuse claim, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs should have recognized that this claim was without merit and should not have been maintained following the remittitur on the grounds that summary judgment was granted to the three former City employees such that Plaintiffs had no individual employee to attribute elder abuse to City Defendants. Defendants note that Plaintiffs improperly sought to rely on the relationship of City Defendants to Defendant San Gabriel River Water Committee (“SGRWC”) to impose liability. On remittitur, the Court denied Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the issue of elder abuse. The Court stated: The Court recognizes the City may be liable for “[a]ssisting in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud.” (W&I Code sec. 15610.30(b).) Plaintiff’s claims extensively focus on the City and AVWC’s participation in SGRWC, including the SGRWC’s involvement in CICO’s activity plugging the canal. The City did not sufficiently address its statutory liability for assisting in takings under Section 15610.30. The plugging of the tunnel could undoubtedly constitute a taking.(9/17/21 MSJ Ruling.) The Court identified possible grounds for Defendants’ liability, thus, Plaintiffs had reasonable cause for maintaining their claim for elder abuse.             As to the contract causes of action, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs should have recognized that the contract-based causes of action were without merit and should not have been maintained because the Contract claim was based solely on the 1920 indenture given that there was no privity of contract between parties under any other agreement, including the Compromise Agreement (See 8/3/20 Ct. of App. Op., p. 34-35.) However, this Court denied Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the contract claims, stating, “While Plaintiff's contractual causes of action fail to the extent brought under the Compromise and fail to the extent they are based on an alleged duty to deliver water under the lndenture, Plaintiff has established a triable issue of fact as to whether the City and AVWC breached their obligation to maintain the canal.” (9/17/21 MSJ Ruling.) The Court stated “Plaintiff’s interpretation of the Indenture is therefore supported by its plain language and by independent statutory obligations. The Court therefore concludes Defendants have not established entitlement to judgment in their favor on the contract claims insofar as they argue they had no obligation to maintain or repair the canal.” (Id. ) There, Plaintiffs relied on Civ. Code sec. 845, arguing that “the first parties granted the second parties an ‘easement’ to ‘maintain, repair, operate and conduct water throughthe open cement ditch and tunnel.’” (Id.) Thus, Plaintiffs had reasonable cause for their contract claims.            The evidence here demonstrates that Plaintiffs had a viable theory of liability which was supported by triable issues of fact as found in the Court’s ruling on Defendants’ motion for summary judgment on September 17, 2021. Thus, Defendants may not rely on Code of Civil Procedure section 1038(a) to recover defense costs.            Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.420(a)            “Proof is something more than just evidence. It is the establishment of a fact in the mind of a judge or jury by way of evidence. Until a trier of fact is exposed to evidence and concludes that the evidence supports a position, it cannot be said that anything has been proved.” (Stull v. Sparrow (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 860, 865-866.)            “An RFA has substantial importance if it is central to disposition of the case. In evaluating whether a good reason exists for denying a request to admit, a court may properly consider whether at the time the denial was made the party making the denial held a reasonably entertained good faith belief that the party would prevail on the issue at trial. The determination of whether there were no good reasons for the denial, whether the requested admission was of substantial importance, and the amount of expenses to be awarded, if any, are all within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Doe v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Children & Family Services¿(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 675, 690,¿as modified (July 18, 2019), reh’g denied (Aug. 9, 2019), review filed (Aug. 27, 2019).) (internal quotations and citations omitted.)“When a party denies an RFA, [t]he question is not whether a reasonable litigant would have denied the RFAs. Nor is the question simply whether the litigant had some minimum quantum of evidence to support its denial (i.e., ‘probable cause’). The relevant question is whether the litigant had a reasonable, good faith belief he or she would¿prevail¿on the issue at trial. Consideration of this question requires not only an assessment of the substantiality of the evidence for and against the issue known or available to the party, but also the credibility of that evidence, the likelihood that it would be admissible at trial and persuasive to the trier of fact, the relationship of the issue to other issues anticipated to be part of trial (including the issue’s importance), the party’s efforts to investigate the issue and obtain further evidence, and the overall state of discovery at the time of the denials and thereafter.” (Samsky v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co.¿(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 517, 526,¿as modified on denial of reh’g (July 23, 2019), review denied (Sept. 11, 2019).) (internal citations and quotations omitted).Plaintiffs argue that Defendants fail to identify the specific RFAs which Plaintiffs denied and fail to sufficiently explain the costs and fees which were incurred to prove that particular matter which was denied was true. Notwithstanding, Plaintiff argues that there are exceptions to the cost-of-proof sanctions, specifically in that the (1) RFAs enumerated in the motion were objectionable; (2) the RFAs were of no substantive importance; (3) Plaintiffs had reasonable grounds to deny each RFA because Plaintiffs answered each RFA truthfully; and (4) Plaintiffs presented evidence at trial that justified the belief that they would prevail at trial.In reply, Defendants argue that the RFAs at issue are City RFAs 27-32 and AVWC RFAs 1-3. Defendants state “[t]hese requests asked Plaintiffs to admit that City Defendants did not commit the wrongs alleged against them, i.e. elder abuse and breach of contract, and alternatively the requests asked Plaintiffs to admit that they had no evidence to support the elder abuse and contract claims. These were the only claims that remained against City Defendants at the time of trial, and yet because these requests were denied, this matter had to proceed to trial.” (Reply p. 5:4-8.) Defendants claim these RFAs were proven true because they prevailed on these claims at trial: “i.e. City Defendants did not commit elder abuse and did not breach the 1920 Indenture. City Defendants then established the litigation expenses incurred at trial proving that these matters were true. Plaintiffs’ claim that City Defendants did not meet their burden is incorrect.” (Id. p. 5:9-12.)             The City RFAs are as follows: ·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 27: Admit that the CITY did not commit financial elder abuse against YOU at any time.·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 28: Admit that YOU have no evidence that the CITY ever committed financial elder abuse against YOU.·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 29: Admit that the CITY has not breached any contract with YOU that has caused YOU to suffer damages.·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 30: Admit that YOU have no evidence that the CITY has breached any contract with YOU that has caused YOU to suffer damages.·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 31: Admit that the CITY has not breached any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealings owed to YOU that has caused YOU to suffer damages. ·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 32: Admit that YOU have no evidence that the CITY has breached any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealings owed to YOU that has caused YOU to suffer damages.The AVWC RFAs are as follows:·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 1: Admit that Defendant AVWC did not commit financial elder abuse against YOU at any time.·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 2: Admit that YOU have no evidence that Defendant AVWC ever committed financial elder abuse against YOU.·      REQUEST FOR ADMISSION NO. 3: Admit that AVWC has not breached any contract with YOU that has caused YOU to suffer damages.The Court notes that admitting these requests would have been dispositive and would have resulted in a substantial shortening of the trial. However, Plaintiffs argue that they were justified in denying these requests. Plaintiffs argue that these requests sought legal conclusions and attorney work product. Plaintiffs claim that Defendants failed to segregate which RFAs were lawful so that they could have been used at trial. In reply, Defendants argue that these objections were without merit as parties may seek admissions that call for legal conclusions, and these requests did not invade work product. However, based on the Court’s discussion above, the existence of a triable issue of fact as to the claims for elder abuse and contract reasonably compels the Court to find that Plaintiffs had a reasonable basis for believing that they would prevail.Request for Judicial Notice            The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice in full.CONCLUSION            The Motion for Defense Costs is DENIED.            Moving party to give notice.            If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.