 On September 20, 2022, Plaintiffs Wei Chen, Weifeng International, Inc., and AIIC 17 YM Culver City, LLC filed the operative First Amended FAC (“FAC”) against Defendants Yalla Acquisition, LLC, Yalla Mediterranean Franchising Company, LLC, and FAT Brands Management, LLC for (1) rescission and restitution, (2) violations of California Franchise Investment Law, (3) violations of California Corporate Securities Law, (4) breach of contract (count I), (5) breach of contract (count II), and (6) violation of the UCL.  Plaintiffs allege as follows.  “The agreements that Mr. Chen was induced to enter into concerned (1) acquisition by Weifeng from Yalla Acquisition, of an entity (AIIC) that, Mr. Chen was told by them, owned a Yalla Mediterranean restaurant in Culver City, California; (2) sale by Yalla Franchising to the restaurant owner (AIIC), of a Yalla Mediterranean restaurant franchise; (3) arrangements for Fat Brands to manage and operate the restaurant; (4) Mr. Chen providing $770,000 to Defendant Yalla Acquisition to fund the above; and (5) this qualified Mr. Chen to own a restaurant through AIIC and to live and work in the United States (the ‘Transaction.’)”  (FAC ¶ 23.)  “At the time of purportedly entering into the Franchise Agreement, Yalla Franchising and the other Defendants were not registered in California to offer and sell franchises. The franchise agreement that was purportedly entered into was not registered when executed.”  (FAC ¶ 25.)  “The representation that AIIC owned the Restaurant was incorrect. Neither Yalla Acquisition nor AIIC had ownership of the Restaurant. The Restaurant was owned by Yalla Med or Med Cuisine.”  (FAC ¶ 28.)  “Ownership of the Restaurant was never transferred to Plaintiffs.”  (FAC ¶ 29.)  “When Defendants sold the membership interest to Plaintiffs, Defendants knew they were selling an unregistered security. Defendants, with this knowledge, and seeking to unlawfully evade liability, induced Plaintiff Weifeng to acknowledge incorrectly that what it acquired was not a security. This was an unlawful effort by Defendants to obtain a waiver of compliance with the securities law and regulations.”  (FAC ¶ 36.)  “The grounds for rescission include but are not limited to: (i) violations by Defendants of the Franchise Investment Law, (ii) violations by Defendants of the Corporate Securities Law; (iii) material misrepresentation by Defendants, reasonably relied on by Plaintiffs, in that ownership of the Restaurant was not held by Defendants nor AIIC at the time of selling AIIC to Plaintiff, (iv) ownership of the Restaurant was never transferred to AIIC or Plaintiff, (iv) unilateral and/or mutual mistake; (v) and failure of consideration.”  (FAC ¶ 46.) Defendants now seek to quash four business record subpoenas issued to CalPrivate Bank, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A., and Citibank, N.A.  Defendants contend that “(1) the Subpoena seeks irrelevant information outside the permissible scope of discovery; (2) the Subpoena unreasonably violates the rights of privacy of Defendants and other third parties; (3) the Subpoena impermissibly seeks pretrial discovery of Defendants’ financial condition without satisfying the requirements of Civil Code § 3295; and (4) the Subpoena is not reasonably particularized and its scope is overbroad.”Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 authorizes courts to quash a subpoena entirely, modify it, or direct compliance with it upon the court’s own terms and conditions, including protective orders. In addition, the court may take other appropriate means to protect parties or nonparties “from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).)  Discovery devices are meant to facilitate litigation, not wage it.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 221.)As an example, the subpoena to Citibank, N.A. seeks the following: 1. All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to bank statements, RELATING to bank account number xxxxx1431 from January 2018 to the present. 2. All COMMUNICATIONS, RELATING to bank account number xxxxx1431 from January 2018 to the present.3. All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to financial records, bank and/or brokerage statements, signature cards, credit card statements, RELATING to any accounts FAT BRANDS MANAGEMENT had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. 4. All COMMUNICATIONS RELATING to any accounts FAT BRANDS MANAGEMENT had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. 5. All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to financial records, bank and/or brokerage statements, signature cards, credit card statements, RELATING to any accounts YALLA ACQUISITION had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. 6.  All COMMUNICATIONS RELATING to any accounts YALLA ACQUISITION had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. 7. All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to financial records, bank and/or brokerage statements, signature cards, credit card statements, RELATING to any accounts YALLA MEDITERRANEAN had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. 8. All COMMUNICATIONS RELATING to any accounts YALLA MEDITERRANEAN had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. 9. All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to financial records, bank and/or brokerage statements, signature cards, credit card statements, RELATING to any accounts AIIC had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. 10. All COMMUNICATIONS RELATING to any accounts AIIC had, or has, with YOU from January 2018 to the present. Fat Brands is defined as “Defendant Fat Brands Management, LLC, individually, as well as its insurers, agents, principals, employees, employers, officers, directors, affiliates (including, but not limited to Fat Brands, Inc.), predecessors in interest, successors, parents, subsidiaries, accountants, investigators, brokers, advisors, representatives, independent contractors, and others acting on its behalf.) from January 1, 2018 to the present.”Yalla Acquisition is defined as “Defendant Yalla Acquisition, LLC, individually, as well as its insurers, agents, principals, employees, employers, officers, directors, affiliates (including, but not limited to Fat Brands, Inc., Mediterranean Cuisine Operating Company, LLC, Yalla Mediterranean, LLC), predecessors in interest, successors, parents, subsidiaries, accountants, investigators, brokers, advisors, representatives, independent contractors, and others acting on its behalf.) from January 1, 2018 to the present.”  Defendants do not oppose request nos. 9-10 above, and do not oppose certain requests within the other subpoenas.   As an initial matter, the Court will narrow the definitions of Yalla Acquisition, Fat Brands, and the other entities that are similarly defined, to the corporation itself because the definitions are overbroad.  That is, the third parties are not to be included.   Further, the temporal scope of the requests is narrowed to May 2019 (when the parties met for the franchise transaction) to May 2022.  The subpoenas seek financial documents that would ordinarily be subject to privacy rights.  However, “[t]he constitutional [privacy] provision simply does not apply to corporations.”  (Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal. App. 3d 770, 791.)  “Although corporations have a lesser right to privacy than human beings and are not entitled to claim a right to privacy in terms of a fundamental right, some right to privacy exists. Privacy rights accorded artificial entities are not stagnant, but depend on the circumstances.”  (Id. at p. 796.)  “Two critical factors are the strength of the nexus between the artificial entity and human beings and the context in which the controversy arises.”  (Id. at p. 797.)“Because the corporate privacy right is not constitutionally protected, the issue presented in determining whether . . .  requests for production infringe that right is resolved by a balancing test. The discovery's relevance to the subject matter of the pending dispute and whether the discovery “ ‘appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence’ ” is balanced against the corporate right of privacy. (Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 579, 595[40 Cal.Rptr.3d 446].)  Doubts about relevance generally are resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Ibid.)”  (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756.)Here, no discussion has been provided as to Defendants’ nexus to human beings.  There is not even a discussion of the kinds of clients, suppliers, or vendors associated with Defendants whose private information might be reflected in the banking records at issue.In light of Plaintiffs’ allegation of mismanagement of funds when it was reported that the subject restaurant was performing poorly and needed to close (see FAC ¶ 128), the documents sought could encompass relevant information.  Given the slight privacy interest articulated by Defendants and the potential relevance of the documents at issue, on balance, the discovery will be allowed, but subject to the narrowing discussed above.The Motions are granted in part.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.