

Hearing
Date:             November 14, 2024
Case
Name:                Juarez v. Toro
Pallets Inc. 
Case
No.:                    24STCV11183
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant CitiStaff Solutions Inc.

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Dagoberto Juarez

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted. 

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Dagoberto Juarez (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on May
3, 2024, alleging claims for breach of contract, fraud, unfair competition and numerous
wage and hour Labor Code claims against his former employer, Defendants CitiStaff Solutions Inc., Toro
Pallets Inc. and Rodrigo Toro.
 
            On
September 30, 2024, Defendant CitiStaff Solutions Inc. (CitiStaff) filed a
motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’ arbitration agreement. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration agreement is barred by Labor Code
section 432.6, the FAA does not apply to this arbitration agreement, and the
arbitration agreement does not apply to Defendants Toro Pallets Inc. and
Rodrigo Toro. 
 
            The
motion to compel arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending
arbitration.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant CitiStaff moves to
compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and dismiss the action, or in the
alternative, stay the matter pending arbitration.
 
            Defendant
CitiStaff seeks to compel arbitration based on a 2017 Arbitration Agreement. In
support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant submits
evidence that Plaintiff executed an Arbitration
Agreement on September 1, 2017 as part of CitiStaff’s employee onboarding
process. (Cerdas Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6-7.) 
 
The Agreement provides that
Plaintiff and Defendant CitiStaff “agree to exclusively engage in Mandatory
Mediation and Binding Arbitration for any and all disputes, claims, or
controversies (“claims”) they may have against each other, including claims
against current and former agents, owners, officers, directors, or employees,
arising out of the employment relationship between the employee and the employer
or the termination thereof.” (Cerdas Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Exs. A; Slater Decl., ¶ 4,
Ex. B.) The Agreement continues by stating these claims include, but are not
limited to “[c]laims of employment discrimination and harassment under Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended; the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act; the Equal Pay Act; the Wage Theft Prevention Act; Age
Discrimination in Employment Act, as amended; the Americans with Disabilities
Act; 42 U.S.C. 1981; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act; the
California Labor Code, including any claim filed by the employee related to
wages; employment notices of any kind; meal and rest breaks; wage disclosure
notices; employment notices of any kind; breach of employment contract or the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; wrongful termination; or
unlawful conduct (whether intentional or negligent) including defamation,
misrepresentation, fraud, and infliction of emotional distress.” (Cerdas Decl.,
¶¶ 5-6, Ex. A; Slater Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.)
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute the existence of the Arbitration
Agreement or otherwise deny signing the agreement. Thus, there is no factual
dispute as to the existence of a binding arbitration agreement between the
parties. Nor does Plaintiff argue the Agreement is unenforceable because it is
procedurally and substantively unconscionable. Rather, the dispute turns
whether the Arbitration Agreement is invalid under Labor Code section 432.6. 
 
Section
432.6, subdivision (a), prohibits employers from requiring employees to waive,
as a condition of employment, the right to litigate certain claims. It states:
 
“A person
shall not, as a condition of employment, continued employment, or the receipt
of any employment-related benefit, require any applicant for employment or any
employee to waive any right, forum, or procedure for a violation of any
provision of the California Fair Employment and Housing Act [FEHA] (Part 2.8
(commencing with Section 12900) of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government
Code) or this code, including the right to file and pursue a civil action or a
complaint with, or otherwise notify, any state agency, other public prosecutor,
law enforcement agency, or any court or other governmental entity of any
alleged violation.”
 
 
As noted in
the reply, this statute by its own terms does not apply to the Arbitration
Agreement at issue in this matter.
 
Section
432.6, subdivision (h), states that this section applies only “to contracts for
employment entered into, modified, or extended on or after January 1, 2020.” 


As Defendant’s
undisputed evidence clearly shows, this Arbitration Agreement was entered into
on September 1, 2017. (Cerdas Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Exs. A; Slater Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.)
Thus, Plaintiff’s reliance on Section 432.6 is improper.
 
 Even if Section 432.6 applied, the application
of this statute to the Arbitration Agreement would be preempted under the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA). 
 
Recently,
the Ninth Circuit has recently held that in light of the FAA’s “purpose [ ] to
further Congress's policy of encouraging arbitration,” Assembly Bill 51, which
added Labor Code § 432.6, stood “as an obstacle to that purpose,” and was
“therefore preempted.” (Chamber of Com. of the United States of Am. v. Bonta
(9th Cir. 2023) 62 F.4th 473, 487.)
 
In its moving papers, Defendant
CitiStaff argues that the FAA applies to the Arbitration Agreement because it
engages in interstate commerce. In support, Defendant submits evidence it is a
temporary staffing agency that places temporary employees to work at various
companies throughout Southern California in warehousing, logistics, light
manufacturing, and food production; CitiStaff’s employees work on products and
goods that are shipped and/or distributed to different states nationwide. (Cerdas
Decl., ¶ 2.) Additionally, CitiStaff has offices in Washington, Texas, Nevada,
Arizona, and Indiana, where it places employees to work at various businesses.
(Slater Decl., ¶ 2; Cerdas Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
            Defendant CitiStaff
also contends that Defendant Toro Pallets engages in interstate commerce. Defendant
Toro Pallets is a company specializing in the manufacturing, sale, purchase,
repair and distribution of pallets. (Slater Decl., ¶3; Cerdas Decl., ¶ 4.)
During the time Plaintiff was assigned there, Toro Pallets shipped pallets out
of state, and also accepted pallets for purchase or repair from sources outside
of California. (Slater Decl., ¶ 3; Cerdas Decl., ¶ 4.) 
 
            Defendant
CitiStaff has met its evidentiary burden of showing that the Arbitration Agreement
involves interstate commerce such that the FAA applies.[1] 
 
            Finally, Plaintiff
argues that the Arbitration Agreement does not apply to Toro Pallets. Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant Toro Pallets is not an intended third-party beneficiary,
the doctrine of equitable estoppel does not apply, and there is no evidence of
a principal-agent relationship with Defendant CitiStaff. 
 
            Defendants
Toro Pallets and Rodrigo Toro did not join in the motion. The Court doubts that
Defendant CitiStaff has standing to compel the other two defendants to
arbitrate.  But if they were to join in
the motion, the Court would conclude that Toro Pallets and Rodrigo Toro could
also enforce the arbitration provision.
 
            A party
seeking to compel arbitration must generally establish that he or she was a
party to an arbitration agreement. (DMS Services, LLC v. Superior Court
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1346, 1352-1353; JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1236.) However, California courts have recognized
certain exceptions which permit a nonsignatory to an agreement with an
arbitration clause “to compel arbitration of, or be compelled to arbitrate, a
dispute arising within the scope of that agreement.” (DMS Services, supra,
205 Cal.App.4th at p. 1353; see also Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana
Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705,
1713-1714.) 


            Here, Defendant
Toro Pallets and Rodrigo Toro may enforce the Arbitration Agreement under the
agency theory. 
 
“[W]hen a plaintiff alleges a defendant
acted as an agent of a party to an arbitration agreement, the defendant may
enforce the agreement even though the defendant is not a party thereto.” (Thomas
v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 614.)
 
 Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants are
all “the agent and employee of the other defendants and was, at all times
herein mentioned, acting within the scope of said agency and employment.”
(Compl., ¶ 5.) Further, the Complaint at times referred to both employers
collectively as “Defendants” without distinction (Compl., ¶¶ 51, 55-59), and
alleged identical claims and nearly identical conduct regarding unlawful and
improper acts. (Compl., ¶¶ 2-64.) 
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s own allegations concede
an agency relationship. Therefore, all Defendants may compel arbitration under
the Arbitration Agreement.  (Dryer v. Los
Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal.3d 406, 418, [where complaint alleges
that nonsignatory defendants acted as agents for signatory defendant, the
nonsignatory defendants are entitled to benefit of arbitration agreement].)[2]
 
Further, the
doctrine of equitable estoppel exception also applies. 
 
Under this
exception, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel
a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claim when the causes of action against
the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined with’ the
underlying contract obligations.” (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co., Inc.
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 267.) The doctrine applies where the claims are “ ‘
“based on the same facts and are inherently inseparable’ ” from the arbitrable
claims against signatory defendants.” (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana
Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705,
1713.)
 
As noted
above, the allegations against all Defendants in the Complaint here arise from
Plaintiff’s temporary staffing placement by CitiStaff with Toro Pallets; thus,
the employment claims all arise from the same employment relationship governed
by the Arbitration Agreement. (See e.g., Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 782, 786-788.) As such, the causes of action against the
nonsignatory defendants are “intimately founded in and intertwined” with the
underlying contract obligations.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant CitiStaff Solutions Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration. The matter is stayed
pending arbitration. 
 


