

 
BACKGROUND
 
            On April
11, 2022, Patty Smith (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Terry Bowen (Bowen)
and Cassandra Davis (Davis) for one count of motor vehicle negligence for an
automobile collision that took place on June 19, 2021. The motions now before
the Court are: (1) Defendant Bowen’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set 1 (“MTC Form ROGs”), and Monetary Sanctions in the
Amount of $1,235.00; and (2) Defendant Bowen’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
Responses to Request for Production, Set 1 (“MTC RFP”), and Monetary Sanctions
in the Amount of $1,000.00 (the Motions). Plaintiff opposes both Motions, no
reply was filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Legal Standard for a Motion to Compel
Responses to Interrogatories
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290, subds. (b), (c).) Failure to timely respond waives all
objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP § 2030.290, subds. (a)(1), (a)(2).)
 
Legal Standard for a Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production
            “If a party
to whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed
fails to serve a timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: (a)
The party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4…(b) The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (c) Except as
provided in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2031.300.)
 
Analysis
            For
both Motions, Bowen provides the Declaration of Robert J. Gardner (Gardner
Decl.), which states that Bowen served both Form Interrogatories (Set 1) and
Request for Production (Set 1) on Plaintiff’s counsel on December 18, 2023.
(Gardner Decl., ¶ 3.) The deadline to respond was January 22, 2024, however, no
responses were received. (Id.) After Defense counsel followed up with
Plaintiff’s counsel on March 6, 2024, no response was received. (Gardner Decl.,
¶ 4.) Defense counsel attempted to confer again with Plaintiff’s counsel on
March 15, 2024, however, Plaintiff did not respond. In their opposition papers,
Plaintiff’s counsel simply states that their client is not cooperating with
discovery, however, no reasoning is given for the refusal to respond to Defense
counsel’s meet and confer efforts. Therefore, the Motions are granted. 
 
            Sanctions
            Defense
counsel provides the following calculations:
·        
Counsel’s
hourly rate is $235 per hour
·        
Counsel
spent 2 hours preparing the MTC Form ROGS and 1 hour preparing the MTC RFP
·        
Counsel
anticipated 2 hours preparing a reply for each Motion 
·        
Counsel
anticipates preparing for and attending the hearing will take 1 hour for each
Motion
·        
Counsel
incurred a $60.00 filing fee for each Motion
 
Considering that no reply was filed for
either Motion, the simplicity of the Motions, and the Motions will be heard
together, along with Plaintiff’s counsel’s stating that his client is
uncooperative, sanctions will be imposed against Plaintiff only and awarded to
Defendant Bowen in the amount of $825.00, representing an hour for each Motion, an
hour for the hearing and $120 in filing fees.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
both (1) Defendant Bowen’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set 1; and (2) Defendant Bowen’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s
Responses to Request for Production, Set 1, and Request for Monetary Sanctions are
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Responses to both discovery Motions are due 20
days from the date of this order
 
Monetary Sanctions are awarded to Defendant Bowen against
Plaintiff in the amount of $825.00. 
Said monetary sanctions must be paid 30 days from the date of this order.          
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice.