 Case Number:  20STCV17682    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  74 Suzanne
Ruelas v. City of Baldwin Park, et al.
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Protective Order Preventing Robert Tafoya from
Taking Depositions and Disqualifying Him from Serving as Counsel.
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
TENTATIVE RULING
            The court denies his motion because
Plaintiff Suzanne Ruelas has not persuaded the court that she genuinely needs
Robert Tafoya as a witness.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On
May 8, 2020, Plaintiff Suzanne Ruelas (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants
City of Baldwin Park, Shannon Yauchzee, Rose Tam, Laura Thomas, Manuel Lozano,
Michale Taylor an Benjamin Martinez (Defendants). The complaint also named
Robert Tafoya (Tafoya) as a Defendant.
            On
January 20, 2022, Plaintiff dismissed Tafoya from this action.
            On
July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for a protective order preventing
Tafoya from taking depositions and disqualifying him from serving as counsel
for Defendants.
DISCUSSION
            In her motion, Plaintiff first aims
to prevent Tafoya from taking any depositions in this action. Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.420, subdivision (a), any party or deponent may
move for a protective order after a deposition. The court may make any order
that justice requires to protect any party or deponent from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense. (Code Civ.
Proc., §2025.420, subd. (b).) The protective order may provide that a
designated person, other than the parties to the action and their officers and
counsel, be excluded from attending the deposition. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§2025.420, subd. (b)(12).) But Plaintiff has not shown how Tafoya’s conduct at
the terminated deposition and thereafter has resulted in annoyance,
embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense. 
            Next,
Plaintiff argues Tafoya should be disqualified from serving as counsel for
Defendants because he is an essential witness. Under the Rules of Professional
Conduct rule 3.7, subdivision (a), “A lawyer shall not act as an advocate in a
trial in which the lawyer is likely to be a witness unless […] the lawyer has
obtained informed written consent from the client.” However, a court retains
discretion to disqualify a likely advocate-witness as counsel despite client
consent if there is a “convincing demonstration of detriment to the opponent or
injury to the integrity of the judicial process.” (Lyle v. Superior Court (1981)
122 Cal.App.3d 470, 482.) In exercising this discretion, courts must consider
whether counsel’s testimony is genuinely needed by the party seeking
disqualification. (Doe v. Yim (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 573, 583.)
            Here,
Plaintiff has not persuaded the court that she genuinely needs Tafoya’s
testimony. Plaintiff contends Tafoya made defamatory remarks, which in turn
would support her cause of action for defamation against Defendants. (Motion,
pp. 5, 8.) Be that as it may, Plaintiff can support this allegation with
testimony from the individuals to whom Tafoya made these remarks. Plaintiff
also argues that Tafoya’s testimony is integral because he knew about and
directed Defendants’ misconduct, which is “at the crux of [her] whistleblower
retaliation claims.” (Motion, pp. 6-7.) But Plaintiff concedes other witnesses
can substantiate these allegations. (Motion, pp. 8-9; Reply, pp. 2-3.) Thus,
Plaintiff has not demonstrated that she cannot prevail without Tafoya’s
testimony.
            Moreover,
Plaintiff has not sufficiently shown how Tafoya serving as counsel would
compromise the integrity of the judicial process. (Lyle v. Superior Court,
supra, 122 Cal.App.3d at p. 482; Doe v. Yim, supra, 55 Cal.App.5th
at p. 582 [“California courts have agreed that one purpose of the
advocate-witness rule is to prevent fact finder confusion regarding whether an
advocate-witness's statement is to be considered proof or argument.”].) That
is, Plaintiff mentions the possibility of juror confusion, but fails to further
develop this contention. (Motion, p. 4.) Lastly, the court notes Defendants’
interest in representation by counsel of their choice, as well as the
unnecessary expense and time that replacing Tafoya would entail. (Opposition,
pp. 11-12; Doe v. Yim, supra, at p. 583.) 
CONCLUSION
            Based on the foregoing, the court denies
Plaintiff’s motion.
            Plaintiff
shall give notice.