


[1]
            A
leading case explains the function of the IP address.  “A computer attached to the Internet uses a
unique numerical address called an Internet Protocol address, or IP address, to
identify itself to other computers. Nat'l Cable & Telecomm. Ass'n v.
Brand X Internet Svcs., 545 U.S. 967, 987 n. 1 (2005) (“IP addresses
identify computers on the Internet, enabling data packets transmitted from
other computers to reach them.”); United States v. Yu, 411 Fed.Appx.
559, 560 n. 1 (4th Cir. 2010) (“Each computer connected to the Internet is
assigned a unique numerical address, otherwise known as an Internet protocol or
IP address, to identify itself and facilitate the orderly flow of electronic
traffic”) (quoting Peterson v. Nat'l Telecomm'ns & Info. Admin., 478
F.3d 626, 629 (4th Cir.2007)). In computer terms, an IP address is a 32–bit
integer that can be stamped on network communications or translated into
human-readable format. The most basic communication standard underlying the
Internet, called the Internet Protocol, uses IP addresses to transmit bundles
of data, called “packets,” through the network. [Citation.] …Each packet is
stamped with a source IP address and a destination IP address, and every time a
router receives a packet, it examines the destination address, looks up routing
information for that address in the database, and forwards the packet toward
the right network. [Citation.] This process is repeated until the packet
reaches a router that can transmit directly to the destination IP address. Clearly,
correct IP addressing information is essential to Internet technology.
“A human user may not know the specific IP address
assigned to her network connection, or the IP address of a remote computer or
website, even though the computer must know those addresses as a prerequisite
to Internet communications…. Thus, when a person attempts to access a named
computer, the person's computer finds the IP address of the remote site by
matching, or “resolving,” the name to the proper IP address, then contacts the
website over the Internet using that IP address.
“From the perspective of the destination computer, it
is an extraordinarily simple task to determine the IP address of the computer
seeking to access it…. Most websites maintain standard logs of connecting IP
addresses, along with date and time information, and may even include
information about the user associated with the connection. [Citation.] Such
information is routinely gathered to evaluate usage patterns, engage in site
marketing analysis, troubleshoot problems, or to gather feedback.. . . .
“IP address information, by itself, cannot identify a
particular person.” 
(In re Application of the U.S. for an Order Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
sec. 2703(d) (E.D. Va. 2011) 830 F.Supp.2d 114, 119-120.)


[2]       “Electronic
communication” is broadly defined to include “any transfer of signs, signals,
writing, images, sounds, data, or intelligence of any nature in whole or in
part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectric or photo-optical system.”
(Pen. Code, § 629.51, subd. (a)(2).)  The broad definition of “electronic
communications” reasonably indicates that an electronic communications service
provider includes website operators. 
Plaintiff’s argument that Defendant is not an electronic communications
service provider lacks support. Her argument that Defendant as a website
operator is not an internet service provider or a wireless telephone company
are irrelevant. The text of the pen register statute does not impose liability
on website operators that obtain IP addresses as a matter of course when users
access their site.


[3]
            Despite
Plaintiff’s murky allusions to an unnamed “developer” of the purported
“beacon,” she nowhere alleges that Defendant shared Plaintiff’s computer’s IP
address with anyone else without Plaintiff’s consent.

