

Hearing Date:             September
9, 2024
Case Name:                Casillas
v. Transitions Optical, Inc.
Case No.:                    23STCV30742
Matter:                        Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint          
Moving Party:             Defendant
Transitions Optical, Inc.
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Miltita Casillas 
 

Tentative Ruling:      The
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend. 


 
 
            Plaintiff
Miltita Casillas (Plaintiff) alleges that upon accessing the website of
Defendant Transitions Optical, Inc. (Defendant or Transitions Optical),
Defendant secretly installed a “pen register” (“PR”) and “trap and trace”
tracking (“TT”) “beacon” (collectively “PR/TT”) on Plaintiff’s web browser to
“collect Plaintiff’s IP address.” 
Plaintiff alleges this violated the California Invasion of Privacy Act
(“CIPA”), specifically, Penal Code section 638.51. That section prohibits,
subject to exceptions, nonconsensual installation of a pen register or a trap
and trace device without a court order.  In
December 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint for violation of CIPA, Penal Code
section 638.51.  On April 23, 2024, the
Court sustained with leave to amend Transitions Optical’s demurrer.  In May 2024, Plaintiff Casillas filed a First
Amended Complaint (FAC).  On June 25,
2024, Defendant Transitions Optical demurred to the FAC. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff
filed opposition; Defendant replied.
 
            The
Court sustains the demurrer without leave to amend. 
 
II.  Requests for Judicial Notice.
 
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of the legislative history of Senate Bill 1428.  The request is granted.
 
III.  Discussion
 
            A.  Legal Standard
                        
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.)  
 
            B.  Pertinent provisions of California Invasion
of Privacy Act.
 
            “Except
as provided in subdivision (b), a person may not install or use a pen register
or a trap and trace device without first obtaining a court order pursuant to
Section 638.52 or 638.53.”  (Pen. Code,
§638.51, subd. (a).)  “A violation of
this section is punishable by a fine not exceeding two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500), or by imprisonment in the county jail not exceeding one year,
or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of Section 1170, or by both that
fine and imprisonment.”  (Pen. Code,
§638.51, subd. (a).)
 
            “‘Pen
register’ means a device or process that records or decodes dialing, routing,
addressing, or signaling information transmitted by an instrument or facility
from which a wire or electronic communication is transmitted, but not the
contents of a communication. ‘Pen register’ does not include a device or
process used by a provider or customer of a wire or electronic communication
service for billing, or recording as an incident to billing, for communications
services provided by such provider, or a device or process used by a provider
or customer of a wire communication service for cost accounting or other
similar purposes in the ordinary course of its business.”  (Pen. Code, §638.50, subd. (b).)  
 
            “
‘Trap and trace device’ means a device or process that captures the incoming
electronic or other impulses that identify the originating number or other
dialing, routing, addressing, or signaling information reasonably likely to
identify the source of a wire or electronic communication, but not the contents
of a communication.”  (Pen. Code,
§638.50, subd. (c).)  
 
            “Any
person who has been injured by a violation of this chapter may bring an action
against the person who committed the violation for the greater of the following
amounts:
(1) Five thousand dollars ($5,000)
per violation. [¶] (2) Three times the amount of actual damages, if any,
sustained by the plaintiff.”  (Pen. Code,
§637.2, subd. (a).) 
 
            “It
is not a necessary prerequisite to an action pursuant to this section that the
plaintiff has suffered, or be threatened with, actual damages.”  (Pen. Code, §637.2, subd. (c).)
 
            The
legislative purpose of the Pen Register statute was to authorize law
enforcement to seek orders for telephone surveillance.  Section 638.50 does not address the privacy
rights of Internet users.
 
            C.
 Allegations in First Amended
Complaint
 
            The
FAC here is one of many nearly identical complaints filed by a self-described
tester plaintiff. (FAC ¶ 4.) The FAC is noteworthy for pleading a series of
hypothetical possibilities. There are few specific facts concerning either
Plaintiff or Defendant.
 
            Paragraphs
20 through 30 of the First Amended Complaint purport to describe what website
operators “can” do, describing hypothetical events having no specific relation
to either Plaintiff or Defendant.  “Some
rogue website operators, however, secretly attach a ‘tracking beacon’ to
visitor devices that are then used to track and surveil users.” (FAC ¶ 20.) The
FAC then alleges that “tracking software will connect fragments of information”
and “connects and correlates ‘undeclared identifiers.’” (Id. ¶ 21.) A
“website owner can correlate a grouping of fragments and the connections
between them to create a unique digital profile of each individual website
visitor.” (Id. ¶ 22.) A further hypothetical scenario is set forth in
paragraph 23:  “If a website owner can
link a unique digital profile created by digital fingerprinting to a particular
individual, the website owner can assemble a detailed picture of a person’s
private life….” The FAC continues in this vein, with a fictional chart and a
description of the potential economic value of such digital profiles. (Id.
¶¶ 24-30.)
 
            In
paragraphs 31 through 45, the FAC continues to allege no conduct by Defendant
distinct from what is done by any website operator, and alleges no harm to
Plaintiff. The FAC states that a “pen register” and “trap and trace” device”
are referred to as “PR/TT.” (FAC ¶ 13.) After a lengthy exposition, the FAC
makes assertions that are inconsistent: 
“Because the PR/TT beacon captures the outgoing information – the IP
address – from the visitors to websites, it is a ‘pen register’” under Penal
Code section 638.50. (Id. ¶ 45.) 
Two points about this assertion are noteworthy.  First, after distinguishing between a “pen
register” and a “trap and trace device” (Id. ¶ 13), paragraph 45
conflates the two. Second, the assertion is a tautology: a pen register is a
pen register. 
 
The exposition
that concludes with paragraph 45 asserts that the only outgoing information
even hypothetically captured by the so called “beacon” is the website visitor’s
Internet Protocol (IP) address.  The FAC
explains that the IP address is a “unique identifier for a device” (Id.
¶ 34.) and “enables a device to communicate with another device – such as a
computer’s browser communicating with a server….” (Id. ¶ 35.)  Despite dark, vague hints about the
possibility that highly sensitive personal information may be accessed (FAC ¶
21), the only data assertedly captured is the IP address. (FAC ¶¶ 33, 37, 38,
39, 40, 41, 42 and 45.) To this point, the FAC is merely describing what
happens every time any user accesses any website. Any computer that is used to
access the internet needs an IP address to do so. (U.S. v. Forrester (9th
Cir. 2008) 512 F.3d 500, 510, fn. 5 [“Every computer or server connected to the
Internet has a unique IP address.”](Forrester).)[1]
 
            FAC
paragraphs 47 through 68 do not specifically plead Defendant’s conduct, but primarily
that of unnamed companies “such as” Defendant. For instance, companies “like
Defendant” and an unnamed PR/TT “developer” share data. (FAC ¶¶ 67-68)  Similarly, paragraphs 69 through 76, which
purport to allege Plaintiff’s experience, are completely generic, with no
specifics regarding dates. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant used the “PR/TT
beacon to collect Plaintiff’s IP address.” (FAC ¶ 70.) Then Defendant and the
unidentified “developer” use this information to “boost” their revenue. (Id.
¶ 71.)  Plaintiff pleads that she did not
consent to Defendant using the PR/TT beacon on her browser. (Id. ¶¶ 53,
76.) She further pleads that Defendant did not obtain a court order before
doing so.  (Id. ¶ 76.)  Plaintiff describes no actual instance of Defendant
obtaining unauthorized access to her private information. She offers no
specifics about her accessing Defendant’s website, but vaguely alleges a
purported investigation “via a computer expert,” who is unidentified.  Although beginning with paragraph 78,
Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for invasion of privacy, she fails to
allege how her privacy was invaded.  She
pleads, in fact, that whatever Defendant allegedly installed, “does not collect
the contents of Plaintiff’s electronic communications” at all. (Id. ¶
84.)
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that “spyware beacons” detected on Defendant’s website are identified
in Exhibit 1 to the FAC. (¶ 54.)  The
exhibit is illegible, and no authenticating information is provided. The FAC
does not allege that what the exhibit purports to show has anything to do with
any actual encounter Plaintiff had with the website. 
 
            D.
The parties’ contentions.
 
            Defendant
Transitions Optical contends that the FAC (1) fails to allege that it used a
pen register in operating its website, (2) merely alleges that Defendant
collected the IP address of Plaintiff’s computer, to which she has, in these
circumstances, no reasonable expectation of privacy, and (3) that Plaintiff
lacks standing to sue because he fails to allege any cognizable injury.
 
            Plaintiff
contends (1) the pen register statute applies to website access, and (2) that
she has a reasonable expectation in the privacy in her computer’s IP
address.  She also (3) denies that Defendant’s
website provides an electronic communications service.
 
E. Plaintiff
fails to plead a violation of Penal Code section 638.51.
 
            Beyond
hypothetical scenarios, the only specific act the FAC alleges is that when
Plaintiff used her computer voluntarily to access the Transitions Optical
website, Defendant “collected Plaintiff’s address.”  (FAC ¶ 70.) But this occurs when any user
accesses any website.  As Plaintiff
himself alleged, the IP address “enables a device to communicate with another
device – such as a computer’s browser communicating with a server….” (Id.
¶ 35.) What makes the internet possible – devices communicating with each other
– is the communication of the devices’s protocol.  “IP addresses are … conveyed to websites that
an internet user visits, and administrators of websites…can see the IP
addresses of visitors to their sites. However, site administrators do not
possess information linking a given IP address to a particular person.” (U.S. v. Christie (3d Cir.
2010) 624 F.3d 558, 563.) Here, Plaintiff chose to allow Defendant to “collect”
its IP address.  “ ‘[A]n internet user
generates the IP address data … only by making the affirmative decision to
access a website or application.” (U.S. v. Morel (1st Cir.
2019) 922 F.3d 1, 9.)
 
            The pen
register statute did not, and does not, criminalize the process by which all
websites communicate with all users who choose to access them.  The terms of Penal Code section 638.50 make
that clear. A pen register does not include a “process used by a provider or
customer of [an] … electronic communication service for … communications
service provided by such provider … or other similar services in the ordinary
course of business.”  (Pen. Code, §
638.50, subd. (b).) Moreover, even if the process of collecting IP addresses is
deemed a pen register, there is no liability when an electronic communication
service does so to “operate, maintain, and test [an] … electronic communication
service” or to “record the fact that [an] … electronic communication was
initiated or completed” to protect against unlawful or abusive use of the
service. (Pen. Code, § 638.51, subd. (b).) Given the breadth of the statutory
definition, Defendant’s website is an electronic communication service, and
under the terms of the statute, obtaining IP addresses from ordinary user
access does not violate the pen register statute.[2] 
 
            Cases
interpreting the analogous federal pen register statute demonstrate that there
is no cause of action under Penal Code section 638.51 for the conduct alleged
here.  Assuming that a pen register captures
outgoing IP addresses, “the collection of incoming IP addresses by [a website
operator] is exempt” from penalty under 18 U.S.C. section 3121(b)(1), because
defendants “necessarily capture such data …to operate the website.”  (Columbia Pictures Industries v. Bunnell (C.D.
Cal. May 29, 2007, CV 06-1093FMCJCX) 2007 WL 2080419 at p. *11.) The federal
statute is mirrored by Penal Code section 638.51, subdivision (b)(1), which
authorizes a provider of an electronic communications service to use a pen
register to “operate, maintain, and test [an] … electronic communications
service.” (See also Capitol Records, Inc. v. Thomas Rasset (D. Minn. June
11, 2009, No. 06-1497) 2009 WL 1664468, at p. 3 [“the Pen Register Act cannot
be intended to prevent individuals who receive electronic communications from
recording the IP information sent to them. If it did apply to those cases, then
the Internet could not function because standard computer operations require
recording IP addresses so parties can communicate with one another over the
Internet”].)  Plaintiff fails to address
these authorities.
 
            F.  Plaintiff has no privacy interest in the
Internet Protocol address of her computer, and by accessing Defendant’s
website, she had no reasonable expectation that the IP address was private.
 
            Even
if it is assumed that the ability of a website operator to obtain a user’s IP
address constitutes operating a pen register, the issue here is whether, when
Plaintiff chose to access Transitions Optical’s website, she had a reasonable
expectation in the privacy of her computer’s IP address. Based on relevant
authorities, the answer is no.
 
            Although
the FAC alludes to hypothetical “digital fingerprinting” by which an imaginary
website might identify the location, race, browsing history, and other traits
of each user (FAC ¶ 24.), the only information Plaintiff alleges she provided
to Defendant – as necessary when she accessed the Transitions Optical website –
was her computer’s Internet Protocol address. (FAC ¶¶ 52, 60.) 
 
            To
establish her claim that Defendant violated her right of privacy, Plaintiff
must establish a specific, legally protected privacy interest in her computer’s
IP address, and entertain a reasonable expectation of privacy. (Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Association (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1,
35.)  
 
            In
assessing claims that one’s personal information has been improperly accessed
or exposed, courts distinguish between communication content and records
or information about a communication. 
The former is a protected privacy interest; the latter is not.  The United States Supreme Court explained
this when, in Smith v. Maryland (1979) 442 U.S. 735, it held that
warrantless installation of a pen register by a telephone company was not a
“search” within the Fourth Amendment. There, the pen register “ ‘record[ed]
numbers dialed on a telephone by monitoring the electrical impulses caused when
the dial on the telephone is released. It does not overhear oral communications
and does not indicate whether calls are actually completed.” (Id. at p.
736, n.1.) The high court distinguished between a record of information about a
communication, and, on the other hand, the contents of communication.  In contrast to a listening device, “pen
registers do not acquire the contents of communications.” (Id. at
p. 741, original italics.) The Supreme Court concluded that the petitioner
“entertained no actual expectation of privacy in the phone numbers she dialed,
and that, even if she did, her expectation was not ‘legitimate’” and thus, use
of the pen register was not a “search.” 
(Id. at p. 745-746.) 
Plaintiff’s effort to dismiss this foundational holding is unpersuasive.
(Oppos. p. 16.)
 
            Courts
have repeatedly applied Smith’s reasoning to IP addresses and concluded
that no privacy interest is violated when a user shares the information with
the service provider or when accessing a website.  As explained above, Plaintiff alleges that
when she accessed the Transitions Optical website, Defendant “collected” her computer’s
IP address.[3]
 
            In
U.S. v. Forrester (9th Cir. 2008) 512 U.S. 500, the Ninth
Circuit relied on Smith to reject a challenge to the government’s
computer surveillance, which had gathered, among other information, IP
addresses of websites visited.  “[T]he
Court in Smith … drew a clear line between unprotected addressing
information and protected content information….” (Id. at p. 510.) The
Court of Appeals reasoned that the IP information was analogous to the record
of phone numbers dialed in Smith. 
“Internet users have no expectation of privacy in the…IP addresses of
the websites they visit because they should know that this information is
provided to and used by Internet service providers for the specific purpose of
directing the routing of information…. IP addresses are not merely passively
conveyed through the third party equipment, but rather are voluntarily turned
over in order to direct the third party’s servers.” (Ibid.) The Forrester
court found that the surveillance in question could be compared to government
review of physical mail. “In a line of cases dating back to the nineteenth
century, the Supreme Court has held that the government cannot engage in a
warrantless search of the contents of sealed mail, but can observe whatever
information people put on the outside of mail, because that information is
voluntarily transmitted to third parties.” 
(Id. at p. 511.)  
 
            The
Ninth Circuit has reiterated its view that there is no expectation of privacy
in an IP address.  In In re Zynga
Privacy Litigation (9th Cir. 2014) 750 F.3d 1098 (Zynga),
the court affirmed dismissal of a suit filed by users of a social networking
site. The Ninth Circuit reasoned that “courts have long distinguished between
the contents of a communication (in which a person may have a reasonable
expectation of privacy) and record information about those communications (in
which a person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy).” (Id. at
p. 1108.) Accordingly, said the panel, “we have allowed the warrantless
collection of email and IP addresses under the same reasoning because email and
IP addresses ‘constitute addressing information and do not necessarily reveal
any more about the underlying contents of communication than do phone
numbers.’” (Ibid.)  Here, the FAC
cites Zynga in conceding that Defendant did “not collect the content of Plaintiff’s
electronic communications with the Website.” 
(FAC ¶ 84.)
 
In U.S. v.
Rosenow (9th Cir. 2022) 50 F.4th 715, the court
rejected a claim that a warrantless subpoena for IP information was an
unconstitutional search. Relying on Forrester, the Rosenow court
concluded that a defendant has no reasonable expectation of privacy in IP
addresses. (Id. at p. 738.) While Plaintiff argues that Forrester should
not be followed because of technological developments, that is not the view of
more recent circuit court precedent.
 
            The
California Court of Appeal also followed Forrester.  In People v. Stipo (2011) 195
Cal.App.4th 664, the court held: “A subscriber has no expectation of
privacy in the subscriber information she supplies to her Internet provider.
Therefore, her challenge to a warrant requiring her Internet provider to
identify him through her Internet Protocol (IP) number has no merit.” (Id. at
p. 666.)
 
            The
view that there is no privacy interest in IP addresses provided to a service
provider or website is well established. This is due in part because a user
voluntarily shares her computer’s IP address every time she accesses a website.
(See U.S. v. Morel (1st Cir. 2019) 922 F.3d 1, 9 [defendant
had no reasonable expectation of privacy in her IP address; “an internet user
generates the IP data…only by making the affirmative decision to access a
website”]; U.S. v. Caira (7th Cir. 2016) 833 F.3d 803, 806
[IP addresses are broadcast “far and wide in the course of normal internet
use”; hence there is no reasonable expectation of privacy in IP address]; U.S.
v. Wellbeloved-Stone (4th Cir. 2019) 777 Fed. Appx. 605 [no
expectation of privacy in IP address and internet subscriber information]; U.S.
v. Gottesfeld (D.Mass. 2018) 319 F.Supp.3d 548 [use of pen register did not
violate Fourth Amendment rights because no reasonable expectation of privacy in
IP address routing information]; U.S. v. Knowles (D.S.C. 2016) 207
F.Supp.3d 585 [no reasonable expectation of privacy in IP address which a user
voluntarily provides to third parties every time she uses the internet]; Heeger
v. Facebook, Inc. (N.D.Cal. 2020) 509 F.Supp.3d 1182, 1189 [“Plaintiffs do
not plausibly allege anything more than the collection of IP addresses, and
there is no legally protected privacy interest in IP addresses”].)  With respect to Heeger, Plaintiff’s
efforts to distinguish it are unconvincing. 
The case is one of many that hold there is no privacy interest in IP
addresses or no reasonable expectation of privacy in IP addresses.  Plaintiff has identified no case involving a
voluntary user of a website who, by allowing her IP address to be “collected”
by the website operator, can nevertheless maintain a claim for invasion of
privacy. 
 
             Plaintiff contends that “California law has
expressly recognized a legally protected privacy interest in IP addresses.” She
relies on sections of the California Electronic Privacy Act, Penal Code
sections 1546, 1546.1 and 1546.4, which prohibit Internet Service Providers
from providing a user’s IP address without a warrant or other limited
exception. These statutes do not address a user’s voluntary access of a website
that necessarily results in the website obtaining the user’s IP address.    
 
Plaintiff also
cites the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, in which IP addresses are
recognized as personal information. Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivision
(v) defines personal information and governs the conduct of businesses that
collect such information. Plaintiff cites no authority indicating that this
statute abrogates the cases holding that there is no reasonable expectation in
the privacy of an IP address when it is voluntarily provided to a website by
the mere act of accessing the website. 
 
Plaintiff also
relies on In re: Google RTB Consumer Privacy Litigation (N.D. Cal. 2022)
606 F.Supp.3d 935, to argue that persons have a reasonable expectation of
privacy over IP addresses.  She
misconceives the case.  The user
information Google allegedly directed to third parties was “content” relating
to the substance and meaning of the communication.  The decision relied on the Ninth Circuit
ruling in Zynga, supra, 750 F.3d. at p. 1107, to distinguish between
“content” – which is a protected privacy interest, and record information such
as an IP address, which is not so protected. (Google RTB, supra, 606
F.Supp.3d at p. 949.)  
 
Plaintiff
continues to rely on Greenley v. Kochava (S.D. Cal. 2023) 684 F.Supp.3d
1024. As we explained in sustaining the demurrer to the original complaint, the
defendant in that case was a third-party data broker, not a website operator.
Because the conduct of the defendant and the relationship to the plaintiff were
quite different from the allegations here, Greenley does not support Plaintiff’s
argument.
 
The FAC fails to
allege a cause of action for invasion of privacy by Defendant Transitions
Optical.  Plaintiff has not shown a reasonable
possibility of curing the defects in her complaint.  Accordingly, leave to amend is denied.
            
IV.  Conclusion
 
            Defendant’s
demurrer to the FAC is sustained without leave to amend.  


