 Case Number:  23PSCV03141    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin,
Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria
Gallegos
 
Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Motion to
Strike Punitive Damages
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, Stephanie Watkin,
Amaris Violet Gutierrez, Abel Valentino Gutierrez, and Angelina Victoria
Gallegos
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit
Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons Construction Group, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint 
is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty
(20) days leave to amend as to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action
and without leave to amend as to the third cause of action. Furthermore, the Demurrer
is OVERRULED IN PART as to the first and second causes of action.
Defendants
Kiewit Corporation, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit Infrastructure West Co., and Parsons
Construction Group, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is deemed MOOT.
BACKGROUND
This
is a wrongful death action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In November
2022, Alberto J. Gutierrez was the passenger of a 2006 GMC Sierra that was
travelling eastbound on Route 66 in Glendora near the intersection of Hunters
Trail. As a result of the allegedly narrow construction of the road, Alberto
Gutierrez’s truck was forced off the road by a vehicle in the other lane and
collided with a wall on the southside of the roadway. Alberto Gutierrez was
killed after the impact caused the truck to flip over.
On
October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs Alicia Olivares, individually and as successor in
interest to Alberto Gutierrez; Stephanie Watkin, individually and as successor
in interest to Alberto Gutierrez; Amaris Violet Gutierrez, by and through
Watkin as guardian ad litem; Abel Valentino Gutierrez, by and through Watkin as
guardian ad litem; and Angelina Victoria Gallegos, individually and as
successor in interest to Alberto Gutierrez (collectively, Gutierrez Plaintiffs)
filed a complaint against Defendants City of Glendora (the City), Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA), the Metro Gold Line
Foothill Extension Construction Authority (MGLFECA), Kiewit Corporation
(Kiewit), Fernando Vasquez Barrera, and Does 1-200, alleging the following causes
of action: (1) negligence, (2) dangerous condition of public property, (3)
negligence per se, (4) loss of consortium, (5) wrongful death, and (6)
survival.
On
December 8, 2023, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs amended the Complaint to replace Doe
1 with Defendant Kiewit-Parsons and Doe 2 with Defendant Kiewit Infrastructure
West Co. (Kiewit West). On December 11, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs amended the
Complaint to replace Doe 3 with Defendant Parsons Construction Group Inc.
(Parsons).
On
February 2, 2024, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On
February 20, 2024, LACMTA filed a cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera and
Does 1-10, alleging causes of action for (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment
of fault, and (3) declaratory relief. On the same day, MGLFECA also filed a
cross-complaint against Vasquez Barrera and Does 1-10, alleging causes of
action for (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory
relief.
On
March 5, 2024, Kiewit, Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit West, and Parsons (collectively,
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants) filed the present demurrer and motion to strike.
On
March 6, 2024, the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants filed a cross-complaint against
Vasquez Barrera and Roes 1-50, alleging causes of action for (1) equitable
indemnity, (2) implied indemnity, (3) comparative fault, and (4) declaratory
relief.
On
March 27, 2024, the court continued the hearing on the demurrer and motion to
strike in order for parties to further meet and confer. Counsel for the
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants then filed a declaration describing counsel’s
telephonic meet and confer efforts. (Fersch Suppl. Decl., ¶ 3-4.)
A
hearing on the present demurrer and motion to strike is set for April 22, 2024,
along with an OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service and case management
conference.
ANALYSIS
The
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants demur to the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ entire FAC. For
the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS their demurrer to the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ fourth, fifth,
and ­sixth causes of action with leave to amend and to the third cause of
action without leave to amend. Furthermore, the court OVERRULES their demurrer to the
Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ first and ­second causes of action.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Negligence and Dangerous Condition of Public Property
(First and Second Causes of Action)
Kiewit
argues the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for negligence and
second cause of action for dangerous condition of public property fail to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim against Kiewit because they do not identify
how Kiewit is liable for Alberto Gutierrez’s death. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
The
basic elements of a negligence claim are (1) duty, (2) breach, (3) causation,
and (4) damages. (Leslie G. v. Perry & Associates (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 472, 480.) The elements of a cause of action for a dangerous
condition of public property are “(1) a dangerous condition of public property;
(2) a foreseeable risk, arising from the dangerous condition, of the kind of
injury the plaintiff suffered; (3) actionable conduct in connection with the
condition, i.e., either negligence on the part of a public employee in creating
it, or failure by the entity to correct it after notice of its existence and
dangerousness; (4) a causal relationship between the dangerous condition and
the plaintiff’s injuries; and (5) compensable damage sustained by the
plaintiff.” (Cole v. Town of Los Gatos (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 749, 758.)
Because
“[a]llegations of negligence have long been exempted from the code pleading
requirement to state the facts constituting the cause of action,” they may be
pleaded generally. (McCoy v. Gustafson (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 56, 102.)
The rationale for this rule is based on the presumption that the alleged
tortfeasor is more likely to be aware of the facts constituting liability for
the tort than the victim. (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26
Cal.2d 149, 154-155.)
Discussion
The
FAC alleges Kiewit was one of the defendants who constructed the allegedly
dangerous and unlawfully narrow roadway where Alberto Gutierrez was killed.
(FAC, ¶ 32, 34, 35, 41.) Kiewit argues such blanket allegations are
insufficient because the FAC fails to allege any facts that establish how Kiewit
was involved in the construction of the roadway. (Dem., p. 6:8-18.) But as
noted above, such general allegations are sufficient where Kiewit is more
likely than the Gutierrez Plaintiffs to be aware of the facts establishing whether
Kiewit had involvement with the construction project at issue.
Kiewit
also argues that the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ counsel has acknowledged in
meet-and-confer correspondence that Kiewit had no involvement in the roadway
construction project at issue. (Dem., p. 7:4-7.) But that is not what occurred.
In an email, counsel for the Gutierrez Plaintiffs stated Kiewit appeared to be
the parent company of Kiewit-Parsons and that Plaintiffs intended to keep
Kiewit in the action as a defendant until they determined it had nothing to do
with the roadway construction project. (Fersch Decl., Ex. B, p. 3.) While
Kiewit argues the Gutierrez Plaintiffs have failed conduct their due diligence,
the court finds Plaintiffs have no viable method by which to determine if
Kiewit had any involvement in the construction project before conducting
discovery. (Dem., p. 7:8-14.)
Accordingly,
Kiewit’s demurrer to these causes of action is OVERRULED.
Negligence Per Se (Third Cause of Action)
Kiewit-Parsons,
Kiewit West, and Parsons contend the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ third cause of
action for negligence per se fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim
because it only alleges statutory violations by Vasquez Barrera. (Dem., p. 8:6-26.)
In response, the Gutierrez Plaintiffs concede that their cause of action is
only against Vasquez Barrera and do not request leave to amend with additional
allegations against the other defendants. (Opp., p. 9:17-21.)
Accordingly,
Kiewit-Parsons, Kiewit West, and Parsons’ demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Loss of Consortium (Fourth Cause of Action)
The
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants maintain Watkin’s fourth cause of action for loss of
consortium fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because Watkin
lacks standing. The court agrees.
Legal Standard
A
cause of action for loss of consortium “has four elements: ‘(1) a valid and
lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the
injury; [¶] (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff's spouse; [¶] (3) loss of
consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and [¶] (4) the loss was proximately
caused by the defendant’s act.’” (LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior
Court (2012) 55 Cal.4th 275, 284-285, quoting Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 746, fn. 2.) Because “a cause of action for loss of
consortium ‘must be narrowly circumscribed,’” courts refuse to recognize
standing for cohabiting couples who are unmarried, even when their relationship
parallels that of a married one. (Elden v. Sheldon (1988) 46 Cal.3d 267,
277-278, quoting Borer v. American Airlines, Inc. (1977) 19 Cal.3d 441, 444.)
With
regards to domestic partnerships, “the Legislature has granted legal
recognition comparable to marriage both procedurally and in terms of the
substantive rights and obligations granted to and imposed upon the partners”
when those partners qualify for and register their partnership pursuant to the
Domestic Partner Act. (Koebke v. Bernardo Heights Country Club (2005) 36
Cal.4th 824, 845, citing Fam. Code, § 297.5, subd. (a).) A domestic partnership
is established “when both persons file a Declaration of Domestic Partnership
with the Secretary of State” and meet the requirements for a domestic
partnership. (Fam. Code, § 297, subd. (a).)
Discussion
The
FAC alleges Watkin and Alberto Gutierrez were in a domestic partnership for
thirteen years. (FAC, ¶ 64.) The Kiewit-Parsons Defendants maintain this
allegation is insufficient because the FAC does not allege their domestic
partnership was registered. (Dem., p. 12:13-14.) In opposition, Watkin maintains
that Watkin and Alberto Gutierrez signed a County of Los Angeles Declaration of
Domestic Partnership. (Opp., p. 9:25-10:1, Ex. 1.) But that allegation was not
made in the FAC and Watkin failed to submit a separate request for judicial
notice. Even if the declaration was properly before the court, it does not
establish if and when their partnership was registered with the California
Secretary of State.
Accordingly,
the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Wrongful Death and Survival (Fifth and Sixth Causes of
Action)
The
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants argue the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action
for wrongful death and sixth cause of action for survival fail to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim because Gallegos and Watkin lacks standing.
The court agrees.
Legal Standard
Wrongful DeathCode
of Civil Procedure section 377.60, subdivision (a) establishes that a wrongful
death action may be brought on the behalf of a decedent by the decedent’s
personal representative or by the following individuals:
“The decedent’s surviving spouse, domestic partner,
children, and issue of deceased children, or, if there is no surviving issue of
the decedent, the persons, including the surviving spouse or domestic partner,
who would be entitled to the property of the decedent by intestate succession.
If the parents of the decedent would be entitled to bring an action under this
subdivision, and the parents are deceased, then the legal guardians of the
decedent, if any, may bring an action under this subdivision as if they were
the decedent’s parents.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd. (a).)
In
addition, an action may be brought by an individual on the behalf of the
decedent “if they were dependent on the decedent, the putative spouse, children
of the putative spouse, stepchildren, parents, or the legal guardians of the
decedent if the parents are deceased.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd.
(b)(1).) A “‘putative spouse’ means the surviving spouse of a void or voidable
marriage who is found by the court to have believed in good faith that the
marriage to the decedent was valid.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd. (b)(2).)
A “‘domestic partner’ means a person who, at the time of the decedent's death,
was the domestic partner of the decedent in a registered domestic partnership
established in accordance with subdivision (b) of Section 297 of the Family
Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.60, subd. (f)(1).)
Survival
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.30, a survival action may be brought by the
decedent’s personal representative or successor-in-interest. For the purposes
of this provision, successor-in-interest is defined as “the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause
of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.)
Discussion
The
FAC alleges Watkin “is the surviving domestic partner and lawful heir” of
Alberto Gutierrez. (FAC, ¶ 2.) The FAC also alleges Gallegos is the stepchild
of Alberto Gutierrez. (FAC, ¶ 4.) The Kiewit-Parsons Defendants argue Watkin
lacks standing to bring a wrongful death or survival action as Watkins fails to
allege or establish Watkin’s alleged domestic partnership was registered with
the California Secretary of State. (Dem., p. 9:20-10:7, 11:10-16.) As noted in
the previous section, the court agrees.
As
to Gallegos, the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants argue Gallegos lacks standing to
bring a wrongful death or survival action as Gallegos fails to allege or
establish that Gallegos was Alberto Gutierrez’s adopted child or was dependent
on Alberto Gutierrez. (Dem., p. 10:8-18) They also argue Gallegos fails to
establish Gallegos is a beneficiary of Alberto Gutierrez’s estate through
intestate succession. (Dem., p. 12:1-4.) Pursuant to Probate Code section 6454,
a stepchild can be a beneficiary of the foster parent or stepparent if the
following requirements are met:
“(a) The relationship began during the person’s
minority and continued throughout the joint lifetimes of the person and the
person’s foster parent or stepparent.
(b) It is established by clear and convincing
evidence that the foster parent or stepparent would have adopted the person but
for a legal barrier.” (Prob. Code, § 6454.)
Here,
the court agrees that the FAC is devoid of any facts to meet these requirements
as it merely alleges Gallegos is the stepchild of Alberto Gutierrez without
establishing if Gallegos was legally adopted, if Gallegos was legally dependent
on Alberto Gutierrez, and if Gallegos’s relationship with Alberto Gutierrez met
the requirements of Probate Code section 6454.
Accordingly,
the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer to these causes of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ demurrer to the Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ FAC is SUSTAINED
IN PART with 20 days’ leave given to amend as to the fourth, fifth, and sixth
causes of action and without leave to amend as to the third cause of action. Furthermore,
the demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART as to the first and second causes of
action.
Based upon the recommendations made on the
demurrer, the Kiewit-Parsons Defendants’ motion to strike portions of the
Gutierrez Plaintiffs’ FAC is MOOT.