  Case Number:  21STCV38973    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  T Motion To Compel Independent Medical ExaminationCase Name: Sebastian De Jesus Godoy Tobar v. Henry Yee, et al.Moving Party: Defendants Henry Yee; Henry Yee Plumbing, Inc.Responding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a car accident case wherein Plaintiff allegedly suffered a significant injury to his hand. (Declaration of Martin D. Holly (“Dec. of Holly”) ¶2). On February 14, 2024, Defendants demanded that Plaintiff appear for an independent medical examination with Ross Nathan, M.D., a hand and wrist specialist on March 21, 2024. (Dec. of Holly ¶3; Exhibit A). Plaintiff did not object to the demand (Dec. of Holly ¶3) but failed to appear.  Dr. Nathan charged $800. (Dec. of Holly ¶4; Exhibit B). On May 22, 2024, Defendants requested Plaintiff provide new dates. (Dec. of Holly ¶5). Plaintiff’s counsel responded and the parties ultimately agreed upon July 31, 2024, at 2:00 p.m. (Dec. of Holly ¶7; Exhibit D.) However, Plaintiff again failed to appear. (Dec. of Holly ¶8; Exhibit C.) On August 20, 2024, the parties met and conferred to reschedule the exam, where Plaintiff’s counsel requested new dates, assuring Defendants that Plaintiff could arrive and be on time. (Dec. of Holly ¶9; Exhibit C). Defense counsel provided new potential dates to conduct the examination on August 29, 2024, but has received no response. (Dec. of Holly ¶10; Exhibit C.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendants argue the Court should grant their motion to compel because Plaintiff’s failure to appear for two medical examinations with Dr. Nathan makes it clear that Plaintiff will not appear for an examination without Court intervention. (Motion to Compel Medical Examination, p. 5.) Defendants also request sanctions in the amount of $3,710 based on 15 hours of work on this motion at an hourly rate of $190, in addition to a $60 filing fee and $800.00 charge arising from Plaintiff’s failure to attend the first appointment. (Id. at 7.)OPPOSITIONNo opposition has been filed to this motion.ANALYSISI. Motion to Compel Independent Medical ExaminationCode of Civil Procedure § 2032.220 provides, in relevant part: (a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee. (b) A defendant may make a demand under this article without leave of court after that defendant has been served or has appeared in the action, whichever occurs first.Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.410 provides:  If a party is required to submit to a physical or mental examination under Articles 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210) or 3 (commencing with Section 2032.310), or under Section 2016.030, but fails to do so, the court, on motion of the party entitled to the examination, may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may, on motion of the party, impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In this case, it is appropriate to grant Defendants’ motion. Plaintiff here alleges significant injury to his hand, therefore placing it at issue under the circumstances presented in this case. Defendants are thus entitled to an independent medical examination. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2032.220, 2032.240.) This motion follows two good faith attempts by Defendants to schedule an independent medical examination with Plaintiff, where Plaintiff has failed to attend both. In both instances, Defendants accommodated Plaintiff with new dates, and only brought this motion after Plaintiff failed to respond to Defendants’ new proposed list of dates. Plaintiff’s repeated failure to attend an examination therefore prevents Defendants from conducting a medical examination they are entitled to. It is therefore appropriate for the Court to intervene and grant Defendants’ motion.II. SanctionsThe Court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it finds the party subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.250, subd. (b).) “If a party is required to submit to a physical or mental examination . . . but fails to do so, the court, on motion of the party entitled to the examination, may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction . . . In lieu of or in addition to that sanction, the court may, on motion of the party, impose a monetary sanction . . .”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.410.) “Attorney fees incurred during efforts to meet and confer are no less integral to the process of obtaining relief for discovery abuses as these more direct expenses.”  In re Marriage of Moore (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 1275, 1298.   “…[I]n order to bring a motion to compel discovery, the propounding party must first engage in reasonable and good faith attempts at informal resolution and then document those efforts in a declaration filed with the motion. A failure to do so may jeopardize the movant's ability to obtain relief for the other side's alleged misuse of the discovery process.  Because the efforts a movant expends in meeting and conferring are, as a general matter, directly and causally related to the other side's misuses of the discovery process, the costs of such efforts may reasonably constitute compensable expenses incurred ‘as a result of that conduct.’” (Id. at 1298-1299 (citations omitted)).    Defendants request sanctions in the amount of $3,710 based on 15 hours of work on this motion at an hourly rate of $190, in addition to a $60 filing fee and $800.00 charge arising from Plaintiff’s failure to attend the first independent medical examination appointment. (Motion to Compel Medical Examination, p. 9.) The Court finds that Defendants are entitled to the $800 expense caused by Plaintiff’s failure to appear at the first scheduled medical examination, as well as the $60.00 filing fee to bring this motion.However, the Court here cannot properly assess if the number of hours worked is reasonable. Defendants provide a total number of hours worked pertinent to this motion, but did not provide an accounting of how many hours were spent on each task. While not per se objectionable, block billing can exacerbate the vagueness of an attorney fee request and support a court’s finding that time entries were inflated and non-compensable. (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1325-1326.)  Further, no opposition has been filed to Defendants’ motion, and thus no work has been done preparing a reply to one.  Based on the consistent meet and confer efforts expended in attempting to complete the medical exam and the nature of this motion, the Court finds that six hours of time is reasonable.  The Court thus finds sanctions in the amount of $1,140 in attorney fees, $800 in no-show fees, and a filing fee of $60.00 is reasonable, for total sanctions of $2,000.  RULINGDefendants’ motion to compel independent medical examination is GRANTED. The exam is to be completed within 45 days of this order.  Defendants’ request for sanctions is GRANTED in the amount of $2,000.  Sanctions payable within 30 days of this order.  