 Case Number:  BS170239    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO TAKE SUBSEQUENT
DEPOSITIONS AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 6/20/24 
CASE NO./NAME: BS170239 DANIEL GEOULLA VS
CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY 
Moving Party: Respondent CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE
INSURANCE COMPANY 
Responding Party: Claimant
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO TAKE SUBSEQUENT
DEPOSITIONS IS
GRANTED
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED
 
Background
The
claimant's uninsured motorist claim arises out of a minor rear-end accident
that occurred on October 3, 2013. As a result of the accident, the claimant
alleges injuries to his neck, back, knees, ankle, and wrist, with ongoing
cervical complaints and a surgical recommendation from his treating orthopedic
surgeon, Dr. Fardad Mobin. Respondent has taken Claimant’s deposition three times:
on 4/22/16 for 3.5 hours, on 7/6/17 for 15 minutes, and on 10/5/18 for an
undisclosed amount of time.
In
April 2020, Respondent received discovery responses, including Dr. Mobin’s
12/12/18 report. From the report, Respondent learned for the first time that
Claimant was involved in two accidents in 2017 and 2018, after the present 2013
accident. Further, on May 3, 2024, Claimant produced two reports from Dr.
Andrew Fox reflecting Claimant’s visits with Dr. Fox in 2020. In the reports,
Dr. Fox compared Claimant’s images taken in July 2020 with Claimant’s prior
images; Dr. Fox noted changes in the claimant's cervical spine. Dr. Fox stated
that Claimant most likely needed definitive treatment, including surgery, which
would cost upwards of $200,000. Based on learning of Dr. Fox’s report and Claimant’s
subsequent accidents, Respondent moves the court to compel Claimant’s 4th
deposition.
Procedural Issues
Claimant
argues that the moving papers are deficient in several ways. First, the motion
should have been brought under § 2025.610 instead of § 2025.450. Respondent
concedes this point but argues that the Court should excuse this
procedural/clerical error because Claimant has already responded to the merits
under § 2025.610. Since Claimant has already responded to the merits of the
motion under § 2025.610 and is therefore not prejudiced, the Court will excuse
Respondent’s clerical error.
Second,
Claimant argues that a separate statement should have been filed for a motion
to compel further deposition and for issue and evidentiary sanctions. This is a
motion to compel a subsequent deposition, not a motion to compel further
deposition where counsel instructs the client not to answer. A separate
statement is not required. Although a separate statement is required for issue
or evidentiary sanctions, as the Court will discuss below, evidentiary
sanctions are not justified under the current facts where the Discovery Act
provides for an incremental approach to sanctions aimed at inducing compliance
and not punishment.
Leave To Take
Subsequent Depositions
Pertinent parts of CCP 2025.610 provide
the following:
(a) Once any party has taken the
deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action,
neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a
deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition of that
deponent.
 
(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), for
good cause shown, the court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition,
and the parties, with the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may
stipulate that a subsequent deposition be taken.
Claimant
does not dispute that he was involved in two accidents in 2017 and 2018 after
the present incident, nor does Claimant dispute that Respondent learned of
Claimant’s 2017 and 2018 accidents in 2020, and of Dr. Fox’s assessment of the
progression of issues relating to Claimant’s cervical spine in 2024. Claimant
argues that he has not made any bodily injury claims or seen any doctors other
than in this current action. The subsequent incidents only resulted in property
damage claims. Nonetheless, because Claimant was involved in two subsequent
accidents and Dr. Fox noticed changes in the cervical spine before and after
these alleged accidents, Respondent has a basis to ask Claimant questions
relating to these accidents related to the cervical spine for the assessment of
damages. 
The
motion is not moot as Claimant alleges. Even though Respondent took Claimant’s
third deposition in 2018, Respondent did not ask questions about the two
subsequent accidents, as Respondent only learned of them in 2020. Claimant
argues that Respondent waited six years to take Claimant’s deposition.
Respondent can conduct discovery before the discovery deadline, even if it’s
six years later. Part of the reason for this delay is the appeal and as
Respondent has stated, the rationale for taking Claimant’s deposition now is
the recent receipt of Dr. Fox’s report, where he noted changes in Claimant’s
cervical spine. Thus, the court finds good cause to grant Respondent leave to
take the subsequent deposition of Claimant. CCP § 2025.610 does not empower the
court to compel claimant to sit for his deposition, as no notice of deposition
has been served and the last deposition took place in 2018.
Regarding
sanctions, the Court finds that both parties acted with substantial
justification. The issue of whether there is good cause for a fourth deposition
is up to the Court to decide, and both parties have provided sufficient
rationale for their positions.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.