 Case Number:  21STCV07948    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
Hearing Date: 6/20/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV07948 GABRIELA
SABET-BAKTASH vs. CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Adam Kligfeld’s
and Havi Kligfeld
Responding Party: Plaintiff 
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: THE COURT WILL HEAR FROM THE PARTIES
ON THE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  

Background
 
This case arises from an alleged trip
and fall occurring on August 28, 2020, at approximately 11:00 a.m., on the
sidewalk in front of Defendants Adam Kligfeld’s and Havi Kligfeld’s residence
located at 6601 Lindenhurst Avenue in Los Angeles. Plaintiff allegedly tripped
over an uplift in the sidewalk adjacent to Defendants’ property. Defendants now
move the Court for summary judgment or summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s two
causes of action for negligence and premises liability.
 
Evidentiary Ruling  
Plaintiff’s
Objections No. 2, 5, and 6 are
overruled. At this time, the parties did not make any other objections to
evidence that is likely to be material to the Court’s ruling on the Motion for
Summary Judgment. (CCP § 437c(q).) 
 
Legal
Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply a
three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)
determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to
carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.;
see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be
in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists
as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but
instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v.
L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is
in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial
court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine
whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.
[Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding
motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence
but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and
draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
SIDEWALK ACCIDENT DECISIONS
DOCTRINE
 
The
“Sidewalk Accident Decisions” doctrine (the “sidewalk doctrine”) governs liability
relating to property adjacent to a sidewalk. The
sidewalk doctrine is based on case law explaining that sidewalks are public and
thus adjacent landowners owe no duty to users
of the sidewalk unless that property owner
created the hazardous condition. Streets and Highways Code § 5610 provides that
owners of lots fronting on a public street shall maintain any sidewalk in a
condition that will not endanger persons and not interfere with the public
convenience in the use of those works.  Pursuant to Jones v. Deeter (1984) 152
Cal.App.3d 798, 803, the duty imposed by this ordinance is owed to the city and
not to persons using the sidewalk. “Under section 5610 the abutting owner bears
the duty to repair defects in the sidewalk, regardless of whether he has
created these defects. It was felt, however, that it would be unfair for such
an owner to be held liable to travelers injured as a result of sidewalk defects
which were not of the owner’s making. Thus, the ‘Sidewalk Accident Decisions’ doctrine arose;
this doctrine holds that the abutting property owner is not liable in tort to
travelers injured on the sidewalk unless the owner somehow creates the
injurious sidewalk condition.” (Deeter,
152 Cal.App.3d at 803.) 
 
While generally a
landowner is not liable for harm resulting to third parties from conditions or
activities outside his property, on adjoining land or on the highway, street,
or sidewalk, the landowner may be liable if the landowner created the defect or
exercised dominion or control over the adjoining land (Jordan v. City of
Sacramento (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1487,
1490-1491; Corcoran v. San Mateo (1953) 122
Cal.App.2d 355, 359; Schaefer v. Lenahan (1944) 63
Cal.App.2d 324, 326.) In
settings where the planting trees or habitually trimming or caring for them,
these abutting owners have the duty to maintain the trees in a
safe condition to make sure the roots do not cause a tripping hazard. (Alcaraz
v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1162.) 
 
Furthermore, “a defendant need not
own, possess and control property in order to be held liable; control alone is
sufficient.” (Id.) A¿person¿is required to¿maintain¿“land in their
possession and control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Ann M. v. Pacific
Plaza Shopping Center¿(1993) 6 Cal.4th
666, 674.)¿¿In¿Alcaraz, supra., the court held
that because the defendant¿maintained¿the lawn surrounding
the meter box, a reasonable trier of fact could infer that the defendant
exercised control over that strip of land and had a duty to warn others of the
hazardous condition of the meter box when defendant had notice of the condition.¿(Alcaraz, 14 Cal.4th¿at 1162.)
 
1.  Ownership
Of the Sidewalk
Defendants
introduced a declaration stating that Defendants did not own the sidewalk or
the tree whose roots allegedly caused the displacement. (Declaration of Adam
Kligfeld ¶ 3.) Defendants have met their initial burden as to the issue of
ownership.
Plaintiff disputes ownership of the tree and sidewalk based on the
lack of official government documents or surveys provided by the moving party.
(Avrit Declaration 1:6-25, 11:9-12:7.) Plaintiff did not provide any evidence,
such as a deed or property drawings, showing that the sidewalk was owned by
Defendant. To raise a triable issue of fact, Plaintiff needs to set forth
specific facts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) If Plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) Pointing out that certain
evidence was not presented by the moving party does not set forth specific
facts to raise a triable issue of fact. Plaintiff needs to provide affirmative
evidence that Defendants owned the sidewalk and tree at issue.
 
2.  Creation
Of the Displacement
Under
the sidewalk liability doctrine, Defendants can be liable for the incident if Defendants
created the dangerous condition. Defendants installed drip irrigation on both
sides of the sidewalk. (UMF 13.) Although Defendants stated that installing
irrigation tubes on a timer system for drip irrigation significantly reduced
the amount of water going anywhere in/on the parkway where the tree is located
(UMF 14, Declaration of Adam Kligfeld ¶ 7), Defendants failed to show that they
did not cause the alleged dangerous condition. There was no expert declaration
or evidence showing how the reduced amount of water on the parkway or the tree
did not cause the displacement, or that the displacement was instead caused by
some other factors unrelated to Defendants. Thus, Defendants failed to meet their
initial burden.
Further,
Plaintiff introduced expert witness testimony declaring that Defendant’s drip
irrigation caused the uplift. “During my visit on October 10, 2023, I excavated
the ground on both sides of the sidewalk in an effort to determine the cause of
the uplifted sidewalk by determining extent of the intrusion of the roots of
the sycamore tree which was growing adjacent to the sidewalk in the parkway
area. The excavations I conducted were sufficient to permit me to formulate the
opinions stated in this Declaration. I was able to determine that one of the
sycamore roots that traveled under the sidewalk at the subject location
measured 5.5 inches in diameter and another measured 4 inches in diameter. It
is my opinion that these tree roots uplifted the sidewalk, and that this
condition existed since at least 2016. I was able to determine that Defendants
Kligfield irrigated both sides of the sidewalk, and thereby contributed to the
growth of the tree roots that uplifted the sidewalk. By watering and then
reducing the water, the tree roots would grow in search of water and that is what
led to the uplift. What Defendants Kligfeld did was to provide more water to
the soil area surface which encouraged surface root growth as evidenced by the
photos I took and those I reviewed. This sidewalk uplift was caused by the
homeowners Defendants Kligfeld.” (Monfette Decl. 6:12-21.)
Defendant’s
liability under the sidewalk decision doctrine arises when 1) defendant created
the dangerous condition, or 2) defendant retained control over the dangerous
condition and failed to warn when it had notice. Defendant can be liable under
either one of these two prongs. As shown in the foregoing analysis, Defendants
here have failed to meet their initial burden, and Plaintiff has raised a
triable issue of fact regarding the first prong of the creation of the
dangerous condition. Summary judgment is therefore denied as to Defendants’
liability under the sidewalk decision doctrine, and an analysis on the issue of
control and notice need not to be conducted.
Defendants
also contend they have no liability for the sidewalk adjacent to their property
based on a 2015 settlement agreement in the case of Mark Willits, et al. v.
City of Los Angeles, Case No. CV10-05782-CBM, D. Ct. (CDCA)[1]
Pursuant to that agreement, the City allocated funds for the installation,
repair, and remediation of pedestrian facilities, including the installation of
missing curb ramps and the repair of damage caused by tree roots to sidewalks.
The agreement does not create new obligations contrary to those in case law. It
merely allocates funds for obligations that have always presumptively been the
City's responsibility. Nothing in the agreement relates to third-party
homeowners' obligations, nor does it alleviate Defendant’s liability under the
sidewalk liability doctrine, the controlling law relating to Defendants’
liability in the present case.
 
TRIVIAL
DEFECT DOCTRINE 
 
“Property owners are required to maintain land in their possession
and control in a reasonably safe condition and to use due care to eliminate
dangerous conditions on their property.  But a property owner is not
liable for damages caused by a minor, trivial, or insignificant defect on its
property.  The so-called ‘trivial defect doctrine’ recognizes that persons
who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are not required to maintain
them in an absolutely perfect condition.  The duty of care imposed on a
property owner, even one with actual notice, does not require the repair of
minor defects.”  (Fajardo v. Dailey (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 221, 226
[cleaned up].)  
 
“In limited circumstances a court may determine a walkway defect is
trivial as a matter of law.  Where reasonable minds can reach only one conclusion—that
there was no substantial risk of injury—the issue is a question of law,
properly resolved by way of summary judgment.  But where sufficient
evidence has been presented so that reasonable minds may differ as to whether
the defect is dangerous, summary judgment is inappropriate.”  (Id. at
p. 226.)
 
California Courts have developed two substantially similar tests to
determine whether a sidewalk defect is trivial, i.e., not dangerous, as a
matter of law. In Stathoulis v. City of Montebello (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 559, 567-68, the Court of Appeal set out a two part test. “First,
the court reviews evidence regarding the type and size of the defect.  If
that preliminary analysis reveals a trivial defect, the court considers
evidence of any additional factors such as the weather, lighting and visibility
conditions at the time of the accident, the existence of debris or
obstructions, and plaintiff’s knowledge of the area.  If these additional
factors do not indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably
careful person, the court should deem the defect trivial as a matter of law
....” (See also Nunez v. City of Redondo Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th
749, 758 [adopting two-step framework]; Huckey v. City of Temecula (2019)
37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1105 [same].)
 
More
recently, in Stack v. City of Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110,
the Court of Appeal read Government Code section 830.2 to require a more
“holistic” approach, stating, “[a]lthough we agree with the premise that the
size of the defect is the primary determinant of triviality, as discussed
below, we modify the prevailing two-step framework into a holistic,
multi-factor analysis.”  The Court will follow Stack’s holistic
approach.
 
1.  Size of the Defect
 
 “Sidewalk elevations ranging from
three-quarters of an inch to one and one-half inches have generally been held
trivial as a matter of law.” (Huckey, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 1107; see
also Stathoulis v. City of Montebello (2008)164 Cal.App.4th 559, 568
[“Several decisions have found height differentials of up to one and one-half
inches trivial as a matter of law.”]) “There is no firmly fixed arbitrary
measurement in inches below which a defect is trivial as a matter of law and
above which it becomes a question of fact whether or not the defect is
dangerous. This is because a court should not rely solely upon the
size of the defect ... although the defect’s size ‘may be one of the most
relevant factors’ to the court’s decision.” (Id. at pp. 112–113 [cleaned
up].)
 
2. 
Aggravating Factors
 
The Court next considers additional factors.  “Beyond size,
additional factors courts typically consider in assessing a sidewalk condition’s
triviality as a matter of law are: the nature and quality of the defect
(including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks); whether anything was
obstructing or concealing the defect (for instance, an object, debris, or other
substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the time of the incident;
whether the defect has caused other accidents; and plaintiff's familiarity with
the area.” (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 115.)
 
3.  Analysis
 
“It
is well within the common knowledge of lay judges and jurors just what type of
a defect in a sidewalk is dangerous.” (Caloroso
v. Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 928.) “Regardless of whether a
[expert] witness can be found to opine on the subject of a dangerous condition,
the court must independently evaluate the circumstances” (Id.)   
Defendants
introduced evidence showing that the uplift was measured to be 1 inch to 1.25
inches at its highest point. (Def’s Exh. B, photograph Nos. 12-15.) On the date
of the incident, the sky was clear and the weather was dry. (Def’s Exh. C,
Sabet-Baktash Depo., 18:2-17.) Defendants were also not aware of anyone falling
on the sidewalk at issue prior to Plaintiff’s incident. (Def’s Exh. D,
Deposition of Havi Kligfeld, 89:22-90:6.) The displacement, at its highest
point, measured 1.25 inches, which is within the range of ¾ of an inch to 1 ½
inches where the court has found the displacement to be trivial. 
Plaintiff’s
essential argument is that, according to Plaintiff’s expert, Brad Avrit’s,
measurement, the displacement measures from 1.33 to 1.5 inches. (Avrit Decl.,
pg. 35-40, pictures of Avrit measuring the displacement.) The two sidewalk slabs
on both ends of the displacement are titled at an angle, 3.3 and 7.2 degrees.
(Avrit Decl. pg. 5.) As a result of the incline or tilt, the displacement at
its apex has a practical effect of being higher than 1.5 inches. Additionally,
the displacement was obstructed by shade and overgrown vegetation.
Obviously,
the parties' measurements of the displacement differ. Defendants measured the
displacement as ranging from 1 inch to 1.25 inches, while Plaintiff’s
measurement ranged from 1.3 to 1.5 inches. The difference in measurement is
related to the incline or tilt of the sidewalk slabs. Defendants measured the
displacement using a tape measure that hugged the displacement with no space in
between. Plaintiff’s expert measured the displacement using a right-angle
ruler, with the base of the ruler sitting on one sidewalk slab at an angle and
a level placed on top of the other sidewalk slab, also at an angle. Plaintiff’s
measurement takes the meeting point between the level and the right-angle
ruler. (See Avrit Decl., pg. 35-36.) As a result of the slabs’ incline,
Plaintiff’s ruler is slightly tilted, creating a visible gap between the
displacement and the ruler, resulting in a higher measurement than Defendants’.
Plaintiff’s measurement has already taken  account of the incline.  
As
to the visibility of the sidewalk at issue, Avrit points to Figure 6 of his
declaration, which shows the shading of the area as it likely would have
appeared at the time of day that Plaintiff fell. Plaintiff relies on Figure 7
to show that the uplift is difficult to see. However, the expert does not state
whether the photo was taken at the time of the incident when Plaintiff fell.
Examination of Figure 6 shows that, although there is shade cast on the
displacement, it does not seem to impact the visibility of the sidewalk or the
displacement. Although there is some vegetation growing out of the property
next to the displacement, the vegetation is located at the edges of the
displacement, and neither the vegetation itself nor the shadow it casts
obscures the visibility of the displacement. (Figure 8 and Pg. 32-33, 39 to
Avrit Decl.)
Furthermore,
Plaintiff presented no evidence of cracks, jagged edges, or debris covering the
displacement. There were no prior incidents reported, and it is undisputed that
the incident occurred on a clear day with a dry sidewalk surface and no rain.
        The Court would like to hear from the
parties regarding the trivial defect doctrine and the Court’s analysis of it
above.  Of course, the parties may also
argue any other aspect of the motion.


