  Case Number:  20STCV38710    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO STRIKE EXPERT DESIGNATION 
Hearing Date: 6/20/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV38710 CONCEPION
VALADEZ vs NEWHOPE PINES APARTMENTS 
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Defendant Newhope Pines Apts 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO STRIKE EXPERT DESIGNATION IS
GRANTED. 
Background
On October 8, 2020, Plaintiff filed the
present case, alleging she fell from the stairs of Defendant's property and
sustained severe injuries. The trial date was set for November 8, 2023. On
September 19, 2023, Plaintiff served her designation of expert witness
information; however, Defendant failed to designate any experts prior to the
then-scheduled trial date.
On October 25, 2023, the Court issued a minute
order for the final status conference continuing trial to May 15, 2024, but
also stating that "All discovery is to remain closed and tied to the prior
trial date of November 8, 2023. Only discovery related to expert depositions is
continued to the new trial date of May 15, 2024." On March 26, 2024,
Defendant served its Expert Designation, naming John K. Tyson as an expert.
Plaintiff now moves the Court to strike the untimely designation. Defendant
filed an opposition arguing that Plaintiff changed her theory of liability and
Defendant mistakenly believed the Court’s order opened all expert related
deadlines, including expert designation.
 
Legal Standards 
 
“Any party may demand a mutual and
simultaneous exchange by all parties of a list containing the name and address
of any natural person, including one who is a party, whose oral or deposition
testimony in the form of an expert opinion any party expects to offer in
evidence at the trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.210, subd. (b).)  The exchange of expert witness information shall include either of
the following: (1) a list setting forth the name and address of a person whose
expert opinion that party expects to offer in evidence at the trial, or (2) a
statement that the party does not presently intend to offer the testimony of an
expert witness.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.260, subd. (b).)  On objection of any party who has made a
complete and timely compliance with Section 2034.260, the trial court shall
exclude from evidence the expert opinion of any witness that is offered by any
party who has unreasonably failed to do any of the following: (1) list that
witness as an expert under Section 2034.260; (2) submit an expert witness
declaration; (3) produce reports and writings of expert witnesses under Section
2034.270; or make that expert available for a deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.300.)
CCP § 2034.230 states “(b) The demand shall
specify the date for the exchange of lists of expert trial witnesses, expert
witness declarations, and any demanded production of writings. The specified
date of exchange shall be 50 days before the initial trial date, or 20 days
after service of the demand, whichever is closer to the trial date, unless the
court, on motion and a showing of good cause, orders an earlier or later date
of exchange.”
Discussion
The central issue in this case concerns the
deadline for designating expert witnesses. Plaintiff contends that, pursuant to
the trial date set for November 8, 2023, the final day to designate an expert
witness under section 2034.230(b) was either September 19, 2023 (Plaintiff’s
designation), or October 9, 2023 (20 days following Plaintiff's
designation/demand). Consequently, Defendant's expert designation on March 26,
2024, more than 5 months later, was untimely and should be stricken under CCP §
2034.300.
Defendant first argues that the court's order
extending the expert deposition deadline to follow the trial date of May 15,
2024, implied an extension of all expert-related deadlines, including expert
designation. However, the Court finds this argument unconvincing for two
reasons. First, the minute order specifically states that only the “expert
deposition” deadline is extended, leaving little ambiguity unlike broader terms
such as "expert deadlines" or "expert discovery." Second,
the trial continuance was agreed upon through an oral stipulation at the final
status conference on October 30, 2023, by which time Defendant had already
missed the October 9, 2023, deadline for expert designation. It is not a
situation where Defendant was actively engaging in expert designation and
deferred this action based on a misinterpretation of the court order.
Furthermore, Defendant contends that a shift
in Plaintiff’s liability theory from inadequately lit stairs to violations of
governmental regulations justifies their late expert designation. This
assertion is based on Plaintiff's questions during Defendant’s PMQ deposition
and Plaintiff’s expert designation on September 19, 2023, of a forensic
engineer relating to the building’s compliance with government regulations. The
Court is not persuaded because Plaintiff’s negligence claim in her complaint
already indicated that the action would be based on the building's lack of
compliance with government regulations. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s expert
designation on September 19, 2023, would have given Defendant 20 days to
designate its own expert witness, but Defendant failed to do so. 
 
Therefore, Defendant’s expert designation was
untimely and Plaintiff’s motion to strike is GRANTED. 
 
MOTION TO ACCEPT DEFENDANT’S EXPERT
DESIGNATION, FOR LEAVE TO SUBMIT LATE EXPERT DESIGNATION AND REOPEN DISCOVERY 
Moving Party: Defendant Newhope Pines Apts  
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO ACCEPT DEFENDANT’S EXPERT
DESIGNATION, FOR LEAVE TO SUBMIT LATE EXPERT DESIGNATION AND REOPEN DISCOVERY ARE DENIED
 
Defendant also filed a motion for an order
accepting Defendant’s expert designation, granting leave to submit a
later-prepared expert designation, or reopening discovery. The bases for these
requests is substantially the same as those outlined in Defendant’s opposition
to Plaintiff’s motion to strike. For the same reasons that the Court granted
the motion to strike Defendant’s expert designation, the Court denies
Defendant’s application for an order accepting the expert designation and
deeming it timely served.
Regarding Defendant’s motion for leave to
submit late expert designation, California Code of Civil Procedure § 2034.720
provides that the Court will grant leave if it finds that the failure to submit
the information was the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. However, as stated in the foregoing analysis, Defendant alleges that
it submitted its expert designation late due to a misinterpretation of the
Court’s order, specifically the term “expert deposition.” However, the trial continuance
was agreed upon through an oral stipulation at the final status conference on
October 30, 2023, by which time Defendant had already missed the October 9,
2023, deadline to designate expert witnesses. The motion for leave to submit a
late expert designation is thus denied.
Defendant also moves the Court to reopen
discovery.  However, Defendant did not
discuss the various factors under CCP § 2024.050, or any other applicable statute
that governs the reopening of discovery. Nonetheless, under CCP §
2024.050(b)(2), the Court, in reopening discovery, considers Defendant’s
diligence or lack thereof in designating expert discovery. As the
foregoing analysis showed, the Court did not find Defendant to have acted
diligently.  Accordingly, the motion to
reopen discovery is also denied.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿ 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.