 Case Number:  22STCV26982    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  27  
Hon. Lee S. Arian  
Department 27  
Tentative Ruling 
 
Hearing Date:                6/20/2024 at 1:30 p.m.   
 
Case No./Name.:         22STCV26982, RANDY MEJIA AND LIZBETH VARGAS v. LUIS
VALENZUELA 
 
Motion:                              MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Moving Party:                 Randy Mejia and Lizbeth Vargas, Plaintiffs
 
Responding Party:      Unopposed 
 
Notice:                                Sufficient 
   
Ruling:                               PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED
COMPLAINT IS GRANTED
 
Background
 
On August 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against defendant regarding a motor vehicle accident. Thereafter,
Plaintiffs filed their first amended complaint, adding minors Lizbeth Vargas
and Randy Mejia as plaintiffs, through their guardian ad litum, Erendira
Tabares. Randy Mejia’s proposed guardian ad litum was accepted by the court.
Yet, Lizbeth Vargas’s proposed guardian ad litum was rejected by the court. Then,
this motion to amend was filed after Lizbeth Vargas, during the period between
the date of the of the first amended complaint and the date of the application
for Lizbeth Vargas’s guardian ad litum, became an adult, legally abandoning her
title as a minor. Since the first amended complaint lists Lizbeth Vargas as a
minor while in fact Lizbeth Vargas is now an adult, the court clerk has not
accepted and filed a summons for the case. Thus, the absence of a summons has
prevented plaintiff from serving this case upon the Defendant. 
 
In
this motion, Plaintiffs seek to change plaintiff Lizbeth Vargas “Randy Mejia and
Lizbeth Vargas, minors by and through their Guardian ad Litem, Erendira Tabares”
to “Lizbeth Vargas, an individual, and Randy Mejia, a minor by and through his
Guardian ad Litem, Erendira Tabares.”
 
Legal Standard 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.”  Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will
usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy
favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave
to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend . . .”  (Morgan v.
Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) The type of prejudice the court
is to be concerned with should be something beyond simply having to cope with a
potentially successful new legal theory of recovery that has been revealed
during discovery. (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486.)
Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs
of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68
Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)  
 
DISCUSSION and CONCLUSION
 
There
is no prejudice that will come into effect if this motion is granted. Here,
plaintiffs have been unable to serve defendant because of the technical
discrepancy between Lizbeth Vargas’s actual age with Lizbeth Vargas’s status
articulated in the first amended complaint. Courts are to be wary of prejudice that
include “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68
Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.) A technical discrepancy that needs to be corrected in
order to enable service of process does not raise a concerning issue of
prejudice. 
 
Furthermore,
this motion is unopposed, giving more credence to the notion that no prejudice
is present. Moreover, the California Code of Civil Procedure has explicitly
said that "The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect." (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(a)(1)). 
 
Thus, Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to Amend
is GRANTED. The Court hereby orders that the proposed amended pleading be filed
and served within five court days of today. 
 
 
 