 Case Number:  22STCV18116    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
PETITION FOR RELIEF
Hearing Date: 6/20/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV18116 GEOFF LOUI, et
al. vs STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
Moving Party: Defendant STATE OF CALIFORNIA
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: PETITION FOR RELIEF IS GRANTED 
 
Background
 
Defendant, the People of the State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation
(“Caltrans”), has moved the Court for an order relieving it from the provisions
of Government Code Section 945.4 on account of failure to file a timely claim
against the County of Los Angeles.
 
Legal Standard
 
Under the Government Claims Act, a plaintiff
bringing suit for monetary damages against a public entity or employees thereof
must first present a claim to the public entity (“government claim”), which
must be acted upon or deemed rejected by the public entity. (Government
Code §§ 945.4, 950.2, 950.6(a).) Government Code section 911.2(a) states that
“a claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to person or to
personal property . . . shall be presented . . . not later than six months
after the accrual of the cause of action.”
 
If a plaintiff fails to file a government
claim within the six-month period, he or she may apply to the public entity for
permission to file a late claim. (§ 911.4(a).)  An application for
permission to file a late claim must be presented within a reasonable time, and
not later than one year after the cause of action’s accrual. (§ 911.4(b).)
 
If the public entity denies the application
for permission to file a late claim, the plaintiff may file a civil petition
for relief from section 945.4’s requirement of timely claim presentation prior
to suit. (§ 946.6.) The petition must be filed within six months
after the application to the public entity is denied or deemed to be
denied. (§ 946.6(b).) The petition must show: (1) that an application was
made to the public entity under section 911.4 and was denied or deemed denied;
(2) the reason for failure to timely present the claim to the public entity
within the time limit specified in section 911.2; and (3) the information
required by section 910. (§ 946.6(b).) 
 
The court shall grant relief only if it finds
that (1) the application to the public entity for leave to file a late claim
was made within a reasonable time not to exceed one year after accrual of the
claim as specified in section 911.4(b), (2) the application was denied or
deemed denied by the public agency pursuant to section 911.6,  and (3) one
or more of the following is applicable: (a) the failure to timely present the
claim was through mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, unless
the public entity establishes that it would be prejudiced in the defense of the
claim if the court relieves the petitioner from the requirements of section
945.4; (b) the person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss was a
minor during all of the time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of
the claim; (c) the person who sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss was
physically or mentally incapacitated during all of the time specified in
section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim and by reason of that
disability failed to present a claim during that time; or (d) the person who
sustained the alleged injury, damage or loss died before the expiration of the
time specified in section 911.2 for the presentation of the claim. (§
946.6(c).)
 
“Government Code section 946.6 is a remedial
statute intended to provide relief from technical rules which otherwise provide
a trap for the unwary. The remedial policy underlying the statute is that
wherever possible cases should be heard on their merits. Thus, a denial of such
relief by the trial court is examined more rigorously than where relief is
granted and any doubts which may exist should be resolved in favor of the
application.”¿(Munoz, supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1778 (citations omitted).) Because of the remedial character of the statute,
“the modern trend of judicial decisions favors
granting relief unless absolutely forbidden by statute.”¿(Ibid.)¿ 
 
The excusable neglect standard assumes that
there has been some sort of inattention or carelessness and asks “whether a
reasonably prudent person might have made the same error under the same or
similar circumstances.”¿(Id. at
p. 1783 (citations omitted).) In applying this standard, a court must also
examine whether the party or her counsel were “otherwise diligent in investigating and
pursuing the claim.”¿(Id. at
pp. 1782-1783; see also Dep't of Water & Power v. Superior Court (2000)
82 Cal. App. 4th 1288, 1293.)
 
Discussion
On June 2, 2022,
Plaintiffs Geoff Loui and Rich Herschinger filed their complaint alleging that
Plaintiffs were cycling eastbound at or near 26104 Pacific Coast Highway,
Malibu, CA 90265 when they allegedly came across a road defect which caused
them to lose control of their bicycle, resulting in a crash that caused them to
 sustain injuries. The State of
California through its Department of Transportation (Caltrans) filed its answer
on October 28, 2022.
Since 2022, Defendant
has met and conferred with Plaintiffs' counsel. During these conversations,
Plaintiffs’ counsel stated that the County of Los Angeles had provided a
declaration that it had not performed any work on the road at issue and
Plaintiffs dismissed the County on August 15, 2022, pursuant to that
declaration. In performing due diligence, Defendant’s counsel discovered that
Los Angeles County Public Water Works had an Annual Encroachment Permit to
perform work at the site of the incident. Counsel contacted the representative
listed on the permit, Ramy Mattar, on August 29, 2023, and he responded on
August 30, 2023, that the County had no records of work performed at the
location identified in this case. In December 2023, Caltrans received subpoenaed
documents from Los Angeles County showing records that the County did actually
perform work in the area of the accident to repair a 74” crack in a water main.
Discovery of this information was delayed by both the mistake of counsel and
Los Angeles County’s active denial of its involvement in this case, both by
declaration made to Plaintiffs’ counsel and representations made to Caltrans’
counsel.
On December 20, 2023,
Caltrans made a written application to the County of Los Angeles for permission
to file claim. On January 2, 2024, Couty rejected Caltrans’ claim on the basis
of a late claim. On January 12, 2024, Caltrans filed a request for a leave to
file a late claim to the County of Los Angeles. County has not provided a
response within 45 days as required under Gov. Code §911.6. On April 22, 2024,
Caltrans moved the Court for relief.
All the requirements
for relief have been met. Through the County’s active denial of its involvement
in this case, both by declaration made to Plaintiff’s counsel and
representations made to Caltrans’ counsel, Caltrans’ counsel did not learn of
the County’s involvement until the County produced subpoenaed documents in
December 2023. On December 20, 2023, Caltrans made a written application to the
County of Los Angeles for permission to file a claim. This claim was rejected
in January 2024. Caltrans made another application to file a late claim, but
the County did not respond to Caltrans’ request, and the request is presumed
denied under Gov. Code § 911.6. Within six months of filing the initial
application, Caltrans, on 4/22/24, filed the present petition with the Court
for relief.
The Court finds that
Caltrans was diligent in investigating and pursuing the claim given the
circumstances of the case, and a prudent person might have made the same error
under similar circumstances, especially given the County’s representations to
both Caltrans and Plaintiff. Furthermore, the County was served but did not
file an opposition alleging prejudice. Given the overriding principle to hear
cases on their merits, the Court grants Caltrans’ petition for relief.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 
 
 
 