 Case Number:  23STCV11630    Hearing Date:   June 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR
SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 6/20/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV11630 JESSICA MENA
OROMAN, et al. vs JOHN BABER
Moving Party: Plaintiffs 
Responding Party: Defendant John Baber
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard
¿ 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared . . . .”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).¿ 
¿ 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.¿
 
Discussion
 
On November 3, 2023,
Plaintiffs served Requests for Admission (Set One) upon Defendant John Baber.
Defendant’s deadline to respond was December 8, 2023. As of May 17, 2024, when
the present motion was filed, Defendant had not responded to Plaintiffs’
discovery request.
¿ It is undisputed that the initial
responses were not served within the timeframe mandated by CCP § 2033.250(a).
Furthermore, no opposition was filed or any other filing showing that responses
have been served prior to the hearing. Thus, the present motion is GRANTED and
Plaintiffs’ RFA, Set One, is deemed admitted.
 
Sanctions are mandatory against
the party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to
the request necessitated the motion to deem request for admissions as admitted.
CCP § 2033.280(c). Defendant’s
failure to serve discovery responses forced Plaintiffs to file the present
motion and incur attorney’s fees.
 
Plaintiffs request sanctions in
the amount of $1804.00, and the Court finds this amount
reasonable. Consequently,
the Court sanctions Defendant in the amount of $1700. Defendant and his counsel, jointly and severally, are ORDERED to pay sanctions of $1700 to
Plaintiffs within 20 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.