 Case Number:  22STCV22515    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendants
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On July
13, 2022, Gabriel Sanchez and Justin Lopez (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a
complaint against Angelica Salvador and Carlos Salvador Alcantar (collectively
“Defendants”) for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence causes of
action arising from an automobile accident occurring on August 16, 2021.
 
On
August 31, 2022, Defendants filed their answer and cross-complaint against Plaintiffs
for indemnification and apportionment of fault.
 
On March 6, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to continue
trial. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 

“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendants contend good cause exists to continue trial as all counsel
have stipulated to continue the May 2, 2024 trial date to September 9, 2024
because discovery still needs to be completed. (Motion, 6:10-16.) Defendants
have been unable to take the deposition of Plaintiff Justin Lopez, and counsel
declares a motion to compel his deposition is set for June 26, 2024. (Beck
Decl., ¶ 4.) Said hearing was vacated as moving document was not filed within
three days of making reservation.
Here, the Court finds that there is good cause to continue trial as discovery
needs to be completed, despite the reasonable diligence of all the parties.
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS
the Motion to Continue Trial.
The trial date
is advanced and continued to approximately September 10, 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.