  Case Number:  24STCV25720    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



KIARA JAIME FLORES, et al.
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
KYUNG K. CHOI, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV25720




Hearing Date:


January 22, 2025




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m. 




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS
  ALBERT SANTOS AND YVNNE SANTOS’ DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 
 



Background
Plaintiffs Kiara Jaime Flores and Gustavo Torres (jointly,
“Plaintiffs”) filed this action on October 3, 2024 against Defendants Kyung K.
Choi, Kyung Min Choi, Albert Santos, and Yvonne Santos. The Complaint alleges
fourteen causes of action. 
On December 20, 2024, Cross-Complainants Albert Santos and Yvonne
Santos filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of Cross-Defendants, alleging
seven causes of action. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[o]n or
about April 30, 2021, Plaintiffs entered into a lease agreement with Defendants
Kyung and Kyung Min for the residential property located at 423 E. 61st Street,
Unit #1, Los Angeles, CA 90003 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Subject
Property’).” (Compl., ¶ 14.) “Defendants Kyung and Kyung Min owned and managed
the Subject Property until June 2024. At that time, Defendants Albert and
Yvonne Santos acquired ownership of the property, and they have remained the
owners and managers from June 2024 to the present.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) Plaintiffs
allege that “[f]rom the very beginning of Plaintiffs’ tenancy, the Subject
Property was plagued by numerous uninhabitable conditions, which Defendants
Kyung and Kyung Min, and later Defendants Albert and Yvonne Santos,
consistently failed to address despite repeated complaints and notifications
from Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he defective
conditions of the Subject Property include, but are not limited to, the
following: a. Cockroach, rodent, vermin, and pest infestation; 
b.
Extensive water damage; c. Improper or faulty kitchen sink; d. Improper
ventilation; 
e.
Inadequate electrical wiring; f. Defective windows and window screens; g.
Broken or missing floor tiles; h. Ongoing Plumbing Issues; i. Missing smoke
detectors; j. Ineffective waterproofing and weather protection; and k. Overall
dilapidation and disrepair.” (Compl., ¶ 23.)  
Albert Santos and Yvonne Santos (jointly, the “Santos Defendants”) now
demur to the fourteenth cause of action of the Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The Court grants
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice. 
Discussion 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. ((Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.  ((Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
 
B.   
Fourteenth
Cause of Action for “Violation of LAMC Chapter XV, Article 1, § 151.05.A”
In the fourteenth cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants
never served Plaintiffs with a copy of a valid registration or annual
registration renewal statement as required by LAMC Chapter XV §151.05.A.” (Compl., ¶ 200.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[b]y failing to comply with LAMC Chapter XV §151.05.A, Defendants were not entitled to demand
or receive rent from Plaintiffs at any time during Plaintiffs’ tenancy…Nevertheless,
during the period of May 2021 to September 2024, Defendants unlawfully demanded
and obtained $52,000.00 in rent from Plaintiffs…As a direct and proximate
result of Defendants’ failure to comply with LAMC Chapter XV §151.05.A, Plaintiffs are entitled to a refund of
the $52,000.00 in illegally collected rent.” (Compl., ¶¶ 202-204.) Plaintiffs
further allege that they are “entitled to an award of statutory treble damages
and attorneys’ fees pursuant to LAMC Chapter XV
§151.10.A, which provides attorneys’ fees to prevailing renters, but not
prevailing landlords.” (Compl., ¶ 205.) 
Los Angeles Municipal Code section 151.05(A)
provides that “[o]n or after July, 1979, no landlord shall demand or accept rent for a
rental unit without first procuring and serving on the tenant or displaying in
a conspicuous place a valid written registration statement from the Department
or its designee. On or after April 30, 1983, no landlord shall demand or accept
rent for a rental unit without first serving a copy of a valid registration or
annual registration renewal statement on the tenant of that rental unit.” Los
Angeles Municipal Code section 151.02 defines
“Department” as “The Los Angeles Housing Department.” 
Los Angeles Municipal Code section 151.10(A)
provides that “[a]ny person who demands, accepts or retains any payment of rent in
excess of the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or any regulations or orders promulgated hereunder,
shall be liable in a civil action to the person from whom such payment is
demanded, accepted or retained for damages of three times the amount by which
the payment or payments demanded, accepted or retained exceed the maximum rent
or maximum adjusted rent which could be lawfully demanded, accepted or retained
together with reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs as determined by the court.”

In the demurrer, the Santos
Defendants assert that the fourteenth cause of action fails. The Santos Defendants
cite to Lyles v.
Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 762-763, where “Plaintiff and
appellant Lakeesha Lyles, tenant of a rent-controlled
apartment, brought an action against her landlords, defendants and respondents
Denise Sangadeo-Patel individually
and Denise Sangadeo-Patel in her
capacity as trustee of the Denise Sangadeo-Patel Trust. Plaintiff alleged various causes of
action seeking damages and restitution premised on defendants’ alleged failure
to serve her with a copy of a valid rental unit registration statement or
annual rental unit registration renewal statement from the Los Angeles Housing
and Community Investment Department (Department), as required by Los
Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC) section 151.05,
subdivision A. That provision is part of a rent control law.” The
Court of Appeal in Lyles noted that “[t]he
trial court granted defendants’ demurrer to plaintiff’s first amended
complaint. Plaintiff elected not to amend the first amended complaint,
stipulated that the trial court could enter judgment, and appealed from that
judgment. We interpret the ordinance on which plaintiff’s claims depend as not
providing for the remedies sought by plaintiff. We affirm.” ((Id. at p. 763.) 
            The
Court of Appeal in Lyles found that “[t]he
language in LAMC section 151.05, subdivision A.
that a landlord may not ‘demand or accept rent for a rental unit without first
serving a copy of a valid [rental unit] registration or annual [rental unit]
registration renewal statement on the tenant of that rental unit’ does not
concern a landlord’s entitlement to rent. It does not disentitle a landlord to
rent for a period during which the landlord is not in compliance with LAMC section 151.05, subdivision A. Instead, it concerns
the timing of a landlord’s ‘demand’ for or ‘acceptance’ of rent to which the
landlord remains entitled.” ((Id. at p.
766.) The Lyles Court further noted as follows: 
 
“Subdivision
B. of LAMC section 151.11 permits a tenant to
‘withhold the payment of any rent otherwise lawfully due and owing’ if the
tenant’s landlord has failed to comply with LAMC section
151.05, subdivision A. by not serving the tenant with copy of a valid
rental unit registration or annual rental unit registration renewal statement.
Once such a noncompliant landlord complies with LAMC section
151.05, subdivision A., however, the tenant becomes obligated to pay the
current rent and any back rent withheld pursuant to LAMC section
151.11, subdivision B. Thus, the tenant is permitted to withhold rent to
which the landlord is otherwise entitled until the landlord complies with
LAMC section 151.05, subdivision A., at which time
the tenant must pay the landlord all accrued rent. The penalty provision of
LAMC section 151.10, subdivision A. applies only
when a landlord ‘demands, accepts or retains any payment of rent in excess of
the maximum rent … in violation of the provisions of this chapter.’ The maximum
rent is that allowed by the rent control provisions of the LARSO. Defendants
may have violated the ordinance by accepting the rent at a time when the
documents had not been served. But that does not mean that defendants were not
ultimately entitled to that rent.” ((Id. at pp.
766-767.)  
            The
Lyles Court found that “[t]he idea
that the failure of the landlord to serve a copy of a registration statement
upon the tenant would lead to a forfeiture of all rent, thereby allowing the
tenant to reside rent free in a unit and recover a treble damage penalty, would
be an absurd and unreasonable consequence. The ordinance is part of a rent
control provision. If a landlord violates the rent control law by charging
excessive rent, then sanctions make sense. But the city council could not have
meant to impose such severe sanctions for failure to serve annually a
registration statement. Until the registration statement is sent, allowing the
withholding of rent appears to be the incentive provided by the city council.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 768.)

            The
Santos Defendants assert that “[a]s Lyles plainly states, the RSO
does not provide for restitution of rent when a landlord fails to serve a
tenant with an RSO Statement…Thus, Plaintiff’s fourteenth cause of action for
violation of section 151.05.A and restitution of
all rent paid fails, and the Santos Defendants’ demurrer should be sustained
without leave to amend.” (Demurrer at pp. 8:20-9:2.) 
            In
the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that “Lyles does not create a
blanket prohibition against restitution for violations of §151.05.A, particularly when combined with systemic
statutory obligations, other than serving the registration statement under LAMC
§151.05.A. Here, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants’
noncompliance with registration requirements was part of a broader pattern of
disregard for the LAMC and RSO, including habitability violations and the
unlawful retention of rent.” (Opp’n at p. 5:8-12.) But the Santos Defendants’
demurrer solely concerns the fourteenth cause of action for violation of “LAMC Chapter XV, Article
1, § 151.05.A.”
The Court does not see how defendants’ purported “broader pattern of disregard
for the LAMC and RSO” demonstrates that Plaintiffs properly stated a claim for
the violation of  Los Angeles Municipal
Code section 151.10(A).  
In the fourteenth cause of
action, Plaintiffs allege that “[b]y failing to comply with LAMC Chapter
XV §151.05.A, Defendants were not entitled to
demand or receive rent from Plaintiffs at any time during Plaintiffs’ tenancy.”
(Compl., ¶ 202.) Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of
Defendants’ failure to comply with LAMC Chapter XV
§151.05.A, Plaintiffs are entitled to a refund of the $52,000.00 in
illegally collected rent.” (Compl., ¶ 204.) But as discussed, the Lyles Court found that “[t]he language in LAMC section
151.05, subdivision A. that a landlord may not ‘demand or accept rent for a
rental unit without first serving a copy of a valid [rental unit] registration
or annual [rental unit] registration renewal statement on the tenant of that
rental unit’ does not concern a landlord’s entitlement to rent. It does not
disentitle a landlord to rent for a period during which the landlord is not in
compliance with LAMC section 151.05, subdivision A.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 766.)
The Lyles Court held that “defendants’
noncompliance with LAMC section 151.05, subdivision
A. did not disentitle defendants to the rent they collected from plaintiff…” (Id. at p. 769.) 
As discussed, Plaintiffs also allege that they are “entitled to an
award of statutory treble damages and attorneys’ fees pursuant to LAMC Chapter XV §151.10.A, which provides attorneys’ fees to
prevailing renters, but not prevailing landlords.” (Compl., ¶ 205.)  However, as set forth above, the Lyles Court found that “[t]he
idea that the failure of the landlord to serve a copy of a registration
statement upon the tenant would lead to a forfeiture of all rent, thereby
allowing the tenant to reside rent free in a unit and recover a treble damage
penalty, would be an absurd and unreasonable consequence. The ordinance is part
of a rent control provision. If a landlord violates the rent control law by
charging excessive rent, then sanctions make sense. But the city council could
not have meant to impose such severe sanctions for failure to serve annually a
registration statement. Until the registration
statement is sent, allowing the withholding of rent appears to be the incentive
provided by the city council.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel,
supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 768.) Plaintiffs do not appear to
address this portion of the Lyles opinion in their opposition. 
            The
Court does not see how the facts of Lyles are purportedly
distinguishable from those alleged in the Complaint here. As discussed, the Lyles
Court “interpret[ed] the ordinance on which
plaintiff’s claims depend as not providing for the remedies sought by
plaintiff.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel, supra, 225 Cal.App.4th at p. 763.)
The Court finds that the Santos Defendants have shown that under Lyles,
the Los Angeles Municipal Code section on which Plaintiffs’ fourteenth cause of
action depends does not provide for the remedies Plaintiffs appear to seek.   
In light of the foregoing,
the Court sustains the Santos Defendants’ demurrer to the fourteenth
cause of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the Santos
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourteenth cause of action of the Complaint, with
leave to amend. 
The Court orders
Plaintiffs to file and serve an amended complaint, if
any, within 20 days of the date of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order,
the Santos Defendants are ordered to
file and serve their answer within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿ 
///
///
The Santos
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED: 
January 22, 2025                            
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court
 