 Case Number:  BC707621    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
            



MIRNA ROMAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
LOWELL A. SIMON, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


BC707621




Hearing Date:


January 22, 2025




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO ENFORCE THE FULLY EXECUTED SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT, ENTER JUDGMENT FOR
  $65,000.00, AND REQUEST FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES AND COSTS IN THE AMOUNT OF
  $11,220.00. AGAINST DEFENDANTS LOWELL A. SIMON AND EDGAR SIMON, JOINTLY AND
  SEVERALLY
 



 
Background 
Plaintiff Mirna Roman
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on May 29, 2018 against Defendants Lowell A.
Simon and Edgar Simon (jointly, “Defendants”). Plaintiff filed the operative
First Amended Complaint on March 8, 2019, alleging seventeen causes of action. 
Plaintiff indicates that on
May 4, 2022, the parties entered into a Settlement Agreement and Release. (Wagner
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) 
Plaintiff now moves for an
order “enforcing the fully executed written settlement agreement,” and
“entering judgment in accordance with the terms of the fully executed
[s]ettlement [a]greement.” Plaintiff also seeks “attorneys’ fees and costs in
the amount of $11,220.00 in favor of Plaintiff against Defendants Lowell A.
Simon and Edgar Simon, jointly and severally.” The motion is unopposed. 
Discussion 
“If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside of the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement
of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment
pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If the parties to the settlement
agreement or their counsel stipulate in writing or orally before the court, the
court may dismiss the case as to the settling parties without prejudice and
retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.” ((Code Civ.
Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).) 
“Although a judge hearing
a section 664.6 motion may receive
evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment, nothing in section 664.6 authorizes
a judge to create the
material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms the parties themselves have previously
agreed upon.” ((Weddington Productions, Inc. v.
Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 810
[internal citations omitted, emphasis in original].) 
            As
set forth above, Plaintiff seeks an order enforcing the parties’ the
settlement agreement and entering judgment in accordance with the terms of the
settlement agreement. Paragraph 2.1 of the parties’ “Settlement Agreement and
Release” (herein, the “Settlement Agreement”) concerns “Settlement Payments”
and provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“In
full and complete satisfaction of all disputes between the Parties, and to
compensate Releasor[1]
for alleged employment claims, personal injuries, attorneys fees and costs, and
all other damages and claims, the Simon Trust shall pay or cause to be paid to
Releasor and her attorneys, the sum of $65,000, as follows:
 
1)
Within 90 days upon the death of Edgar Simon, the sum of $5,000 per month, commencing
the first of each month, and continuing the first of each consecutive month,
over thirteen months, until said $65,000 is paid in full.
 
2)
All checks shall be made payable to ‘Reisner & King Attorney Client Trust
Account’, and a 1099 shall be issued to Reisner & King LLP…The checks shall
be delivered on the first of each month to Reisner & King LLP, located at
15303 Ventura Blvd., Suite 1260, Sherman Oaks, California 91403. 
 
3)
Lowell Simon shall immediately report the death of Edgar Simon to Releasor’s
attorneys thru counsel, which shall trigger the 90 days start time for Simon to
make the first payment, and consecutive payments. 
 
4)

 
5)
The Court shall retain jurisdiction over the material terms set forth above
pursuant to CCP sec. 664.6 to monitor and/or enforce
the settlement terms hereof.” (Wagner Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.)[2]

In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[o]n
June 24, 2024, it was Plaintiff’s counsel, Adam Reisner, not Defendants’
counsel as the Settlement Agreement required, who reached out to confirm the
death of Defendant Edgar Simon and requested a date certain to expect payment
on the settlement.” (Wagner Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that 
“Defendants’
counsel, Dana Cole, confirmed that not only had Defendant Edgar Simon died, but
it had been a ‘few weeks’ since his passing. Yet, despite paragraph 2.1(3)
where Defendants were to ‘immediately report the death of Edgar Simon to
[Plaintiff’s] attorneys,’ Mr. Cole stated that she ‘was giving Lowell 30 days
to deal with it.’” (Wagner Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]s
of the date of the filing of this Motion, Defendants have refused to tender a
single payment to Plaintiff and have refused to give a date certain as to when
Plaintiff can expect her settlement, in violation of the Settlement Agreement.”
(Wagner Decl., ¶ 8.)
As discussed, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, “[i]f parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a
writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally
before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon
motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).)
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated grounds for the
Court to enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the parties’ Settlement
Agreement. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) Defendants do not oppose the instant motion, and thus do not
dispute Plaintiff’s request that the Court enter judgment in accordance with
the terms of the Settlement Agreement.  
The Court notes that in the
“Conclusion” section of the motion, Plaintiff states that she seeks, inter
alia, “$65,000.00 for amounts past due pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement.” (Mot. at p. 9:12-13.) However, Plaintiff’s request for a judgment
of $65,000.00 is not included in Plaintiff’s notice of motion. The Court notes
that pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1110,
subdivision (a), “[a] notice of motion must state in the opening paragraph
the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of the
order.” In addition, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated
that 13 months has passed since the death of Edgar Simon, such that she is
currently entitled to $65,000.00. As set forth above, the Settlement Agreement
provides, inter alia, that “the Simon Trust shall pay or cause to
be paid to Releasor and her attorneys, the sum of $65,000, as follows: 1)
Within 90 days upon the death of Edgar Simon, the sum of $5,000 per month,
commencing the first of each month, and continuing the first of each
consecutive month, over thirteen months, until said $65,000 is paid in full.”
(Wagner Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 2.1.) Accordingly, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
apparent request for a judgment of $65,000.00. 
Lastly,
Plaintiff asserts that she is entitled to attorney’s fees pursuant to Paragraph
8 of the Settlement Agreement. Paragraph 8 provides that “[i]n entering into this Agreement, the Parties
agree that all Parties, Releasors and Releasees, shall bear all of their own
fees and costs, including attorneys’ fees and costs of litigation arising from
the claims described in the Recitals above, and that the payments described in
Paragraph 2 above covers all of Releasor’s attorneys’ fees, and costs related
to this matter. In the event of a breach of this agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred to
enforce the terms of this agreement.” (Wagner Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 8,
emphasis added.) As set forth above, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[a]s
of the date of the filing of this Motion, Defendants have refused to tender a
single payment to Plaintiff and have refused to give a date certain as to when
Plaintiff can expect her settlement, in violation of the Settlement Agreement.”
(Wagner Decl., ¶ 8.) 
Plaintiff seeks a total of $11,220.00
in attorney’s fees and costs. Plaintiff’s counsel Zachary Wagner states that
his hourly rate is $400/hour. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 10.) Mr. Wagner states that “I
have expended approximately seven (7) hours researching and drafting the
motion. I expect to spend another two (2) hours reviewing, researching, and
drafting any reply that might be necessitated. Thus, my total fees associated
with this Motion are $3,600.00.” (Wagner Decl., ¶ 11.) Mr. Wagner also states
that Plaintiff will incur a $495.00 court reporter fee in connection with the
instant motion. (Wagner Decl., ¶ 12.) As set forth above, the instant motion is
unopposed. Thus, the Court does not award attorney’s fees for Mr. Wagner’s
anticipated two hours to review, research, and draft a reply. The Court deducts
$800.00 (2 hours x $400/hr) from the total attorney’s fees requested for Mr.
Wagner. 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Adam Reisner states that his hourly rate is $950/hour. (Reisner Decl.,
¶ 3.) Defendant does not oppose the instant motion and thus does not assert
that this requested hourly rate is unreasonable. Mr. Reisner states that “I
estimate that I spent two (2) [sic] reviewing and corresponding with
Defendant’s counsel regarding this matter. Additionally, I estimate that I have
spent two (2) hours corresponding with Plaintiff and one-half (.5) hours
corresponding with Mr. Wagner regarding this motion. I also anticipate spending
three (3) hours reviewing the motion, opposition, and reply and attending the
hearing on this matter. Thus, I estimate in good faith that I have spent
approximately 7.5 hours in pursuit of this motion. The value of that time is
$7,125.00.” (Reisner Decl., ¶ 15.) As discussed, the instant motion is
unopposed. Thus, the Court does not award attorney’s fees for Mr. Reisner’s
anticipated time to review an opposition and reply. The Court deducts $1,425.00
(1.5 hours x $950/hr) from the total attorney’s fees requested for Mr.
Reisner. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees and costs in the total amount of $8,995.00. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s motion for an order “entering judgment in
accordance with the terms of the fully executed Settlement Agreement.” 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees and costs in
part. The Court awards Plaintiff $8,995.00 in attorney’s fees and costs against
Defendants, jointly and severally. Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve a
proposed judgment within 10 days of the date of this Order, with a courtesy
copy delivered to Department 50. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  January 22, 2025                            ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court 


