 Case Number:  23PSCV00157    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner Zahir Dadabhoy’s Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor
or a Person with a Disability
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner Zahir Dadabhoy’s Petition for Approval of
Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor
or a Person with a Disability is DENIED without prejudice.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In April
2022, Plaintiff A.D. was operating a Razor scooter eastbound on Silver Hawk
Drive in Diamond Bar. At the same time, Defendant Anthony Fuller was allegedly
operating a 2013 Ford commercial vehicle in the area on the behalf of Defendants
Waste Management, Inc. (Waste Management) and Waste Management of California
Inc. (Waste Management CA). While turning south from Silver Hawk Drive onto
Dublin Lane, Fuller allegedly collided with A.D. in front of Farheen Dadabhoy, A.D.’s
mother.
On January
18, 2023, A.D., by and through guardian ad litem Zahir Dadabhoy, and Farheen
Dadabhoy filed a complaint against Waste Management, Waste Management CA,
Fuller, and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence;
(2) negligent hiring, training, supervision, and retention; and (3) negligent
infliction of emotional distress (NIED).
On
December 22, 2023, Zahir Dadabhoy filed the present petition. A hearing on the
petition is set for January 10, 2024, with a OSC Re: Dismissal set for March 7.
ANALYSIS
Zahir
Dadabhoy petitions for the court’s approval of a $50,000 settlement reached
between A.D., Waste Management, and Fuller.
Legal Standard
An
enforceable settlement of a minor’s or incompetent’s claim can only be
consummated with court approval. (Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code
Civ. Proc., § 372.) For this purpose, a petition for approval must be presented
to the court and until it is granted, there is no final settlement. (Scruton
v. Korean Air Lines Co. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1596, 1603-1606.) Any
settlement agreement therefore is voidable by the minor’s guardian ad litem. (Id.,
at p. 1606.)
Probate
Code section 3600, et seq., governs how the settlement proceeds are to be paid.
Pursuant to Probate Code section 3601, the order shall approve payment of
reasonable expenses from the settlement as follows:
The court making the order or giving the judgment
referred to in Section 3600, as a part thereof, shall make a further order
authorizing and directing that such reasonable expenses (medical or otherwise
and including reimbursement to a parent, guardian, or conservator), costs, and
attorney’s fees, as the court shall approve and allow therein, shall be paid
from the money or other property to be paid or delivered for the benefit of the
minor or incompetent person. (Prob. Code, § 3601, subd. (a).)
In
cases pursuant to Probate Code section 3601, “unless the court has approved the
fee agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney’s fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court 7.955, subd. (a)(1).) In doing so, “[t]he
court must give consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made
between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability and must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances
existing at the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the
representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the
attorney's fee would be affected by later events.” (Cal. Rules of Court 7.955,
subd. (a)(2).)
Discussion
The current matter involves a
motor vehicle collision between minor plaintiff A.D. and Fuller which occurred
on Silver Hawk Drive in Diamond Bar. Pursuant to the settlement agreement
reached between the parties, Waste Management and Fuller will pay a total of $50,000
to A.D.
With regards to attorney
fees, a retainer agreement is attached to the Petition as Exhibit 17(a). In it,
the attorney fees for A.D. will be 40% of the gross recovery. Here, counsel requests
$16,665 in attorney fees which is only 33.33% of the total recovery. But
counsel does not provide any declarations to support this request for fees and
does not provide an itemization or estimate of the total hours worked.
Furthermore, while the Petition does not claim any expenses or fees in Item
13(b), the Petition’s summary lists $4,456.79 in unspecified fees.
Accordingly, in light of the
above noted defects, Zahir Dadabhoy’s petition is DENIED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court DENIES the petition to confirm minor’s compromise without
prejudice.
