  Case Number:  19PSCV01160    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Terry L. Vechik’s Motion to Vacate Judgment
and for New Trial
Respondent: Plaintiff
Mohammed Khodabakhsh
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Terry L. Vechik’s Motion to Vacate Judgment
and for New Trial is GRANTED as to the request to vacate judgment only.
Defendant remains in default and Plaintiff
Mohammed Khodabakhsh is directed to file a new application for default
judgment.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action between two former business partners. Plaintiff Mohammed
Khodabakhsh is an engineer and inventor in the clean energy technology field.
Defendant Terry L. Vechik is a marketer of inventions. In 2008, Khodabakhsh
began working with Vechik to help monetize clean energy technology developed by
Khodabakhsh. Subsequently, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik began falsely claiming to
be an equal partner in Khodabakhsh’s work. Khodabakhsh then claims Vechik took
a laptop computer and flash drive from Khodabakhsh that contained designs,
drawings, and marketing materials for Khodabakhsh’s technology and refused to
return it. When Khodabakhsh confronted Vechik about the laptop computer and
flash drive, Khodabakhsh alleges Vechik threatened to kill Khodabakhsh. After
that, Khodabakhsh claims a mutual friend informed Khodabakhsh that Vechik told
the friend how Vechik was going to kill Khodabakhsh. Another friend informed
Khodabakhsh that Vechik had offered the friend money to conduct surveillance on
Khodabakhsh and inform Vechik of Khodabakhsh’s whereabouts.
On
December 30, 2019, Khodabakhsh filed a complaint against Vechik; Rudd Koekkoek,
also known as Rudoph Koekkoek; Matchcorp Fin. Services BV; Rene Aemig; Hyperion
Capital; Ali Mir Zadeh; Vesten Food Concept AG, Hofstr. 2 CH 6004; and Does
1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) declaratory relief, (2)
injunctive relief, and (3) conversion.
On
September 30, 2020, Khodabakhsh filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against
Vechik and Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1) conversion,
(2) violation of the California Data Access and Fraud Act, (3) intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage, (4) misappropriation of trade
secrets, (5) violation of Penal Code section 496, (6) intentional infliction of
emotional distress (IIED), and (7) violations of Business and Professions Code
section 17200.
On
September 22, 2022, after Vechik repeatedly refused to comply with discovery
orders by the court and pay sanctions, the court granted Khodabakhsh’s request
to impose terminating sanctions on Vechik and struck Vechik’s answer.
On
October 26, 2022, default was entered against Vechik. On January 4, 2023,
Khodabakhsh applied for a default judgment that the court denied without prejudice
on January 10. On January 26, Khodabakhsh filed a second application for
default judgment that the court again denied without prejudice on February 2.
On March 16, Khodabakhsh filed a third application for default judgment that
the court granted on March 23. On July 3, the court granted a motion by Vechik
to vacate the default judgment.
On
October 10, 2023, Khodabakhsh filed a fourth application for default judgment
that the court granted on October 20.
On
November 27, 2023, Vechik filed the present motion. A hearing on Vechik’s
motion is set for January 10, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Vechik
moves to vacate and set aside the default judgment entered on October 20, 2023,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 657. For the following reasons, the
court GRANTS Vechik’s motion.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 657, a decision or verdict may be vacated
and a new trial may be ordered based on “excessive or inadequate damages” or an
“[e]rror in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
application.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) “A new trial shall not be granted . . .
 upon the ground of excessive or
inadequate damages, unless after weighing the evidence the court is convinced
from the entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom, that the
court or jury clearly should have reached a different verdict or decision.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) This procedure is also applicable to default
judgments. (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th
333, 345-346.)
Discussion
In
this case, Vechik claims the judgment entered October 20, 2023, was erroneous
or excessive because it relied on unauthenticated evidence and was not
supported by sufficient evidence. The court addresses each claim below.
Unauthenticated Evidence
Vechik
argues an economic valuation assessment report that Khodabakhsh’s expert
witness relied on in valuing Khodabakhsh’s patent and trade secrets is inadmissible
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 585 and 843, subdivision (b) as
well as Evidence Code section 1401. The court agrees.
Legal Standard
In
default proceedings, “the court in its discretion may permit the use of
affidavits, in lieu of personal testimony, as to all or any part of the
evidence or proof required or permitted to be offered, received, or heard
in those cases. The facts stated in the affidavit or
affidavits shall be within the personal knowledge of the affiant and shall be
set forth with particularity, and each affidavit shall show affirmatively that
the affiant, if sworn as a witness, can testify competently thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 585, subdivision (d).)
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 843, subdivision (b), a disclosure of an
expert witness “shall be accompanied by a written report prepared and signed by
the expert witness if the witness is retained or specially employed by the
party offering the expert witness to testify as an expert in the action, or if
the expert witness's duties as the party's employee regularly involves giving
expert testimony.” Furthermore, a writing must be authenticated before it is
received into evidence or before secondary evidence of its content is received
into evidence. (Evid. Code, § 1401.)
Discussion
In
this case, Khodabakhsh’s expert witness, Richard M. Holstrom, provided a report
in support of Khodabakhsh’s application for default judgment. In that report,
Holstrom relied on an “Economic Valuation Assessment” (FES Report) of Khodabakhsh’s
‘907 Patent that had been prepared by Forensic Economic Services and provided
by Khodabakhsh’s counsel. (LeJeune Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. 4.) The report itself is
not signed or under oath.
Because
the FES Report was not signed, Vechik argues it is inadmissible pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 843, subdivision (b) and Evidence Code section 1401.
Vechik also argues Khodabakhsh’s counsel cannot authenticate the FES Report. In
previously finding Holstrom’s reliance on the unauthenticated and unsigned FES
was proper, the court relied on the general rule that “an expert opinion may be
based on any matter made known to the witness ‘at or before the hearing,
whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon
by an expert in forming an opinion . . . .’” (Maatuk v. Guttman (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1191, 1197, quoting Evid. Code, § 801, subd. (b).)
But
upon further review, the court finds I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram
Americas, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 257 (I-CA Enterprises)
instructive. There, the court noted that “[w]hile an expert may rely on an inadmissible
matter in forming an opinion, that matter is admissible only to explain the
basis for the witness’s testimony. [Citation.] However, the expert may not
serve as a mere conduit for the admission of otherwise inadmissible hearsay.” (Id.,
at p. 286.) In that case, the court noted the expert’s testimony was “derived
directly, and apparently solely” from the inadmissible report which resulted in
the inadmissible report being introduced through the expert. (Ibid.)
Here,
Holstrom does the same with the unauthenticated, unsigned, and unsworn FES
report. While Holstrom claims the report “is accurate and relies on sound
forensic principles,” Holstrom fails to conduct any independent analysis or
explain why the report is accurate and based on sound forensic principles.
(Holstrom Decl., p. 11.) Instead, Holstrom just repeats and adopts the FES
report’s conclusion regarding Khodabakhsh’s future business income and
reasonable royalty rate calculations. Accordingly, the court now finds the FES
report and Holstrom’s statements based on that report to be inadmissible.
Insufficient Evidence
In
previously granting Vechik’s motion to vacate, the court found Khodabakhsh failed
to provide sufficient evidence that established the misappropriated trade
secrets were necessary for the implementation of the ‘907 Patent. In response,
Khodabakhsh provided a declaration by Joseph D. Smith, Ph. D., FAICHE. Vehick
contends Dr. Smith’s declaration still fails to establish the misappropriated
trade secrets were necessary for the implementation of the ‘907 Patent. Upon
closer review, the court agrees.
In
Dr. Smith’s declaration, Dr. Smith states “[t]rade secrets are essential to
implement and operate the Khodabakhsh device described in the ‘907 Patent for
the use and production low-heat hydrogen on demand.” (Dr. Smith Decl., p. 3.)
Dr. Smith also states that “[t]rade secrets represent the ‘secret sauce’
required to generate low-heat hydrogen in commercial operation of the patented
technology so are of equal value to the patent itself.” (Dr. Smith Decl., p.
3.) But it is unclear if Dr. Smith is referring to Khodabakhsh’s trade secrets
or trade secrets in general as elsewhere, Dr. Smith makes the general claim
that trade secrets are important in commercially utilizing patents. (Dr. Smith
Decl., p. 6.) And even if it was clear that Dr. Smith is referring to Khodabakhsh’s
trade secrets, it is unclear if those trade secrets include the specific ones
that were misappropriated.
Dr.
Smith also provides a list of the trade secrets at issue but fails to provide
any analysis or explanation that details how each trade secret is necessary for
the implementation of the ‘907 Patent. (Dr. Smith Decl., p. 8-9.) In fact, Dr.
Smith states the trade secrets were “identified by the inventor as valuable to
the implementation and operation of the technology.” (Dr. Smith Decl., p. 8.)
This comment is particularly concerning as it suggests Dr. Smith is just
accepting Khodabakhsh’s assertions as true without independently determining if
these trade secrets are actually necessary for the implementation and operation
of the ‘907 Patent. Thus, the court finds Dr. Smith’s declaration does not
adequately establish whether the misappropriated trade secrets at issue are
necessary for the implementation and operation of the ‘907 Patent.
Accordingly,
the court finds the award of damages to be unsupported by the evidence and GRANTS Vechik’s motion to vacate
the default judgment.
CONCLUSION
For
the foregoing reasons, Vechik’s motion to vacate the default judgment entered
against Vechik is GRANTED as to the request to vacate judgment only.
Vechik
remains in default and Khodabakhsh is directed to submit a new default judgment
application.