  Case Number:  21STCV02330    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Sedgwick Claims Management
Services, Inc.’s Motion to Dismiss the Action, or in the Alternative, Demurrer
to Complaint
Defendant Sedgwick Claims Management
Services, Inc. (Sedgwick) moves to dismiss this action by plaintiff Jimmy
Guzman.  In the alternative, Sedgwick
demurs to the complaint.
Motion to Dismiss
Sedgwick moves to dismiss the action
because plaintiff did not serve Sedgwick with the summons and complaint within
three years of commencing the action. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 583.210(a) provides, “The summons and
complaint shall be served upon a defendant within three years after the action
is commenced against the defendant.  For
the purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the time the
complaint is filed.”  Section 583.250
provides: “(a) If service is not made in an action within the time prescribed
in this article: (1) The action shall not be further prosecuted and no further
proceedings shall be held in the action. 
(2) The action shall be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on
motion of any person interested in the action, whether named as a party or not,
after notice to the parties.  (b) The
requirements of this article are mandatory and are not subject to extension,
excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by statute.”
This rule applies to Doe
defendants.  “[A] plaintiff has three
years from the date of filing the complaint to identify and serve a Doe
defendant.”  (Inversiones Papaluchi
S.A.S. v. Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1061.)  
A. Mandatory Dismissal
Sedgwick is entitled to mandatory
dismissal of this action.  Plaintiff
filed his complaint against defendants Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mark
Marino, Dorian Racey, and Does 1 through 10 on January 20, 2021.  That is when he commenced the action against
Doe 1.  On February 23, 2024, plaintiff
filed an amendment to the complaint to substitute Sedgwick Claims Management
Services, Inc. as the true name of defendant Doe 1.  Plaintiff has not filed any proof of service
of summons on Sedgwick.  He does not dispute
that he failed to serve the summons on Sedgwick within three years of filing
the initial complaint. 
Plaintiff argues the three-year period
for service only began when he filed the Doe amendment in February 2024.  He contends that “in the case of Sedgwick,
the date that the action ... commenced against this Defendant was when the new
cause of action was created and arose by virtue of the state Supreme Court
opinion in Raines v. U.S. Healthworks Med. Group (Raines) (2023) 15
Cal.5th 268, 288-289.  That is because, claims
that rest on a wholly different legal liability or obligation (that is, a
distinct cause of action) from that originally [alleged], do not relate back where
the effect of such amendment is to state another and distinct cause of action;
as such, the action commences at the time of the amendment rather than at the
time of the original complaint filing.” 
(Opp., p. 6, internal quotes omitted.) 
Raines did not create a new cause of action.  The opinion begins, “This case requires us to clarify the meaning of
the term ‘employer’ as used in” FEHA.  (Raines, supra, 15 Cal.5th at p. 273.)  Clarifying the meaning of statute does not
“create” a new cause of action.
Even assuming Raines “created” a new cause of action, plaintiff
has not alleged any new cause of action. 
Amendments to pleadings and
amendments to a pleading are different.  An
amended complaint supersedes the prior complaint, while an amendment to a
complaint adds or modifies part of the complaint.  (Cohen v. Superior Court (1966) 244
Cal.App.2d 650, 657.)  The California
Supreme Court has explained that Doe amendments generally do not reset the
three-year deadline to serve the summons on the defendants formerly designated
as Does.  Barrington v. A. H. Robins
Co. (1985) 39 Cal.3d 146 (Barrington) states: “[W]hen a complaint is
amended only to identify a party by its proper name, the gravamen of the
complaint remains unaltered, and hence the later pleading relates back to the
earlier pleading.  By the same token,
however, when a complaint is amended to allege a new cause of action based on
different operative facts, the new cause of action is different in nature from
any cause of action contained in the earlier complaint, and hence does not relate
back.”  (Id. at p. 154.)  
In Barrington, the plaintiff first substituted new defendant
Robins “for Doe 40,” then “filed a first amended complaint, which added a new
cause of action only as against Robins” which “alleged that the instrumentality
causing the injury was a defective ‘Dalkon Shield’ intrauterine device,
manufactured by Robins.”  (Barrington,
supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 149.)  The
Court held that for purposes of the three-year service deadline, the action “commenced
as to the Dalkon Shield cause of action on February 29, 1980, when [plaintiff]
first asserted that cause of action” by filing the first amended complaint.  (Id. at p. 157.)  Barrington distinguished prior cases where “the allegations against the Doe
defendants in the amended complaint were founded on the same operative facts as
in the original complaint—in other words, each cause of action related back.  The language in the decisions suggests that in
a case where the amended complaint is based on different operative facts, the
defendant does not become a party until the date of filing the amendment.”  (Id. at p. 154.) 
Plaintiff did not allege any new cause of action or
new facts against Segwick.  Plaintiff merely
filed an amendment to the complaint to substitute Sedgwick for Doe 1, who was
already named as a defendant to all nine causes of action.  Plaintiff
cannot bring a new cause of action against Sedgwick as necessary to reset the
three-year service deadline without adding any cause of action, any new party
(as opposed to stating the true name of a Doe defendant), or any new allegations
whatsoever.  That is exactly the
circumstance Barrington distinguished from an amended complaint adding
new allegations and a new cause of action. 
   
Plaintiff’s
reliance on American Western Banker v. Price Waterhouse (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 39 is misplaced.  There, the
“amended complaint added [new parties] as plaintiffs.”  (Id. at p. 42.)  The plaintiff did not merely use the Doe
amendment procedure to substitute a defendant’s true name.  Similarly, in Hennessey’s Tavern, Inc. v.
American Air Filter Co. (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1351, 1360, the court
distinguished Doe defendants from newly named defendants: “When a defendant is
named in the original complaint by fictitious name, but is identified by his
true name in an amended complaint, the ‘relation back’ doctrine applies and the
action commences as to such defendant when the original complaint is filed.  However, when a new defendant is added to an
action, the action commences as to him at the time the complaint is filed
naming him as a new defendant.”  
Here,
plaintiff has not alleged any new facts or causes of action.  He only amended the complaint to identify Sedgwick’s
true name.  That cannot constitute a new
cause of action as necessary to reset the three-year service deadline.  Doe 1 and Sedgwick are the same
defendant.  Plaintiff commenced this
action against them both on January 20, 2021. 
Plaintiff did not serve the summons on Sedgwick until over three years
later.  Dismissal is mandatory.
B.
Factors Regarding Discretionary Dismissal
Plaintiff’s opposition argues the court should deny the motion based on
the factors set forth in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1342(e).  Those rules only apply to discretionary
dismissal for delay in prosecution.  Rule
3.1342(a) specifies the rule applies to “dismissal of a case under Code of
Civil Procedure section sections 583.410-583.430,” which concern discretionary
dismissal for delay in prosecution.  The
rule does not apply to a motion for mandatory dismissal under section
583.250.  
C.
Estoppel
Finally, plaintiff contends Sedgwick should be estopped from moving to
dismiss the action.  The doctrine of
estoppel applies to motions for mandatory dismissal.  (Tresway Aero, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1971) 5 Cal.3d 431, 436-440.)  “This
doctrine affirms that ‘a person may not lull another into a false sense of
security by conduct causing the latter to forebear to do some things which he
otherwise would have done and then take advantage of the inaction caused by his
own conduct.’ ”  (Id. at pp. 437–438.)  
Generally, “[t]he party seeking to establish an estoppel must show by clear
and convincing evidence [citation] that ‘(1) the party to be estopped knew the
facts; (2) the other party was ignorant of the true facts; (3) the party
intended his conduct would be acted upon, or acted in a manner that the party
asserting the estoppel had a right to believe it so intended; and (4) the other
party relied upon the conduct to his injury.” 
(In re Marriage of Brinkman (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1289.)
Plaintiff shows no basis for estoppel against Sedgwick.  Plaintiff fails to show Sedgwick knew about
this action in the first place or engaged in any affirmative conduct at all,
let alone conduct intended to lull plaintiff into a false sense of security.  Nor does plaintiff show he did anything in
reliance on the non-existent conduct by Sedgwick.  
Plaintiff argues Sedgwick formed a “ ‘common front’ against Plaintiff”
with co-defendant Lockheed Martin Corporation. 
(Opp., p. 8.)  Plaintiff’s counsel
states, “Plaintiff propounded written discovery to Defendants that should have resulted
already in correspondence between Sedgwick and Lockheed but Lockheed did not
produce the emails.”  (Denis Decl., ¶
6.)  Lockheed, not Sedgwick, did
that.  Sedgwick cannot be estopped from
asserting a right based on Lockheed’s conduct. 
Even if Sedgwick itself engaged in this conduct, plaintiff fails to show
he did anything in reliance on that conduct. 
Demurrer
            Defendant Sedgwick also demurs to
all causes of action alleged against it. 
Sedgwick establishes it is entitled to mandatory dismissal.  Its demurrer is therefore moot.
Disposition
Defendant Sedgwick Claims Management
Services, Inc.’s motion to dismiss the action against it is granted.  Plaintiff Jimmy Guzman’s action as against
defendant Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc. is hereby dismissed with
prejudice.