 Case Number:  22STCV05815    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Chong Park’s Motion for
Summary Judgment
Defendant
Chong Park moves for summary judgment of this action by plaintiff Dana M.
Dorsett aka Dana Moon.  The court cannot
rule on the motion.  The case is stayed
due to co-defendant Howard Park’s bankruptcy petition.
“The
filing of a chapter 7 petition automatically creates an estate containing all
legal and equitable interests of the debtor in property as of the commencement
of the case.  The trustee administers the
estate and is the representative of the estate. 
[Citation.]  The filing of a
petition also gives rise to the automatic stay that ‘effect[s] an immediate
freeze of the status quo by precluding and nullifying post-petition
actions, judicial or nonjudicial, in nonbankruptcy fora against the debtor or
affecting the property of the estate.’ ” 
(In re Koeberer (B.A.P. 9th Cir. 2021) 632 B.R. 680, 686–687.)  “[A] third-party action to recover
fraudulently transferred property is properly regarded as undertaken ‘to
recover a claim against the debtor’ and subject to the automatic stay.”  (Id. at p. 688.)
Plaintiff
alleges two causes of action against defendant Chong Park: (1) fraudulent
transfer and (2) conspiracy.  The entire
action arises from an effort to collect a judgment against defendant Howard
Park.  (Comp., ¶¶ 8-25.)  For the reasons stated in In re Koeberer,
pursuing this action against non-debtor Chong Park would violate the bankruptcy
stay.  
Chong
Park argues In re Koeberer does not apply because “the assets at issue
here all belong exclusively to Chong, a non-debtor.”  (Reply, p. 3.)  In contrast, in In re Koeberer, the debtors
admitted transferring certain property to a non-debtor.  This argument puts the cart before the horse.  Plaintiff’s action alleges transfers of
property from Howard Park to Chong Park are voidable.  Succeeding in this action against Chong Park
would constitute recovering a claim against the debtor, Howard Park.  The transfers would be “voidable as to”
plaintiff (Civ. Code, § 3439.04(a)), meaning plaintiff could collect on her
preexisting judgment against Howard Park by enforcing the debt against Chong
Park’s property.  Defendant Chong Park’s argument
amounts to asserting plaintiff’s claims fail on the merits, so the stay does
not apply.  The court cannot determine
whether plaintiff’s claims fail on the merits while the case is stayed. 
The
court vacates the hearing on defendant Chong Park’s motion for summary
judgment.  