 Case Number:  23STCV24193    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s Motion to Compel Depositions
            Plaintiff
Gayane Mkrtchyan moves to compel the depositions of (1) defendants New York
Life Insurance, New York Life, New York Life Group Benefits Solutions’
(collectively, NY Life) person most knowledgeable, and (2) Jennifer Keeler.
One may
move to compel the deposition of a party or a party’s employee and move for
production of requested documents when the deponent fails to appear at
deposition or produce the requested documents “without having served a valid
objection under Section 2025.410.”  (CCP
§ 2025.450(a).)  
            Plaintiff’s
motion is procedurally defective.  “Any
motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a
request must be accompanied by a separate statement.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  “The separate statement must include—for each
discovery request … to which a further response, answer, or production is
requested—the following: (1) The text of the request, interrogatory, question,
or inspection demand; (2) The text of each response, answer, or objection, and
any further responses or answers;  (3) A
statement of the factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses,
answers, or production as to each matter in dispute.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).)
            This
motion to compel the deposition of NYL’s person most knowledgeable involves the
content of discovery requests and the responses to them.  The notice of NYL’s deposition includes 13
matters of examination and 14 requests for production.  (Zilifyan Decl., Ex. 1, pp. 2-7.)  NYL made numerous general objections (id.,
Ex. 3, pp. 2-4) and specific objections to all 13 matters of examination and
all 14 requests for production (id., pp. 5-19).
            The
motion with respect to Keeler also involves the content of discovery requests
and the responses to them.  The notice of
Keeler’s deposition demands both her testimony and seven categories of
documents.  (Zilifyan Decl., Ex. 5.)  NYL objected to the notice of deposition,
both generally and specifically as to all seven requests for production.  (Id., Ex. 7.)  
As to
either deposition, ruling on this motion requires determining whether any
objection constitutes “a valid objection under Section 2025.410.”  (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  The court must evaluate each matter
of examination and request for production and NYL’s objections to them.  This motion therefore required a separate
statement under California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.   Plaintiff did not submit one.  
Moreover, plaintiff’s
moving papers only generically describe the notice of deposition of NYL’s
person most knowledgeable as “regarding the contractual relationship between
[NYL] and QTC Management, Inc.”  The
memorandum makes only conclusory arguments as to why the court should compel
this deposition.  Plaintiff’s papers fail
to adequately explain the nature of this discovery dispute or what order
plaintiff seeks.
The court
will exercise its discretion to deny plaintiff’s motion.
Disposition
            Plaintiff Gayane Mkrtchyan’s motion
to compel depositions is denied.