  Case Number:  22SMCV01556    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling 
De
Julio, et al. vs. Tana, Case No. 22SMCV01556
Hearing
Date May 20, 2024
Defendant
Tana’s Motion to Compel Payment of Independent Medical Examination Fees;
Request for Monetary Sanctions 
 
In
this habitability case, defendant moves to compel plaintiffs to pay the $3,000
cancellation charge payable to defense medical expert Nathan Lavid, M.D., after
plaintiff Nicole De Julio belatedly cancelled her independent medical
examination. Defendant also requests sanctions of $840 in connection with
bringing this motion.  
 
In any case
in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, defendant may
demand a physical examination. Code Civ. Proc. §2032.220(a). A
defendant may make a demand for physical examination, and the examination shall
be scheduled for a date at least 30 days after service. Code Civ. Proc. §2032.220(b),
(d).
 
Defendant
argues plaintiffs should be ordered to pay $3,000 to Nathan Lavid, M.D., to
satisfy the cancellation fee charge when plaintiff De Julio did not appear for
her IME on Tuesday, October 24, 2023. The IME was noticed and re-scheduled five
different times, all at plaintiff’s request. Schroeder Decl. ¶ 5, 6; Exs. B-F. Defendant scheduled the latest IME for
October 24, 2023, based on plaintiff’s counsel’s specific confirmation that she
would be available on that day. Id. ¶¶ 6-7; Ex. G, H. Defendant twice
reached out to confirm plaintiff would appear, but plaintiff neither responded
nor served any objection. Id. ¶¶ 8-9; Ex. “I.” The IME demand notice
stated plaintiff would be responsible for the cancellation fee if she cancelled
late; plaintiff never objected to the notice. Schroeder Decl.; Ex. H. 
 
On Friday, October 21, 2023 plaintiff’s counsel informed
defense counsel that plaintiff would not attend because she had taken a job
that day; defense counsel stated it was too late to reschedule without
incurring a $3,000 cancellation charge. Id. ¶ 10-11; Ex. J; Ex. K,
invoice. Defendant paid the fee. Schroeder Supp. Decl. ¶¶3-4, Ex. L. The
parties were unable to agree on the responsibility for the cancellation charge
despite meet and confer efforts and an Informal Discovery Conference with the
court. Id. ¶ 11. 
 
Plaintiffs argue defendant does not present authority for her
request, and plaintiff completed the IME in December. Kalter Decl., ¶¶ 12-13. Counsel
argues defense counsel is harassing or there is fraud by defendant’s expert
because there was no cancellation fee. Counsel argues defendant never
communicated the cancellation fee was $3,000, and the amended dates were
unilaterally set. Id. ¶¶ 3, 5-6; Ex. 1, 3, 4.
 
The IME was moved multiple times to accommodate plaintiff’s
schedule. The IME was set on a date plaintiff’s counsel stated plaintiff would
be available. Defendant tried to confirm the date, and plaintiff’s counsel cancelled
at the last minute (the Friday before the Tuesday appointment) after plaintiff decided
to take a job on the agreed-upon date. The demand provided that should plaintiff
fail to appear or cancel late, she would be responsible for the $3,000 cancellation
fee. Plaintiff did not serve any objections. Plaintiff made the decision not to
attend the IME, so she could work that day. 
 
It is patently inequitable for defendant to pay the
cancellation charge when it was plaintiff’s choice to take a job that day
instead of attending the IME that was set on that particular date, at her
request. Plaintiffs to reimburse defense counsel $3,000 for the cancellation
fee within 30 days. The motion is GRANTED.
 
Defendant requests sanctions of $840, representing 3 hours to
prepare the motion and an hour preparing the reply and attending the hearing,
all at the hourly rate of $210. Schroeder Decl., ¶ 12. Sanctions are justified,
as plaintiff had no basis to fail to appear for the IME. 
 
The matter was thoroughly discussed at the IDC, and the
parties were unable to come to a compromise, making this motion necessary. Four
hours total is reasonable, as is the requested $210/hour, a total of $840.
Payable by plaintiffs and counsel to defense counsel within 30 days.