  Case Number:  21STCV47583    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
to Tax Costs
Plaintiff moves to strike or tax
costs detailed in LBMMC’s 12/01/23 memorandum of costs.  She contends the memorandum should be
stricken in its entirety because it was not timely filed.  Additionally, she contends Defendant’s §998
offer was not in good faith and cannot form the basis of a request for
costs.  Alternatively, she contends $9135
in costs should be taxed because they were not reasonably necessary to the
conduct of the litigation and instead were merely convenient or beneficial to
its preparation.  
 
2.     Opposition
LBMMC filed timely opposition
papers on 7/24/24.  LBMMC argues its
memorandum was timely filed.  LBMMC
contends each item of costs was actually and necessarily incurred, and its §998
was made in good faith and not a token under the circumstances.  LBMMC asks the Court to deny the motion to
tax costs in its entirety.  
 
3.     Law
Governing Motions to Tax Costs
Allowable costs under CCP §1033.5
must be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation, rather than
merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation, and must be reasonable in
amount.  An item not specifically
allowable under §1033.5(a) nor prohibited under subdivision (b) may
nevertheless be recoverable in the discretion of the court if they meet the
above requirements (i.e., reasonably necessary and reasonable in amount).  If the items appearing in a cost bill appear
to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show
that they were not reasonable or necessary. 
(Ladas v. California State Automotive Assoc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761,
773-774.)  On the other hand, if the
items are properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof
is on the party claiming them as costs. 
(Ibid.)  Whether a cost item was
reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for the
trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion.  (Ibid.) 
However, because the right to costs is governed strictly by statute, a
court has no discretion to award costs not statutorily authorized. (Ibid.)  Discretion is abused only when, in its
exercise, the court “exceeds the bounds of reason, all of the circumstances
being considered.”  
 
4.     Timeliness
of Memorandum of Costs
The threshold issue before the
Court is whether the costs memorandum was timely filed.  The Court, after granting LBMMC’s motion for
summary judgment, entered judgment in LBMMC’s favor on 11/09/23.  LBMMC filed notice of entry of judgment on
11/17/23 and filed proof of service of the notice by email the same day.  LBMMC filed its memorandum of costs on
12/01/23.   
 
CRC 3.1700(a)(1) provides:
A prevailing party who claims costs
must serve and file a memorandum of costs within
15 days after the date of service of the notice of entry of judgment or
dismissal by the clerk under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5 or the date
of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal, or within
180 days after entry of judgment, whichever is first. The memorandum of costs
must be verified by a statement of the party, attorney, or agent that to the
best of his or her knowledge the items of cost are correct and were necessarily
incurred in the case.
 
Plaintiff contends 12/01/23 is
twenty days after 11/17/23 and therefore the memorandum was not timely.  It is unclear how Plaintiff calculated this
time.  12/01/23 falls 14 days after
11/17/23.  The memorandum was therefore
timely filed.  It appears Plaintiff is
calculating the time from 11/09/23 to 12/01/23, but that would be 22 days, not
20.  Regardless, 11/09/23 was not the
triggering date.  The triggering date was
11/17/23, when notice of entry of judgment was served.  CRC 3.1700(a)(1).  The Court therefore finds the memorandum was
timely and denies the motion to strike the entire memorandum.    
 
5.     Items
in Memorandum of Costs
a.    
Expert Fees
LBMMC seeks to recover either $5000
(worksheet, ¶8) or $4850 (cover sheet, ¶8) in expert witness fees.  CCP §1033.5(b) precludes recovery of expert
witness fees unless the expert was ordered by the court or such fees are
expressly recoverable per law.   The
exception to this rule is CCP §998, which permits recovery of expert fees if
the defendant makes a statutory offer to compromise, the plaintiff refuses the
offer, and the defendant ultimately achieves a better result than the offer.  Plaintiff concedes this is the case, but
contends the Court should tax the expert fees despite §998 because the offer
was “token” and not made in good faith.  
The purpose of CCP §998 is to
encourage the settlement of litigation without trial. To effectuate this
purpose, a §998 offer must be made in good faith. Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 1258, 1262.  A “token” or
“nominal” offer may not satisfy the “good faith” requirement and so may not be
the basis for an award of expert witness fees and costs penalties under
§998(c). Arno v. Helinet Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1019, 1024-1025.  “The offer must carry with it some reasonable
prospect of acceptance. One having no expectation that his or her offer will be
accepted will not be allowed to benefit from a no-risk offer made for the sole
purpose of later recovering large expert witness fees.” People ex rel. Lockyer
v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1271.  
 
If the defendant prevails at trial,
or the verdict is less than defendant's §998 offer, that fact constitutes prima
facie evidence that the offer was reasonable. The burden is therefore on the
offeree to prove the offer was in “bad faith.” Adams v. Ford Motor Co. (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1484.
 
LBMMC herein made a statutory offer
to compromise of $25,000.  Additionally,
if Plaintiff had accepted the offer, LBMMC would not have recovered its costs,
which were already substantial at that time. 
Plaintiff makes no meaningful argument in her moving papers in support
of her position that the offer was token and/or not in good faith.  The offer was made after LBMMC filed its
summary judgment motion, and would have allowed Plaintiff to avoid the
dispositive ruling ultimately entered against her.  
 
The Court finds the offer was not
token and was made in good faith, and the motion to tax expert costs is denied.
 
 
 
b.    
Models, Blow-Ups, and Exhibits
Defendant seeks to recover $710 for
“CD production of records and radiographic studies of records.”  Plaintiff argues the records could have been
obtained for $5.  Defendant does not
address the argument in opposition to the motion.  The motion to tax the $710 in models, blow-ups,
and exhibits is therefore granted.
 
c.     Deposition
Fees
Defendant seeks to recover $1416 in
costs associated with deposing Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff argues this cost was not reasonable because she repeatedly
asked Defendant to conduct written discovery instead of oral discovery.  It is common knowledge that a deposition is
necessary to litigation and that failing to depose the plaintiff in a civil
action would be extremely poor practice. 
The request to tax this cost is denied.
 
d.     Jury
Fees
Plaintiff contends a co-defendant
paid the jury fees and LBMMC did not do so. 
LBMMC contends the cost is valid because there is no evidence that LBMMC
knew the co-defendant had already paid the jury fees.  Any party can see on the Court’s online
eCourt system whether another party has already paid jury fees.  It is not reasonable to also pay the fees if
another party has already done so.  The
motion to tax this cost is granted.
 
e.     Filing
Fees for Motions
Plaintiff contends Defendant failed
to itemize the motion fees or provide any bills showing the fees were actually
incurred.  Defendant correctly notes that
the filing fees are itemized on the memorandum, Plaintiff does not contend any
of the fees were not actually incurred, and there is no obligation to include
receipts with the memorandum.  The motion
to tax this cost is therefore denied.
f.      Conclusion
The motion to tax the costs for
models, blow-ups and exhibits, as well as the motion to tax the costs for jury
fees, is granted.  The motion to tax
costs is otherwise denied.
 
LBMMC is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.