  Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRIEL RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH (an individual);
  KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); CBS Corporation, (a Delaware corporation);
  SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   2/6/23
 Trial Date:        8/27/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Gabriel
  Rueda’s Motion to Seal.



 
Background
Pleadings
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda sues
Defendants Emmanuel Pacquiao, Frederick Roach, Keith M. Davidson, Paramount
Global (Paramount; formerly CBS Corporation), Showtime Networks, Inc.
(Showtime) (with Paramount, the Showtime Defendants), and Does 1-25 pursuant to
a January 10, 2024 Second Amended Complaint (SAC) that alleges claims of (1)
Breach of Oral Contract, (2) Breach of Implied-in-Fact Contract, (3) Common
Counts for Labor, Work, and Services, (4) Quantum Meruit, (5) Fraud in the
Inducement, (6) Fraudulent Misrepresentation, (7) Unjust Enrichment, (8)
Attempted Extortion; and (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.
Motion Before the Court
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff
Rueda opposed joinders by the Showtime Defendants and Defendant Roach to a
January 5, 2021 motion to compel deposition by Defendant Davidson.
In support of his opposition,
Plaintiff Rueda lodged with the Court an exhibit containing “a redacted version
of the true and correct copy of [the] July 6, 2023 letter from Dr. Priyam V.
Tripathi, MD, MPH,” which contains non-public information relating to Plaintiff’s
medical condition.
That same day, Plaintiff Rueda
filed a motion to seal Dr. Tripathi’s letter.
The motion is not opposed by any
Defendant and is now before the Court.
 
Motion to Seal
Order
Sealing Record: GRANTED.
I.
Motion
to Seal – Moving Papers
A
party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).)
Here,
the motion and its memo were filed with the Court on November 28, 2023.
II.
Motion
to Seal – Service
A
copy of the motion or application must be served on all parties that have
appeared in the case. Unless the court orders otherwise, any party that already
possesses copies of the records to be placed under seal must be served with a
complete, unredacted version of all papers as well as a redacted version.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(2).)
Here,
the motion to seal attaches a proof of service showing service on counsel for the
Showtime Defendants, Defendant Roach, Defendant Davidson, and Defendant
Pacquiao. (Mot., POS.)
III.
Motion
to Seal – Lodging
Unless
good cause exists, a record to be filed under seal must be put in an envelope
or other appropriate container labeled ‘CONDITIONALLY UNDER SEAL,’ have a cover
sheet affixed thereto with an appropriate caption page stating the envelope
contains a motion to file a record under seal and be lodged in the sealed
envelope with the Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subds. (b)(4),
(d)(2), (d)(4).)
Here,
Dr. Tripathi’s letter has been lodged with the Court. (11/28/23 Opp’n to
Joinders, Notice of Lodging.)
IV.
Motion
to Seal – Redacted and Unredacted Versions
If
necessary to prevent disclosure, any motion to seal and any supporting
documents must be filed in a public redacted version and lodged in a complete,
unredacted version conditionally under seal.¿ The cover of the redacted version
must identify it as “Public-Redacts materials from conditionally sealed record”
while the cover of the unredacted version must identify it as “May Not Be
Examined Without Court Order-Contains material from conditionally sealed
record.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(5).)
Here,
Plaintiff Rueda has filed in the public record a redacted version of Dr.
Tripathi’s letter with the proper identification language and has lodged with
the Court an unredacted copy of the same. (11/28/23 Opp’n to Joinders, Notice
of Lodging; 11/28/23 Opp’n to Joinders, Khan Decl., Ex. B.)
V.
Motion
to Seal – Findings
“The
public has a First Amendment right of access to civil litigation documents
filed in court and used at trial or submitted as a basis for adjudication.” (Savaglio
v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 588, 596 (Savaglio),
citing NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20
Cal.4th 1178, 1208-1209, fn. 25].) Therefore, before a trial court orders a
record sealed, it must hold a hearing and make express findings set forth in
California Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subdivision (d): (1) there exists an
overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2) the overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed; (4) the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) no
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest. (Savaglio,
supra, at p. 596; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) A court’s
order allowing documents to be filed under seal must contain express factual
findings establishing these five factors. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550,
subd. (d).) 
Here,
the Court finds that there is a clear overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record: the prevention of disclosure of a
person’s medical history, which is subject to the right to privacy. (See Ruiz
v. Podolsky (2010) 50 Cal.4th 838, 850-851 [informational privacy in
medical information; autonomy privacy in obtaining treatment]; Medical Bd.
of Cal. v. Chiarottino (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 623, 631, fn. 5.
[informational privacy in patient prescription records].) Moreover, the Court
notes that the information to be sealed implicates the protective order
executed on January 18, 2019.
The
Court also finds that the overriding interests support sealing the record
because failure to do so will lead to a disclosure of Plaintiff Rueda’s medical
history. Plaintiff Rueda’s right to privacy in that medical information will
clearly be prejudiced if the information in Dr. Tripathi’s letter is filed in
the public record, particularly where a protective order exists between the
parties. A redaction of the entire letter is narrowly tailored as to preserve
Plaintiff’s right to privacy in the information contained therein. Moreover, no
less restrictive means exist because the Court has determined that the right to
privacy is triggered by the entirety of Dr. Tripathi’s letter, thus
necessitating a wholesale redaction of this document.
The
motion is also unopposed.
Plaintiff’s
motion is thus GRANTED. 

Conclusion
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Motion to Seal is GRANTED.
The Court signs the proposed order filed concurrently with this motion.
Moving party to provide notice.