  Case Number:  23NWCV00320    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  F Nani
Gita Kanel vs Cedarlane Natural Foods, Inc., et al.
Case
No.: 23NWCV00320
Hearing
Date: August 8, 2024 10:30 a.m. 
 
 
Tentative
Ruling 
Plaintiff
Nani Gita Kanel’s Motion for Trial Preference under Code of Civil Procedure
36(a) is DENIED, without prejudice. 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice. 
 
Background

This
matter stems from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on August 16, 2022 on
Interstate 605.  
Plaintiff
now files the instant Motion for Trial Preference. 
Legal
Background 
“A party to a
civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a
preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the
following findings: (1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a
whole[, and] (2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary
to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 36 (a).)
Discussion

Plaintiff
Nani Gita Kanel is 82 years old. 
As
a preliminary matter, the Court finds that Plaintiff has a substantial interest
in the litigation as she was involved in the subject motor vehicle incident. 
Plaintiff
contends that she is suffering as a result of the car accident which caused:
lost consciousness, skull fracture, head trauma with intercranial hemorrhage
and hematoma, acute rib fracture of 9 ribs, punctured lungs, fractured cervical
rib, hearing loss with pain in ears, slow to answer questions/memory loss,
bleeding in her right eye, injury to her neck, injury to her right shoulder,
Thoracic outlet syndrome; Laceration of her liver; Injury to her upper back;
Injury to her lower back (4mm herniation indenting thecal sac), and
Radiculopathy to upper and lower extremities.
However,
the Court notes most of these records are over two years old, and Counsel in
his declaration does not discuss any current medical prognosis that would
indicate the health of Plaintiff Kanel’s health is such that a preference is
necessary. In fact, Counsel never contends that Plaintiff is currently in poor
health.  The most recent medical examinations occurred in September of
2023.  In this last examination, Plaintiff is found to be alert and doing
well.  (Page 1257.) At pages 1208 through 1216, the physical therapist
indicates that Plaintiff is improving and that her rehabilitation potential is
good.  The Plaintiff does suffer from diabetes and high cholesterol, but
nowhere in the most recent medical examination is it indicated that Plaintiff’s
health is in such a condition necessitating a trial preference.  
Thus, the Court cannot find that Plaintiff’s health is such
that trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing her interest in this
litigation.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 36 (a).)
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for trial preference is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.