 Case Number:  24VECV04791    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV04791 FARHAD
LESSANTIZ vs MERCEDES BENZ
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Los Angeles-M, Inc., dba Keyes
European’s Demurrer to the Complaint’s Sixth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendant Los Angeles-M, Inc.,
dba Keyes European’s Request for Judicial Notice is DENIED.
Introduction 
Defendant Los Angeles-M, Inc. dba
Keyes European (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Farhad Lessantiz’s (Plaintiff)
Complaint.  The demurrer placed into
issue the sixth cause of action (COA) for negligent repair.  
Procedure 
Defendant requested judicial
notice of a complaint in the instant action and a ruling on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings in separate action (Donald Stephenson v. Mercedes
Benz USA, LLC et al (Super. Ct. Los Angeles County, pending, No. 23STCV23402).  The demurrer places the Complaint in the
instant action at issue and is required to review it so a request for judicial
notice of the same is unnecessary.  The
Court’s ruling on a completely separate action filed in a separate Department
is irrelevant to this action.
Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is DENIED.  
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the sixth
COA is barred by the Economic Loss Rule (ELR). 
“Simply stated, the economic loss rule provides: ‘[W]here a purchaser's
expectations in a sale are frustrated because the product he bought is not
working properly, his remedy is said to be in contract alone, for he has
suffered only ‘economic’ losses.'”  
(Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  The rule “requires a purchaser to recover in
contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed expectations, unless he
can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.” (Id.)  Only four exceptions have been recognized to
date: (1) where a breach of duty directly causes physical injury; (2) a breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in insurance contracts; (3) for
wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy; or (4) where the
contract was fraudulently induced. 
(Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551-52.)  “In each of these cases, the duty that gives
rise to tort liability is either completely independent of the contract or
arises from conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.”  (Id.)  
Plaintiff alleged that the
vehicle was taken to Defendant, as agent of Manufacturer MBZ for a warranty
repair of the defects (i.e., advanced driver assistance system defects, engine
defects, electrical defects, climate control defects, and other defects (Compl.
par. 15)).  Defendant allegedly owed a
duty of care and Defendant breached that duty by failing to repair the
vehicle.  (Compl. pars. 11, 14, 61-64.)  Plaintiff further alleged that the
defects/nonconformities in the vehicle were covered under the written warranty
issued by Co-Defendant Mercedes Benz USA, LLC (MBZ) and Plaintiff provided MBZ
opportunities to perform the warranty repairs through Defendant.  (Compl. passim.)  Plaintiff did not plead a separate duty that
was separate and apart from the warranty contract.  Further, there are no allegations as to any
physical damage or personal injury stemming from the alleged repairs.  The allegations show that the ELR prohibits
this tort claim.  
Plaintiff cited to North American
Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1991) 59 Cal.App.4th 764 (North American) to
argue that the ELR does not apply to service contracts.  Despite Plaintiff’s contention otherwise, the
ELR has been applied to service contracts. 
(Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 942 [loan
modification servicers];  J’Aire Corp. v.
Gregory (1979) 24 Cal.3d 799 [contractor hired to remodel leased
premises];   Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21
Cal.4th 543 [contract for the construction of homes.])  The Court finds Defendant’s argument and
legal authority persuasive and does not agree with Plaintiff’s contention that
the ELR is inapplicable to service contracts. 

Plaintiff then argued that the
“components exception” applies and the ELR does not work to bar the COA.  (Jiminez v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th
473, 483-484 (Jiminez); Sabicer v. Ford Motor Co. (C.D.Cal. 2019) 362 F.Supp.3d
837, 841.)  However, there are no facts
alleged in the Complaint to show that the multiple defects/nonconformities
worked to cause damage to another part of the vehicle or Plaintiff’s other
property (i.e., property other than the defective product itself – the
vehicle).  (Seely v. White Motor Co.
(1965) 63 Cal.2d 9, 19.)  The “components
exception” is inapplicable and Plaintiff’s argument is unpersuasive.
The Court applies the Economic
Loss Rule to this action and finds the COA barred.  
Plaintiff made a conclusory
argument that Co-Defendant MBZ’s affirmative defenses in their Answer (i.e.,
6th Affirmative Defense (AD) for apportionment; 9th AD for legal causation;
15th AD for improper maintenance) implicated Defendant’s negligence.  However, citation to or incorporation of
other pleadings to defend against a demurrer is improper.  A demurrer reviews the sufficiency of the COA
based upon the factual allegations in the four corners of the pleading and not
using other pleadings.  Plaintiff’s argument
citing to Co-Defendant MBZ’s Answer is unpersuasive.
Defendant argued that the
Complaint insufficiently pled facts to allege the damages element.  The argument is moot because of the review of
the ELR argument above.  Even if the Court
were to consider the argument as to damages, Plaintiff’s claimed damages stem
from the warranty claims for the defects/nonconformities.  Plaintiff failed to plead facts as to how
they were damaged by Defendant.  On this
defect, the demurrer is further persuasive. 

Plaintiff’s request for leave to
amend is without any facts or argument to show how the pleading defect can be
cured.  It is Plaintiff’s duty to provide
facts/arguments to show how the pleading defect can be cured.  Without facts or arguments, the request is
not persuasive.
The demurrer to the sixth COA is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.