 Case Number:  24VECV01722    Hearing Date:   December 19, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV01722 SARGIS
KHACHIKYAN vs STATE FARM
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is
DENIED.  Defendant State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Company is ORDERED to file their Answer to the First Amended
Complaint within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company (Defendant) moved to strike portions of Plaintiff
Sargis Khachikyan’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint (FAC).  The motion placed into issue the exemplary and
punitive damages requested in the first cause of action (COA) for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and  attorneys’ fees requested in the second COA
for breach of contract.
Discussion 
Defendant argued that the request
for punitive damages in the first COA for bad faith failed to allege specific
facts as to malice, oppression, or fraud. 
Defendant argued that the new factual allegations only amount to an
unreasonable failure or delay in conducting a thorough investigation and do not
rise to the level of a reckless disregard of the rights of others.  This is the same argument made at the prior
motion to strike.  Preliminarily, the
Court noted that the fraud element under punitive damages is not at issue.  Plaintiff’s FAC did not allege any misconduct
against Defendant based upon fraud.  The
punitive damages claim, as alleged, relies upon the malice and oppression factors
and specifically relies upon the element of despicable conduct carried on with
a reckless disregard of the other’s rights. 
The Court finds Fleming v. Safeco Ins. Co. (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 31
(Fleming) to be instructive.  The insurer
delayed seven months to resolve their insured’s Uninsured/Underinsured Motorist
(UM) claim and during that time the claim was passed from adjuster to adjuster,
some of whom did not have authority to pay the policy limits.  The Court of Appeal found that such facts
were sufficient to support a jury award for punitive damages under a bad faith
COA.  (Fleming, supra, 160 Cal.App.3d at
pp. 37 and 45.)  In the instant FAC,
Plaintiff alleged that the UM claim was made on September 23, 2022.  (FAC par. 10.)  This action was filed on April 15, 2024,
wherein Plaintiff first alleged that Defendant delayed in investigating the UM
claim and still had not made a final determination on the UM claim.  (Original Complaint, par. 13 & FAC par.
14.)  These facts show a delay of
approximately a year and a half.  During
that time period, Plaintiff alleged that Defendant made repetitive requests for
the same information and/or records that were previously submitted to
Defendant; demanded irrelevant information like employment records when
Plaintiff was not claiming any lost earnings; demanded an Examination Under
Oath despite Plaintiff submitting to same previously; demanding authorization
to download the Electronic Data Recorder when authorization had previously been
given; and failed to honor Plaintiff’s policy limits demand and failed to
initiate arbitration.  Additionally,
Plaintiff alleged that they were involved in a subsequent automobile accident
and Defendant referred the claim to its Special Investigations Unit despite the
at-fault party accepting responsibility for the loss.  (FAC pars. 11-14.)  The delay of a year and a half combined with
the allegations that Defendant made unnecessary repetitive demands and/or
irrelevant demands upon Plaintiff are sufficient to allege that Defendant did
not investigate Plaintiff’s claims despite Defendant responding to Plaintiff’s
inquiries with a “blanket letter” stating that the matter was still being
investigated.  Defendant asserting that
an investigation was on-going is alleged to be contradicted by Defendant’s
actions of making repetitive and unnecessary or irrelevant demands for
previously submitted information/documentation. 
The facts alleged are sufficient to allege Defendant’s despicable
conduct done with a conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights because Defendant
is alleged to have misled Plaintiff.  The
arguments in the motion are unpersuasive.
The motion to strike punitive
damages is DENIED.
Defendant argued that Plaintiff’s
fees request in the second COA for breach of contract failed to plead facts to
form the basis for the fees request (i.e., statute or contract).  The argument is noted to be the same argument
made at the prior motion to strike against the original Complaint.  Plaintiff added new fact pleading to show an
excuse why a contract provision cannot be expressly alleged to support the
demand for attorneys’ fees.  Plaintiff
alleged that the fee provision cannot be expressly alleged because Plaintiff
does not have a copy of the policy and despite efforts to obtain a copy from
Defendant, Defendant refused to provide a copy. 
(FAC pars. 14 and 31.)  This
express allegation was not made in the original complaint and was argued as a
defense to both motions to strike.  In
that Plaintiff has now expressly alleged facts to show a reason for not being
able to expressly plead an attorneys’ fees provision and instead pled it “upon
information and belief”, Plaintiff sufficiently cured the pleading defect.  Plaintiff’s allegation “upon information and
belief” that an attorneys’ fees provision exists in the policy is sufficient to
survive the motion to strike.
Defendant’s motion to strike the
request for attorneys’ fees is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.