  Case Number:  21STCV38410    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Southern California Permanente Medical Group 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Jawchyi C. Lee
 
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.  
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On October 19, 2021, Plaintiff Jawchyi
C. Lee filed his Complaint against Defendant Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (initially sued as Kaiser Foundation Hospitals) on causes of action
of defamation, violation of Health and Safety Code section 1278.5, violations
of Labor Code section 6300 et seq. and 6400 et seq., and violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5. 
 
        On October 22, 2021, Plaintiff filed his
First Amended Complaint (FAC).
 
        On February 8, 2022, Defendant filed its
Answer to the FAC.
 
        On January 5, 2024, Defendant its Motion
for Summary Adjudication. In support of its Motion, Defendant concurrently
filed: (1) Separate Statement; and (2) Proposed Order.
 
        On March 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Opposition to the Motion. In support of his Opposition, Plaintiff concurrently
filed: (1) Evidence in Opposition; (2) Notice of Lodging; (3) Separate
Statement; (4) Objections to Evidence; (5) Proposed Order on Objections to
Evidence; and (6) Proof of Service. 
 
        On March 18, 2024, Defendant filed its
Reply in support of the Motion. In support of its Reply, Defendant filed: (1)
Declaration of Joshua C. Traver; (2) Request for Judicial Notice; (3)
Objections to Evidence; and (4) Proposed Order on Objections to Evidence. 
 
        On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed his
Objections to New Evidence and Argument Presented by Defendant in its Reply
Brief. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Evidentiary Objections
 
A.      Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff filed evidentiary objections to
Defendant’s evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




7


SUSTAINED


 




8


SUSTAINED


 




9



OVERRULED




10


 


OVERRULED




11


 


OVERRULED




12


 


OVERRULED




13


 


OVERRULED




14


 


OVERRULED




15


 


OVERRULED




 
 
        Plaintiff also objects to:
(1) the arguments made for the first time in the Reply; and (2) the evidence
provided for the first time in the Reply. The following are the Court’s rulings
on these objections.
 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




 
 
B.      Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendant filed evidentiary objections to
Plaintiff’s evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


SUSTAINED


 




4



OVERRULED




5


SUSTAINED


 




 
II.      
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests that the Court take
judicial notice of a license. The Court GRANTS the request for judicial notice.
 
 
III.     Legal Standard
 
“A party may
move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that
the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding. The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since
the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom
the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that
the court, with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (1)(a).)
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law. That is because of the general principle that a party who seeks
a court’s action in his favor bears the burden of persuasion thereon. There is
a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of
his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment standards in Aguilar
to motions for summary adjudication].) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.
Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be
resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th
832, 839, citation omitted.) 
 
“The trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a fact
finder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court
grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder,
supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for
summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must
instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all
reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
“On a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no
discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation omitted.) 
 
IV.     
Discussion
 
A.      The Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication
on Plaintiff’s first two causes of action. (Motion, p. 7:20–25.)
 
Defendant argues: (1) that the first
cause of action for defamation fails because Dr. Joshua Parnes’s remarks are
not actionable, Dr. Soyun Kim’s remarks are not actionable against Defendant,
and Dr. James Tan Lee did not make any remarks about the incident at issue; and
(2) that the second cause of action for violation of Health and Safety Code
section 1278.5 fails because Defendant is not a healthcare facility. (Motion,
pp. 4:4–6, 6:5–7.)
 
        Plaintiff disagrees,
arguing: (1) that the first cause of action is valid and proper; and (2) that
Plaintiff states a claim for violation of Health and Safety Code section
1278.5. (Opposition, pp. 11:2, 13:4.)
 
        Defendant reiterates
its arguments in its Reply. 
 
B.      Defamation
 
1.      Legal Standard
 
There are two types of
defamation:  libel and slander.  (Civ. Code, § 44.)
“Libel is a false and unprivileged publication by writing,
printing, picture, effigy, or other fixed representation to the eye, which
exposes any person to hatred, contempt, ridicule, or obloquy, or which causes
him to be shunned or avoided, or which has a tendency to injure him in his
occupation.” (Civ. Code, § 45.)
“A libel which is defamatory of the plaintiff without the
necessity of explanatory matter, such as an inducement, innuendo or other
extrinsic fact, is said to be a libel on its face. Defamatory language not
libelous on its face is not actionable unless the plaintiff alleges and proves
that he has suffered special damage as a proximate result thereof. Special
damage is defined in Section 48a of this code.” (Civ. Code, § 45a.)
 
“Slander is a false and unprivileged
publication, orally uttered, and also communications by radio or any mechanical
or other means which:
“1. Charges any person with crime, or with
having been indicted, convicted, or punished for crime;
 
“2. Imputes in him the present existence of
an infectious, contagious, or loathsome disease;
 
“3. Tends directly to injure him in respect
to his office, profession, trade or business, either by imputing to him general
disqualification in those respects which the office or other occupation
peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with reference to his office,
profession, trade, or business that has a natural tendency to lessen its
profits;
 
“4. Imputes to him impotence or a want of
chastity; or
 
“5. Which, by natural consequence, causes
actual damage.”
(Civ. Code, § 46.)
 
“‘The sine
qua non of recovery for defamation . . . is the existence of falsehood.’
Because the statement must contain a provable falsehood, courts distinguish
between statements of fact and statements of opinion¿for purposes of defamation
liability.¿Although statements of fact may be actionable as libel, statements
of opinion are constitutionally protected.” (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego (2007)
154 Cla.App.4th 97, 112, quoting Letter Carriers v. Austin (1974) 418
U.S. 264, 283.)
 
“[T]he question is not strictly whether the published statement is fact or
opinion. Rather, the dispositive question is whether a reasonable fact finder
could conclude the published statement declares or implies a provably false
assertion of fact.” (Franklin v. Dynamic Details, Inc. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 375, 385, citations omitted.)
 
“Whether a statement declares or implies
a provable false assertion of fact is a question of law for the court to
decide, unless the statement is susceptible of both an innocent and a libelous
meaning, in which case the jury must decide how the statement was understood.”
(Franklin, supra, at p. 385, citations omitted.)
 
“To determine whether a statement is
actionable fact or nonactionable opinion, we apply a totality of the
circumstances test pursuant to which we consider both the language of the
statement itself and the context in which it is made.” (Summit Bank v.
Rogers (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 669, 696, citation omitted.)
 
2.      Discussion
 
The Parties disagree about whether there
are sufficient grounds for a defamation claim here. 
 
        Defendant argues that
the alleged statements at issue are not actionable. Defendant meets its initial
burden regarding the first cause of action for defamation. 
 
        In opposition, Plaintiff
provides: (1) the deposition of Dr. Joshua Scott Parnes, in which he discusses
statements he made to multiple people (including other doctors) about multiple
security guards being dragged behind Plaintiff when Plaintiff took a bottle of
hand sanitizer and sanitation wipes (Evidence in Opposition, Exh. 29); (2) the
deposition of Sam Park, who found that there was no compliance violation by
Plaintiff involving hand sanitizer (Evidence in Opposition, Exh. 33); and (3)
documentary evidence indicating, among other things, that no security guards
were dragged by Plaintiff (Evidence in Opposition, Exh. 15 and Notice of
Lodging). 
 
        There appear to be
multiple triable issues of material fact here, including whether false
statements were published by Defendant’s agents and/or employees about
Plaintiff. Further, if the alleged false statements are proven to be false and
injurious to Plaintiff’s office, trade, profession, or business, a trier of
fact could find them to be defamatory and hence actionable. Because an
assessment of whether such allegedly defamatory publications occurred and are
actionable is intertwined with factual determinations, this issue is not
suitable for summary adjudication. Thus, Plaintiff meets his subsequent burden
regarding the first cause of action for defamation. 
 
        The Court DENIES
summary adjudication to the first cause of action for defamation. 
 
C.      Health and Safety Code Section 1278.5
 
1.      Legal Standard
 
“The Legislature finds and declares that it is the
public policy of the State of California to encourage patients, nurses, members
of the medical staff, and other health care workers to notify government
entities of suspected unsafe patient care and conditions. The Legislature
encourages this reporting in order to protect patients and in order to assist
those accreditation and government entities charged with ensuring that health
care is safe. The Legislature finds and declares that whistleblower protections
apply primarily to issues relating to the care, services, and conditions of a
facility and are not intended to conflict with existing provisions in state and
federal law relating to employee and employer relations.” (Health and Saf.
Code, § 1278.5, subd. (a).)
 
A health facility shall not discriminate or retaliate, in any
manner, against a patient, employee, member of the medical staff, or other
health care worker of the health facility because that person has done either
of the following:
 
“(A) Presented a grievance, complaint, or report to
the facility, to an entity or agency responsible for accrediting or evaluating
the facility, or the medical staff of the facility, or to any other
governmental entity.
 
“(B) Has initiated, participated, or cooperated in an
investigation or administrative proceeding related to the quality of care,
services, or conditions at the facility that is carried out by an entity or
agency responsible for accrediting or evaluating the facility or its medical
staff, or governmental entity.”
 
(Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd. (b)(1).)
 
“An entity that
owns or operates a health facility, or that owns or operates any other health
facility, shall not discriminate or retaliate against a person because that
person has taken any actions pursuant to this subdivision.” (Health & Saf.
Code, § 1278.5, subd. (b)(2).)
 
“A violation of this section shall be subject to a
civil penalty of not more than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000). The
civil penalty shall be assessed and recovered through the same administrative
process set forth in Chapter 2.4 (commencing with Section 1417) for long-term
health care facilities.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd. (b)(3).)
 
“There shall be a rebuttable presumption that
discriminatory action was taken by the health facility, or by the entity that
owns or operates that health facility, or that owns or operates any other
health facility, in retaliation against an employee, member of the medical
staff, or any other health care worker of the facility, if responsible staff at
the facility or the entity that owns or operates the facility had knowledge of
the actions, participation, or cooperation of the person responsible for any
acts described in paragraph (1) of subdivision (b), and the discriminatory
action occurs within 120 days of the filing of the grievance or complaint by
the employee, member of the medical staff or any other health care worker of
the facility.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd. (d)(1).)
 
“For purposes of this section, discriminatory
treatment of an employee, member of the medical staff, or any other health care
worker includes, but is not limited to, discharge, demotion, suspension, or any
unfavorable changes in, or breach of, the terms or conditions of a contract,
employment, or privileges of the employee, member of the medical staff, or any
other health care worker of the health care facility, or the threat of any of
these actions.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd. (d)(2).)
 
“The presumptions in subdivisions (c) and (d)
shall be presumptions affecting the burden of producing evidence as provided in
Section 603 of the Evidence Code.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd.
(e).)
 
“For purposes of this section, ‘health facility’
means a facility defined under this chapter, including, but not limited to, the
facility’s administrative personnel, employees, boards, and committees of the
board, and medical staff.” (Health & Saf. Code, § 1278.5, subd. (i).)
 
2.      Discussion
 
The Parties disagree about whether
Defendant can be liable under Health and Safety Code section 1278.5. 
 
Defendant argues that it is not liable as
an owner or operator of a health facility, and thus it cannot be liable under
Health and Safety Code section 1278.5. Defendant meets its initial burden
regarding the second cause of action for violation of Health and Safety Code
section 1278.5. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff provides
declaratory evidence from Plaintiff and from Dr. Kevin Kao that indicates
Defendant operates the health facility at issue and thus can be liable under
Health and Safety Code section 1278.5. (Evidence in Opposition, Decl. Lee, ¶¶
3–9 and Exh. 34.) 
 
        Whether Defendant
actually operates the health facility at issue is a triable issue of material
fact. Since liability under Health and Safety Code section 1278.5 is
intertwined with this factual question, this issue is not suitable for summary
adjudication. Thus, Plaintiff meets his subsequent burden regarding the second
cause of action for violation of Health and Safety Code section 1278.5.
 
        The Court DENIES
summary adjudication to the second cause of action for violation of Health and
Safety Code section 1278.5.
 
V.        
Conclusion
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.  
 