 Case Number:  23VECV03325    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  T 23VECV03352 MILLER V NOMAIR
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Baz Nomair’s Motion to Set Aside
the Default and Default Judgment is DENIED. 
The court does need to know,
however, if there is a pending bankruptcy of BAZ NOMAIR.
Introduction 
Defendant Baz Nomair (Defendant)
moved to set aside the entry of default and the possession only default
judgment entered in favor of Plaintiff Paul Miller, as Trustee of the Paul
Miller Separate Property Living Trust Dated 8/31/99 (Plaintiff). 
Discussion  
Defendant moved to set aside the
default and default judgment based upon his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
sec. 473(b).)  Defendant asserted that he
never received notice of the September 14, 2023 ex parte hearing that advanced
Defendant’s demurrer hearing date from October 3, 2023 to September 14,
2023.  However, he does not seek to set
aside that order.  Also, Defendant does
not deny that the number called to advise him of the ex parte was his number.
Defendant admits that he received
the Court’s Minute Order showing that the demurrer was heard on September 14,
2023 and overruled, and that he was to answer the complaint within 5 days.  (Defendant’s Decl. pg. 5:20-26.)  
Defendant gives no explanation,
much less excusable neglect, to show why he did not answer the complaint, did
not call the court, did not talk to defense counsel, did not seek legal advice,
or otherwise act reasonably after he received the notice that the answer was
due.  He does not deny receiving the
overnight delivery package so he could tell what happened at the ex parte
application.  He does not deny that the
phone number called was not his.  He has
no explanation why he did not put his phone number, which is mandatory, on his
papers. Indeed, he did not put a phone number on any of the papers he filed
with the court, nor an email address either.  One cannot sit on his rights, especially when
he has been advised by the court that there is a deadline to answer.
The motion to set aside the
default and default judgment is DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.