  Case Number:  22VECV00579    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  T BALOUCH V GENERAL MOTORS 22VECV00579
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant General Motors LLC’s Demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED. 
Defendant General Motors LLC’s
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the
first through fourth causes of action; and DENIED as to the fifth cause of
action.
Defendant is ordered to file an
Answer to the First Amended Complaint within 20 days.
Introduction 
Defendant General Motors LLC
(Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Amir Balouch’s (Plaintiff) First Amended
Complaint (FAC).  Defendant demurred to
Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action (COA) for fraudulent inducement-concealment.  Defendant moved to strike Plaintiff’s request
for punitive damages.
Discussion  
Defendant argued that there are
insufficient facts alleging Defendant’s knowledge of the defects in Plaintiff’s
vehicle at the time of purchase and Defendant’s intent to defraud.  This pleading defect was previously reviewed
at the prior demurrer to the Complaint’s fraud COA.  Plaintiff cured the defective pleading to
expressly allege that Defendant knew of the battery defect since 2016 that the
model year 2017 or newer Chevrolet Bolt EV, including Plaintiff’s vehicle,
contained the battery defect and that Defendant knew of the defect in
Plaintiff’s vehicle based upon “pre-production and post-production testing
data, early consumer complaints about the Battery Defect made directly to GM
and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from GM’s network
of dealers, testing conducted by GM in response to these complaints, as well as
warranty repair and part replacements data received by GM from GM’s network of
dealers, amongst other sources of internal information.”  Plaintiff further alleged that the battery in
2017-2022 Chevrolet Bolt vehicles, including Plaintiff’s vehicle, shared common
battery system components and lithium-ion battery which included the battery
defect.  Plaintiff also alleged that
Defendant made communications to the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration (NHTSA) relating to the battery components in the Chevrolet Bolt
EV.  (FAC pars. 24-25, 27, 29-32.)  These new allegations plead sufficiently
specific facts as to Defendant’s knowledge of the defect and that the knowledge
of the defect was inclusive of Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Specifically as to the element of intent to
deceive, Plaintiff’s FAC alleged that Defendant concealed the defect from
Plaintiff prior to and at the time of entering the lease based upon the
allegation that Defendant informed consumers that the vehicles were functioning
properly or conducted repairs that only masked the defect.  Further, Plaintiff alleged that Defendant
failed to inform consumers of the defect in sales materials, advertisements,
publications, online marketing, television, radio, and other marketing
campaigns” and concealed the defect with ineffective repair procedures
published to its dealerships.  (FAC pars.
34-36.)  These additional fact
allegations are sufficient to plead supportive facts as to the intent to
defraud element.  Plaintiff’s FAC cured
the pleading defects raised in the prior demurrer to the Complaint and the
argument made against the instant FAC is not persuasive.
Defendant argued that there is
insufficient fact pleading to allege that Defendant had a duty to
disclose.  Defendant asserted that
Plaintiff failed to allege any transaction involving “direct dealings.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 311-312.)  This argument
was reviewed at the prior demurrer to the original Complaint.  The Court agreed with the argument raised
previously.  However, Plaintiff presented
case law both then and in opposition to the instant demurrer to show that the
duty to disclose, as to the manufacturer of a vehicle, is imposed if there is
(1) an affirmative misrepresentation, or, (2) if plaintiff alleges “physical
injury or . . . safety concerns posed by the defect” at issue.  (Daugherty v. Am. Honda Motor Co. (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 824, 836.)  As reviewed
previously, the Complaint, as well as the FAC, sufficiently pled facts to
allege “safety concerns posed by the defect” 
(i.e., loss of propulsion, catastrophic fire, no crank, reduced range,
thermal runaway, and/or spontaneous combustion. 
(See FAC pars. 24-26, 39-40, and 92.)) 
As reviewed previously and reviewed now, Plaintiff sufficiently pled
facts to allege a duty to disclose within the FAC.
In response to arguments in the
Opposition, Defendant’s Reply added that the FAC failed to allege sufficient
facts as to the pleading element of a concealment and failed to plead facts to
allege the element of damages.  Despite
Defendant’s argument otherwise, Plaintiff sufficiently pled facts to allege
that Defendant concealed the battery defect. 
(FAC pars. 24-27, 90-92.)  Factual
pleading as to the element of damages is also sufficiently alleged because
Plaintiff pled that he would not have entered into the lease had he known of
the defect.  (FAC pars. 8-9, 37, 94, and
102.)  The arguments as to the elements
of concealment and damages are not persuasive.
The Demurrer to the FAC is
OVERRULED.
Defendant moved to strike the
request for punitive damages made in Prayer, par. g.  Defendant argued that punitive damages are
not recoverable under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  This issue was resolved at the prior demurrer
to the original Complaint, wherein the Court reviewed the case law authority
and arguments presented by both parties. 
The parties again asserted the same legal authority and argument
previously raised.  Re-asserting the same
argument and legal authority previously raised did not change the Court’s
position on the issue.  Further,
Plaintiff expressly represented to the Court that punitive damages are not
being requested under the first four COAs. 
Despite Plaintiff’s representation to the Court previously, Plaintiff’s
instant Opposition showed that Plaintiff is seeking punitive damages under the
first four COAs.  As such, the Court
reiterates its analysis from the prior demurrer hearing.
Defendant argued that punitive
damages is not proper under the first four COAs for violation of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (Civ. Code, sec. 1790 et seq.; The Act)
because civil penalties are “akin to punitive damages.”  (Kwan v. Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc.
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 184-185; Troensegaard v. Silver crest Industries,
Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218, 228 (Troensegaard.))  Damages under The Act included a refund of
the purchase price or replacement of the vehicle and, under certain
circumstances, a civil penalty not to exceed two times Plaintiff’s actual
damages.  (Civ. Code, sec. 1794.)  Civil penalties are awarded if the trier of
fact finds Defendant willfully violated its obligations.  (Civ. Code, sec. 1794(c).)  Plaintiff cited to several federal cases to
dispute Troensegaard.  (See Brilliant v.
Tiffin Motor Homes, Inc. (N.D. Cal. July 7, 2010) 2010 WL 2721531; Clark v. LG
Elecs. U.S.A., Inc. (S.D. Cal. Oct. 29, 2013) 2013 WL 5816410;  Romo v. FFG Ins. Co. (C.D. Cal. 2005) 397
F.Supp. 2d 1237, 1240.)  Although the
federal cases may have opined otherwise, the Court exercised its discretion in
finding the federal cases to be unpersuasive. 
Because our California Courts of Appeal opined that civil penalties
under The Act are “akin to punitive damages” and there is no California case
law opining that punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294 can be pled or
awarded under The Act, the Court finds Defendant’s argument persuasive.  
Plaintiff asserted that punitive
damages and civil penalties may be sought simultaneously at the pleading
stage.  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1256-1257 (Clauson.)) 
However, Clauson is distinguishable from the allegations in the instant
action.  The Court opined that James
Clauson could plead punitive damages under the common law tort claim of
invasion of privacy and simultaneously plead civil penalties under the
statutory claim for unlawful wiretapping pursuant to Penal Code section 637.2,
subdivision (a).  The Court of Appeal did
not opine that punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294 could be pled
under the statutory claim for unlawful wiretapping.  Plaintiff is attempting to argue that Civil
Code section 3294 punitive damages can be pled under The Act.  However, Plaintiff’s argument is without any
supportive legal authority.  
The motion to strike punitive
damages is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first through fourth
COAs.  
As to the request for punitive
damages under the fifth COA for fraud, the Court finds that the fifth COA is
sufficiently pled to survive the general demurrer, as reviewed above, and thus
the claim is sufficient to support the fraud element required for punitive
damages.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
3294.)  The Court does not find
Defendant’s argument against punitive damages to be persuasive.
The motion to strike punitive
damages is DENIED as to the fifth COA.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO  GIVE
NOTICE.