 Case Number:  23STCV07584    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



GABRIELA HARNDEN 
  
        
  vs.
 
AMERICAN HONDA
  MOTOR CO., INC. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV07584
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 10, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.  
 
            On
4/6/2023, Plaintiff Gabriela Harnden (Plaintiff) filed suit against American
Honda Motor Co. Inc., alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint and stay the
action pending the completion of arbitration proceedings. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that on 9/12/2021, Plaintiff entered into a purchase
contract (RISC) for a new 2022 Honda Pilot (Subject Vehicle). The Purchase
Agreement reads “ARBITRATION PROVISION” and “PLEASE REVIEW –
IMPORTANT- AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS”).” (Song Decl., Exh. A.)  
 
The
arbitration provision provides: 
 
1.     
EITHER YOU OR WE MAY
CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT
OR BY JURY TRIAL. 
(Ibid.)

 
The
arbitration provision also states broadly that any claim arising out of the
Sales Contract or any resulting relationship with “third parties who do not
sign this contract” could be resolved by binding arbitration: 
 
Any claim or
dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the
interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability
of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our
election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.
 
(Ibid,
emphasis added.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has no standing as a non-signatory
to invoke arbitration because there is no principal-agent relationship, no
third-party beneficiary relationship, and because the doctrine of equitable
estoppel does not apply. In particular, Plaintiff alleges that the agreement
was purely between Plaintiff and the non-party selling dealership, and that his
claims against Defendant in no way reference the underlying RISC. 
 
The Court
agrees. In the past, this Court has concluded that Defendant could enforce the
arbitration agreement under a theory of equitable estoppel. This was based on a
conclusion that Song-Beverly claims: (1) necessarily rely on the underlying
contract, given that if a plaintiff
did not enter into the RISC, he or she would not have received the Subject
Vehicle or the corresponding warranties and certifications from the defendant; and
(2) all directly relate to the condition of the vehicle and thus are intimately
founded in and intertwined with the underlying contract and the condition of
the vehicle bought subject to that contract. 
 
            However,
the Court of Appeal directly addressed the manufacturer’s standing vis-à-vis
the Sales Contract and equitable estoppel in the newly published Martha
Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company (2023) Cal.Ct.App. In rejecting the car
manufacturer’s right to enforce the Sales Contract’s arbitration agreement
under a theory of third-party beneficiary or equitable estoppel, the Court
wrote: 
 
We agree with
the trial court that FMC [Ford] could not compel arbitration based on
plaintiffs’ agreements with the dealers that sold them the vehicles. Equitable
estoppel does not apply because, contrary to FMC’s arguments, plaintiffs’
claims against it in no way rely on the agreements. FMC was not a third party
beneficiary of those agreements as there is no basis to conclude the plaintiffs
and their dealers entered into them with the intention of benefitting FMC.
 
            Moreover,
as noted by Plaintiff in opposition, Felisilda, the authority relied
upon to allow manufacturers to enforce arbitration, dealt with a dealership’s
motion under its own contract. As such, Ochoa is more directly analogous
to the facts here, and the Court declines to follow Felisilda over Ochoa.
 
            Given
the conclusion that Defendant does not have standing to enforce the underlying
arbitration provision, Defendant has not met its burden here. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is denied.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 