  Case Number:  22STCV00001    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



QEETOYA LAY, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
INTERNATIONAL REALTY AND INVESTMENTS, a company, SHOUSHAN MOVSESIAN,
  an individual, RUTH P. ISAACS, an individual and a trustee of the EXEMPTION
  TRUST OF THE ISAAC TRUST, RALPH W. ISAACS, an individual and a trustee of the
  ISAAC TRUST, RALPH W. ISAACS JR., an individual and a trustee of the ISAAC
  TRUST, and DOES 1 through 50, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV00001
 Hearing Date:   3/19/24
 Trial Date:        10/29/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant K S
  Bennett Enterprises, Inc. dba International Realty and Investments’ Motion
  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Qeetoya Lay sues
Defendants Defendant International
Realty and Investments (the dba for K S Bennett Enterprises, Inc.), Shoushan
Movsesian, Ruth P. Isaacs (as an individual and as trustee of the Exemption
Trust of the Isaac Trust), Ralph W. Isaacs (as an individual and as trustee of
the Isaac Trust), Ralph W. Isaacs Jr. (as an individual and as trustee of the
Isaac Trust), and Does 1 through 50 pursuant to a January 3, 2022
Complaint.
The Complaint alleges claims of (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (3) Breach of Warranty of Habitability, (4)
Negligence, (5) Private Nuisance, (6) Violation of California Civil Code
Section 1942.4, (7) Fraud, (8) Violation of Unfair Business Practices, (9)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (10) Violations of Rent
Escrow Account Program (Chapter XVI).
These claims arise from allegations that during her tenancy at 3910 Coco
Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90008 (the Property)—i.e., real property owned,
operated, or are otherwise connected to Defendants—Plaintiff reported, and
Defendants failed to remediate, uninhabitable conditions despite citations from
Los Angeles housing authorities. These conditions include structural hazards,
nuisance, inadequate sanitation, lack of weather protection, lack of
maintenance, electrical issues, plumbing issues, and heating and ventilation
issues.
On March 2, 2022, the Complaint and summons were served on Defendants K S
Bennett Enterprises, Inc. (Bennett Enterprises) dba International Realty and
Investments, Ruth Isaacs, Ralph Isaacs Sr., and Ralph Isaacs Jr.
On March 6, 2022, the Complaint and summons were served on Defendant
Shoushan Movsesian.
On April 26, 2022, Defendant Ruth
Isaacs filed an Answer to Complaint.
B. Relevant Procedural Background
On June 6, 2022, the Court held a
case management conference (CMC), at which time the Court set an Order to Show
Cause (OSC) Re: Status of Default/Responsive Pleadings for hearing on August 5,
2022, a date to which the CMC was also continued.
On August 5, 2022, no judge being
available, the Clerk continued the CMC to October 18, 2022.
That same day, Plaintiff Lay filed
and the Clerk entered a request for dismissal of Defendants Shoushan Movsesian,
Ralph Isaacs Sr., and Ralph Isaacs Jr. from all causes of action in the
Complaint, without prejudice, thus leaving Ruth Isaacs and Bennett Enterprises
as the sole operative Defendants.
On October 18, 2022, the Court held
the CMC, which was attended only by counsel for Plaintiff and for Defendant
Ruth Isaacs. The Court set alternative dispute resolution, final status
conference, and trial dates.
On February 2, 2023, the Clerk gave
notice of case reassignment from the Honorable David Sotelo (Ret.) to the
Honorable Anne Richardson, presiding.
That same day, Plaintiff Lay filed
a proof of service showing service of the notice of case reassignment on Defendant
Ruth Isaacs.
On October 26, 2023, Bennett
Enterprises made its first appearance in the case by filing a statutorily late—but
thus far unchallenged—Answer.
C. Motion Before the Court
On February 22, 2024, Bennett
Enterprises filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint in this action
alleging (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Express Indemnification, (3) Equitable
Indemnification, (4) Equitable Contribution, and (5) Declaratory Relief against
Defendant Shoushan Movsesian, as trustee of the Isaacs Trust Dated 4/17/1985,
and Roes 1 through 50, inclusive.
The motion was served on counsel
for Plaintiff Lay via email at the address appearing for Plaintiff’s counsel in
the Complaint, and the motion was served on counsel for Defendant Ruth Isaacs,
Ralph Isaacs Sr., and Shoushan Movsesian via email at the address appearing for
counsel in the April 26, 2022, Ruth Isaacs’ Answer—though the Court notes that
no notice of appearance exists in the record noting counsel’s representation of
Shoushan Movsesian, and both Ralph Isaacs and Shoushan Movesian have been
dismissed.
Defendant Bennett Enterprises’ unopposed
motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint Against
Co-Defendant: GRANTED.
A. Timeliness
The defendant can file the
cross-complaint as a matter of right any time before the court sets a date for
trial if the cross-complaint is brought against a co-defendant or third party.
(Code Civ. Proc., 428.50, subd. (b).) The defendant must obtain leave to file a
cross-complaint any time after that date, even if the court later changes or
vacates the trial date. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50, subd. (c); Looney v.
Superior Court (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 719, 722-23.) However, the defendant
cannot file a cross-complaint after judgment is entered on the complaint. (See City
of Hanford v. Superior Court, supra, 208 Cal.App.3d at p. 587.)
Here, this motion was filed on
February 22, 2024, after the statutory time to file an answer but prior to
judgment being entered in this action, for which reason the motion is timely
but requiring leave of this Court.
B. Permissive Cross-Complaint
1. Legal
Standard
A cross-complaint against a
co-defendant or third party is always permissive. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
428.10, subd. (b); Insurance Co. of N. Am. v. Liberty Mut. Ins. (1982)
128 Cal.App.3d 297, 303.) A defendant can file a cross-complaint against a
codefendant or third party if the defendant’s cause of action (1) arises from
the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as
the action brought against the defendant or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy that is the subject of the action
brought against the defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., 428.10, subd. (b); see, e.g., Paragon
Real Estate Group v. Hansen (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 177, 186-87 [defendant’s
cross-complaint against unrelated co-defendants for equitable indemnity was
proper under Code of Civil Procedure section 428.10].) If the defendant files a
cross-complaint under section 428.10, subdivision (b), it can join with that
claim any other causes of action it has against that party. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 428.30.) Thus, the defendant can join all claims it may have against a
cross-defendant if just one claim arises from the same subject matter as the
underlying suit. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 428.10, subd. (b), 428.30.) However,
if the unrelated claims would be difficult to try together, they may be severed
for trial purposes under Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b).
2. Interests of
Justice
As a permissive cross-complaint, the
defendant must show that leave to file should be granted in the interests of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., 428.50, subd. (c).) The defendant should also show that
it did not delay in seeking leave. (See, e.g., Crocker Nat’l Bank v. Emerald,
supra, 221 Cal.App.3d at p. 864 [cross-plaintiff provided no explanation
for delay in seeking permission to file proposed cross-complaint].)
Here, Defendant Bennett Enterprises
shows the interests of justice support granting this motion. Counsel explains
that KS Bennett “has recently provided … [counsel] [with] certain background
documents regarding the subject property,” “including “the property management
agreement between [Bennett Enterprises] and Defendant Shoushan Movsesian, as Trustee
of the Isaacs Trust Dated 4/17/1985, the owner of the subject property,”
pursuant to which Movsesian had agreed to defend and indemnify Bennett
Enterprises in actions such as these, which Movsesian has failed to do. (Mot.,
Smith Decl., ¶¶ 1-5.)
This representation sufficiently
explains the grounds for why Bennett Enterprises’ counsel did not more promptly
file this motion on or after October 27, 2023, after Bennett Enterprises filed
its answer—though the Court notes that counsel’s “recently provided”
qualification is not otherwise elaborated to a specific date.
Bennett Enterprises however did
engage in substantial delay in filing the Answer, which was filed 19 months and
20 days after service of the summons and Complaint, well beyond the 30-day
statutory timeframe. (Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20, subd. (a)(3).)
Bennett Enterprises’ motion is
GRANTED.
 
III. Conclusion
Defendant K S Bennett Enterprises,
Inc. dba International Realty and Investments’ Motion for Leave to File
Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. The Proposed Cross-Complaint attached to the motion
should be filed with the Court within 5 court days.