  Case Number:  19STCV33158    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 21, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  July 15,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Art Hernandez, et al. v. County of Los Angeles, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 19STCV33158
 





















 
MOTION
THAT THE COUNTY BE PERMITTED TO USE PLAINTIFFS’
PERSONNEL RECORDS AT TRIAL, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, FOR DISCLOSURE OF 
PEACE OFFICER PERSONNEL RECORDS (“PITCHESS MOTION”)



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
County of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Art Hernandez,
et al.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
In this action, several sheriff deputies who were formerly
assigned to the East L.A. station allege that they were pressured to quit their
jobs or leave the station and that they were otherwise harassed by other
deputies who are alleged members of a gang known as the Banditos. They allege
discrimination, harassment, retaliation, and related claims against Defendant
County of Los Angeles (“County”) and allege assault, battery, and other claims
against Defendants Rafael “Rene” Munoz, Gregory Rodriguez, David Silverio, and
Michael Hernandez (collectively “Individual Defendants”).  
 
On September 18, 2019, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint.  
            
On February 25, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the Sixth Amended
Complaint (“SAC”), which is the operative pleading.   The SAC asserts causes of action for: (1) unlawful
retaliation (whistleblower law); (2) harassment and hostile work environment in
violation of FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) racial
discrimination in violation of FEHA; (5) failure to take all reasonable steps
to prevent discrimination in violation of FEHA; (6) negligence, vicarious
liability; (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (8) assault; (9)
battery; (10) conspiracy to interfere with Civil Rights under 42 U.S.C. section
1985; deprivation of Civil Rights 42 U.S.C. section 1983; (11) Civil Rights violations
under Civil Code sections 52.1 (The Bane Act); and (12) taxpayer suit to
prevent the illegal expenditure of funds.
 
            On July 7,
2022, the court granted Plaintiffs’ Pitchess motion.         
 
On August 23, 2023, the court granted in part, and denied in
part, Plaintiffs’ Pitchess motion. 

 
            On February
28, 2024, the County filed this motion for an order that the County be
permitted to use Plaintiffs’ personnel records at trial, or, in the
alternative, or disclosure of peace officer personnel records (“Pitchess
Motion”).
 
            Plaintiffs
filed an opposition.  The County replied.

 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant County’s motion is confusing.  The Proposed Order seeks alternative relief.  The County asks the court to issue an order (1)
that authorizes the County’s use at trial of Plaintiffs’ peace officers’
personnel records related to their advancement, promotional, discipline, or
investigative history or (2) that “resumes” a Pitchess hearing and, if
granted, to conduct a further in camera review. 

 
            Addressing
the request for a “resumed” Pitchess hearing, it is unclear what Pitchess
hearing this court is being asked to resume. 
Did the prior judicial officer not complete the Pitchess
hearing?  That does not appear to be the
target of the motion.  Instead, the
motion appears to request this court hear a new Pitchess motion related
to the categories identified and then conduct a new in camera document review
with the custodian to see if there are responsive documents.  The time for such a motion, however, has past.
 When the prior judicial officer
described a Pitchess motion as being different from a discovery motion,
she was correct.  To obtain Pitchess
relief, a petitioner must meet a different set of criteria than generally
required to obtain discovery in a civil, or even a criminal case.  But that is not to say a Pitchess motion
can be brought after the discovery cut-off date.  It cannot. 
Moreover, maintaining the discovery cut-off in this case is particularly
apt because this case is well down the Long Cause road.  New discovery motions, Pitchess or
otherwise, would/may topple the carefully assembled proverbial apple cart.    
 
            Alternatively,
this court cannot retroactively authorize the use of Pitchess documents,
which are unidentified, except by category. 
This judicial officer was not part of the prior Pitchess
hearings. They were either done and completed properly or not.  Counsel has not adequately explained how the documents
in question were obtained and if there is some Pitchess deficiency, what
that deficiency is.  If the County is asking
this court to conduct a Pitchess review to “cure” some unidentified prior
Pitchess problem, that this court will not do.  Either the documents were properly obtained
and disclosed, or they were not.  The
disclosure, as the Court understands it, has already occurred; the documents were
disclosed to both the Plaintiffs as well as the defense.  And if the universe of documents at issue has
already been produced to both the Plaintiff and the defense, the ball may well
be in the Plaintiffs’ court to move to exclude the use of the documents.  Plaintiffs point to Motion in Limine #8 as an
example.  In any event, those type of
decisions – the admissibility or exclusion of exhibits – are decisions for the
trial court.  This court will not conduct
a new or “resumed” Pitchess hearing to sanitize or cure the prior
process.     
 
III.        CONCLUSION
            
             Defendant
County’s motion to authorize the County to use plaintiffs’ personnel records at
trial, or, in the alternative, for disclosure of peace officer personnel
records (“Pitchess motion”) is DENIED.
  
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   March 21, 2024                                            




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            