 Case Number:  22STCV39714    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 21, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE:  July 29,
2024
                                                           
CASE:                         David Aguilera v. General
Motors, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV39714
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS,
SET ONE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
David Aguilera
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant GM
Motors, LLC
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On December 21, 2022, Plaintiff, David Aguilera, filed this
lemon law action against Defendant, GM Motors, LLC, alleging causes of action
for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability under the Song-Beverly
Act, (2) Breach of Express Warranty under the Song-Beverly Act, and (3) Fraudulent
Concealment.  
 
            On February
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed these motions to compel Defendant’s further responses
to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Production of Documents,
Set One.  Plaintiff does not request
sanctions.
 
            Defendant
filed oppositions.  Plaintiff filed
replies.
                         
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2030.300 and 2031.310, parties may move for a further response to
interrogatories and requests for production of documents where an answer to the
requests are evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or
too general.¿ A motion to compel further response to requests for production
“shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery
sought by the inspection demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be
given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the
propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (c); 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The motions must also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further discovery
contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a
statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿ 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
1.      Procedural
Requirements  
 
Unless notice of the motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the
requesting party waives any right to compel further response to the
interrogatory, demand for inspection, or request for admission.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.290, subd. (c).)¿ Here, Defendant served unverified,
objection-only responses to the at issue discovery requests.  Therefore, the 45-day deadline was not
triggered.  (See Appleton v. Superior
Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.) 
Further, there is no dispute over the timeliness of these motions.  Accordingly, the court finds the motions are
timely.¿ The court further finds that the Informal Discovery Conference (IDC)
requirement has been satisfied.  (See Minute
Order (Informal Discovery Conference), 1/19/24.) 
 
GM argues, however, the meet and
confer requirement has not been satisfied. 
The court finds that it has.  Plaintiff
attaches email correspondence showing multiple attempts to meet and confer with
Defendant prior to the filing of this motion. (See Mot., Request for Production
of Documents, Rabieian Decl., ¶¶ 20-23; Mot., Special Interrogatories, Rabieian
Decl., ¶¶ 19-22.)   
 
2.     
Special Interrogatories
 
Section 2030.220(a) requires
responses to each interrogatory “to the extent possible” which are “as complete
and straightforward as the information reasonably available” to the responding
party.¿ Section 2030.220 (c) states:¿ If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.¿¿ “The
responding party must make a reasonable effort to obtain wherever information
is sought; and if unable to do so, must specify why the information is
unavailable and what efforts the responding party made to obtain it.” (Deyo
v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782; Weil & Brown, Cal. Civ.
Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 8:1061.)
 
Plaintiff seeks a further response
to Special Interrogatory (“SROG”), Set One, Nos. 14, 40-45, and 55.  The court addresses each in turn.
 
SROG
No. 14: IDENTIFY
all PERSONS who performed warranty repairs upon the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
Defendant responded: “GM objects
to this Interrogatory on grounds the term “warranty repairs” is vague,
ambiguous, and overbroad. Subject to and without waiving its objections, and
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230, GM refers
Plaintiff to the documents it has produced in response to Plaintiff’s Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the Service Request Activity
Report(s) and the Global Warranty History Report for the SUBJECT VEHICLE, and
any repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who
may have serviced, maintained, or repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE These documents
identify the individuals and transactions, including dates and times, of which
GM is familiar regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” 
 
Defendant did not provide a code-compliant
response.  This is not a complete and
straightforward response.  A further
response is warranted.  
 
SROG
No. 40: Identify
the individual(s) whose responsibility it is to supervise to ensure that YOU
are properly determining whether a vehicle should be repurchased or replaced
pursuant to The Song-Beverly Warranty Act.
 
SROG
No. 41: Please
describe with particularity how the individual(s) identified in YOUR response
to Special Interrogatory above perform their duties.  
 
Defendant responded to SROG Nos. 40
and 41 as follows: “GM objects to this Interrogatory on grounds it is
overbroad, vague, ambiguous, irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence, as it is not limited to the SUBJECT
VEHICLE or the issues in this litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon
law case with limited issues, and this request also violates Calcor Space
Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d
567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff are entitled to relief under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to
the scope and breadth of this request. GM also objects to this Interrogatory to
the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM
further objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks information
protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine.” 
 
Defendant’s response to SROG No.
40 is not complete or straightforward.  The
request is not overbroad, vague, or ambiguous. 
Further, it is relevant to the issue of civil penalties.  To the extent SROG Nos. 40 seeks privileged
information, or information protected by the work product doctrine, Defendant
must at least identify and describe the document.  (See Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 285, 292.)  A further
response to SROG No. 40 is warranted.
 
With respect to SROG No. 41, the
court does not reach the same conclusion. 
The term “perform their duties” is overbroad.  A further response to SROG No. 41 is not
warranted. 
 
SROG
No. 42: Explain
with particularity all aspects of YOUR investigation into whether the SUBJECT
VEHICLE qualified or was eligible for repurchase or replacement pursuant to The
Song-Beverly Warranty Act.
 
SROG
No. 43: IDENTIFY
all PERSON(S) involved in YOUR investigation by full name, address, and
telephone number, including any individuals with whom YOU communicated
regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
SROG
No. 44: Identify
all DOCUMENTS consulted, reviewed and/or obtained in YOUR investigation.
 
SROG
No. 45: Identify
all individuals responsible for YOUR decision to not repurchase or replace the
SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
Defendant responded to SROG Nos.
42-45 as follows: “GM objects to this Interrogatory on grounds it is overbroad,
vague, ambiguous, irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. GM also objects to this Interrogatory to the
extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM
further objects to this Interrogatory to the extent it seeks information
protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine.
Subject to and without waiving any objections, GM states that it is informed and
believes that verifiable concerns were resolved, and the SUBJECT VEHICLE has
been adequately repaired within a reasonable number of repair attempts. To the
extent that Plaintiff or a non-GM authorized facility caused or contributed to
Plaintiff’s concerns, or to the extent Plaintiff’s failure to properly maintain
the SUBJECT VEHICLE caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s concerns, such
concerns are not covered under the warranty. GM evaluates each case in good
faith in accordance with the provisions of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act (Civ. Code § 1794 et seq.) Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.230, GM refers Plaintiff to the documents it has produced in
response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One,
particularly the New Vehicle Limited Warranty, Service Request Activity
Report(s), the Global Warranty History Report for the SUBJECT VEHICLE, and any
repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized dealerships who may
have serviced, maintained, or repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
            As to SROG
Nos. 42, 43, and 45, the court finds Defendant’s response is not complete or
straightforward.  SROG Nos. 42, 43, and
45 are  not overbroad, vague, ambiguous,
or irrelevant.  Rather, they are directly
related to Plaintiff’s vehicle.  Further,
Defendant must at least identify and
describe the responsive documents.  (See Hernandez
v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285, 292.)  A further response to SROG Nos. 42, 43, and
45 is warranted.
 
            As
to SROG No. 44, the court finds this request to be overbroad.  Unlike Nos. 42, 43, and 45, No. 44 is not
limited to the Subject Vehicle.  A
further response to SROG No. 44 is not warranted.
 
            SROG No. 55: Please state the total number of
days the SUBJECT VEHICLE was out of service for warranty repairs.
 
            Defendant
responded: “GM objects to this Interrogatory on grounds the term “warranty
repairs” is overbroad, vague and ambiguous. Subject to and without waiving its
Objections, GM states that it does not have personal knowledge sufficient to
respond to this Interrogatory, and the information is equally available to
Plaintiff in this matter, as the vehicle was taken to independently owned and
operated repair facilities by Plaintiff. In addition, GM is unable to state
with certainty that the open and close dates of any incidentally obtained
repair orders in its possession accurately reflect out-of-service time.
Occasionally, repair orders remain open when repairs are delayed by
circumstances beyond GM's control. GM's investigation and discovery are
continuing. Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230, GM
refers Plaintiff to the documents it has produced in response to Plaintiff’s
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, particularly the Service Request
Activity Report(s) and the Global Warranty History Report for the SUBJECT
VEHICLE, and any repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized
dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
            A
further response is not warranted.  The
information is equally available to Plaintiff. 
 
3.     
Request
for Production of Documents
 
The Code of Civil Procedure contemplates three forms of
proper responses to a request for production: (1) a statement of compliance in
full or in part (CCP § 2031.220); (2) a statement of inability to comply
(CCP § 2031.230); and (3) a partial objection coupled with a statement of
compliance or representation of inability to comply (CCP § 2031.240).¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
A statement of compliance under section 2031.220 has two
parts:¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) the responding party “shall state that the production,
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will
be allowed either in whole or in part,” and¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(2) “that all documents or things in the demanded category
that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no
objection is being made will be included in the production.”¿¿ 
¿ 
A representation of inability to comply under section
2031.230 has three parts:¿ the
statement must¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(1) affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has
been made in an effort to comply, and¿¿¿ 
¿ 
(2) the statement shall specify whether the inability to
comply is because “the particular item or category has never existed, has been
destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no
longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party.”¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
And, (3) The third part comes into play if the responding
party knows or believes someone else has possession of the documents:¿ if so,
“[t]he statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person or
organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.”¿¿ 
 
Plaintiff seeks a further response to Request for Production
of Documents (“RPD”), Set One, Nos. 1, 3, 9, 13-17, 37-66, and 76.  The court addresses each in turn.
 
            RPD No.
1: All repair orders including the
front and back of each page, any handwritten notes, any hard cards and
accounting copies regarding, pertaining, or relating to the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
            Defendant responded: “GM objects to this Request on grounds
the terms “regarding, pertaining, or relating to” are vague and ambiguous. GM
also objects to this Request on grounds it seeks documents beyond GM’s
possession, custody or control (e.g., repair orders within the possession of
dealerships owned and operated independently of GM). GM also objects to this
Request to the extent it assumes that GM repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE after it
left GM’s possession, custody and control. GM also objects to this Request on
grounds it is overbroad, unduly burdensome, oppressive and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited
to the issues in this litigation. GM also objects to this Request to the extent
it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. Subject to and
without waiving the foregoing objections, GM states that the SUBJECT VEHICLE
was inspected and repaired by an authorized GM repair facility, not GM. GM also
states that it has not inspected or repaired Plaintiff’s vehicle. GM will
comply in part and produce the following documents in its possession, custody
and control: any repair orders that GM may have obtained from GM-authorized
dealerships who may have serviced, maintained, or repaired the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
            Defendant’s
response is incomplete and contains improper objections. To the extent RPD No.
1 seeks privileged information, Defendant must provide a privilege log.  A further response is warranted.   
            
            RPD
No. 3: All warranty repair documents regarding, pertaining, or relating
to the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
            Defendant
responded: “GM objects to this Request on grounds the terms “warranty repair
documents” and “regarding, pertaining, or relating to” are vague and ambiguous.
GM also objects to this Request on grounds it seeks documents beyond GM’s
possession, custody or control (e.g., repair orders within the possession of
dealerships owned and operated independently of GM). GM also objects to this Request
to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information.
Subject to and without waiving its objections, GM will comply in part and
produce the following responsive documents in its possession, custody, or
control: any repair orders for the SUBJECT VEHICLE that GM may have obtained
from GM-authorized dealerships; and the Global Warranty History Report for the
SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
             Defendant’s response is incomplete and
contains improper objections. To the extent RPD No. 3 seeks privileged
information, Defendant must provide a privilege log.  A further response is warranted.   
            
RPD No. 9:  All recall DOCUMENTS regarding, pertaining,
or relating to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including but not limited to, service
bulletins and/or technical service bulletins. 
 
Defendant responded: “GM objects to this Request on grounds
the terms “regarding, pertaining, or relating to” are vague and ambiguous. GM
also objects to this Request on grounds it is overbroad, unduly burdensome,
vague, ambiguous, oppressive, irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence, as it is not limited to the issues in
this litigation. GM also objects to this Request on grounds it is burdensome
and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and
expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the
importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This is a simple,
individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request violates Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61
Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate
to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to
the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM
further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by
the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. 
 
Subject to and without waiving any objections, GM will
comply in part and produce a list of technical service bulletins (TSBs) and a
list of information service bulletins (ISBs) issued for vehicles of the same
year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.”
 
Defendant’s response is incomplete, unresponsive, and
contains improper objections. To the extent RPD No. 3 seeks privileged
information, Defendant must provide a privilege log.  A further response is warranted.   
            
            RPD No. 13: All
statements taken by YOU OR ANYONE ON YOUR BEHALF from any person with respect
to the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
            RPD No. 17: All
DOCUMENTS to include but not limited to manuals, publications, directives and
direct dealer notifications or advisements regarding, pertaining, or relating
to handling warranty repairs on the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
            Defendant responded to RPD Nos. 13
and 17 with boilerplate objections and incomplete responses.  To the extent RPD Nos. 13 and 17 seek
privileged information, Defendant must provide a privilege log.  A further response is warranted.   
 
RPD No. 14:
All DOCUMENTS evidencing any COMMUNICATION regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.  
 
            RPD No. 15: All
DOCUMENTS evidencing any COMMUNICATION between Plaintiff and Defendant.
 
            RPD No. 16: All
DOCUMENTS evidencing any COMMUNICATION between Defendant and any independent
dealer, service facility, and/or any other person or entity providing
assistance to Defendant regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
            
            Defendant asserted objections based
on vagueness, among others.  The court
finds this objection has merit.  The term
“evidencing” is vague.  A further
response to Nos. 14 to 16 is not warranted. 
 
RPD Nos. 37-66:
These requests concern similar complaints made by other owners of vehicles of
the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.  Defendant asserted boilerplate objections.  The requests are relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims.  A further response is warranted.
 
RPD No. 76:  All DOCUMENTS regarding Defendant’s
investigation into whether Plaintiff’s Vehicle should be repurchased or
replaced.
 
Defendant
responded: “GM objects to this Request on grounds it is overbroad, unduly
burdensome, vague, ambiguous, oppressive, irrelevant and not reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, as it is not
limited to the issues in this litigation. GM also objects to this Request on
grounds it improperly assumes that GM has a legal obligation to repurchase or
replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it
seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further
objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. 
 
Subject
to and without waiving its objections, GM will comply in part and produce the
following responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control: any
repair orders for the SUBJECT VEHICLE that GM may have obtained from
GM-authorized dealerships; any Service Request Activity Report(s), the
non-privileged CA CEC case assessment worksheet(s), and the Global.”
 
Defendant
asserted meritless objections and provided an incomplete substantive
response.  RPD No. 76 is not overbroad,
unduly burdensome, vague, ambiguous, or irrelevant.  To the extent RPD No. 76 seeks privileged
information, Defendant must provide a privilege log.  A further response is warranted.   
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the motions are GRANTED in part. 

 
            Defendant
is ordered to provide further, verified responses to Special Interrogatories,
Nos. 14, 40, 42, 43, and 45, and Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 1,
3, 9, 13, 17, 37-66, and 76 within 30 days of this order.  
 
            Defendant’s
motion as to Special Interrogatories, Nos. 41, 44, and 55 is DENIED.
            Defendant’s
motion as to Request for Production of Documents, Nos. 14-16 is DENIED.
 
 
Plaintiff to give notice, unless waived.  
 
 
Dated:   March 21, 2024                                            




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 