 Case Number:  22STCV29402    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  PAUL GILBERT, Plaintiff(s), vs.  CBS STUDIOS, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV29402  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 16, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Paul Gilbert (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants CBS Studios, Inc., Industrial Metal Supply, Inc., The MBS Group, and Radford Studio Center, Inc. for injuries arising from the delivery and unloading of steel beams to the premises located at 4024 Radford Avenue, Studio City, wherein the steel beams fell on Plaintiff. (Compl. at ¶ 14.) The complaint sets forth against all defendants two causes of action for (1) negligence and (2) premises liability.  Defendant Norman Industrial Materials dba Industrial Metal Supply, Inc. (“IMS”) now moves for summary judgment, or in the alternative summary adjudication, against all causes of action against it.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, and the IMS filed a reply.   Moving Argument IMS argues its driver delivered an order of steel and channel iron to CBS Radford Studios (“Radford”), and that the IMS driver was directed to deliver the materials at the street outside the Special Effects Shop. While Chris Scamaldo (“Scamaldo”), the forklift driver, unloaded the metal delivery from the IMS truck. As Scamaldo pulled away, the forklift hit the metal on the Materials Cart, which extended outside the Special Effects Shop doors, causing the cart to overturn and the channel steel to hit Plaintiff. IMS contends Plaintiff knew the location of the delivery was not safe, and that it was Plaintiff’s responsibility to supervise the unloading job. IMS contends Radford was cited by OSHA for failing to train and instruct its employees in unloading and transporting work materials and failing to secure the channel steel that fell off the cart. IMS argues that it owed no duty to Plaintiff, and that any conduct by IMS was superseded by Scamaldo’s actions. Further, IMS asserts that it did not own, control, possess, or maintain the property, and therefore cannot be held liable under the theory of premises liability.  Opposing Argument Plaintiff asserts that the delivery zone was further up ahead, past the Specials Effects building, where the road widened into a larger flat parking area, and that this area was the only place Plaintiff ever had steel delivered. Plaintiff argues the IMS delivery driver, Jose Perez (“Perez”), parked on a narrow-sloped roadway, and that the Perez did not move his truck to the proper loading zone as requested. Because there was not enough room to maneuver the forklift with 20-foot steel beams and the truck, the forklift backing up the incline rolled back and hit the steel, knocking it into Plaintiff. Plaintiff contends all persons have a duty to use ordinary care, and that IMS’ employee created a dangerous situation by not parking in the proper loading zone.   Reply Argument IMS contends that Plaintiff primarily relies on his expert, Brad Avrit (“Avrit”), who did not conduct a physical inspection of the area or inspect the IMS truck that delivered the material. IMS asserts that Avrit falsely claims that IMS employees controlled the CBS Radford lot and that Perez supervised Radford employees. In sum, IMS argues Plaintiff has not demonstrated that it owed Plaintiff a duty of care, that IMS’ driver created a dangerous condition, or that the actions of IMS’ employee caused Plaintiff harm.   II. REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE IMS requests the Court take judicial notice of the contents of (1) Cal/OSHA investigation report, and (2) Radford Studio Center, LLC’s motion to quash. The requests are DENIED.   III. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Plaintiff submits 2 objections to IMS’ separate statement and 28 objections to IMS’ evidence. The objections are overruled in their entirety.  IMS submits 14 objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. IMS’ objection 1 to the entirety of Avrit’s declaration is sustained on the grounds that his opinions lack foundation and are speculative. As such, the Court need not rule on the remaining objections to Avrit’s declaration, namely objections 2-12. Objections 13 and 14 to paragraphs 3 and 14 of Plaintiff’s declaration are sustained on the grounds of lack of foundation.  IV. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT Burdens on Summary Judgment A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)    The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) First C/A - Negligence IMS moves for summary adjudication on the grounds that it had no duty to Plaintiff, and that the forklift’s driver’s actions were a superseding cause. The elements of a cause of action for negligence are duty, breach, causation, and damages.”  (Johnson v. Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 78.) Further, Civil Code §1714(a) provides, “Everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” Here, the undisputed material facts are as follows. Plaintiff was employed by Entertainment Partners at Radford as a special effects technician, and he worked at the Special Effects Shop at Radford since 2018. The incident occurred at Radford, located at 4024 Radford Avenue in Studio City, California. On January 26, 2022, IMS’ driver, Perez, delivered an order of steel and channel iron to Radford. Perez took the delivery inside Radford’s lot to a street outside the Special Effects shop where Plaintiff worked. The usual location for deliveries to Radford was a parking lot 50-80 yards from the Special Effects Shop. However, when Perez arrived with the delivery, the usual location was occupied by persons loading flats. Plaintiff testified that he did not speak to the people loading the flats because he did not have the opportunity to “because the driver did not want to unload there. He was in a—on his schedule, so…” (IMS Lodging of Depo Transcripts; Plf. Depo. 71:9-13.) Plaintiff asked Perez to wait because Plaintiff was not comfortable with the truck being there for reasons that it blocked access, there was a graded ramp that goes into the shop, the limited space, and that Plaintiff felt that it was unsafe to unload the material there. (Id. at 72:3-10.) However, Perez told Plaintiff that he had other deliveries to do and that he could not wait. (Id. at 92:1-4.). The first loading of the materials occurred without incident. (Id. at 85:14-17.) After dropping off the first load, Plaintiff walked back and saw the forklift operator, Scamaldo, trying to manipulate the steel to get it closer to the shop. (Id. at 88:2-10.) Perez was directing Scamaldo where to pick up the load and off-load it. (Id. at 102:4-10.) Both the first and second loads were operated on a grade, which Plaintiff felt was very dangerous. (Id. 91:2-10.) Scamaldo then hit the channel steel and the overturned materials cart spilled the steel onto Plaintiff, thereby injuring him. IMS does not meet its prima facie duty that it owed no duty to Plaintiff or that Scamaldo’s actions was a superseding cause. First, every person has a duty of care to avoid causing harm to others and that they are thus usually liable for injuries their negligence inflicts. (S. California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 391, 398, 441 P.3d 881, 885; CCP §1714(a).) Second, IMS does not establish how a plaintiff bringing causes of action for negligence and premises liability based on the same factual underpinnings would equate to the contention that IMS’ driver did not owe any duty of care. It is well established that the general policy in California is to hold persons responsible for injuries caused through want of ordinary care. (Platte Anchor Bolt, Inc. v. IHI, Inc. (2004) 352 F. Supp. 2d 1048, 1056.) IMS fails to provide a statutory provision establishing an exception to this general rule.  Even if IMS did meet its burden, there are triable issues of material fact as to whether Perez’s purported refusal to wait, after Plaintiff stated that he was not comfortable with the truck being there due to safety concerns, breached the ordinary duty of due care. Further, there is a triable issue of material fact as to the apportionment of fault between the parties. In arguendo, even if Scamaldo was primarily at fault in operating the forklift and failing to strap down the material, there is a question of material fact as to whether Perez parking his vehicle at an unfit location contributed to the incident’s occurrence. The Court cannot conclude that the acts or omissions of Perez did not contribute to Plaintiff’s injuries, nor can the Court conclude that Scamaldo was the superseding cause. There exists a triable issue of apportionment of fault. However minimal or not Perez’s contribution to the incident may be, it is sufficient to deny the motion and for the issue to be submitted for a jury’s determination.  Accordingly, the motion for adjudication as to the first cause of action for negligence is DENIED.  Second C/A – Premises Liability The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence:¿duty, breach, causation, and damages.¿ (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)¿Those who own, possess, or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.¿(Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) It is undisputed that IMS is not the property owner of 4024 Radford Avenue, Studio City. Further, IMS avers that it did not control, possess, or maintain the premises at any point in time. IMS has met its prima facie burden that it is entitled to summary adjudication on these grounds. The burden therefore shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.  Plaintiff contends that IMS exercised control over the loading zone by parking the truck in an unapproved loading area. However, the act of parking a vehicle on a property does not equate to control over the premises. Indeed, a defendant who lacks title to property still may be liable for an injury caused by a dangerous condition on that property if the defendant exercises control over the property. (Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal. 4th 1149, 1158.) However, “control” refers to control of the land. (Id. at 1160.) There is no evidence that IMS exercised any control over Radford’s property, and that IMS therefore had a duty to protect Plaintiff from any dangerous condition of the property itself. A driver temporarily parking his vehicle at an improper loading location is not equivalent to him, or his employer, exercising control over any strip of land owned by another party.  Because no triable issue of material fact exists as to whether IMS owned, maintained, or controlled the subject property, adjudication as to the second cause of action is GRANTED.  V. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, IMS’ motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED IN PART as to the second cause of action for premises liability only. The remainder is denied.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 15th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   