  Case Number:  19STCV09517    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  11 Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Lift Stay Re: 19STCV09517 (Barclay)
 
Date:                           2/23/24
 
Time:                          1:45
pm
 
Moving Party:           Hartford Accident and Indemnity Co.,
et al. (collectively “Insurers” or “Defendants”)
 
Opposing Party:        Barclay Hollander Corp. (“Barclay”)
 
Department:              11        
 
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING


Defendants’ motion to lift stay is denied as to Defendants’ first
argument (no overlap because the Shell claims have been adjudicated),
second argument (no overlap as to “occurrence” and “occurrences”), third
argument (no overlap as to “property damage”), and fourth argument (no overlap
as to the pollution exclusions).
 
Defendants’ fifth argument (no overlap as to the contribution claims) will
be decided at the hearing.
 
BACKGROUND
 
The underlying action (BC544786) concerns toxic cleanup at a site in
Carson, California.  Barclay’s
predecessor purchased the site from Shell Oil Company (“Shell”) in the 1960s
and turned it into a residential neighborhood. 
Years later, the Los Angeles Regional Water Quality Control Board
(“Water Board”) ordered Shell and Barclay to cleanup and abate contamination at
the site.[1]  Shell then proceeded to remediate the area
without Barclay’s help.  Eventually,
Shell sued Barclay for indemnification and contribution.  Following a three-week trial, the jury found
Barclay responsible for 50% of the cleanup costs, and the Court entered
judgment.  The matter is now on appeal.
 
The instant case (19STCV09517) is related to the Shell
action.  It is a coverage action filed by
Barclay against several insurance companies. 
Barclay alleges that the insurance companies’ policies cover Barclay’s
liabilities in the Shell action, asserting causes of action for breach
of contract, breach of the implied covenant, and declaratory relief.  On October 7, 2020, Judge Elihu Berle stayed
the case.
 
Here, Defendants move to lift the stay. 

 
LAW
 
Haskel, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 963:
 
In Montrose Chemical
Corp. v. Superior Court (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 902, 31
Cal.Rptr.2d 38 (“Montrose II”), the court, relying upon the principles
set out in Montrose I, stated: “(1) since the duty to defend is
broader than the duty to indemnify and (2) since an insurer may owe a duty to
defend in an action in which coverage is in doubt and ultimately does not
develop, it follows that (3) the duty to defend is a continuing one which
arises on the tender of defense and (4) lasts until (a) the underlying lawsuit
is resolved or (b) the coverage issue can be determined without prejudice to the insured.” [Citation.]
 
In Montrose I, the
Supreme Court summarized the general principles which are to be applied when a
declaratory relief action is brought to determine coverage issues while
the underlying claim on which the coverage dispute centers is still pending.
“To eliminate the risk of inconsistent factual determinations that could
prejudice the insured, a stay of the declaratory relief action pending
resolution of the third party suit is appropriate when the coverage question
turns on facts to be litigated in the underlying action. [Citation.] For
example, when the third party seeks damages on account of the insured's
negligence, and the insurer seeks to avoid providing a defense by arguing that
its insured harmed the third party by intentional conduct, the potential that
the insurer's proof will prejudice its insured in the underlying
litigation is obvious. This is the classic situation in which the declaratory
relief action should be stayed. By contrast, when the coverage question is
logically unrelated to the issues of consequence in the underlying case, the
declaratory relief action may properly proceed to judgment.” [Citation.] 
 
There are three concerns
which the courts have about the trial of coverage issues which necessarily turn
upon the facts to be litigated in the underlying action. First, the insurer, who is supposed to be on the
side of the insured and with whom there is a special relationship, effectively
attacks its insured and thus gives aid and comfort to the claimant in the
underlying suit; second, such a circumstance
requires the insured to fight a two-front war, litigating not only with the
underlying claimant, but also expending precious resources fighting an insurer
over coverage questions—this effectively undercuts one of the primary reasons
for purchasing liability insurance; and third, there
is a real risk that, if the declaratory relief action proceeds to judgment
before the underlying action is resolved, the insured could be collaterally
estopped to contest issues in the latter by the results in the former. It
is only where there is no potential conflict between
the trial of the coverage dispute and the underlying action that an insurer can
obtain an early trial date and resolution of its claim that coverage does not
exist. [Citation.]
 
(Haskel, supra, 33 Cal.App.4th
at 978-979, underlined case names added, footnotes omitted, emphasis in
original.)
 
Great American
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 221:
 
When a declaratory relief
action regarding the duty to defend depends on coverage issues, it may be that
the resolution of those issues might prejudice the insured in the underlying
litigation. “For example, when the third party seeks damages on account of the
insured's negligence, and the insurer seeks to avoid providing a defense by
arguing that its insured harmed the third party by intentional conduct, the
potential that the insurer's proof will prejudice its insured in the underlying
litigation is obvious.” [Citation.] Under those circumstances, the proper
course of action is to stay the declaratory relief action until resolution of
the underlying action. [Citation.] However, if the declaratory relief action
can be resolved without prejudice to the insured in the underlying action—by
means of undisputed facts, issues of law, or factual issues unrelated to the
issues in the underlying action—the declaratory relief action need not be
stayed. [Citation.]
 
A court considering
whether to stay a declaratory relief action must therefore consider precisely
which issues are to be litigated in order to resolve the declaratory relief
action, and whether those issues are related to factual issues yet to be litigated in the
underlying action. [Citation.] If the factual issues to be resolved in the
declaratory relief action overlap with issues to be resolved in the underlying
litigation, the trial court must stay the
declaratory relief action. If there is no such factual overlap and the
declaratory relief action can be resolved on legal issues or factual issues
unrelated to the issues in the underlying action, the question as to
whether to stay the declaratory relief action is a matter entrusted to the
trial court's discretion.
 
In exercising such
discretion, however, the trial court should consider the possibility of
prejudice to both parties. Case law has
identified three types of potential prejudice to an insured. As we will
explain, however, two of these types of prejudice are simply the prejudice
which arises when there is factual overlap with the issues in the underlying action.
First, an insured may be prejudiced if the insurer “join[s] forces with the
plaintiffs in the underlying action[ ] as a means to defeat coverage.” [Citation.]
This type of prejudice would arise in the hypothetical discussed earlier, where
an insurer attempts to avoid coverage by arguing that its insured harmed the
third party by intentional conduct—proof of which would obviously be of great
assistance to the third party in the underlying action. Clearly, this type of
prejudice arises only in cases of factual overlap. If the factual issues in the
declaratory relief action do not overlap
with factual issues in the underlying action, there is no issue on which the
insurer can align with the third-party plaintiff.
 
“[A second] sort of
prejudice occurs when the insured is compelled to fight a two-front war, doing
battle with the plaintiffs in the third party litigation while at the same time
devoting its money and its human resources to litigating coverage issues with
its carriers.” [Citation.] This type of prejudice does not depend on the
existence of factual overlap with the underlying action, and will, in fact, be
an issue for the trial court to consider every time an
insured seeks to stay a declaratory relief action while the underlying action
is still pending.
 
“[Thirdly], there is the
collateral estoppel issue. If the declaratory relief action is tried before the
underlying litigation is concluded, the insured may be collaterally estopped
from relitigating any adverse factual findings in the third party action,
notwithstanding that any fact found in the insured's favor could not be used to
its advantage.” [Citation.] This third type of prejudice, like the first,
clearly depends upon factual overlap with the underlying action.
 
As already noted, the
court must also consider possible prejudice to the insurer that may be caused
by staying the declaratory relief action. In such event, the insurer would be
required to continue to pay defense costs until the declaratory relief action
is resolved. If the insurer is correct and, in fact, it has no further duty to
defend, it may nevertheless be required to keep paying defense costs
indefinitely while the declaratory relief action is stayed. “For this reason,
the trial court should not hesitate to fashion orders which attempt to balance
these conflicting concerns.” [Citation.]
 
In sum, in a case in which
there is no factual overlap with the issues to be resolved in the underlying
case, the trial court must exercise its discretion on a motion for stay,
balancing the insured's interest in not fighting a two-front war against the insurer's
interest in not being required to continue paying defense costs which it may
not owe and likely will not be able to recoup. These competing interests will
be circumstance-specific, depending, inter alia, on such factors as the
anticipated duration of the underlying litigation, whether the insured has
separate counsel in the two actions, and the availability of other insurance to
cover the costs of defense.
 
(Great American,
supra, 178 Cal.App.4th at 235-237, emphasis in original.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Mandatory Stay
 
Judge Berle issued a mandatory stay (See,
e.g., 10/7/20 Order on Barclay Hollander Corporation’s Motion to Stay Action,
pp. 5-6), so, to lift the stay, Defendants need to show that a mandatory stay
is no longer necessary. Under California law, a coverage action must be stayed
“pending resolution of the underlying action when the coverage question turns
on facts to be litigated there.” 
Croskey, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Insurance Litigation (The Rutter
Group August 2023 Update) ¶ 15:164.)  The
primary question is whether the factual issues overlap. (See Great American,
supra, 178 Cal.App.4th at 235 [instructing that, “[i]f the factual issues to be resolved in the
declaratory relief action overlap with issues to be resolved in the underlying
litigation, the trial court must stay the
declaratory relief action”], emphasis in original.)
 
Defendants make five
arguments.  First, in general, they claim
the stay should be lifted because the Shell claims have been
adjudicated.  (See Motion, p. 10; see
also Reply, pp. 3-6.)
 
The Court disagrees.  As Barclay points out, Shell is
pending and unresolved “until its final determination upon appeal, or until the
time of appeal, unless the judgment is sooner satisfied.”  (Opposition, p. 12, emphasis deleted.)  The Court of Appeal could reverse the Shell
judgment and remand for a new trial; therefore, generally speaking, the factual
issues remain alive.
 
Second, Defendants
contend there is no overlap as to (1) whether an “occurrence” happened, and (2)
how many “occurrences” occurred.  (See
Motion, pp. 12-14; see also Reply, pp. 7-8.)
 
The Court disagrees.  If deciding the “occurrence” and
“occurrences” issues were just an exercise of reviewing the allegations in the Shell
complaint, Defendants’ argument probably would be persuasive.  Defendants admit, though, that their position
is also based on “the facts set forth in the Water Board’s RCAO and subsequent
court rulings[.]”  (Motion, p. 12.)  Indeed, Defendants concede that their
position rests on the notion that these facts “were already
adjudicated[.]”  (Ibid., emphasis in
original.)  The concession undermines
their argument.  Collateral estoppel was
a recurring issue in Shell. 
Multiple motions were filed in which the parties asked the Court to
determine whether the Water Board’s findings, Judge Amy Hogue’s findings, and
the findings in the Court of Appeal’s pre-trial opinion had to be treated as
true due to collateral estoppel.  Barclay
consistently argued that collateral estoppel did not apply and that those
findings should be tried anew at trial. 
While the Court found collateral estoppel applicable (see, e.g., 2/10/23
Shell Order Re: Motion for New Trial, pp. 7-11), Barclay is challenging
the finding on appeal.  (See, e.g.,
Reply, p. 5 [acknowledging that Barclay is appealing “this Court’s ruling” that
the “factual findings s have previously been adjudicated and established and
are binding on Barclay”].)  The fallout,
if the Court of Appeal reverses, is that the facts might need to be
relitigated.  For the time being, the overlap
appears to endure.[2]
 
Third, Defendants
contend there is no overlap as to whether “property damage” occurred during the
policy periods.  (See Motion, p. 14.)
 
Barclay responds:
 
In
the Shell trial, Barclay sought to present expert testimony regarding
how contaminants at the Kast site moved through soil over time. However, the
Court ruled that evidence inadmissible. [Citation.] The decision to exclude
that expert testimony is now part of the Shell appeal. In other words,
the issue of when various parts of the Kast site suffered property damage is at
issue both in the Shell lawsuit and this coverage case. Thus, the stay
should remain in effect as to this issue. 
[Citations.]
 
Moreover,
the Insurers appear to be relying on the Court’s exclusion of the expert
evidence to argue that there is only one time period when “property damage”
occurred: when Lomita actively developed the Kast site. However, because the
issue of whether Barclay’s expert’s testimony that the property damage occurred
in several ways over a much longer time period should have been presented to
the jury in the underlying case will be at issue in the Shell appeal,
the Insurers’ argument must wait for a final adjudication on the issue.
Otherwise, it is likely that Barclay arguably would not be able to present all
of its evidence, which would be unfair if the order excluding that evidence
ultimately is overturned in the Shell appeal. Such an outcome could
undermine the integrity of this Court’s ruling on the Insurers’ argument as a
result. Thus, the Insurers again press the Court to open an issue that properly
should first be decided fully and finally in the litigation with Shell, not in
this coverage case.
 
(Opposition,
p. 17, underlined case names added.)
 
The Court agrees
with Barclay.  The excluded expert
evidence bears some relation to the factual question of when the property
damage took place, and collateral estoppel factored into the Court’s exclusion
ruling.  A reversal is possible.  If the Court of Appeal overturns the
exclusion ruling and/or finds collateral estoppel inapplicable, the Court could
be ordered to admit the expert testimony and to retry the factual issue.  Enough overlap persists to support
maintaining the mandatory stay. 
 
Fourth, Defendants
claim there is no overlap as to whether some Insurers’ pollution exclusions bar
coverage.  (See Motion, pp. 15-16; see
also Reply, pp. 8-9.)
 
Barclay asserts:
 
These
pollution exclusions provide “that the insurance does not apply to personal
injury, bodily injury or property damage arising out of the discharge,
dispersal, release or escape of . . . contaminants or pollutants . . . but this
exclusion does not apply if such discharge, dispersal, release or escape is
sudden and accidental.” [Citations.] Thus, the Insurers are trying to prove
exactly what Barclay is trying to disprove in the Shell lawsuit: that
Barclay contributed to the contamination at the Kast site in a manner that was
not accidental. Because the Shell appeal centers on claims sounding in
equity, issues of knowledge and intent will be key factors in determining how
much responsibility for remediating the land Barclay should bear. Therefore,
this case must be stayed. [Citation.]
 
(Opposition, pp.
14-15, underlined case names added.)
 
The Court agrees
with Barclay.  Two sentences in
Defendants’ brief stand out: 
 
* “The issue to be
litigated with respect to the applicability of certain policies’ pollution
exclusions . . . is whether the contamination for which Shell sought indemnity
was the result of any sudden and accidental discharge, as opposed to gradual
seepage over the course of years or intentional placement of the contaminants.”  (Motion, p. 15, emphasis added.)
 
* “The extensive
discovery taken and facts adjudicated in the Shell Action and in the Water
Board proceeding have made it clear that there was no “sudden and
accidental” event that caused the contamination for which Barclay is
liable.”  (Id. at pp. 15-16, emphasis
added.)
 
As the italicized
words demonstrate, Defendants’ argument depends on the assertion that the facts
have been finally adjudicated.  To repeat,
numerous key facts were deemed true and resolved in Shell based on
collateral estoppel.  A reversal could
require the excluded expert testimony to be admitted and the material facts to
be retried, particularly facts pertaining to the timeframe of the seepage,
knowledge, and intent.  The facts continue
to overlap.  
 
Fifth, Defendants
contend there is no overlap as to the contribution claims against Great
American Insurance Company (“Great American”) (the contribution claims were
filed by certain insurers with exhausted policies).  (See Motion, pp. 11-12; see also Reply, pp.
2-3.) 
 
Barclay states:
 
The
Great American policies contain, in all material respects, the same language as
that contained in the other Primary Policies. [Citation.] Thus, whether Great
American owes Barclay a duty to defend (and therefore must pay contribution to
the other Primary Insurers) necessarily relies on the same arguments
that Montrose I prohibits from moving forward with respect to the
Insurers’ own claims that they should not owe a duty to defend Barclay
in the Shell lawsuit. The questions are identical with respect to
whether Barclay’s actions constitute an “accident,” which is part of the
definition of “occurrence” in all the Primary Insurers’ policies. Whether
Barclay acted accidentally is still at issue in the Shell lawsuit—until
all avenues for appeal are exhausted—with respect to Shell’s equitable
contribution claim. Therefore, this issue must continue to be stayed, along
with all the rest.
 
(Opposition,
pp. 17-18, underlined case names added, emphasis in original.)
 
Again, the
applicability of collateral estoppel is an appellate issue.  The factual issues might have to be
relitigated if the Court of Appeal finds collateral estoppel inapplicable.  To the extent the contribution claims
necessitate consideration of facts at issue in the appeal, the overlap likely continues.
 
On the other hand,
Defendants assert that the Court would only need to look at the policy language
and the Shell complaint to adjudicate the contribution claims (see
Reply, p. 2), which, if true, could support a partial lifting of the stay.  (See, e.g., Croskey, supra, at ¶¶ 15:170-15:171 [permitting courts to sever and/or bifurcate
issues that do not involve overlapping facts].)
 
The Court wants to discuss this issue
with the attorneys and will rule on it during oral arguments.
 
In summary:
 
* The Court is denying Defendants’ motion
and keeping the mandatory stay in place as to Defendants’ first, second, third,
and fourth arguments.
 
* Defendants’ fifth argument will be
decided at the hearing.  If the defense
attorneys fail to show that the contribution claims can be resolved solely by considering
the policies and the Shell complaint, the Court intends to (1) deny the
motion, and (2) maintain the mandatory stay. 
If the defense attorneys do make the showing, the Court intends to lift
the stay.
 
Discretionary Stay
 
In light of the preceding analysis, the Court
does not need to determine whether the case should be stayed on a discretionary
basis.  The issue is moot as to
Defendants’ first, second, third, and fourth arguments.  The mandatory stay should continue.
 
What about the contribution claims?  If defense counsel fail to establish that the
contribution claims can be adjudicated by simply reviewing the policies and the
Shell complaint, the Court intends to (1) deny the motion, and (2) prolong
the mandatory stay.  If defense counsel
do establish their argument, the Court intends to lift the stay instead of
granting a discretionary stay.  The
reason why is because the contribution claims are claims between insurance
companies and, if the showing is made, would not involve evidence and facts of
Barclay’s actual conduct.
 
Prejudice
 
Because the mandatory stay should stay in
place as to Defendants’ first, second, third, and fourth arguments, the Court
finds that the prejudice analysis weighs in Barclay’s favor.
 
Turning to the contribution claims, if
the defense attorneys fail to make the showing discussed above, the Court intends
to (1) deny the motion, and (2) continue the mandatory stay. The prejudice
analysis would weigh in Barclay’s favor in that situation.  If the defense attorneys do make the showing,
the Court intends to lift the stay.  The
Court reiterates that the contribution claims are claims between insurance
companies and, if the showing is made, would not require the Court to consider
evidence and facts of Barclay’s actual conduct. 
The prejudice to Barclay would be minimal, and the prejudice analysis
would weigh in Defendants’ favor.
 
Discovery
 
Defendants alternatively ask the Court to
lift the stay for discovery.  (See, e.g.,
Reply, p. 9.)
 
California law does authorize the Court
to permit discovery; nevertheless, “[w]here the insurer seeks discovery from
the insured on matters logically related to issues affecting the insured's
liability in the underlying action, the court should stay such discovery
(or enter a confidentiality order if sufficient to protect the insured's
interests).”  (Croskey, supra, at ¶ 15:172.)
 
Given this rule, the Court denies the
discovery request as to Defendants’ first, second, third, and fourth arguments.
 
For the contribution claims, if defense
counsel fail to substantiate their argument, the Court intends to (1) deny the
motion, (2) retain the mandatory stay, and (3) deny the discovery request.  If defense counsel do substantiate their
argument, the Court intends to lift the stay. 
The Court finds that Barclay would suffer little or no prejudice in that
scenario, and Defendants would be entitled to conduct discovery.
 
 
    
 


