  Case Number:  22SMCV00534    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Sjorstand v. Proctor, et al.



Case No.:


22SMCV00534


Complaint Filed:


4-14-22           




Hearing Date:


10-5-23 


Discovery C/O:


1-5-24




Calendar No.:


7


Discovery Motion C/O:


1-22-24




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


2-5-24



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS
MOVING
PARTY:   Bye Bye Bye Bye House, Inc.
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Peter Sjostrand
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Bye Bye House,
Inc Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to pay
attorney’s fees and costs in the amount of $5,440 pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure (CCP) §405.38. Bye Byes Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.  Bye Bye’s objections to the “verification”
and objection nos. 2-3 to the declaration of Peter Sjostrand are SUSTAINED. Objection
nos. 3, 9-12, 14-16 (hearsay and foundation) to the declaration of Myrna Ramos
are SUSTAINED.  All remaining objections
are overruled.
 
REASONING
“At any time after notice of pendency of action has been
recorded, any party, or any nonparty with an interest in the real property
affected thereby, may apply to the court in which the action is pending to
expunge the notice.”  (CCP §405.30.) 
Bye Bye asserts two grounds to expunge the lis pendens: First Plaintiff contends
the lis pendens is “void” because Plaintiff failed to file a copy of the
lis pendens with the Court “immediately after recording” as required by CCP §405.22
and because it does not “contain [all] the names of all parties to the action
and a description of the property affected by the action” required under Section
405.20  Second, Bye Bye contends Plaintiff
has not  has not established by a preponderance of the evidence the
probable validity of Plaintiff’s real property claim (CCP §405.32.)  
Bye Bye has
the burden of proof to show the lis pendens is void.  (CCP §405, Evid. Code §§ 500, 550.)  Plaintiff has the burden of proof to establish
the probable validity of Plaintiff’s real property claim. (CCP §405.32; Kirkeby v. Supr. Ct. (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 648
[“Unlike most other motions, when a motion to expunge is brought, the burden is
on the party opposing the motion to show the existence of a real property
claim.”].) In
opposing the motion to expunge the lis pendens, therefore, Plaintiff must
demonstrate the following: (1) the action affects title to or right of
possession of the real property described in the notice; (2) in so far as the
said notice is concerned, the party recording the notice has commenced the
action for a proper purpose and in good faith; and (3) the probable validity of
the real property claim by a preponderance of the evidence.  (See Hunting
World, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 67, 70; see also CCP
§§405.31 and 405.32.)  
 
I.               
Plaintiff Substantially
Complies with Mandatory Requirements of Lis Pendens Statutes
 
“The notice shall contain the names
of all parties to the action and a description of the property affected by the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.20.) Defects in the statutory service and
filing requirements of the lis pendens are grounds for expungement. (McKnight
v. Sup.Ct. (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 291, 303 [“such a [statutory] violation
renders the notice “void and invalid” as to the adverse party or owner of
record . . . .  If a notice of lis pendens is “void and invalid,” and thus
a nullity, it would be incongruous that the Legislature intended such notice to
remain of record as a cloud upon the owner's title that effectively prevents
the owner from freely conveying or otherwise dealing with his property.”)
 
Plaintiff argues that because service
of the notice of pendency substantially complied with the code, the Bye Byes
have waived their right to assert defects in notice.  (Opposition, pg. 4.) Substantial compliance
with notice requirements of CCP § 405.22 is possible, and not necessarily
mandatory. (See J&A Mash & Barrel, LLC v. Superior Court of Fresno
County (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 1, 30.) However, Bye Byes point to CCP §
405.20, arguing Plaintiff’s lis pendens incorrectly states the zip code
and legal description of the property. (Motion, pg. 7; RJFN, Exh. 9.) The lis
pendens Bye Byes point to only reflects service to the Bye Byes on 8-23-23
and not the notice of lis pendens filed with the court on 12-15-22.  The court filed and noticed lis pendens
states the correct zip code and correct legal property description. Therefore,
there appears to be compliance, and definitely substantial compliance, with the
statutory notice requirements. 
 
II.            
Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden to establish
by the preponderance of the evidence the validity of his real property claims. 
 
            
 
            Plaintiff’s
operative complaint (“Third Amended Complaint,” filed March 15, 2023 and deemed
the second amended complaint on July 20, 2023 asserts claims for “Cancelation
of a written instruments” (sic) ) and quiet title.  Plaintiff does not address the elements of
these claims in his opposition.  Instead,
 Plaintiff argues that the identity of
the seller and the sale price are indefinite, therefore negating essential
elements of a contract, because the evidence supplied by the Bye Bye does not
include the correct information, or Bye Bye does not have the correct
information. (Opposition, pg. 2–4, Exhs. 2, 3, 5 [in separately filed exhibit
list.])  This argument does not support
Plaintiff’s claims to the real property. 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that there is a strong probability he will prevail due to substantial
evidence that Birgitta did not have the mental capacity to contract by
submitting multiple unverified exhibits claiming to show Birgitta Sjostrand’s diagnosis
of Alzheimers Disease. (Opposition, pg. 3–4.)  Once again, Plaintiff has not submitted admissible
or persuasive evidence that shows his mother, Birgitta, lacked the capacity to
execute the agreements and grant deed conveying the property to Bye Bye.  “Ordinarily a finding to the effect that one
is unable, unassisted, to properly care for himself or his property, by reason
of old age or weakness of mind, will not warrant the conclusion that a specific
contract is therefore void for lack of mental capacity. In the absence of an
adjudication of incompetency, it is necessary to allege and prove that the
transaction was void for lack of understanding of its nature and effect.” (Hellman
Commercial Trust & Sav. Bank v. Alden (1929) 206 Cal. 592, 603
[emphasis added].) In other words, “[a] contract which is challenged on the
ground of incompetency is ordinarily not void, but merely voidable” and “[T]he
test is whether or not the party was mentally competent to deal with the subject
before him with a full understanding of his rights.” (Id.; Philbrook v. Howard
(1958) 157 Cal.App.2d 210, 214.) Even if Plaintiff provided enough admissible evidence
that Birgitta suffered from Alzheimer’s disease, but there is no evidence to
prove that at the time she executed the agreements and grant deed she lacked
the capacity to understand the nature and effect of the documents she assigned.

 
            Moreover,
Plaintiff has failed to offer any evidence to rebut Bye Bye’s claim to be a
bona fide purchaser. Since the beginning of this case, the Court has repeated urged
Plaintiff’s counsel to obtain and present competent admissible evidence to show
Bye Bye had knowledge of some fraud allegedly perpetrated on Brigitta by a
person named “Jackson.” Apparently, Plaintiff remains unable to obtain any such
evidence. 
 
            Plaintiff has
failed to meet his burden to establish the probable validity to his real
property claims.  The Motion To Expunge Lis
Pendens is GRANTED. 
 
III.          
Bye Bye’s Request for Attorney’s Fees
 
            “The court
shall direct that the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be
awarded the reasonable attorney's fees and costs of making or opposing the
motion unless the court finds that the other party acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of attorney's
fees and costs unjust.”  CCP §405.38.   
 
            Bye Byes
are entitled to recover attorney’s fees and costs incurred in connection with
this motion.  Bye Byes request $5,440 (8.5
hours prep and drafting this motion to expunge @ $400/hr, 4 hours reviewing the
opposition and drafting the reply @ $400/hr, 1 hr hearing time @$400/hr, and $40
filing fee.)  