  Case Number:  21STCV36013    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  14 Estate of Samuel Herrera v. County of Los AngelesCase Background   Plaintiffs allege that various LA  Sheriff’s Deputies opened fire on them and their home during the execution of a  search warrant. The gunfire killed one of them.   On September  30, 2021, Plaintiffs filed their Complaint for (1) Civil Rights Violations; (2)  Assault and Battery; (3) False Imprisonment; and (4) Negligence against  Defendants County of Los Angeles (“County”) and DOES 1-40.    On December  9, 2021, Defendant County filed its Answer.   On  October 4, 2022, Plaintiffs filed nine “Amendments to Complaint” substituting Defendants  Noe Garcia, David Pantoja, Daisy Rosales, Michael McMorrow, Michael Lopez, Juan  Bendezu, Adonay Molina, Leonel Mejia, and Pedro Valencia in lieu of DOES 1-9,  respectively.   On  December 15, 2022, Defendants Noe Garcia, Daisy Rosales, Michael McMorrow, Juan  Bendezu, Adonay Molina, and Leonel Mejia filed their joint Answer.    On  January 6, 2023, Defendant Pedro Valencia filed his Answer.    On February  23, 2023, Defendant David Pantoja filed his Answer.   On  March 20, 2023, the parties filed a stipulation in which Plaintiffs agreed that  (a) Brianna Gonzalez Olveira and Diana Herrera dismissed the claims brought in  their capacity as successors in interest to Samuel Herrera and (b) Brianna  Gonzalez Olveira and Diana Herrera dismissed their first three causes of action  and (c) all Plaintiffs agreed to dismiss the first, second, and third causes of  action as to Defendant Pedro Valencia.    That left Plaintiffs Eddie Herrera  and Karen Olivares to pursue all four causes of action in the complaint, while  Plaintiffs Brianna Gonzalez Olveira and Diana Herrera pursue only a negligence  claim.   On August 11, 2023, this court  construed Defendants collective motion for summary adjudication as a motion for  judgment on the pleadings, which it granted with leave to amend.   On August 21, 2023, Plaintiffs  filed their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Civil Rights Violations,  (2) Assault and Battery – Wrongful Death, (3) Assault, and (4) Negligence  against Defendants County, Noe Garcia, David Pantoja, Daisy Rosales, Michael  McMorrow, Michael Lopez, Juan Bendezu, Adonay Molina, Leonel Mejia, Daniel Rodriguez,  Pedro Valencia, and DOES 1-40.   On October 18, 2023, this court  sustained Defendants’ unopposed demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend.   On October  23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) Civil  Rights Violations, (2) Assault and Battery - Wrongful Death, (3) Negligence –  Wrongful Death, (4) Negligence, and (5) Assault against Defendants County, Noe  Garcia, David Pantoja, Daisy Rosales, Michael McMorrow, Michael Lopez, Juan  Bendezu, Adonay Molina, Leonel Mejia, Pedro Valencia, and DOES 1-40.   The  first cause of action is asserted by Plaintiffs Eddie Herrera and Karen  Olivares against Defendants County, Noe Garcia, and Juan Bendezu.    The  second cause of action is asserted by Plaintiffs Breanna Oliveira and Dianna Herrera  against Defendants County, Daisy Rosales, Michael McMorrow, David Pantoja, Michael  Lopez, Adonay Molina, and Leonel Mejia.   The third  cause of action is asserted by Plaintiffs Breanna Oliveira and Dianna Herrera  against Defendants County, Noe Garcia, David Pantoja, Daisy Rosales, Michael  McMorrow, Michael Lopez, Juan Bendezu, Adonay Molina, Leonel Mejia, and Pedro  Valencia.   The fourth  cause of action is asserted by Plaintiffs Eddie Herrera and Karen Olivares  against Defendants County, Noe Garcia, Juan Bendezu, and Pedro Valencia.   The  fifth cause of action is asserted by Plaintiffs Eddie Herrera and Karen  Olivares against Defendants County, Noe Garcia, and Juan Bendezu.               Jury trial  is currently set for May 20, 2024.   Instant Pleading               Defendants County, Noe Garcia, David Pantoja, Daisy  Rosales, Michael McMorrow, Michael Lopez Juan Bendezu, Adonay Molina, Leonel  Mejia, and Pedro Valencia now demur to the SAC on the ground that it is  uncertain and fails to state facts sufficient to constitute various causes of  action.   Decision    Defendants’  Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.   Defendants’  request that this court strike Plaintiffs’ Opposition as untimely filed is  DENIED. The Opposition was only 10.5 hours late, and no prejudice has resulted.   The  demurrer is OVERRULED.   Discussion   As an  initial matter, Defense has improperly combined what should have been three  separate demurrers. Defendant Pedro Valencia challenges the entire complaint on  the grounds of immunity. (Notice p. 2:10-13). Defendant Noe Garcia challenges  the entire complaint on the grounds that nothing was properly pled against him.  (Demurrer p. 2:5-8).  The remaining Defendants  challenge only the claims filed by Plaintiffs Eddie Herrera and Karen Olivares  on the grounds that those plaintiffs have no physical injuries. (Id.). When separate  parties make separate arguments about separate causes of action, they should  bring separate demurrers. In this one instance, the court will overlook the  defect in the interest of moving the case forward.   Immunity               Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Pedro Valencia (“Valencia”)  was the person in charge of gathering information in advance of the execution  of the search warrant, and of the execution itself. (SAC ¶¶ 18-26). While Valencia  did not fire his weapon that night (SAC ¶ 58), Plaintiffs contend that he  was negligent in obtaining information about the premises and who else was  living there, and that this in turn would have led to different tactics and a  different outcome. (SAC ¶¶ 59-61, 67). The only causes of action asserted  against Defendant Valencia are for negligence.               Government Code § 821.6 provides that:   “A  public employee is not liable for injury caused by his instituting or  prosecuting any judicial or administrative proceeding within the scope of his  employment, even if he acts maliciously and without probable cause.”   This provision is  intended to protect government employees from “claims of injury based on  tortious or wrongful prosecution.” See Leon v. County of Riverside (2023)  14 Cal.5th 910, 921-922. The immunity is “narrow” and “applies only  if the conduct that allegedly caused the plaintiff’s injuries was the  institution or prosecution of an official proceeding.” Id. at 922.               Defendant Valencia argues that Section 821.6 should  protect him here because he was conducting a police investigation, and police  investigations are an essential precondition to the institution and prosecution  of judicial proceedings. (Demurrer p. 3:17-24). However, in Leon, supra,  14 Cal.5th at 923-924 and 929-931, the California Supreme Court  clearly disapproved this argument. Plaintiffs’ claims against Defendant  Valencia do not arise out of his institution or prosecution of an official  proceeding against them – in fact, there are no official proceedings pending  against them – they arise out of his conduct of an investigation. As the Court itself  said, “the two things are not the same and cannot plausibly be treated as  though they were.” Leon, supra, 14 Cal.5th at 923.               Defendant Valencia also relies on the case of Koussaya  v. City of Stockton (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 909, which was not  among the cases expressly disapproved by Leon. But Koussaya is  different from this case in two significant ways: (1) it was decided at summary  judgment, not demurrer, and (2) it did not involve Section 821.6, which is nowhere  cited or discussed in the opinion.               At this stage of the proceedings, the court cannot find  that Section 821.6 immunizes Defendant Valencia for the errors alleged in the  complaint. While the court remains open to persuasion on an evidentiary motion  such as summary adjudication, the clear language of Leon appears fatal  to that defense.   Lack of Physical  Injury               Defendants argue that, to maintain any one of their Bane  Act, assault, or negligence claims, Plaintiffs Eddie Herrera and Karen Olivares  must allege that they were physically injured. But physical injury is not an  element of a Bane Act claim (see Civil Code § 52.1), or of assault (see So  v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669) or of negligence  (see Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202).  Defense appears to take the position that there is a special “independent bystander  to police action doctrine” which forbids citizens from suing the police unless  they have a physical injury. (Demurrer p. 7:14-22).               None of the cases cited support this proposition. The  only one which even touches on the issue is Golick v. State of California  (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 1127, 1140, which says that there “may” be a  duty toward a third party who “suffers physical injury during a deadly force  incident.” As quoted by Defendant (Demurrer p. 8), Golick appears to  make a distinction between physical and non-physical injuries. But in context, that  is not the issue presented by that case.    Golick  arose out of a hostage situation in which the police exchanged fire with the  hostage-taker, no one was hurt, and the hostage-taker subsequently shot  the hostages. Golick, supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at  1134-36. Plaintiff’s theory was that the gun battle “precipitated” the decision  to shoot the hostages. Id. The “sole issue” presented on appeal was the existence  of a duty for purposes of a negligence claim. Id. at 1137. The Court of  Appeal found that the police could not be legally responsible in negligence for  the independent choices of the hostage-taker, especially because no one was  hurt during the gun battle. Id. at 1143, 1148-51. The relevant point was  not whether the injuries were physical, or whether the plaintiffs were  bystanders – it was that the only injuries inflicted were not inflicted by the  police.   Defendants  say that they have found no case which “authorizes” a cause of action in a  similar factual scenario involving a police officer. No such case is necessary.  “[P]ublic employees in California are statutorily liable to the same extent as  private persons for injuries caused by their acts or omissions, [and] subject  to the same defenses available to private persons...Also, public entities are  generally liable for injuries caused by the negligence of their employees  acting in the scope of their employment.” Hayes v. County of San Diego  (2013) 57 Cal.4th 622, 628-629. There is no special tort rule of  non-liability for police interactions. Id. at 629.    Finally,  Defendants argue that none of these three claims is properly pled. The  arguments they raise on that ground represent one possible interpretation of  the pleadings. There are others. And the questions at play are fundamentally  factual in nature, better addressed at summary judgment than on demurrer.   Noe Garcia               Defendant Noe Garcia (“Garcia”) argues that he cannot be  held liable on any theory. He may be correct. But again, the issues he raises  are factual questions, not suitable for resolution on demurrer.               First, Defendant Garcia argues that he cannot be liable under  the Bane Act claim because he was scared and could not have acted with ill  intent. But the level and direction of Defendant Garcia’s intent represents a  classic factual question. And while being scared may be a “good” or “bad” fact  for that analysis, it is certainly not dispositive.               Next, Defendant Garcia argues that he cannot be liable  for assault because he did not know Plaintiffs were present. This over-reads  the allegations. The clear import of Plaintiffs’ story is that Defendant Garcia,  scared and poorly positioned, was startled by the presence of a person where no  one was expected, and opened fire. (SAC ¶¶ 21, 25-35). A defendant need  not know the precise identity of his victim to be liable for an assault.               Third and last, Defendant Garcia argues that he cannot be  liable for the wrongful death of Samuel Herrera because he never fired his gun  at Samuel Herrera. But the complaint alleges that he did. (SAC  ¶¶ 95(o)-(p)). The questions of who fired at whom, and where, and when,  and why, are better resolved by the submission of evidence, at summary judgment  or trial.   Conclusion               The parties have spent the last several months cleaning  up the pleadings and focusing their theories. The work has been well done. It  is now time to move on. At the present stage, it appears to the court that Leon  v. County of Riverside (2023) 14 Cal.5th 910 prevents the  application of Government Code § 821.6 here. The court also fails to see authority  for Defense’s “bystander rule” which would bar any claim against a police  officer absent a physical injury. And the remainder of the issues raised by  Defendants represent factual questions that require evidence to resolve.  Therefore, the demurrer is OVERRULED.