 Case Number:  23GDCV00376    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 01/19/2024 – 8:30am
Case No:  
23GDCV00376
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: SHIN HO KIM and GENA SOON YOON v. ROBERT
YEPREMIAN
 
[PLAINTIFF’S
MSJ/MSA] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs SHIN HO KIM and GENA SOON YOON
("Plaintiffs"), will and hereby do move the Court pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure Section 437c, as incorporated by reference by Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1170. 7, for an order granting summary judgment to Plaintiffs
on their First Amended Complaint for Unlawful Detainer ("FAC") and
against Defendant ROBERT YEPREMIAN ("Defendant") on the grounds that
the undisputed material facts show that: (1) Defendant failed to comply with
the terms, conditions, and covenants of the commercial Lease Agreement ("Lease")
by his repeated failure to make timely rent payments; and (2) The Lease was
never extended and expired at midnight on July 16, 2022, notwithstanding
Defendant's unconsented occupancy since then. Alternatively, Plaintiffs will
move for an order granting summary adjudication as to each of Defendant's six
affirmative defenses.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiffs,
Shin Ho Kim and Gena Soon Yoon
 
Responding Party: Opposition 
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: Yes
Reply Papers: Yes
 
Procedural
 
Timeliness
“A motion for summary judgment may be made at any time after the answer is
filed upon giving five days’ notice. Summary judgment shall be granted or
denied on the same basis as a motion under Section 437c.” (CCP §1170.7.)
 
Here, the motion appears
timely.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
The motion shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) In determining if the papers show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of
the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections
have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be granted by
the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence if
contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as to
any material fact. (Id.)
 
CCP §437c(f)(1) states:
 
A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.
 
(CCP §437c(f)(1).)
 
Further, CCP §437c(f)(2) provides:
 
A motion for summary adjudication
may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. A
party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior
motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party
establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or
circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the
summary judgment motion.
 
(CCP §437c(f)(2).
 
Further, for purposes of motions for summary judgment and
summary adjudication: 
 
A plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action
if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the
party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to
show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto. The defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely
upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.
 
(CCP §437c(p)(1).)
 
ANALYSIS
As a preliminary matter, the moving,
responding, and reply briefs are confusingly written and not models of clarity.

While Plaintiffs were
not required to submit a separate statement (see CCP §437c(s)), a separate
statement would have been helpful to the Court.
Plaintiffs move for
summary judgment as to their unlawful-detainer action in their FAC. Plaintiffs
state that the elements of an unlawful-detainer action are as follows:
The elements of unlawful detainer based on the expiration of a
fixed-term tenancy are: (1) the plaintiff owns the property; (2) the plaintiff
leased the property to the defendant; (3) the plaintiff did not give the
defendant permission to occupy the property after the lease term ended; and (4)
the defendant still occupies the property. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1161; CACI No.
4301.)
 
(Citing CCP
§ 1161(1).)
 
 
Assuming
Plaintiffs’ cited standard for unlawful detainer is correct, it appears as if
Plaintiffs satisfied each element of their action as follows:
 
1. The
plaintiff owns the property
Here,
based on the Salem declaration at ¶3 and Exhibit 1 and Exhibit 2, Plaintiffs
appear to own the premises based on an assignment by the prior owner.
 
2. The
plaintiff leased the property to the defendant
Defendant was a tenant in the leased property
pursuant to a 5-year fixed term commercial lease. (Salem Decl. ¶3, Ex. 1, Ex.
2.)
 
3. The
plaintiff did not give the defendant permission to occupy the property after
the lease term ended
Plaintiff state that they “are bringing this unlawful-detainer action based
both on the expiration of the fixed term lease, as well as because Defendant
has been in default of the terms, conditions, and covenants of the lease by
failing to pay rent on a timely basis, thereby entitling Plaintiffs to
terminate the lease on notice to the tenant.” (Reply at 3.) 
 
Generally
speaking, what appears to be Plaintiffs’ argument is that during the period of
the lease, the Plaintiffs defaulted under the lease for failing to pay rent on
time and on some occasions not making any payments. The question appears to be
whether there is any dispute of material fact as to whether Defendant exercised
an option to extend the lease.
 
(4) The
defendant still occupies the property
Here, Plaintiffs
stated that Defendant still continues to occupy the premises. (Salem Decl.
¶21.)
Further
Notes
Plaintiffs also moved
for summary adjudication as to each of Defendant’s six affirmative defenses. The
Court finds the parties’ discussion of the affirmative defenses difficult to
follow.  The Court will hear argument as
to the affirmative defenses at the hearing.
TENATIVE
RULING
The Court will hear argument before rendering
a decision. 
 
 
 
 