 Case Number:  23GDCV00452    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  E             
                                                            
Date:               1/26/24                                               
Case No.:         23GDCV00452                                                             Trial Date: Not Set       
Case Name:     Jane Doe v. Chandler Convalescent Hospital, et al. 
            
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MP:       Defendant Parkwest Healthcare Center
(erroneously sued as Chandler Convalescent Hospital, Unknown Entity) 
RP:        Plaintiff Jane Doe
 
 
Correct address? (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a):                    Yes  
    
10 day
lapse?  (CCP §1290.2)                                      Yes  
Personal
Service? (CCP §1290.4)                                No
(defendants answered on 8/28/19 and 11/13/19)       
Copy of agreement included and referenced:            ok, Exhibit A
(Resident — Facility Arbitration Agreement)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ABITRATION / STAY PROCEEDINGS TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Written arbitration agreement
(CCP §1281.2;  CRC 371):   
Exhibit A
Demand and refusal to arbitrate
(CCP §1281.2):    Yes
No waiver of right to compel
arbitration (CCP §§1281.2(a);
1281.5):    Yes 
No grounds for rescission of
agreement to arbitrate  (CCP §1281.2(b)):  Yes   
                        
Parties to the agreement are not
parties to an action with a third party arising out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or event with the possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact (CCP §1281.2(c))
 
I.                   
IFACTUAL BACKGROUND:

            Plaintiff Jane Doe alleges that
on March 8, 2022,
she
was sexually assaulted by defendant Dr. David Crandon, OD, an employee of
defendant Parkwest Healthcare Center (erroneously sued as Chandler Convalescent
Hospital). At the time of the assault, plaintiff was being treated at
Parkwest’s facility.
 
            The
complaint, filed on March 7, 2023 against Crandon, Parkwest, and Does 1-50,
inclusive, alleges 1) assault, 2) battery, 3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress, 4) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, and 5)
negligence. Only the fourth and fifth causes of action are plead against
Parkwest. 
 
            Defendant
filed the instant motion to compel arbitration on September 21, 2023, before
filing the answer. Plaintiff filed the opposition on January 12, 2023.
Defendant filed the reply on January 19, 2023. 
 
 
II.                 
ANALYSIS:
 
CCP § 1281.2 ,
governing orders to arbitrate controversies, provides, in pertinent part:
 
On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses
to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:
(a) The right
to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or
(b) Grounds
exist for rescission of the agreement.

 
            There is a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration of disputes and any doubts concerning the scope of
arbitrable disputes should be resolved in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9 [“courts will ‘indulge every
intendment to give effect to such proceedings.’” (quotation
omitted)].)  “[A]rbitration
agreements should be liberally interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered
unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in question.”  (Vianna v. Doctors’
Management Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189, quoting Weeks v.
Crow (1980)
113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)
 
In this case, Parkwest has
alleged the existence of a written arbitration agreement.  Where a petition is opposed, the burden is on
the party seeking to compel arbitration to establish the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate.  (Banner
Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.)  The determination of arbitrability is a legal question
subject to de novo review.  An appellate
court will uphold the trial court's resolution of disputed facts if supported
by substantial evidence.  (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin
Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1277.)    

 
Because the existence of the
agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting a petition to compel
arbitration, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.  (Villacreses v.
Molinari
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1223, 1230, citing Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp., supra, 14
Cal.4th at 413.)

 
A.    
Applicability of Federal Arbitration Act
9 U.S.C. § 2 states in
part: 
 
A written
provision in ... a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to
settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract ... shall be
valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or
in equity for the revocation of any contract.
 
The United States Supreme Court
has determined that the phrase “involving
commerce” in the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) is the
functional equivalent of the term “affecting
commerce,” which
implicates the “broadest
permissible exercise of Congress’ Commerce Clause power.” 
(Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539 U.S. 52, 56.)  
 
The term “evidencing a
transaction involving commerce”
does
not mean that the parties must have contemplated substantial interstate
activity at the time they entered into the agreement; rather, the transaction
must merely turn out, in fact, to have involved interstate commerce.  (Shepard v. Edward Mackay Enterprises,
Inc. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1097; see also Allied Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 281-82.)
 
As the moving party, defendant
has the burden of proof in establishing that the arbitration agreement involves
interstate commerce.  (Shepard v.
Edward Mackay Enterprises, Inc. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1092, 1101 [“The party claiming a state law is preempted by federal
legislation has the burden of demonstrating preemption.”].)
 
Here, plaintiff does not dispute
that the FAA applies.  Whether the FAA
applies is not dispositive of this motion. 
Therefore, the Court does not need to reach the issue. 
 
B.     
Existence of Arbitration Agreement
Parkwest contends that prior to
the subject alleged incident,
on
July 6, 2021, plaintiff executed two arbitrations agreements with Parkwest
(“the Agreements”) containing the following arbitration provisions:
 
Residents
shall not be required to sign this arbitration agreement as a condition of
admission to this facility.


“Article 1. It
is understood that any dispute as to medical malpractice, that is as to whether
any medical services rendered under this contract were unnecessary or
unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or incompetently rendered, will be
determined by submission to arbitration as provided by California law, and not
by a lawsuit or resort to court process except as California law provides for
judicial review of arbitration proceedings. Both parties to this contract, by
entering into it, are giving up their constitutional right to have any such
dispute decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the
use of arbitration.”


“Article 2. It
is further understood that any dispute...including any action for injury or
death arising from negligence, intentional tort and/or statutory causes of
action (including all California Welfare and Institutions Code sections and
Health and Safety Code section 1430), will be determined by submission to
binding arbitration and not by lawsuit or resort to court process except as
California law provides for judicial review of arbitration proceedings.”


“Article 6.
...The parties agree that California Code of Civil Procedure §1281.2(c) is
excluded from this Agreement as the parties mutually desire to have any and all
disputes
submitted to binding arbitration. The parties do not want any claims not
subject to arbitration to impede any and all other claims from being ordered to
binding arbitration. The expenses and fees of the arbitrator(s) shall be
apportioned equally among all parties except as otherwise permitted by law.”


“Article 7.
This Agreement relates to the Resident’s admission to the Facility, and the Facility, among
other things, participates in the Medicare and/or Medi-Cal programs and/or
procures supplies from out of state vendors. The parties, therefore, agree that
the underlying admission to the Facility involves interstate commerce.
Accordingly, this Agreement is to be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act
and the procedural rules set forth in the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C.
Sections 1-16) shall govern any petition to compel arbitration and the
selection of an arbitrator, should the parties be unable to mutually agree upon
a single neutral arbitrator. The arbitration shall be venued in a location
convenient for all parties.”
 
(Cayabyab Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)
 
Plaintiff first contends Parkwest
fails to meet its burden to prove the existence of an arbitration agreement. In
the alternative, plaintiff contends she has evidence demonstrating the
inauthenticity of the Agreements. The Court will analyze each argument below. 
 
After analyzing Exhibit A, and
considering the Cayabyab Declaration,
the Court finds that Parkwest meets its initial burden to allege the existence
of an arbitration agreement, and plaintiff fails to meet her burden in response
to show the inauthenticity of the agreement.
 
In a motion to compel
arbitration, “the moving party 'can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
[motion or] petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
[opposing party's] signature.’” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158.) 
 
Here, Parkwest has attached the
Agreement as Exhibit A, which they purport to be a copy of an arbitration
agreement plaintiff entered into on July 6, 2021. Thus, Parkwest meets its
initial burden. 
 
C.     
Plaintiff Fails to Meet Her Burden to Dispute the
Authenticity of the Agreements
 
“If the moving party meets its
initial prima facie burden and the opposing party does not dispute the
existence or the arbitration agreement, then nothing more is required for the
moving party to meet its burden of persuasion.” (Gamboa, 72 Cal.App.5th
at 165.)  However, “if the moving party
meets its initial prima facie burden and the opposing party disputes the
agreement, then in the second step, the opposing party bears the burden of
producing evidence to challenge the authenticity of the agreement.” (Id.)

 
The opposing party can do this in
several ways. For example, the opposing party may testify under oath or declare
under penalty of perjury that the party never saw or does not remember seeing
the agreement, or that the party never signed or does not remember signing the
agreement.” (Id., at
165-66.)
 
Here, plaintiff disputes the
existence of the agreement, therefore it is plaintiff’s burden to produce
sufficient evidence of its inauthenticity. 
 
The Agreement is authenticated by
Juhn Cayabyab (“Cayabyab”), Parkwest’s administrator during the time plaintiff
resided at Parkwest’s facility as well as its custodian of records. Cayabyab
states that he has “personal knowledge of the facts contained [in his
declaration].” (Cayabyab Decl., ¶ 1.) He states
that Exhibit A, the Agreements, represent “a true and correct copy of the
arbitration agreements pertaining to [plaintiff], which was maintained by
[Parkwest] in the ordinary course and scope of business.” (Cayabyab Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
On January 12, 2024, plaintiff
submitted the Declaration of Jane Doe in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition (the
“Doe Declaration”), wherein plaintiff stated the following: 
•   
Plaintiff is visually impaired 
•   
Plaintiff has never met Cayabyab
•   
Cayabyab was not present when plaintiff prepared her
enrollment papers for defendant
•   
Cayabyab was not involved in the process when
plaintiff became a resident
•   
Cayabyab cannot authenticate plaintiff’s signature
•   
After reviewing Exhibit A to Cayabyab’s declaration attached to
defendant’s motion, plaintiff could not view her actual signature, or find any
authentication of the date, time, or IP address at which this signature was
supposedly executed
•   
Plaintiff signed “a bunch of papers” but was not
provided any papers with her signature after becoming a patient
•   
If the Court were to find any arbitration agreement
was entered into, pursuant to the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault
and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021, plaintiff invokes her right to void any such arbitration agreement
 
Plaintiff contends the Cayabyab Declaration
has zero probative value because it completely lacks foundation due to the fact
Cayabyab was not present on July 6, 2021 and did not witness the purported
signature on the documents. Plaintiff also outright denies signing an arbitration agreement
as part of her intake documents, though she does not state this under oath in
the Doe Declaration. (Opposition, p. 13, lines 25-26.)
 
The Court finds plaintiff’s
declaration insufficient. In Gamboa, the court held that the plaintiff
opposing arbitration met her burden in the second step by filing an opposing
declaration, saying she did not recall the agreement and would not have signed
it if she had been aware of it: "I do not remember these documents at all
. . . . Had I been made aware of the existence of an arbitration agreement, and
been explained its provisions, I would not have signed any such documents.” (Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th 158, 167.) 
 
Here, the Doe Declaration
includes no such statements. Instead, plaintiff admits she “signed a bunch of
papers” when she was admitted to Parkwest’s facility; she does not state that
she does not remember signing the Agreements and she does she state that she
would not have signed them had the terms been explained to her. 
The Doe Declaration is primarily
directed at attacking the ability of Cayabyab to authenticate the Agreements.
However, this is not sufficient for plaintiff to meet her burden of showing she
did not enter or would not have entered the Agreements. 
 
Accordingly, Parkwest’s motion to
compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
 
D.    
Miscellaneous Arguments
 
1.     
Non-Applicability of HR 4445
In opposition, plaintiff contends
that under HR
4445, the “Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment
Act of 2021”, claims of sexual assault or sexual harassment cannot be submitted
to binding arbitration. 
 
In reply, Parkwest contends that
this does not apply to the specific claims against it here, because there are
no sexual harassment claims plead against Parkwest specifically as the only
claims against Parkwest are based in negligence (the fourth and fifth claims).
 
The Court agrees with Parkwest
that HR 445 does not shield Parkwest’s motion to compel arbitration, as
Parkwest’s claims are based in negligence. 
 
2.     
Whether the Arbitration Clause Encompasses the Dispute
Plaintiff contends that even if
the Court finds that a valid arbitration agreement exists, the agreement does
not apply to claims arising from sexual assault. 
 
Parkwest disputes
this, contending that the claims here are governed by the Agreements because the
Agreements set forth that the parties mutually agreed to arbitrate claims
arising out of the treatment and services rendered to plaintiff, including
claims for negligence.
 
Here, the Court agrees with
Parkwest that the arbitration clause encompasses the 4th and 5th claims.
Looking at the language in Article 2 of the Agreements, the Agreements
specifically state that negligence claims 
between the parties will be resolved by binding arbitration: “any
dispute...including any action for injury or death arising from negligence,
intentional tort and/or statutory causes of action (including all California
Welfare and Institutions Code sections and Health and Safety Code section 1430),
will be determined by submission to binding arbitration and not by lawsuit or
resort to court process.” (Cayabyab Decl.,
Ex. A.)
 
3.     
The Arbitration Clause is Not Unconscionable
Plaintiff contends that the
arbitration agreements at issue are unconscionable. 
 
The Court finds that plaintiff
does not allege sufficient facts to support unconscionability. As for
procedural unconscionability, the Doe Declaration does not explicitly state
that Parkwest duped plaintiff into executing the arbitration agreement by mistake,
oppression, or surprise. Rather, the Doe Declaration attacks the authenticity
of the agreement attached to the motion as Exhibit A. Plaintiff’s statement
that she is visually impaired is the only part of the Doe Declaration that
could imply that the agreements were entered into by mistake or surprise.
However, this fact alone, without any specific declaration that Parkwest took
advantage of this to trick her into entering into an arbitration agreement, is
insufficient to support procedural unconscionability. Furthermore, Parkwest
attaches plaintiff’s history and physical, prepared by plaintiff’s physician on
July 6, 2021, as evidence that plaintiff had the capacity to understand and
make decisions when she purportedly signed the Agreements. (Cayabyab Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.)
Parkwest contends that because plaintiff had capacity on the date the
Agreements were entered into, she cannot now avoid its terms without showing
fraud, coercion, or excusable neglect.
 
As for substantive
unconscionability, plaintiff does not demonstrate that the subject arbitration
clause is overly harsh or oppressive. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds there
is no merit to the unconscionability argument.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:  
The Court intends to GRANT
Parkwest’s motion to compel arbitration, as Parkwest successfully demonstrated
the existence of an arbitration agreement. 