 Case Number:  24STCV17117    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SIOBHAN
  N. HANNA, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TELUS INTERNATIONAL (CDA) INC.; TELUS INTERNATIONAL
  (U.S.) CORP.; TELUS INTERNATIONAL AI ACQUISITION, INC,; TELUS INTERNATIONAL
  HOLDINGS (U.S.A.)
CORP.; TELUS
  INTERNATIONAL AI INC.;
TELUS INTERNATIONAL SERVICES LTD.; and
  DOES 1-10, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV17117
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
FIRST AMENDED APPLICATION OF DALLIN R. WILLSON
  TO APPEAR PRO HAC VICE
 
FIRST AMENDED APPLICATION OF KATHERINE
  E. PERRELLI TO APPEAR PRO HAC VICE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
 
Date: December 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 




 


 


 



 
BACKGROUND
             On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
operative Complaint asserting the following causes of action: (1) Declaratory Judgment
and Injunctive Relief Under California Code of Civil Procedure § 1060 et
seq.; (2) Violation of California Labor code § 925; (3) Violation of California
Business & Professions Code § 16600 et seq.; and (4) Violation of California
Business & Professions Code § 17200.
 
On November 14, 2024, Defendants filed (1)
Verified First Amended Application of Dallin R. Wilson (“Wilson”) and (2)
Verified First Amended Application of Katherine E. Perrelli (“Perrelli”) to appear
pro hac vice as counsel, along with local counsel, Jesse L. Miller, in
this action (the “Applications”). No opposition or reply has been filed.
 
On August 9, 2024, Defendants filed a Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay All Proceedings (the “Motion”). On October 22,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition and on October 28, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply.  
 
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Motion for Preliminary Injunction. On October 22, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition
and October 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
 
The Court discusses each motion in turn. 
 
APPLICATION TO APPEAR PRO HAC VICE
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) rule
9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may
apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application
upon due notice to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar
in San Francisco with payment of a fee, provided that the attorney (a) is not a
California resident, (b) does not work in California, and (c) does not perform
regular or substantial business, professional or other activities in
California. 
 
An application for pro hac vice
admission must set forth: (1) the applicant attorney’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and
dates of admission; (3) a representation that the attorney applicant is a member
in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or
disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the
applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the prior
two years; and (5) the name, address and phone number of the active California
State Bar member with whom the applicant is associated.  (CRC, rule 9.40 subd. (d).)
 
The Court finds that Wilson and Perrelli have
each established that they satisfied the requirements to appear as counsel pro
hac vice pursuant to CRC rule 9.40. 
 
The Verified First Amended Application of
Dallin R. Wilson to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.
 The
Verified First Amended Application of Katherine E. Perrelli to Appear Pro
Hac Vice is GRANTED.
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff objects to the Declarations
of Noreen Sendelbech and the Declaration of Brandon Franklin as improper new evidence
submitted with a reply brief.  Plaintiff’s
objections are SUSTAINED. 
 
Discussion
The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), while
a federal statute, applies in California courts and requires state courts to
enforce arbitration agreements as required by the federal common law developed
under the FAA. (Southland Corp. v. Keating (1984) 465 U.S. 1, 15-16.)
The FAA preempts and invalidates state law and state judicial decisions that
disfavor arbitration or require arbitration provisions to pass higher scrutiny.
(Southland Corp., supra (1984) 465 U.S. at 12; Perry v. Thomas
(1987) 482 U.S. 483, 490.) If the parties designate the FAA applies, then
California arbitration law is preempted. (Rodriguez v. American Techs., Inc.
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1121-1122.)
 
¿A court’s inquiry is limited to a
determination of (1) whether a valid arbitration agreement exists and (2)
whether the arbitration agreement covers the dispute. (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron
Corp. v. Ortho Diagnostics Systems, Inc. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126,
1130; Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84; Simula,
Inc. v. Autoliv, Inc. (9th Cir. 1999) 175 F.3d 716, 720 [if the finding is
affirmative on both counts the FAA requires the Court to enforce the
arbitration agreement in accordance with its terms]; Lacayo v. Cataline
Restaurant Group Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 244, 257 [Where moving party
meets initial burden, “the party opposing arbitration must prove by a
preponderance of the evidence any defense to the petition”].) 
 
The FAA governs all agreements to
arbitrate in contracts “involving interstate commerce.” (Higgins v. Superior
Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) The term “involving” commerce “is
broad and is indeed the functional equivalent of “affecting’ commerce.” (Allied-Bruce
Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995) 513 U.S. 265, 273-274.) The U.S.
Supreme Court has held that this broad interpretation includes employment
contracts. (Circuit City Stores v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105, 106.) The
defendant bears the burden of proving applicability of the FAA by showing that
its activities constitute interstate commerce. (Hoover v. Am. Income Life
Ins. Co. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1207.) Failure to demonstrate that
the employment agreement affects interstate commerce renders the FAA
inapplicable. (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 687-688.) 
Existence and Scope of Arbitration
Agreement
“Parties are not required to arbitrate
their disagreements unless they have agreed to do so. [Citation.] A contract to
arbitrate will not be inferred absent a ‘clear agreement.’ [Citation.] When
determining whether a valid contract to arbitrate exists, we apply ordinary
state law principles that govern contract formation. [Citation] In California,
a ‘clear agreement’ to arbitrate may be either express or implied in fact.
[Citation.]” (Davis v. Nordstrom, Inc. (9th Cir. 2014) 755 F.3d 1089,
1092-93 [applying California law].) In determining the enforceability of an
arbitration agreement, the court first considers “two ‘gateway issues’ of
arbitrability: (1) whether there was an agreement to arbitrate between the
parties, and (2) whether the agreement covered the dispute at issue” (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The court is only
required to make a finding of the agreement’s existence, not an evidentiary
determination of its validity. (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., supra,
88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) 
 
In support of their motion, Defendants reference
the arbitration clauses in both the Employment and Business Protection Agreement
(the “Protection Agreement”) executed by Plaintiff on October 18, 2005 and the Sales
Incentive Plan (the “Incentive Plan”) executed by Plaintiff on May 3, 2022. (Compl., Ex. A [Protection Agreement]; Mot., Sendelbach Decl., Ex. A [Incentive Plan].)

 
In relevant portion, the Protection
Agreement states: “Both you and we mutually consent to the resolution by
arbitration, pursuant to the then current applicable Model Employment or
Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association of all
claims or controversies (“Claims”), arising out of or related to this Agreement
and your employment (or termination of employment), that we may have against
you or that you may have against us (including any parent, subsidiary, or
otherwise affiliated corporation, partnership or other business enterprise and
all of its or their officers, directors, assigns, predecessors, subsidiaries,
affiliates, employers, employees representatives and agents); including, but
not limited to, Claims for wages, other compensation, wrongful termination,
other wrongful employment actions, breach of contract, tort, discrimination,
benefits, or violation of any federal, state, or governmental law, statute,
regulation or ordinance; provided that Claims that you may have for workers’
compensation or unemployment compensation benefits, or any administrative
charge of discrimination you may file, and Claims we may have for violations of
Paragraph 4-9 of this Agreement shall not be subject to arbitration pursuant to
this Paragraph.” (Compl., Ex. A, § 10(a).) 
 
In relevant portion, the Incentive Plan
states: “For
US based employees, if the dispute is not resolved after exhausting the
conflict and appeals procedure through the SCC, any and all outstanding
disputes or claims which you may have against TELUS International under any
federal, state or local law including, but not limited to: claims for breach of
any contract or covenant; tort claims; claims for unpaid wages or commissions
arising under this Plan or your employment with TELUS International, shall be
resolved by mutual binding arbitration. You also understand that, by
participating in the Plan and acknowledging below, you are giving up the right
you may have to participate in a class action or proceeding to the extent
permitted by applicable law. Any arbitration shall be in accordance with and
under the auspices and rules of the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation
Services, Inc. (‘JAMS’) for the resolution of employment disputes, unless the
parties mutually agree to use a different dispute resolution service.” (Mot., Sendelbach Decl., Ex. A, p. 5.) 
 
Both arbitration clauses above cover
disputes arising out of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant. Upon review of
Plaintiff’s Complaint, all four of the alleged cause of action arise from
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant. Thus, a valid arbitration agreement
exists that covers the dispute at issue. 
 
Interstate Commerce
A motion to compel arbitration based on
the FAA must show not only that that the employer engaged in interstate
commerce but also that “the employment relationship involved interstate
commerce.” (Lane v. Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 676, 687-688.) The U.S. Supreme Court has held that the term ‘involving
interstate commerce’ is broad and includes employment contracts. (Circuit
City Stores v. Adams (2001) 532 U.S. 105, 106.) Defendants assert, and
Plaintiff does not contest, that Defendants operate in 32 countries, Delaware,
Nevada, and California. (Mot., Memo. of Points & Auths., p. 11:15-17.) Thus,
the FAA applies. 
 
Defenses 
Under the FAA, a party may challenge the
validity or applicability of the arbitration provision by raising the same defenses
available to a party seeking to avoid the enforcement of any contract. (Cox
v. Ocean View Hotel Corp. (2008) 553 F.3d 1114, 1121.) 
 
“Both procedural unconscionability and
substantive unconscionability must be shown [for a finding of unconscionability
to exist], but ‘they need not be present in the same degree’ and are evaluated
on a ‘sliding scale.’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2017) 55 Cal.4th 223,
247.) 
 
A party claiming that one or more
provisions of an arbitration agreement is unconscionable, must not only prove
unconscionability in the abstract, but also show how such unconscionability
specifically affects the party’s arbitration claim. (Htay Htay Chin v.
Advanced Fresh Concepts Franchise Corp. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 704, 714
[partial limitation on award of fees and costs for “all claims” limiting amount
to one-third of any compensatory damages awarded may be unconscionable, but is
not a defense in the absence of a showing that the party would in fact be
entitled to recover attorney’s fees].) 
 
Procedural Unconscionability 
Procedural unconscionability “addresses
the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression
or surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 246.) Established case law explains that
“‘[o]ppression’ arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results in
no real negotiation and ‘an absence of meaningful choice’ [and] ‘[s]urprise’
involves the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain
are hidden [in the agreement] by the party seeking to enforce the disputed
terms.” (Zullo v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 477, 484.) 
 
 Plaintiff argues that both
arbitration provisions are procedurally unconscionable because they are
adhesive, contain an element of surprise, and her agreement was not informed. Plaintiff
argues that the provisions are adhesive because there was unequal bargaining
power and the agreements were presented on a ‘take it or leave it’ basis. (Opp.
p. 11:15-28.) Plaintiff also argues that the Protection Agreement contained an
element of surprise because it did not provide her with sufficient information
to determine what the costs of arbitration may be. (Opp. p. 12:1-14.) Lastly,
Plaintiff argues that her agreement to be bound by the Incentive Plan was not
an informed decision because the Incentive Plan was presented to her as an
agreement concerning her incentive compensation and she was not informed that
it also contained an arbitration provision. (Opp. p.12:15-13:10.) 
 
Defendants argue that the provisions are
not procedurally unconscionable because Plaintiff could have consulted counsel
before signing the Protection Agreement and there is no element of surprise
because the arbitration provision states that all costs shall be shared equally
except where applicable law requires otherwise. (Reply. pp. 5:18-6:8; Compl.,
Ex. A §10(c).)  
 
Based on the foregoing, there is a medium
amount of procedural unconscionability because Plaintiff has shown a contract
of adhesion and that there was unequal bargaining power between the parties.
(Hanna Decl., ¶¶ 6-8) Additionally, the arbitration provision in the Incentive
Plan is somewhat misleadingly included. The document is titled “2022 Vertical
Lead (Tier 1) Sales Incentive Plan” and the arbitration provision is contained within
a sub-paragraph titled “Verification of Incentive Payments/ Dispute
Resolution.” The document purports to describe the employee commission
structure, and it is not readily obvious that it would also contain a broad arbitration
clause covering all employee disputes against the Defendants including those
not related to commission compensation. 
 
Overall, the degree of oppression is intermediate,
thus, Plaintiff must show at least a medium, if not strong, degree of
substantive unconscionability for the arbitration provisions to be found
unenforceable. 
 


 
Substantive Unconscionability 
Substantive unconscionability focuses on
the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are so one-sided as to shock
the conscience.” (Kinney v. United HealthCare Servs., Inc. (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330.) 
 
First, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration
provisions are substantively unconscionable because both the Protection
Agreement and the Incentive Plan lack mutuality. Plaintiff notes that the
arbitration provision in the Protection Agreement requires Plaintiff to
arbitrate claims arising out of paragraphs 4 through 9 in the Protection Agreement
but exempts Defendants from the same. (Opp. p. 14:15-26.) Notably, the
Complaint seeks specifically to invalidate paragraph 4 “Confidential
Information” and paragraph 5 “Non-Solicitation of Clients and Corporate
Contacts” of the Protection Agreement. (Compl. ¶¶ 27-33.) Plaintiff also argues
that that the Protection Agreement is unilateral because it gives Defendants,
but not Plaintiff, the ability to opt out of arbitration if an arbitrator
determines that Defendants must pay more than half of the arbitration cost. The
provision states, “[Defendants] shall have the option of either paying the
proportion of the cost designated by the arbitrator or determining that the
matter shall be excepted from the provisions of the Paragraph that requires
arbitration of claims.” (Compl., Ex. A, §10(c).)  Plaintiff further argues that the Incentive
Plan lacks mutuality because it requires Plaintiff to arbitrate all claims against
Defendants, but there is no reciprocal language requiring Defendants to
arbitrate claims. (Mot., Sendelbach Decl., Ex. A, p. 5.) 
 
Defendants argue that the Protection
Agreement has “a modicum of bilaterality” because there are both certain
employee and certain employer claims which are excluded from arbitration.
(Reply p. 6:12-8:3) Defendants also argue that the Incentive Plan is mutual because
it requires arbitration of all “outstanding disputes” by either party. (Reply p.
11:20-12:4) 
Upon review, the arbitration clauses are
unilateral. While it is true that in the Protection Agreement certain claims are
mutually excluded from arbitration, the specific claims at issue here are not. Under
the Protection Agreement, Plaintiff is required to arbitrate her claims arising
from paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Protection Agreement, while Defendant can then seek
to prosecute the same claims against Plaintiff. (Armendariz v. Found. Health
Psychcare Servs., Inc., (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 117 [“it is unfairly
one-sided for an employer with superior bargaining power to impose arbitration
on the employee as plaintiff but not to accept such limitations when it seeks
to prosecute a claim against the employee.”].)  Additionally, Defendants argument that the
“outstanding disputes” language renders the Incentive Plan mutual is
unavailing. When read in full, the phrase refers to disputes that are
outstanding after an employee has first attempted to resolve disputes through Defendants
internal conflict resolution process. (Mot., Sendelbach Decl., Ex. A, p. 5.) There
is no reciprocal language that Defendants must attempt to resolve their
disputes against employees internally or through arbitration. Thus, the
arbitration provisions lack even a “modicum of bilaterality” and defendants
have failed to provide any reasonable justification for the lack of mutuality.
Without reasonable justification “arbitration appears less as a forum for
neutral dispute resolution and more as a means of maximizing employer
advantage. Arbitration was not intended for this purpose.” (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th 83 at 118.) 
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that both
arbitration provisions are substantively unconscionable because the Protection
Agreement requires Plaintiff and Defendants to bear the costs of arbitration
equally and the Incentive Plan is silent as to the costs of arbitration. (Opp.,
p. 16:5-17.) Defendants argue that the Protection Agreement requires Defendants
to pay arbitration costs only to the extent required by law. (Reply, p.
8:4-17.) Defendants further argue that the Incentive Plan incorporates the JAMS
Employment Arbitration Rules & Procedures which include rules governing the
costs of arbitration. (Reply, p. 12:5-17) 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the
Protection Agreement’s Massachusetts choice of law provision is unconscionable
and unenforceable. (Mot., Memo of Points & Auths., pp. 16:18-17:22.) California
Labor Code section 925 provides that no employer shall require an employee who
primarily resides and works in California to adjudicate a claim arising in
California, outside of California. (Labor Code § 925.) Labor Code section 925
only applies to contracts entered into, modified, or extended on or after
January 1, 2017. (Labor Code § 925 subd. (f).) Defendants argue that section
925 does not apply to the Protection Agreement because the Protection Agreement
was signed in 2005 and not subsequently modified. (Reply. p. 9:8-18.) The
Incentive Plan, entered in 2022, does modify certain terms of the Protection
Agreement, such as Plaintiff’s title and compensation structure.  Additionally, the Incentive Plan contains both
an arbitration provision and a choice of law provision that differ from the
arbitration and choice of law provisions in the Protection Agreement, which
Defendants seek to enforce through this motion. Defendants cannot logically
argue for enforcement of the modified arbitration and choice of law provisions
in the Incentive Plan while simultaneously asserting that the Incentive Plan
does not modify the terms of the Protection Agreement.  Thus, Labor Code section 925 applies, and the
Massachusetts choice of law provision is unconscionable and unenforceable. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has
demonstrated a strong degree of substantive unconscionability. Thus, because
Plaintiff has shown an intermediate degree of procedural unconscionability and
a high degree of substantive unconscionability, Defendants Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay All Proceedings is DENIED. 
 
MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION
An injunction is a writ or order requiring
a person to refrain from a particular act; it may be granted by the court in
which the action is brought, or by a judge thereof; and when granted by a
judge, it may be enforced as an order of the court.  (CCP § 525.) 
An injunction may be more completely defined as a writ or order
commanding a person either to perform or to refrain from performing a
particular act.  (Comfort v. Comfort,
(1941) 17 Cal.2d 736, 741; McDowell v. Watson, (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th
1155, 1160.)  It is an equitable remedy
available generally in the protection or to prevent the invasion of a legal
right.  (Meridian, Ltd. v. City and
County of San Francisco, et al., (1939) 13 Cal.2d 424.) The purpose of a
preliminary injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final
resolution upon a trial.  (Scaringe v.
J.C.C. Enterprises, Inc., (1988) 205 Cal.App.3d 1536.) A plaintiff seeking
injunctive relief must show the absence of an adequate damages remedy at
law.  (CCP §526(4); Thayer Plymouth
Center, Inc. v. Chrysler Motors, (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 307.) 
 
In determining whether to issue a
preliminary injunction, the trial court considers two factors: (1) the
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial
(CCP §526 subd. (a)(1)), and (2) a balancing of the “irreparable harm” that the
plaintiff is likely to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the
harm that the defendant is likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary
injunction.  (CCP §526 subd. (a)(2); 14859
Moorpark Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp., (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.)

 
Probability
of Success 
Under Business and Professions Code section
16600, all covenants not to compete – including non-solicitation covenants –
are void absent an express statutory exception.  (Kelton v. Stravinski
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 941, 946.) Sections 16601 and 16602 permit
covenants not to compete in two narrow situations: where a person sells the
goodwill of a business and where a partner agrees not to complete in
anticipation of dissolution of a partnership. (Id.) Covenants not
to compete in contracts other than for either the sale of goodwill or
dissolution of a partnership are void.  (Id.) 
 
The Protection Agreement contains both a
non-solicitation and a non-compete clause. (Compl., Ex. A. § 5.) As discussed
in the Motion to Compel Arbitration above, the Court finds that California law,
not Massachusetts law, governs the Protection Agreement. Thus, because
covenants not to compete are void under Business and Professions Code section
16600, Plaintiff has shown a probability of success on the merits. 
 
Irreparable
Harm
            Plaintiff argues that she will
suffer irreparable harm without injunctive relief because the post-employment
restrictive covenants prevent her from adequately carrying out her job duties
in her current role with Welocalize and because Defendants have indirectly
forced Plaintiff to “defend her actions and reputation” by filing suit against
Welocalize. (Mot., Memo of Points & Auths., p. 17:14-26.) Defendants argue
that Plaintiff’s assertion of harm is merely speculative, because she is and “has
been working for Welocalize for the past nine months without facing any legal action
directed at her” (Opp. pp. 17:28-18:1). The Court agrees with Defendants.
Plaintiff is currently employed within her chosen profession and has
accordingly not shown that she is currently suffering any financial losses from
the non-solicitation clauses. Additionally, Defendants have not filed any legal
action against Plaintiff to enforce the post-employment restrictive covenants. As
a result, the possibility of harm from potential future litigation remains
purely speculative at this stage.
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for a Preliminary
Injunction is DENIED. 
 
 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.       
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 13th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 