 Case Number:  24STCV03009    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 RANKLOGIC, INC., a Delaware corporation 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 DR.
  SHERVIN ERFANI, an individual; SET PRICE NOW, INC., a Wyoming corporation;
  and DOES 1 through 25, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV03009
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Date: December 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff RankLogic, Inc. (“Plaintiff’) 
RESPONDING PARTY: None.

 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
No opposition or reply has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a Complaint against Defendants Dr. Shervin Erfani, Set Price Now, Inc., and
Does 1 through 25 (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging that Defendant Dr.
Shervin Erfani misappropriated Plaintiffs trade secrets in creating a competing
company, Defendant Set Price Now, Inc. On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting the following cause of
action: (1) trade secret misappropriation (injunctive relief); (2) trade secret
misappropriation (damages); and (3) breach of fiduciary duty. 
 
            On October 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Protective Order (the “Motion”). No opposition has been
filed.         
 
DISCUSSION
Civil Code (“Civ Code”) section 3426.5
directs courts adjudicating misappropriation claims to “preserve the secrecy of
an alleged trade secret by reasonable means including by granting protective
orders in connection with discovery proceedings, holding in-camera hearings,
sealing the records of the action, and ordering any person involved in the
litigation not to disclose an alleged trade secret without prior court
approval.” 
 
A plaintiff in a trade secret case is
permitted to seek a Protective Order even prior to conducting any discovery
“relating to the trade secret.” (Code Civil Procedure (“CCP”) § 2019.210
[noting that an alleging party’s obligation to identify its trade secrets with
“reasonable particularity” prior to conducting discovery is “subject to” any
protective orders under the Uniform Trade Secrets Act].) 
 
            Plaintiff seeks a Protective Order
to protect its trade secrets which consist of a proprietary process to connect
consumers with professionals offering specific products or services, the
accompanying source code for that process, and the “platform's operational
logic, algorithms, and secure handling of consumer and professional
interactions.” (Mot. p 3:22-26.) In support of the Motion, Plaintiff attaches
the declaration of Dennis Neder, the CEO of RankLogic. He states that the proprietary
process, algorithm, and source code are all part of RankLogic’s trade secrets. (Neder
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) He further states that “RankLogic takes active and reasonable
steps to protect its trade secrets through a combination of strict security
protocols and confidentiality measures.” (Neder Decl., ¶ 5.) He also states
that the “proprietary processes, source code, and vendor relationships provide
the company with a distinct competitive advantage.” (Neder Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
Thus, it appears that there is good cause
to adopt a protective order. Plaintiff’s proprietary process, source code and vendor
relationships are sensitive information and trade secrets, and they should be
subject to additional protection. In addition, Defendants do not oppose this
Motion and thus there are no arguments before the Court as to why a protective
order is not appropriate in this case.  
 
Plaintiff
RankLogic’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to
submit  within ten days of the date of
this order a proposed order in the form which appears on the Los Angeles
Superior Court website as the model Protective Order – Confidential Designation
Only. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 


 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 13th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 