  Case Number:  20STCV49253    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  P Motion: Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint [FAC]RULING -The Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. After review, the Court rules that Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety.BACKGROUNDA. Factual HistoryThis case stems from a hotel visit where Anthony Soriano (Plaintiff) alleges that he suffered numerous bedbug bites. On December 27, 2018, Plaintiff checked into the Hilton Los Angeles Airport located at 5711 W Century Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90045 (the Hotel). (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶ 4,16.) On December 28, 2018, Plaintiff woke up to an intense itching sensation and discovered he had been bitten by bedbugs all over his body. (FAC ¶ 17.) Plaintiffinformed the front desk, but Plaintiff alleges that nothing was done to remedy the situation. (FAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiff would later seek medical attention due to the constant itching, pain, and scarring. (FAC ¶¶ 19-21.) Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that he incurred various expenses including medical costs, the cost of the hotel room, and the replacement of his luggage and clothing. (FAC ¶ 21.)B. Procedural HistoryPlaintiff filed suit on December 28, 2020. Plaintiff alleges that the parent companies of the Hilton Los Angeles Airport include Hilton Worldwide, Inc. and Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc., while the manager of Hilton Los Angeles Airport is Grant Coonley (collectively, Defendants). Plaintiff filed six causes of action aimed at all Defendants which include: (1) Battery; (2) Negligence; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Fraudulent Concealment; (5) Private Nuisance; and (5) Public Nuisance.On February 27, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ Demurrer and Motion to Strike in its with leave to amend.On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint alleging four causes of action which include: (1) battery; (2) negligence; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (4) fraudulent concealment.On April 17, 2024, Defendants filed their Demurrer without a Motion to Strike.The motion before the Court is Defendants’ Demurrer without a Motion to Strike to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Defendants demur to the first, third, and fourth, causes of action. Plaintiff opposes the Demurrer and Defendants filed their reply.DISCUSSIONA. Meet and Confer“Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (CCP § 430.41(a); see also CCP § 435.5 (imposing similar requirements for a motion to strike).)Defendants present the Declaration of Parshant C. Mahbubani (Mahbubani Decl.) stating that on April 1, 2024, Defense counsel sent correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel addressing issues within the FAC. However, Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond. Therefore, the requirements of CCP §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5 remain unsatisfied. However, per CCP § 430.41(a)(4), “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” Therefore, the Court turns its attention to the Demurrer.B. Legal Standard“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)The question of plaintiff's ability to prove these allegations is of no concern at the pleadings stage. (See Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 213-214. “It is not the ordinary function of a demurrer to test the truth of the plaintiff's allegations or the accuracy with which he describes the defendant's conduct.”)C. AnalysisDefendants’ main argument upon demurrer is that Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to state facts sufficient to support causes of action for battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED), and fraudulent concealment. As explained below, the Court agrees and sustains the Demurrer in its entirety.1. First Cause of Action: Battery“The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant’s conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff’s position would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)The parties’ contentions on this cause of action surround the element of intent. Plaintiff argues in their opposition papers that “an awareness of a condition that is known to cause harm in such a manner, absent any effort to stop such contact from occurring, constitutes battery.” (Opp’n at p. 7.) Supporting this contention, Plaintiff cites to a 7th Circuit case, Mathias v. Accor Economy Lodging, Inc., (2003) 347 F.3d 672 (“Mathias”). Plaintiff’s reliance on dicta in a non-binding 7th Circuit case is misplaced. In Mathias, hotel guests recovered from a hotel chain after being bitten by bedbugs. In affirming the verdict, the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals noted that there was extensive evidence to show that the hotel was aware of the infestation: (1) an extermination service had discovered bedbugs in the motel and recommended to spray every room, (2) after receiving complaints a manager at the hotel recommended to the district manager that the hotel be closed and sprayed, and finally (3) the district manager who vetoed the manager’s suggestion was a management-level employee fully aware of the risk and failure to take effective steps to eliminate the condition. (Mathias, supra, at 674.) No similar facts are alleged in this Complaint.Just as he did in response to Defendant’s first Demurrer to the complaint, Plaintiff points the Court to two third-party websites where customers of the hotel can leave complaints, tripadvisor.com and bedbugregistry.com. Plaintiff’s only argument is that “[a]n angry hotel guestor poor online reviews can spark attention that can ultimately harm a hotel business’s reputation and bottom line. Defendants have an interest to maintain the reputation and integrity of their Subject Hotel and to continuously monitor guest posted reviews on various online platforms such as Expedia, TripAdvisor, and Google Reviews.” (Opp’n at p.6.) However, this is speculative and without foundation, and Plaintiff gives no context to these complaints, nor does he establish a link between the online reviews and the knowledge of the defendants, especially considering that comments can be made on these websites by customers and non-customers alike, regardless of their truth.Moreover, the FAC alleges that “Defendants, and DOES 2 through 20, inclusive, did the aforementioned acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with the body of Plaintiff, or with a reckless disregard of the probability of causing such offensive contact to Plaintiff” (FAC ¶ 46.)The FAC further alleges “Defendants’, and DOES 2 through 20, inclusive, intentional, deliberate, and reckless actions . . . [is] clearly evidenced by Defendants’, and DOES 2 through 20, inclusive, (1) deliberate actions in failing to properly and thoroughly inspect and clean the room assigned to Plaintiff, and to ensure the room was free from infestations of bedbugs, and the like, prior to renting and assigning the room to Plaintiff; (2) intentional and deliberate failures to treat and eliminate infestation of bedbugs, and the like, occurring in the rooms of the Subject Hotel; (3) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice not to inspect for bedbugs and the spread of bedbug infestations at the Subject Hotel; (4) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice in requiring Plaintiff to be assigned and isolated in the room of the Subject Hotel despite having prior knowledge of the bedbug infestation from the Plaintiff; (5) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice not to properly train housekeeping staff to thoroughly clean and maintain the rooms in a sanitary and habitable condition; (6) willful disregard of knowledge of Cimex lectularius (bedbugs) infestation and other uninhabitable conditions in Plaintiff’s room; and (7) intentional, deliberate, and reckless choice in failing to give notice to Plaintiff of the presence of the said uninhabitable conditions occurring in Plaintiff’s room at the Subject Hotel.” (FAC ¶ 49.)These allegations are insufficient to show intent and without the element of the intent to harm, a cause of action for battery must fall to demurrer. To sufficiently plead a cause of action for battery under these factual circumstances, plaintiff would need to show that Defendant’s agents knew that there was an infestation in Plaintiff’s room at the time he was given possession of it. Here, Plaintiff merely alleges that there was information available to Defendant, from some unknown point in time, to suggest that hotel guests complained about bedbugs in Defendant’s property. Therefore, the court finds that the FAC does not state facts to support plaintiff’s conclusion that defendants had knowledge of the bedbugs in the hotel room.As Plaintiff provided no new factual allegations regarding Defendant’s knowledge of the bedbug infestation in the FAC, the Demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.2. Third Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe orextreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)Plaintiff argues that the inaction of the Hotel which included failure to inspect the room, failure to eradicate the infestation, and failure to warn Plaintiff of the infestation constitutes the intent element of IIED. Plaintiff continues arguing, stating that Defendants ratified this conduct of the Hotel’s employees by not terminating such employees, not training employees regarding bedbug infestations, and turning a blind eye towards previous complaints. The FAC further alleges “[a]lthough Defendants, and DOES 2 through 20, had prior knowledge of bedbug infestations in their hotel, Defendants, and DOES 2 through 20, failed to eradicate such infestations, including an infestation in the room that Plaintiff was provided” and that “Defendants, and DOES 2 through 20, knew that their hotel had a prior bedbug infestation. Defendants, and DOES 2 through 20, deliberately and recklessly chose to turn a blind eye to this infestation and previous guest complaints” (FAC, p. 5, ¶25 & ¶27, respectively).As above, Plaintiff provides no facts that anyone was aware of a bedbug infestation in Plaintiff’s room, at the time Plaintiff was given the right to possess it. Instead, Plaintiff asserts that knowledge should be inferred because there were online reviews which included complaints that there were bedbugs at the property. These conclusory allegations are insufficient to show intent, which is a basis to sustain the demurer. In addition, “it is not enough that the conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is aware.” (Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1002, citing Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.) No facts in the Complaint show that defendants’ was conduct aimed at Plaintiff nor done in Plaintiff’s presence.With the absence of the intent element and no facts establishing Plaintiff as the target of the conduct, the Demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained. As Plaintiff provided no new facts alleging knowledge of the infestation in his FAC, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.3. Fourth Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment“The required elements for fraudulent concealment are (1) concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.” (Hambrick v. Healthcare Partners Medical Group, Inc. (2015) 189 Cal.Rptr.3d 31, at 36.)Fraud must be specifically pleaded: “It is essential that the facts and circumstances which constitute the fraud should be set out clearly, concisely and with sufficient particularity to apprise the opposite party of what he is called upon to answer, and to enable the court to determine whether, on the facts pleaded, there is any foundation, prima facie at least, for the charge of fraud. Scafidi v. Western Loan and Bldg. Co. (1946) 72 Cal.App.2d 550, 553.The FAC alleges ““[a]lthough Defendants, and DOES 2 through 20, had prior knowledge of bedbug infestations in their hotel, Defendants, and DOES 2 through 20, failed to eradicate such infestations, including an infestation in the room that Plaintiff was provided” (FAC ¶ 25). The FAC further alleges that “Defendants, and DOES 1 through 20, intended to deceive Plaintiff and take advantage of Plaintiff’s lack of knowledge of the infestation in order to turn a profit on a night’s stay at his hotel, and intended to deceive Plaintiff by concealing the fact of the Cimex lectularius infestation” (FAC ¶100).Here, Plaintiff’s claim fails because, as noted above, there are no facts that support actual knowledge of a bedbug infestation. Without such knowledge, Plaintiff cannot assert the intent element of fraud.Accordingly, the Demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained. As there are no new facts within the FAC showing actual knowledge of an infestation in the property, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.CONCLUSIONAccordingly, Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety.Defendants are ordered to give notice of ruling.