 Case Number:  22TRCV01618    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production (Set One)The court considered the moving papers. No oppositions or reply papers have been filed as of May 24, 2024.RULINGPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFP No. 3 is granted. Defendant City is ordered to serve further responses within 20 days.BACKGROUNDPlaintiff Gilbert Lopez was involved in an auto accident with Defendant Lucia Rivera, who was acting in the course and scope of his employment with City of Rancho Palos Verdes when the accident occurred. On December 28, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Rivera and City of Rancho Palos Verdes. The operative complaint is the First Amended Complaint alleging (1) negligence; (2) vicarious liability; (3) vicarious liability.LEGAL AUTHORITYCCP § 2031.310(a) On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.(3) In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the demand.… (h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.Where a party is seeking to compel further responses to requests for document production, the burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and specific facts justifying discovery. (CCP §2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland v. Supr. Ct. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98 (“Once good cause was shown, the burden shifted to Kirkland to justify his objection”); Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves to compel further production in response to his RFP No. 3. Plaintiff argues the objections based on vagueness and ambiguity are improper, boilerplate objections.Plaintiff argues Defendant City’s objections to RFP No. 3 based on attorney-client privilege and work product doctrine should be overruled. Plaintiff obtained a privilege log from Defendant after meeting and conferring. Plaintiff argues that based on the log, the documents are not protected by either the attorney-client privilege or the work product doctrine.Plaintiff argues that the Employee’s Report of Injury or Illness, Supervisor’s Report of Injury or Illness, Driver’s Reporter of Accident and Patron Accident Report were prepared by public employees as part of their public duties. Plaintiff argues Defendant’s position that the reports were prepared for internal use does not make them privileged or work product protected.Plaintiff argues the objections based on relevance and privacy are meritless. Plaintiff argues the reports seek information regarding the accident. Plaintiff argues any privacy interest is outweighed by the direct relevance of the information sought. Plaintiff argues Defendants have placed Rivera’s health is at issue, because Rivera claims she suffered a sudden and unexpected medical emergency that excuses her culpability.Parties met and conferred multiple times on the original responses and the privilege log provided as a supplemental response. (Motion, Cefali Dec., ¶¶4-9.) Parties were unable to reach an agreement. (Id.)Plaintiff satisfies his burden as the party moving to compel further response to RFP No. 3. RFP No. 3 seeks documents “constituting, reflecting, referring to, and/or evidencing reports about the INCIDENT, including reports to, by and/or from a governmental entity. These documents relate directly to the collision that forms the basis of this complaint.Plaintiff also correctly points out that, based on the information provided on the privilege log, none of the documents were prepared by an attorney or sent to an attorney. (Cefali Dec., Ex. D.) The authors and recipients are identified as “City Staff,” “Sedgwick, the City of Rancho Palos Verdes’ Third Party Administrator,” Lucia Rivera and City of Rancho Palos Verdes. (Id.) Based on the document titles, a number of the documents were clearly not prepared by any attorney, e.g. “Driver’s Report of Accident,” “Patron Accident Report,” “Supervisor’s Report of Injury or Illness.”Because Plaintiff has established good cause for further production, the burden shifts to Defendant City to establish that its objections are meritorious, including privacy, attorney client privilege and work product doctrine. Defendant City did not oppose the motion.For these reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFP No. 3 is granted.ORDERPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to RFP No. 3 is granted. Defendant City is ordered to serve further responses within 20 days.As the Notice does not demand sanctions, the court declines to award such. See Code of Civ. Pro. § 2023.040.