 Case Number:  23TRCV04221    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PETITION FOR ORDER TO COMPEL ARBITRATION BY DEFENDANTS CULTURAL CARE, INC. AND LATA OWENHaving considered defendants’ motion, plaintiff’s opposition, defendants’ reply, and the associated exhibits, the court rules as follows: the petition to compel arbitration is granted.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn December 19, 2023, Plaintiff M.F. (“Plaintiff”), by and through his guardian ad litem, Megan Montero (“Montero”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Cultural Care, Inc. (“Cultural Care”) and Lata Owen.On February 8, 2024, the Court granted the application of Megan Montero to be appointed as guardian ad litem for minor plaintiff M.F.On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Cultural Care, Safaa Sofia Boualite (“Boualite”), and Lata Owen (“Owen”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Training, Hiring, and Supervision; (3) Negligence Per Se; (4) Fraudulent Misrepresentation; (5) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (6) Battery.On April 17, 2024, Defendants Cultural Care and Owen (“Moving Defendants”) filed and served the instant Petition to Compel Arbitration (the “Petition”). On May 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Petition, to which Moving Defendants filed a reply on May 23, 2024.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThe FAC arises from Plaintiff being infected with oral herpes under the supervision of Cultural Care. (FAC, ¶ 21.)III. LEGAL STANDARDParties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) California law favors enforcement of valid arbitration agreements. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) A party petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.)The Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) applies to any contract evidencing a transaction involving interstate commerce which contains an arbitration clause. (Wolls v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 197, 211.) Section 2 of the FAA provides that arbitration provisions shall be enforced, save upon grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract. (Ibid.) A state court may refuse to enforce an arbitration clause on the basis of generally applicable contract defenses, such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. (Ibid.) A state court, however, may not defeat an arbitration clause by applying state laws applicable only to arbitration provisions. (Ibid.)When it applies, the FAA preempts any state law rule that stands as an obstacle to the accomplishment of the FAA’s objectives. (Carbajal v. CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.) A party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to present evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects interstate commerce, and the failure to do so renders the FAA inapplicable. (Ibid.) Evidence must be presented, in the form of declarations or other evidence, that establishes that the contract affects interstate commerce. (Ibid.) “[S]ince arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in the agreement.” (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.)“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).) Thus, in assessing a motion to compel arbitration, the moving party “bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the [motion] bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.”(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284, citation omitted.)“If a court of competent jurisdiction . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsMoving Defendants contend that Ms. Montero and her husband, Chris Flick (“Flick”), entered into a Host Family Agreement (the “Host Agreement”) with Defendant Cultural Care in whereby Ms. Montero and her husband agreed to participate as a host family and welcome an au pair into their home as part of the U.S. Department of State’s au pair cultural and exchange program. Moving Defendants assert that the Host Agreement provides for arbitration of any dispute that may arise under such agreement. Moving Defendants contend that a dispute has arisen between the parties to the Host Agreement regarding an au pair that allegedly passed oral herpes to Ms. Montero’s minor son as set forth in the FAC.Responding Party’s OppositionPlaintiff contends that the Massachusetts choice of law provision contravenes fundamental California public policy and is thus unenforceable. Plaintiff further asserts that the arbitration agreement is invalid under California law as it is not an agreement between Plaintiff and Moving Defendants, it is void at execution because Plaintiff is a minor, and Plaintiff exercises his right to disaffirm any agreement with Moving Defendants. Plaintiff further argues that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.Moving Party’s ReplyMoving Defendants argue on reply that Plaintiff is bound to the arbitration agreement as a third-party beneficiary. Moving Defendants also assert that the arbitration agreement is not unconscionable, the Host Agreement’s arbitration agreement is valid and enforceable under the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) which preempts state law, and whether the Massachusetts choice-of-law provision or the release is enforceable is a question for the arbitrator to decide.Merits of the MotionA. Scope of the Arbitration AgreementIn support of the Petition, Natalie Jordan provides a declaration and states the following: she is Senior Vice President of Cultural Care. (Jordan Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant Cultural Care is a United State Department of State-designated sponsoring organization of the au pair cultural and educational exchange visitor program. (Jordan Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant Cultural Care is aMassachusetts corporation with its principal office in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. (Jordan Decl., ¶ 5.) On May 18, 2023, Ms. Montero and her husband signed the Host Agreement. (Jordan Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; Exh. A.)Paragraph 27 of the Host Agreement provides that the Host Agreement shall be governed by the substantive laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to conflict of law principles. (Jordan Decl., Exh. A at ¶ 27.) The Host Agreement provides, in part, that “[i]n connection with any claim, dispute, or proceeding arising out of or relating in any manner to this Agreement or your relationship with Cultural Care, or any dispute or claim between the parties whether in contract, tort, or otherwise, or at law or in equity, whether or not related to this Agreement, the parties hereby mutually agree to submit to mandatory, finding, and binding individual arbitration.” (Jordan Decl., Exh. A at ¶ 27.)The Host Agreement further provides that “[t]he arbitrator (and not a court or jury) shall decide all issues in or related to any such dispute or claim including but not limited to issues regarding the scope of the arbitrator’s authority, arbitration procedures, legal fees, choice of law and location of the arbitration, the unavailability of class or collective arbitration, and all other issues regarding the application, interpretation, and implementation of this Agreement, or of any issue in dispute covered by this agreement.” (Jordan Decl., Exh. A at ¶ 27.)B. Applicability of the FAAMoving Defendants contend that the Host Agreement triggers application of the FAA as it is between a California plaintiff and Defendant Cultural Care, which is a Massachusetts defendant.Here, the Court finds that Moving Defendants have met their burden in showing that the Host Agreement affects interstate commerce. Moreover, Plaintiff does not contend that the FAA is inapplicable to the Host Agreement.Therefore, the Court finds that the FAA does apply to the Host Agreement.C. The Existence of an Agreement to ArbitratePlaintiff contends that the Host Agreement is not between Plaintiff and Moving Defendants and that such agreement is signed by Ms. Montero and Mr. Flick. As such, Plaintiff argues that there is no agreement to arbitrate between Plaintiff and Moving Defendants. On reply, Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff is bound to the Host Agreement as a third-party beneficiary.“A third party beneficiary is someone who may enforce a contract because the contract is made expressly for his benefit.” (Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1336, internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he mere fact that a contract results in benefits to a third party does not render that party a third party beneficiary.” (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.) “Rather, the parties to the contract must have intended the third party to benefit.” (Id. at p. 1337, internal quotations omitted, emphasis in original.)“Under the third party beneficiary theory, a nonsignatory may be compelled to arbitrate where the nonsignatory is a third party beneficiary of the contract.” (Philadelphia Indemnity Ins. Co. v. SMG Holdings, Inc. (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 834, 841.) “Whether a nonsignatory is an intended third party beneficiary to the contract is determined from the parties’ intent, as gleaned from the contract as a whole and the circumstances under which it arose.” (Ibid.)The Court finds that Plaintiff is a third-party beneficiary of the Host Agreement. (Jordan Decl. at Exhibit A.) The Host Agreement references the au pair doing numerous tasks related to minor Plaintiff such as supervision of play, preparing minor Plaintiff’s meals, straightening minor Plaintiff’s room, doing minor Plaintiff’s laundry, and passive duties such as being present when minor Plaintiff is sleeping. (Jordan Decl., Exh. A at ¶ 12.) The Host Agreement clearly provides that “the au pair will perform childcare services and light housekeeping related to childcare.” (Jordan Decl., Exh. A at ¶ 12.) Although not referenced in the Host Agreement as a party, the Court finds that Plaintiff is a third-party beneficiary as it appears from the Host Agreement that the services of the au pair were intended to benefit Plaintiff.As such, the Court finds that an agreement to arbitrate exists with Plaintiff pursuant to a third-party beneficiary theory. The Court also finds that the Host Agreement covers the claims in this action as the FAC arises from au pair services. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to show any fact necessary to his defense.D. Plaintiff’s Status as a MinorPlaintiff argues that the Host Agreement is void at execution because Plaintiff was a minor and that he exercises is right to disaffirm any agreement with Moving Defendants because he did not consent to the Host Agreement.“A minor is an individual who is under 18 years of age.” (Fam. Code § 6500.) “As a general proposition, parental consent is required for the provision of services to minors for the simple reason that minors may disaffirm their own contracts to acquire such services.” (Berg v. Taylor (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 809, 818.) “[A] contract of a minor may be disaffirmed by the minor before majority or within a reasonable time afterwards or, in the case of the minor’s death within that period, by the minor’s heirs or personal representative.” (Fam. Code § 6710.) The ability of a minor to disaffirm a contract “does not apply to contracts between adults and is therefore not controlling on the question of a parent’s power to bind his child to arbitrate by entering into a contract of which the child is a third party beneficiary.” (Doyle v. Giuliucci (1965) 62 Cal.2d 606, 609.)Here, the Court rejects Plaintiff’s attempt to disaffirm the Host Agreement in paragraph 8 of the FAC as the Court has determined that Plaintiff is a third-party beneficiary pursuant to such agreement. Also, the Host Agreement was with Plaintiff’s parents and therefore he lacks authority to disaffirm the agreement under Doyle v. Giuliucci, supra, 62 Cal.3d 606, 609. The fact that Plaintiff was a minor at the time of the agreement does not mean that Plaintiff cannot be compelled to arbitrate his claims. (Doyle v. Giuliucci, supra, 62 Cal.2d 606.) Plaintiff’s parents consented to the Host Agreement with Plaintiff as a third-party beneficiary. Thus, the Court does not find the Host Agreement to be void at its execution.E. UnconscionabilityPlaintiff contends that the arbitration provision in the Host Agreement is unconscionable. In their reply, Moving Defendants argue that the arbitration provision is not unconscionable.“California courts analyze unconscionability as having a procedural and a substantive element.” (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1329.) “[B]oth elements must be present before a contract or contract provision is rendered unenforceable on grounds of unconscionability.” (Ibid.) The doctrine of unconscionability refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It consists of procedural and substantive components, “the former focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.) Although both components of unconscionability must be present to invalidate an arbitration agreement, they need not be present in the same degree. (Armendariz v. Found Health Psychcare Servs., Inc., supra, 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.) “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves. [Citations.] In other words, the more substantively unconscionable the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) “The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)“‘Procedural unconscionability’ concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and the circumstances of the parties at that time.¿ It focuses on the factors of oppression and surprise. The oppression component arises from an inequality of bargaining power of the parties to the contract and an absence of real negotiation or a meaningful choice on the part of the weaker party. The component of surprise arises when the challenged terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce them.’” (Nyulassy v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1267, 1281.)¿Substantive unconscionability focuses on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are “so one sided as to “’shock the conscience.’” (Kinney v. United Healthcare Services, Inc., supra, 70 Cal. App.4th 1329, 1330.) The California Supreme Court in Armendariz set forth five minimum requirements in requiring that arbitration agreements in the employer-employee context must provide for: (1) neutral arbitrators; (2) more than minimal discovery; (3) a written award; (4) all types of relief that would otherwise be available in court; and (5) no additional costs for the employee beyond what the employee would incur if he or she were bringing the claim in court. (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 712-713.)Plaintiff has not made any showing of oppression or surprise to warrant a finding of procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that the Host Agreement was presented to him or his parents on a “take it or leave it basis,” with no opportunity for negotiation of its terms. In fact, Plaintiff presented zero evidence in opposition to the Petition. Plaintiff hadthe burden to show unconscionability by a preponderance of the evidence pursuant to Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.The Court therefore finds that the Host Agreement is not procedurally unconscionable. Due to Plaintiff’s failure to make a showing of procedural unconscionability, the Court need not address the issue of substantive unconscionability.F. The Choice of Law Issue and Validity of the ReleaseThe Court notes that the parties dispute about whether Massachusetts choice of law provision should apply in determining whether the arbitration clause in the Host Agreement is enforceable.“A proceeding to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract.” (Freeman v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) “Arbitration is, of course, a matter of contract, and the parties may freely delineate the area of its application.” (Ibid.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 was drafted . . . to prescribe and limit the power of the superior court in passing upon a petition to compel arbitration.” (Ibid.) CCP § 1281.2 provides that the superior court is required “to determine in advance whether there is a duty to arbitrate the controversy which has arisen. The performance of this duty necessarily requires the court to examine and, to a limited extent, construe the underlying agreement.” (Id. at p. 480.) “The arbitrability of a dispute may itself be subject to arbitration if the parties have so provided in their contract.” (Ibid.) “Even then, it is necessary for the court to examine the contract to ascertain whether the parties have so provided.” (Ibid.)“Parties to an arbitration may agree to delegate to the arbitrator, instead of a court, questions regarding the enforceability of the agreement.” (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 241.) “They can agree to arbitrate almost any dispute—even a dispute over whether the underlying dispute is subject to arbitration.” (Ibid.) For a delegation clause to be effective two requirements must be met: (1) the language of the delegation clause must be clear and unmistakable; and (2) the delegation must not be revokable under state contract defenses such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability. (Id. at p. 242.)A choice of law provision will be enforced if: (1) the chosen state bears a substantial relationship to the parties to the contract or a reasonable basis for the parties’ choice; and (2) application of the chosen state’s law must not violate a strong policy of California law. (Nedlloyd Lines B.V. v. Superior Court (1992) 3 Cal.4th 459, 479.) “To permit a child care provider to contract away its duty to exercise ordinary care is . . . antithetical to the very nature of child care services.” (Gavin W. v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los Angeles (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 662, 676.) “[E]xculpatory agreements that purport to relieve child care providers of liability for their own negligence are void and against public policy.” (Ibid.)The Host Agreement provides that Defendants are released from any and all claims or causes of action which Ms. Montero and Mr. Flick may have against Moving Defendants “which arise out of injury, damage, or loss of any other kind to the Host Family or their property resulting from participation in the Cultural Care program. This includes, without limitation, the au pair’sperformance of services for and involvement with the Host Family, regardless of how such injury, damage, or loss may arise...” (Jordan Decl., Exh. A at ¶ 26.)Here, the Host Agreement is between Mr. Flick and Ms. Montero who reside in California and Defendant Cultural Care who is based on Massachusetts. (Jordan Decl. at Exhibit A.) The Host Agreement contains a release clause that relieves Defendant Cultural Care and its agents, officers, directors, among other individuals, of all liability. Thus, enforcing the Host Agreement would allow Moving Defendants to contract away all liability arising from the acts alleged in the FAC which is against California public policy. However, as will be explained below, the arbitrator is to decide issues related to choice of law, as well as enforceability of the Host Agreement, and the Court cannot rule on such an issue.Moving Defendants contend that the arbitrator must decide questions of arbitrability. The Court agrees. As stated above, Plaintiff is a third-party beneficiary to the Host Agreement and is bound by such agreement. As such, based on the express delegation language therein, the arbitrator must decide the applicability of the choice of law provision and any other issues related to the applicability of the release clause as the arbitrator is to decide “issues regarding the application, interpretation, and implementation of [the] [Host] [Agreement].” (Jordan Decl., Exh. A at ¶ 27.)As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s claims against Moving Defendants can be compelled to arbitration pursuant to the Host Agreement.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Petition to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. The Court stays this action pending the completion of arbitration between the parties. (CCP § 1281.4.)Defendants Cultural Care, Inc. and Lata Owen give notice.[TENTATIVE] RULING RE: APPLICATIONS FOR ADMISSION PRO HAC VICEHaving considered the verified applications of Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald G. Gentile, the court rules as follows: the respective applications for admission pro hac vice filed by Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald P. Gentile are granted.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn December 19, 2023, Plaintiff M.F., by and through his guardian ad litem, Megan Montero (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Cultural Care, Inc. (“Cultural Care”) and Saafa Sofia.On January 25, 2024, this action was reassigned to the Honorable David K. Reinert sitting in Department P at Torrance Courthouse effective January 29, 2024.On February 8, 2024, the Court granted the application of Megan Montero to be appointed as guardian ad litem for minor plaintiff M.F.On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Cultural Care, Safaa Sofia Boualite (“Boualite”), and Lata Owen (“Owen”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Training, Hiring, and Supervision; (3) Negligence Per Se; (4) Fraudulent Misrepresentation; (5) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (6) Battery.On April 17, 2024, Jeffrey P. Allen (“Allen”) filed and served an application for admission pro hac vice, in which Mr. Allen seeks an order granting him admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice.Also, on April 17, 2024, Donald J. Gentile (“Gentile”) filed an application for admission pro hac vice, in which Mr. Gentile seeks an order granting him admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice.On May 23, 2024, after hearing oral argument, the Court continued the hearing on the respective pro hac vice applications to May 29, 2024. (05/23/24 Minute Order.)On May 24, 2024, Jacqueline Schmedel filed a Supplemental Declaration in Support of the respective applications indicating that her law firm paid a filing fee for each of the pro hac vice applications. (Schmedel Supp. Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.)The Court will address the respective applications of Mr. Allen and Mr. Gentile in this one ruling.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThe FAC arises from Plaintiff being infected with oral herpes under the supervision of Cultural Care. (FAC, ¶ 21.)III. LEGAL STANDARDCalifornia Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by filing “with the court a verified application with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and notice of hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(c)(1).) “An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the State Bar.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(e).)The written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the attorney is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(d).)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsMr. Allen and Mr. Gentile respectively request that the Court allow them to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this action.Responding Party’s OppositionNo opposition filed as of May 28, 2024.Moving Party’s ReplyNo reply filed as of May 28, 2024.Merits of the Respective ApplicationsThe Court finds that the respective applications of Mr. Allen and Mr. Gentile are compliant with Cal. Rules of Court., Rule 9.40.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the respective Applications for Admission Pro Hac Vice filed by Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald P. Gentile are GRANTED.Jeffrey P. Allen to give notice.The respective Applications for Admission Pro Hac Vice filed by Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald P. Gentile on 4/17/2024 are granted.