 Case Number:  SC125247    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


SC125247




MOTION


Motion for Leave to File a Supplemental Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Rudy Eisler, individually and as trustee for
  the Eisler Family Living Trust; Stephen Eisler, individually and as trustee
  for the Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Theresa Eisler, individually and as
  trustee for The Eisler Family 2000 Living Trust; Wendy Eisler, Individually
  and as trustee for the Eisler Family Living Trust; Eisler Investments; West
  End Properties; Robert Sundeen; Carole Sundeen; and Dustin Wells.



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Unlawful Detainer Action
 
            On
May 11, 2015, the Eisler Defendants to this action[1]
filed an unlawful detainer complaint against Plaintiff Yazmin Ortiz
(“Plaintiff”), case number 15R02431.  (See
Exhibits B and C to the Defendants’ Feb. 6, 2020 Request for Judicial Notice in
support of Demurrer and Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint [hereinafter
“RJN”].)  Plaintiff proceeded in pro per
in that matter.
 
            On
December 4, 2015, the morning of the unlawful detainer trial, Plaintiff [then-Defendant]
stood up in open court, in front of the jury, and interrupted the court’s
proceedings.  The court removed the jury
from the courtroom, attempted to advise Plaintiff regarding appropriate
courtroom demeanor, but Plaintiff was “belligerent” and advised the court she
was leaving to go see the supervising judge. 
(RJN Ex. F.)  The court informed
her that if she left, her answer would be stricken and the trial would go forward.  Plaintiff chose to leave anyway.  The jury was then thanked and discharged, and
the matter proceeded as a court trial in Plaintiff’s absence.  The court ordered judgment in favor of the
Eislers.  (Ibid.)
 
            The Current Action
 
Plaintiff, proceeding in pro
per, filed the Complaint in this matter on January 13, 2016.  On December 4, 2017, Plaintiff filed the
First Amended Complaint, alleging the following causes of action:
 

First:
     Violation of Civil Rights
Second:
     Actual and Punitive Damages under FEHA
Third:
     Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
Fourth:
     Actual and Punitive Damages under California’s Landlord Tenant Statutes
Fifth:
     Actual and Punitive damages for retaliation
Sixth:
     Actual and Punitive damages for breach of contract and of the covenant of
     quiet enjoyment
Seventh:
     Breach of warranty of habitability
Eighth:
     Nuisance
Ninth:
     Negligence
Tenth:
     Malicious Prosecution
Tenth [sic]:
     Violation of Rent Control Laws
Eleventh:
     Violation of Rent Control Laws
Twelfth:
     Violation of Santa Monica Charter Amendment section 1809
Thirteenth:
     Breach of Written Rental Agreement
Fourteenth:
     Intentional and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
Fifteenth:
     Unfair Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof., sections 17000 and
     17200)
Sixteenth:
     Unlawful Business Practices (Cal. Bus. & Prof., sections 17000 and
     17200)
Seventeenth:
     Negligent Supervision and maintenance
Eighteenth:
     Negligence Per Se

 
Anti-SLAPP
& Appeal
 
On March 12, 2019, Defendants
filed a special motion to strike the Fifth, Sixth, Tenth (both), Twelfth, Thirteenth
and Sixteenth causes of action, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
425.16 (Anti-SLAPP).  The Court granted
the Anti-SLAPP motion and struck the fifth, tenth (both), twelfth, thirteenth, and
sixteenth causes of action in their entirety. 
With respect to the sixth cause of action, the Court granted the motion
in part, “only as to all allegations relating to the institution of the unlawful
detainer action, both as to the breach of contract and breach of covenant of
quiet enjoyment claims.”  (See November
19, 2019 Minute Order.)  
 
Plaintiff appealed, and the
Court of Appeal reversed in
part with respect to the twelfth cause of action only, explaining that the “allegation that
defendants demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent” pursuant to
section 1809 of the Santa Monica Charter Amendment did not arise from protected
activity.  The Court of Appeal affirmed
the Court’s decision in all other respects. 
(See August 22, 2022 Appeal – Remittitur – Other Reversed in Part and
Affirmed in Part (B303780).)  
 
Demurrer & Motion to
Strike
 
On February 6, 2020, Defendants
demurred to the other causes of action (First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth,
Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Eleventh, Fourteenth, Fifteenth, Seventeenth, and
Eighteenth) and moved to strike requests for attorneys’ fees, punitive damages,
injunctive relief, and treble damages and disgorgement from the FAC.  The Court sustained the demurrer regarding
the subject causes of action, without leave to amend, because Plaintiff raised the
claims as affirmative defenses in connection with the unlawful detainer matter.
Thus, the court determined that the subject causes of action were barred by res
judicata.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute
Order.)
 
 
With respect to the motion to
strike, the Court granted the motion to strike in part.  The Court struck Plaintiff’s request for
treble damages and disgorgement under the Third Cause of Action for violation
of the Unruh Civil Rights Act, because the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer
to that cause of action without leave to amend. 
(See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
The Court also granted
Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages in
connection with the twelfth cause of action, and Plaintiff’s request for
injunctive relief, but granted Plaintiff 30 days’ leave to amend.  (December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)
 
Current State of Pleadings
 
Currently, Plaintiff’s Twelfth
cause of action remains at-issue, but that cause of action is limited to Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendants demanded rent in excess of the maximum lawful rent
permitted by section 1809 of the Santa Monica Charter Amendment.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff did not
file a second amended complaint within the 30-day time period in conformance
with the Court’s order of December 6, 2022 vis-à-vis the motion to strike.  
 
Plaintiff moved for
reconsideration of the Court’s order on the demurrer and motion to strike,
which the Court denied on February 6, 2023. 
(See February 6, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Plaintiff then moved for leave
to amend the complaint, which the Court denied on October 23, 2023 “[b]ecause
Plaintiff has not satisfied the procedural requirements of moving for leave to
amend, Plaintiff untimely lodged a version of the second amended complaint that
far exceeded the scope of the leave granted by the Court’s December 6, 2022
Order, the proposed amendments improperly seek to revive causes of action that
have been stricken and/or dismissed with prejudice, and Defendants will be
prejudiced by the proposed amendments, given that Plaintiff seeks to add new
defendants and causes of action on the eve of trial[.]”  (October 23, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Plaintiff now moves for leave
to file a supplemental complaint. 
Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiff replies.
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS - SUPPLEMENTAL
PLEADINGS
 
            “The plaintiff and defendant,
respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint or
answer, alleging facts material to the case occurring after the former
complaint or answer.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 464, subd. (a); Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998, 1032 [“A
‘supplemental’ pleading is used to allege facts occurring after the original
pleading was filed”].)  “Upon the filing
of a supplemental complaint, the court clerk shall issue an amended or
supplemental summons pursuant to Section 412.10.  Service of the supplemental summons and
complaint shall be made in the manner provided for the initial service of a
summons by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 464, subd. (c).)      
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Facts Occurring After the Amended
Complaint was Filed
 
Plaintiff requests leave to file a supplemental complaint to allege
additional facts that “transpired after the unlawful detainer.”  (Motion at p. 7.)  Plaintiff further explains: 
 
Plaintiff had filed the causes of action in
different courthouses (due to the different subject matters) and was informed
by the judges in those different courthouses that they had to be consolidated
in the first case so they dismissed the cases from their Departments and
advised Plaintiff (and contrary to Plaintiff’s understanding) that they had to
be brought to this initial case which is what she is doing.  Plaintiff has attached a copy of the proposed
supplemental complaint to the Motion.
 
(Motion
at p. 8.)
 
Plaintiff apparently misunderstands the legal standard.  Supplemental pleadings are appropriate to allege
facts against the Defendants that occurred subsequent to the filing of
the operative complaint, and therefore could not have been originally pleaded
in that complaint because they had not yet occurred.
 
            By contrast, here, Plaintiff does
not point to any conduct by the defendants that occurred subsequent to
Plaintiff’s December 4, 2017 filing of the first amended complaint in this
action.  Rather, Plaintiff argues she
erroneously brought claims against Defendants in other, separate, lawsuits, which
have since been dismissed, so she now seeks to reassert those claims in this
proceeding.[2]  But Plaintiff’s newfound understanding of the
legal and procedural requirements for properly filing her claims does not
constitute “new facts” that occurred subsequent to the filing of the original
complaint that can be alleged against Defendants.  
 
            A review of the proposed
supplemental amended complaint demonstrates that Plaintiff seeks to expand the
causes of action alleged against Defendants from the original eighteen (only
one of which – the twelfth – currently remains in the litigation) to thirty-two.  While the thirty-two proposed causes of
action assert new theories of liability, they all appear to pertain to the same
facts that already existed at the time Plaintiff filed the original complaint.  
 
            Plaintiff argues in reply that the conversion
and trespass to chattels causes of action occurred after Plaintiff filed “the
original complaint.”  (Reply at p.
4.)  But the facts underlying plaintiff’s
causes of action for conversion and trespass to chattels are alleged to have
occurred “on or around January 27, 2016.” (See Proposed Supplemental Complaint at
pp. 16:16-19; 47:22-25.)
 
            Therefore, Plaintiff has not
demonstrated any new factual allegations against Defendants that occurred subsequent
to the December 4, 2017 filing of the operative first amended complaint to
justify the proposed supplementation.
 
            Previously Dismissed Causes of
Action
 
            Further, a review of the proposed
supplemental complaint reveals that Plaintiff again improperly seeks to revive several
causes of action that were previously dismissed with prejudice.  For example, the previous ninth cause of
action for negligence, fourteenth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, fifteenth cause of action for Unfair Business Practices,
seventeenth cause of action for negligent supervision, and eighteenth cause of
action for negligence per se were already dismissed with prejudice in
connection with the Court’s ruling on Defendants’ demurrer.  (See December 6, 2022 Minute Order.)  Yet, the proposed supplemental complaint
improperly contains an eighth cause of action for negligence, fourteenth cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, fifteenth cause of
action for Unfair Business Practices, sixteenth cause of action for negligent
supervision, and seventeenth cause of action for negligence per se.  
 
Furthermore, the former tenth cause of action for malicious
prosecution and thirteenth cause of action for breach of written rental
agreement were stricken with prejudice in connection with Defendants’
Anti-SLAPP motion.  (See November 19, 2019 Minute Order.)  Yet, the proposed supplemental complaint
improperly contains a ninth cause of action for malicious prosecution and a
thirteenth cause of action for breach of written rental agreement.  
 
Therefore, the proposed
supplemental complaint is improper, as it contains causes of action the Court has
already dismissed with prejudice.
 
            Prejudice
 
Further, Defendants will be prejudiced if Plaintiff is allowed to file
the proposed supplemental complaint.  Since
Plaintiff filed the operative first amended complaint in December of 2017,
Defendants have filed a successful anti-SLAPP motion and demurrer (including
appeals and reconsideration), whittling Plaintiff’s eighteen causes of action
down to one.[3]  Having lost the vast majority of her claims through
the litigation process, Plaintiff now seeks to essentially restart the
litigation anew via different theories of liability on the eve of trial.  The hearing on this motion is currently
scheduled for the same day as the trial. 

 
Plaintiff cannot, at this very late stage of the litigation, expand
her theories of liability from one to thirty-two, on the basis of the same
underlying facts that existed when Plaintiff filed the operative amended
complaint in 2017, or reassert causes of action that were already dismissed
with prejudice, without severely prejudicing Defendants.
 
Plaintiff contends in Reply that “[i]f this motion is denied,
Plaintiff will not be able to file a separate lawsuit as the statute of
limitations has passed in most of the causes of action.”  (Reply at p. 14.)  But Plaintiff’s failure to properly assert
these theories of liability within the relevant statute of limitations does not
create a countervailing prejudicial interest. 
“Indeed, the in propria persona litigant is held to the same
restrictive rules of procedure as an attorney.” 
(First American Title Co. v. Mirzaian (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 956,
958, fn. 1 [quoting Bianco v. California Highway Patrol (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1113, 1125-1126].)
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Because Plaintiff has not
demonstrated any factual allegations against Defendants that occurred
subsequent to her December 4, 2017 filing of the operative first amended
complaint, the proposed supplemental complaint improperly seeks to revive
causes of action that have already been stricken and/or dismissed with
prejudice, and Defendants will be severely prejudiced by the proposed supplements,
given that Plaintiff seeks to expand her theories of liability from the
remaining one to thirty-two on the eve of trial, the Court denies Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file the proposed supplemental complaint.  
 
 The clerk shall provide notice
of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
DATED: 
February 5, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


