 Case Number:  23SMCV01319    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


February 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01319




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Amended Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Austin Sherman



 
MOTIONS
 
This case stems from a dispute over real property.  Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Cheryl Baker,
Successor Trustee of the Albert Leon Family Trust dated September 3, 1997 as
amended and restated (“Baker”) owns two residential real properties that
Defendant and Cross-Complainant Austin Sherman (“Sherman”) occupies.  (Complaint ¶¶ 7-9.)  
 
Baker brought suit for public and private nuisance, waste, and breach
of contract, alleging Defendant is improperly running a commercial cannabis
business out of the two residential properties. 
(See Complaint.)  
 
Sherman cross-complained, alleging four causes of action for (1)
intentional interference with an expected inheritance; (2) breach of the
covenant of quiet enjoyment; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress;
and (4) violation of Civil Code section 789.3. 

 
On October 31, 2023, the Court sustained Baker’s demurrer to Cross-Complaint
as to the second cause of action, but overruled the demurrer as to the first,
third, and fourth causes of action.  (See
October 31, 2023 Minute Order.)  On
November 13, 2023, Sherman filed the first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”).
 
Baker again demurs to the first and second causes of action for
failure to state a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
430.10, subdivision (e), and to the fourth cause of action for uncertainty
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f).  Baker also again moves to strike allegations
that Sherman has a life estate in the subject properties.
 
Sherman opposes both motions and Baker replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Baker requests judicial notice of
the following documents:
 
1.     
The First Amended Cross-Complaint filed in this action
on November 13, 2023;
 
2.     
The Notice of Motion and Motion to Strike Portions of
the First Amended Cross-Complaint filed in this action on December 13, 2023;
and
 
3.     
Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Demurrer to the
Complaint filed in this action on June 23, 2023.
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because these documents are all part of the Court’s record for this
case, the Court may take judicial notice of them.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  
 
Accordingly, the Court takes
judicial notice of the existence of the above documents filed in this matter as
a court record, but not the truth of the allegations or arguments contained
therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO
STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Intentional Interference with an Expected Inheritance
 
Although the Court previously overruled
Baker’s demurrers to the first and fourth causes of action, Baker demurs to
these causes of action again.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (b) provides, “A
party demurring to a pleading that has been amended after a demurrer to an
earlier version of the pleading was sustained shall not demur to any portion of
the amended complaint, cross-complaint, or answer on grounds that could have
been raised by demurrer to the earlier version of the complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer.”  
 
Once a court overrules a demurrer to a cause of action, it is
“foreclosed from rendering a new determination on the viability of those claims
unless some new facts or circumstances were brought to [its] attention.”  (Bennett v. Suncloud (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 91, 97.)
 
Baker contends that “new facts” were added under the Second Cause of
Action which also implicate the First, Third, and Fourth causes of Action, and
therefore the renewed demurrers are proper.
 
Although the fourth cause of action contains an incorporation clause,
thus incorporating the new allegations made in the preceding paragraphs, the
new allegations do not apply to the first cause of action, which does not
encompass allegations made in subsequent paragraphs.  
 
Thus, Baker’s demurrer to the first cause of action is procedurally
improper.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second Cause
of Action – Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
 
Absent language to the
contrary, “every lease includes a covenant of quiet possession and
enjoyment.”  (Erlach v. Sierra Asset
Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1299-1300.)  The covenant is binding on successors in
interest.  (Nativi v. Deutsche Bank
Nat’l Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 291.)  
 
“To be actionable, the
landlords act or omission must substantially interfere with a tenants right to
use and enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.”  (Andrews v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005)
125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589.)  “The
perpetrator of the interference with the tenants quiet enjoyment need not be
the landlord personally. There may be an actionable breach where the
interference is caused by a neighbor or tenant claiming under the landlord.”  (Id. at p. 590.)  “This covenant is breached upon actual or
constructive eviction of the tenant.”  (Ibid.)  “Any interference by the landlord that
deprives the tenant of the beneficial enjoyment of the premises or renders the
premises unfit for the purposes for which they are let amounts to a
constructive eviction if the tenant so elects and vacates within a reasonable
time.”  (Ibid.)  
 
However, “the tenant need not
vacate the property before bringing an action for breach of the implied
covenant of quiet enjoyment.”  (Marchese
v. Standard Realty & Dev. Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 142, 145.)  Interference with the water supply can
establish a breach of the covenant of quiet possession and enjoyment.  (Id. at pp. 148-149.)
 
This covenant applies to all
“hirers” of real property, which includes “tenants, lessees, boarders, lodgers,
and others, however denominated.”  (Spinks
v. Equity Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1004, 1034-1035.)  
 
Baker argues that Sherman does
not allege to be a “hirer” of property, and in fact affirmatively alleges,
“Cross Complainant’s life estate is not the subject of a written lease and
instead is an oral life estate of the premises granted to Cross Complainant for
the duration of Cross Complainant’s life[.]” 
(FACC ¶ 20.)  
 
Sherman contends in opposition
that “The [FACC] alleges Cross Defendant is the Trustee of the Trust that
currently owns both properties and that Cross Complainant has a Life
estate (ACC para. 9-13).  This is
sufficient to establish the trust is a hirer of property.”  (Opp at p. 5.)  
 
Sherman has thus not
established that Sherman is a hirer of the subject properties, as is
required for the covenant of quiet enjoyment to apply.
 
Therefore, the Court sustains Baker’s
demurrer to the second cause of action.
B.    
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
                                                                   
i.           
Fourth Cause
of Action – Violations of Civil Code Section 789.3
 
Baker contends the fourth cause of action for violations of Civil Code
section 789.3 is uncertain, because although Sherman alleges Baker instructed
the utility company to turn off the water to the “premises,” “premises” is
defined in the FACC as encompassing both residential properties, and thus it is
unclear at which property Sherman alleges Baker had the water shut off.
 
This argument is duplicative of Baker’s argument made in connection
with Baker’s demurrer to the prior cross complaint, and is therefore
procedurally improper.  In any event, the
demurrer to the fourth cause of action also again fails on the merits.  The FACC alleges:
 
Cross Defendant flooded with water the garage to
the Military property causing extensive mold damage, directed a utility
provider to turn off water service and instituted in February of 2023 a
frivolous unlawful detainer action (case number 23SMCV00560) which Cross
Defendant voluntarily dismissed after substantial litigation in May 2023.
 
(FACC
¶ 13.)  The Court notes that the unlawful
detainer complaint in case number 23SMCV00560 was brought as to the Military
property.  Thus, in context, it appears
that these allegations all apply to the Military property.  
 
            But even if there is some ambiguity,
it is clear that Sherman alleges Baker had the water shut off to one or both of
the properties at issue.  Thus, Baker does
not demonstrate that any portions of the FACC are so bad that Baker cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are
directed against Baker.  
 
The Court thus declines to sustain Baker’s demurrer to the fourth
cause of action on the basis of uncertainty. 

 
2.      MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Baker moves to strike the following from the FACC:
 
·        
Paragraph 13, lines 5-7: “Cross Complainant has
a life estate in the real properties which are the basis of the 1st Amended
Complaint, 3760 Military Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90034 and 10963 Venice Blvd Los
Angeles, CA 90034” 
 
·        
Paragraph 13, lines 7-9: “Cross Defendant has
sought to deny Cross Complainant his life estate in said premises and to commit
acts meant to drive cross complainant out of possession of said premises in
which Cross Complainant has a life estate in.”
 
·        
Paragraph 13, lines 13-15: “These acts on the
part of the Cross Defendant interfered with Cross Complainant’s use and
enjoyment of the premises for the purposes contemplated by his life estate.”
 
·        
Paragraph 20, lines 9-11: “Cross Complainant has
a life estate in the real properties which are the basis of the 1st
Amended Complaint, 3760 Military Avenue Los Angeles, CA 90034 and 10963 Venice
Blvd Los Angeles, CA 90034 (“premises”).” 

 
·        
Paragraph 20, lines 16-17: “Cross Complainant
acted in a manner reliant upon and consistent with the granting of a life
estate.”
 
·        
Paragraph 21, lines 18-22: “Cross-Defendant
interfered with Cross Complainant’s right to use and enjoy the premises for the
purposes contemplated by Cross Complainant’s life estate.  Cross Defendant has sought to deny Cross
Complainant his life estate in said premises and to commit acts meant to drive
cross complainant out of possession of said premises in which Cross Complainant
has a life estate in.”  
 
Baker contends the allegations that Sherman has a life estate in the
subject properties should be stricken as false. 
Baker’s motion is substantially duplicative of the motion to strike
Baker previously filed in connection with the first cross complaint.  Baker attaches to the motion a copy of trust
documents, the authenticity and validity of which are the subject of this
litigation.  But extrinsic evidence
cannot be considered on a demurrer or motion to strike.  (See, e.g., Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980)
110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [“The purpose of a general demurrer is to determine the
sufficiency of the complaint and the court should only rule on matters
disclosed in that pleading”].)  


Therefore, the Court denies Baker’s motion to strike for the same
reasons as before.  Namely, “Whether
Defendant has a life estate in one or both of the subject properties […] are
factual questions to be resolved at later stages of the litigation, following
discovery.  The Court cannot, at this
stage of the litigation, strike disputed allegations as false.”  (See October 31, 2023 Minute Order.)  
 
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Sherman has failed to meet this burden as the oppositions do
not address whether leave should be granted if either the demurrer is sustained
or the motion to strike is granted.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Baker’s Demurrer to the
First and Fourth Causes of Action, and sustains without leave to amend Baker’s
Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court denies Baker’s Motion to Strike in its entirety.  
 
The Court orders Baker to file an Answer to the First Amended Cross
Complaint on or before February 16, 2024. 

 
Baker shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
 
DATED:  February 5, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court