 Case Number:  23SMCV02418    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Wilshire Quinn Income Fund Reit, LLC’s Motion to Compel Defendant Victor Lossi’s Compliance with the Court’s Order, or Alternatively, for Terminating Sanctions, and Request for Sanctions Against Defendant for Failure to Comply with Court Order is DENIED.Plaintiff Wilshire Quinn Income Fund Reit, LLC to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Wilshire Quinn Income Fund Reit, LLC (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order compelling Defendant Victor Lossi (“Lossi”) to comply with the Court’s order dated February 29, 2024, which granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Defendant Victor Lossi’s Verified and Objection-Free Responses to Its Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, and ordered Lossi to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, without objections, within 30 days of entry of the Court’s order, and order Lossi and defense counsel to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,320 to Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days of entry of the Court’s order. In alternative, Plaintiff seeks terminating sanctions against Lossi, striking his answer and entering default judgment against Lossi.Put simply, the Court cannot issue an order compelling a party to compel with a court order, as it has already done so in issuing the prior order in the first place. As to whether terminating sanctions are proper, if a party engages in the misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose sanctions including terminating, evidence, and monetary sanctions. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery also constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)“The trial court has broad discretion in selecting discovery sanctions, subject to reversal only for abuse.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992 (Doppes).) “[T]wo facts are absolutely prerequisite to imposition of the sanction: (1) there must be a failure to comply and (2) the failure must be willful.” (Liberty Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Adm’rs, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1102, ellipsis omitted.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.)While Plaintiff has failed to comply with the Court’s prior order, the Court finds that terminating sanctions are not warranted at this juncture. Terminating sanctions are a drastic remedy that the Court is not prepared to impose, particularly where Plaintiff moved for terminating sanctions just over a week after responses were due pursuant to the Court’s order. The California discovery statutes provide “an incremental approach to discovery sanctions” (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992), such that it would be improper for the Court to jump from an order entering an order compelling discovery responses to an order for terminating sanctions, as Plaintiff asks the Court to do, because this does not represent the incremental approach contemplated by California law. Put simply, “less severe sanctions [may] produce compliance with the discovery rules,” and until the Court has imposed “incrementally harsher sanctions” to curb Plaintiff’s failure to provide discovery responses, the Court declines to impose “the ultimate sanction of termination.” (See Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.) The Court will also not impose additional monetary sanctions, as the Court has already awarded sanctions in the prior order, and it is not inclined to double its award based on the same discovery.Accordingly, Plaintiff Wilshire Quinn Income Fund Reit, LLC’s Motion to Compel Defendant Victor Lossi’s Compliance with the Court’s Order, or Alternatively, for Terminating Sanctions, and Request for Sanctions Against Defendant for Failure to Comply with Court Order is DENIED.