 Case Number:  22STCV02944    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MARIA SANCHEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  TARGET CORPORATION, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV02944  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER    Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 7, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Maria Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Target Corporation (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a fall on Defendant’s property.  Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to Requests for Admission (“RFAs”), set one, as to Nos. 3, 4, and 5. Defense counsel avers the motion is titled as a compel initial rather than compel further based on instructions of this Court. (Mandalia Decl. ¶ 33.) The Court has no recollection of advising defense counsel in this manner. Nonetheless, because the Court has recollection of the continuous issues for a meaningful IDC due to Plaintiff’s counsel’s conduct, the Court will consider the motion as a compel further notwithstanding its name.   On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed an omnibus opposition.   II. Procedural Requirements Meet and Confer A motion¿to compel further responses to requests for production “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(b)(1).)¿ The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)¿  The Court finds that Defendant met the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.290(b)(1).   Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) Per the Eight Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, “PI Hub Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC). PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses to Discovery.” Additionally, “Reserving or scheduling an IDC does not extend the time to file a Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses.” (Ibid.) Here, the Court finds Defendant complied with the Standing Order in scheduling and attending an IDC. The issues were not resolved at the September 28, 2023 and November 8, 2023 IDCs. Further, Plaintiff’s counsel failed to appear at the Status Conference Re: Discovery Issues re: photos', video, and medical is scheduled for December 1, 2023. (Min. Order, Dec. 1, 2023.)  Separate Statement A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).) Defendant properly filed separate statements for its motion to compel further.  III. Motion to Compel Further Responses CCP § 2033.290(a) provides that on receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party deems that either or both of the following apply:   (1) An answer to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a particular request is without merit or too general. At the IDCs, the Court has already reviewed Plaintiff’s discovery responses. Based upon the Court’s recollection, Plaintiff’s counsel has failed to appear at hearings and has not complied with promises made concerning the responses. Plaintiff’s opposition conclusory argues that the responses are code-complaint. The Court has reviewed the requests at issue and finds that they are not in compliance. Further, Plaintiff has not met her burden establishing the existence of attorney-client privilege and attorney work product claimed in the objections served to Defendant. (Zimmerman v. Sup. Ct. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 389, 402 [party resisting discovery must establish the existence of the privilege].)  Therefore, Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to its RFAs set one, as to Nos. 3, 4, and 5 are GRANTED.¿Plaintiff is ordered to provide further responses to the requests within fifteen (15) days.  IV. Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response. (CCP § 2033.290(d).)  Defendant requests $5,065.61 for the motion, meet and confer efforts, IDCs, preparation, travel time. The amount sought here represents one-third of the costs incurred, because Defendant is bringing three separate motions related to the discovery dispute. The Court will award 10 hours of attorney time, at the rate of $185 per hour, based on time expended on motion work, meet and confer efforts, and court appearances, for a total of $1,850.00. Sanctions imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through its attorney of record, in the total amount of $1,850.00, within twenty (20) days.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   