 Case Number:  22STCV39242    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SAMUEL YUN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  21ST CENTURY INSURANCE COMPANY,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV39242  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: GRANTING MOTION DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 7, 2024  I. Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted¿  Defendant 21st Century Insurance Company (“Defendant”) propounded request for admissions (RFAs), set one, on Plaintiff Samuel Yun (“Plaintiff”) on December 15, 2022. (Hoy Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. A.) After receiving no response, defense counsel sent meet and confer emails requesting responses be provided without objections. On January 14, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel served unverified responses. (Id. at ¶ 6; Exh. D.) To date, Defendant has not received verified responses to its RFAs, set one. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Defendant therefore seeks an order deeming the RFAs admitted against Plaintiff and for Plaintiff to pay sanctions. Under Code of Civil Procedure 2033.280(b), failure to respond to requests for admission in a timely manner allows the requesting party to “move for an order that…the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted” by the party that failed to respond.  The requesting party’s motion must be granted by the court, “unless [the court] finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280(c).)    Here, the evidence shows that Defendant properly served RFAs, set one, on Plaintiff. Plaintiff served responses without signing the verification. Moreover, Plaintiff’s unverified responses are not in compliance with CCP § 2033.220, which provides that each answer to requests for admissions shall: “(1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party. (2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the request as is untrue. (3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge.” (CCP § 2033.220(b).) Instead, Plaintiff responded in the same manner as to each request with objections, that have since been waived, and improperly responds: “Per Information provided per the Responses to the Production of Documents Set 1.” The Court notes that Plaintiff filed a series of untimely oppositions/declarations to Defendant’s discovery motions just one day before this hearing. Even if the Court were to consider the untimely opposition, Plaintiff has not affirmatively demonstrated that verified responses, in substantial compliance with the Discovery Act, was served.  Therefore, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.  (CCP §2033.280(b).)  Defendant 21st Century Insurance Company’s RFAs, set one, is deemed admitted against Plaintiff.    II. Sanctions¿ Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)¿ Further, “It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (CCP § 2033.280(c).) Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $585 for the motion.  Defendant is awarded one hour to prepare each motion to compel and one hour to appear at the hearing, all at the reasonable rate of $120 per hour, for a total of $240 in attorney fees.   Further, Defendant is awarded one motion filing fee of $60, as costs.   Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally.  Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $300, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 6th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   