 Case Number:  22STCV21045    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: Phyllis  Brost, et al. v. Vitas Healthcare, et al. .       Defendant Wiefels  & Son, Inc. d/b/a All Caring Solutions’ Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third  Amended Complaint; and .       Defendant  Wiefels & Son, Inc. d/b/a All Caring Solutions’ Motion to Strike Portions  of Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint TENTATIVE  RULING                 The Court OVERRULES the demurrer of  Defendant All Caring Solutions as to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action.                   The Court GRANTS the motion to  strike paragraph 109, lines 2-3, but DENIES the  motion to strike paragraph 133, lines 4-5 and Prayer for Relief, paragraph 6 at  page 37, line 16.  Defendant  All Caring Solutions must file an Answer to the Third Amended Complaint within  20 calendar days of the Court’s order.                    Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s order herein and provide proof of service of same within  five calendar days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND This case arises from the death of James  Elmer Brost (Decedent) and the alleged mishandling of his corpse. On June 28,  2022, Plaintiffs Phyllis Brost, Angelique Barnum, and James Jr.[1]  (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against Defendants Vitas  Healthcare (Vitas), Wiefels & Son, Inc. d/b/a All Caring Solutions, (All  Caring Solutions), Michael Bobadilla (Bobadilla), Paradise Transportation and  Funeral Services (Paradise), and Juan Reatiga (Reatiga) (collectively,  Defendants).                    On August 19, 2022, Plaintiffs filed  the First Amended Complaint (FAC). On February 6, 2023, the Court sustained the  demurrer of Vitas with leave to amend as to the First Amended Complaint, and  continued the hearing on Defendant All Caring Solution’s demurrer for the  failure to meet and confer.                    On March 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed  the Second Amended Complaint (SAC). On June 21, 2023, the Court overruled  Vitas’ demurrer to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action of the SAC, but  sustained with leave to amend as to the Fifth Cause of Action. The Court also sustained  All Caring Solutions’ demurrer to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action of the  SAC with leave to amend.                    On July 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed  the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC), alleging causes of action for negligence/wrongful  death, negligence/survival, statutory violation of California’s Civil Elder  Abuse/Neglect Protection Act (Wel. & Inst. Code § 15600, Et. Seq) –  Survival, willful misconduct, negligent mishandling and wrongful retention of a  corpse, and intentional mishandling and retention of a corpse.                    On October 5, 2023, the Court  sustained Vitas Healthcare’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action without  leave to amend.  On August 18, 2023, All Caring Solutions  filed the instant demurrer to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action of the TAC  and a motion to strike. On September 28, 2023, Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer  and motion to strike. On October 5, 2023, All Caring Solutions replied to both  oppositions.  LEGAL  STANDARD - Demurrer A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ.  Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116  Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the  truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer; all  facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)   A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on  the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading  that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,  318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other  extrinsic evidence can be considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson  (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in  memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United  States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169  Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v.  Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents  of release not part of court record].)   A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint”  itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian  North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963,  971-972.) The “face of the complaint” includes material contained in  attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a  superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189  Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90  Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and  accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the  pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])   A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire  cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency  (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  DISCUSSION – Demurrer Meet and Confer Per Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), the parties were required to meet  and confer before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.  (a).) The Court finds All Caring Solutions’ efforts to meet and confer to be  sufficient. (Koger Decl., ¶ 4.)  Fifth  Cause of Action – Negligent Mishandling and Wrongful Retention of a Corpse  (Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress) Negligent mishandling of human  remains is a tort of negligence. The name is merely “convenient terminology  descriptive of the context in which the negligent conduct occurred.” (Christensen  v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 884.) Thus, “when damages are sought for negligently inflicted  emotional distress, the tort is negligence regardless of the specific name that  may be used to describe the tort, and that the elements of duty, breach of  duty, causation and damages must be pleaded and proven.” (Id., at p. 882.)  All Caring Solutions contends  it is not liable for the actions of Defendant Bobadilla, who was purportedly  employed by Defendant Paradise, not All Caring Solutions, citing TAC, ¶¶ 8, 33,  37. The Court finds All Caring Solutions’ arguments here to be unpersuasive.  The Court finds that All Caring Solutions is arguing the  facts of the case rather than dealing with the specific allegations of the TAC,  which the Court must assume to be true on a demurrer. (Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) On a demurrer, a “court’s  function is limited to testing the legal sufficiency of the complaint” such  that “a demurrer is  simply not the  appropriate procedure for determining the truth of disputed facts.” (Fremont  Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) Just as the Court found in its prior ruling on the demurrer to the SAC, the  Court finds the TAC alleges sufficient facts establishing an employment  relationship between All Caring Solutions and Bobadilla. (TAC, ¶¶ 8, 95; see  Order Tentative Ruling (6/21/23).)  The Court further finds that the TAC resolves  issues identified in the Court’s prior ruling, namely that Plaintiffs have now  alleged facts showing that All Caring Solutions knew or should have known that  Bobadilla was unfit or incompetent to handle Decedent’s corpse, which is  required to hold the employer vicariously liable for its employee’s torts  committed within the scope of the employment. (See Federico v. Superior  Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1210-1211.) More specifically, the TAC  alleges that, following the incident, James Jr. spoke with Alex, the alleged  owner or manager of All Caring Solutions, who told James Jr. that Bobadilla was  an employee of All Caring Solutions, that Alex had trained Bobadilla, that  Bobadilla was new to the job, and that he was going to terminate Bobadilla. (TAC,  ¶ 95.) The Court finds these allegations sufficient to show that All Caring  Solutions knew or should have known Bobadilla was not fit for this job. “Liability results ... not because of the relation of the  parties but  because the employer antecedently had reason to believe that an undue risk of harm would exist because of the  employment....’ [Citations.]” (Federico, supra, 59  Cal.App.4th at p. 1214, italics in original.)  The  Court further finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that they suffered  serious emotional distress as a result of the alleged mishandling of Decedent’s  corpse. (TAC, ¶¶ 34, 35, 36, 89, 90, 91, 107, 108.)  Based  on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action.  Sixth Cause of Action – Intentional  Mishandling and Wrongful Retention of a Corpse (Intentional Infliction of  Emotional Distress) The elements of  the tort of Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED) are (1) extreme  and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or  reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the  plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and  proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous  conduct....” (Catsouras v. Dep’t of California  Highway Patrol (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 586, 874-875.)  “Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that  usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Id.)  “Generally,  conduct will be found to be actionable where the ‘recitation of the facts to an  average member of the community would arouse his resentment against the actor,  and lead him to exclaim, ‘Outrageous!’” (KOVR-TV, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)  31 Cal.App.4th 1023, 1028, citing Rest.2d Torts, § 46, com. d.) Said  differently, the test for judging outrageous conduct is less an analytical,  bright-line test but rather one that appears “more intuitive.” (KOVR-TV,  Inc., supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 1028.) Furthermore, “[i]t is not enough that the  conduct be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the  plaintiff or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant is  aware.” (Catsouras, supra, 181 Cal.App.4th 856 at p.  875).  In ruling on the  demurrer to this cause of action in the SAC, the Court found that Plaintiffs  sufficiently alleged the extreme and outrageous conduct, but failed to allege  sufficient facts showing they experienced severe emotional distress. Thus, the  Court will review the allegations of the TAC to determine if sufficient facts  have now been pled to show that Plaintiffs suffered severe emotional distress. “Severe  emotional distress means, then, emotional distress of such substantial quantity  or enduring quality that no reasonable man in a civilized society should be  expected to endure it." (Fletcher v. Western National Life Ins. Co.  (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.)  All Caring  Solutions contends that the TAC fails to allege facts showing that Bobadilla  intended to cause anyone emotional distress and that it fails to plead severe  emotional distress. All Caring Solutions also contends in particular that the  TAC does not allege the incident with Bobadilla having occurred in the presence  of Plaintiff Phyllis.  First, with  respect Bobadilla’s intentions, the Court finds All Caring Solutions is again  attempting to argue the facts rather than address the allegations of the TAC,  and otherwise ignores that the TAC alleges Bobadilla’s actions occurred in the  presence of at least Plaintiffs James Jr. and Angelique. (TAC, ¶¶ 114-117.) The  TAC also alleges that All Caring Solutions refused to release Decedent’s corpse  until Plaintiffs paid them over $400.00, despite their knowledge that the  corpse was to be transported to Todd Memorial Chapel but was not. (TAC, ¶¶ 88, 92,  93, 107, 129, 130.) These allegations show conduct directed at Plaintiffs  Phyllis and James, Jr. and conduct with reckless disregard of the probability  of causing emotional distress. Thus, the Court finds the TAC contains sufficient  allegations to show the requisite intent.  Moreover, the  Court finds that Plaintiffs allege sufficient facts of severe emotional distress.  “[T]he requisite emotional distress  may consist of any highly unpleasant mental reaction such as fright, grief,  shame, humiliation, embarrassment, anger, chagrin, disappointment or worry.” (Fletcher,  supra, 10 Cal.App.3d at p. 397.) The TAC alleges that Plaintiffs  suffered “serious emotional distress including suffering, anguish, horror,  nervousness, grief, anxiety, worry, shock, humiliation and shame.” (TAC, ¶ 131.)  The TAC further alleges that Phyllis has been deeply angered and depressed,  lost many nights of sleep, lost her appetite and has been anxious. (TAC, ¶  132.) The TAC also alleges that James, Jr. and Angelique were in tears and  shock and disbelief, and have suffered sleepless nights, sudden incidents of  crying, extreme anger, feelings of helplessness and sadness. (TAC, ¶132.) These  allegations are sufficient to show serious emotional distress.  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES  the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action.  LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may  serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to  motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.  (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper  matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an  order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike Meet  and Confer Per Code of Civil  Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), the parties were required to meet and  confer telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds All Caring Solutions’ efforts  to meet and confer to be sufficient. (Koger Decl., ¶ 2.)  Analysis                 “A notice  of motion to strike a portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions  sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph,  cause of action, count, or defense. Specifications in a notice must be numbered  consecutively.”                Defendant All Caring Solutions seeks  to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages from paragraph 109, lines  2-3; paragraph 133, lines 4-5; and Prayer for Relief, at  page 37, line 16 of the TAC. The Court finds that Plaintiffs have not alleged  any basis for an award of punitive damages based on a claim for negligence as  stated in the Fifth cause of action. Thus, the Court will strike the request  for punitive damages from paragraph 109, lines 2-3.                However, since the Court overruled  the demurrer to the Sixth cause of action for IIED, such cause of action does  provide a basis for punitive damages. The TAC alleges sufficient facts to show  that All Caring Solutions acted with malice or oppression based on the conduct  alleged in support of the IIED claim. (TAC, ¶¶ 113-125.) Therefore, the Court  denies the motion to strike the request for punitive damages in paragraph 133, lines  4-5 and Prayer for Relief, paragraph 6 at page 37, line 16.  CONCLUSION               The Court OVERRULES the demurrer of  Defendant All Caring Solutions as to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action.                The Court GRANTS the motion to  strike paragraph 109, lines 2-3, but DENIES the  motion to strike paragraph 133, lines 4-5 and Prayer for Relief, paragraph 6 at  page 37, line 16.  Defendant  All Caring Solutions must file an Answer to the Third Amended Complaint within  20 calendar days of the Court’s order.              Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court's order herein and provide proof of service of same within five calendar days of the Court's order.    