  Case Number:  21STCV41588    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 




RECANA SOLUTIONS LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
GIULIANO-PAGANO COPORATION
  DBA GIULIANO’S BAKERY, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV41588




Hearing Date:


December 14, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE: 
 
MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 




 
Background
Plaintiff Recana Solutions LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Giuliano-Pagano Corporation dba Giuliano’s Bakery (“Giuliano’s
Bakery”) and NG Trucking LLC (“NG Trucking”) (jointly, “Defendants”). The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) breach of written contract, (2)
breach of oral contract, (3) open book account, and (4) open book account.[1]
On January 24, 2022, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against
Plaintiff, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of
oral contract, (3) fraud, (4) declaratory relief, and (5) unfair business
practice. 
NG Trucking now moves for
an order granting summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
in favor of NG Trucking against
Plaintiff. Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial Notice
The
Court grants NG Trucking’s request for judicial notice as to page 10 of Exhibit
M, and Exhibit N. NG Trucking’s request for judicial notice is otherwise
denied. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on NG Trucking’s evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: overruled
Objection No. 4: overruled 
Objection No. 5: overruled 
Objection No. 6: overruled 
Objection No. 7: overruled 
Legal Standard 
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may
move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has
no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that
there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that
there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only
if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)  
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
When a defendant seeks summary judgment or summary
adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a complete defense
to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) 
Discussion 
A.    Allegations of the
Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that on or about January 31, 2015,
Plaintiff and 
Giuliano’s
Bakery entered into a written agreement whereby Plaintiff, among other things,
agreed to provide temporary employees to Giuliano’s Bakery in exchange for
agreed upon fees which would be invoiced to Giuliano’s Bakery on a monthly
basis. (Compl., ¶ 6.) On or about January 17, 2020, Giuliano’s Bakery ceased
making required payments of Plaintiff’s monthly invoices and, on January 29,
2020, sent a letter terminating the agreement with Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff alleges that as a result of Giuliano’s Bakery’s default of payment of
these invoices, there is now due and payable from Giuliano’s Bakery to
Plaintiff the amount of principal and interest of $681,521.52. (Compl., ¶ 10.) 
            Plaintiff further alleges that “Plaintiff
and Defendant NG Trucking LLC also entered into an Agreement whereby Plaintiff
provided temporary employees to Defendant NG Trucking LLC under the same terms
and calculations as the agreement between Plaintiff and Giuliano’s. Defendant
NG Trucking has failed to pay invoices per said Agreement in the amount now due
from said invoices and interest thereon is $71,331.61. Interest on said amount
shall continue to accrue.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) 
            In the second cause of action
against NG Trucking for “breach of oral contract,” Plaintiff alleges that “[b]y
failure to pay the invoices and interest thereon, Defendant Giuliano’s breached
its written contract with Plaintiff. Plaintiff has been damaged by said breach
in an amount not fully ascertained but in excess of $80,807.71…” (Compl., ¶
18.) In the fourth cause of action for open book account, Plaintiff alleges
that “[w]ithin four (4) years last past, there has existed an open book account
between Plaintiff and Defendant NG Trucking LLC, there is an outstanding
balance on said open book account owned by NG Trucking to Plaintiff of
$80,807.71 and said amount is now due and owning from said Defendant to
Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) 
B.     Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Oral Contract 
NG Trucking asserts that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach
of oral contract is time-barred. In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges that it is
a “Limited Liability company organized and existing under the laws of the state
of Texas and is licensed in the State of California.” (Compl., ¶ 1.) NG
Trucking cites to United Medical Management Ltd. v. Gatto (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th
1732, 1737-1738, where the Court of Appeal noted as follows: 
 
“A
foreign corporation which qualifies to transact intrastate business may also be
subject to penalties for failure to pay state taxes. The corporate powers,
rights and privileges of a foreign corporation may be forfeited for failure to
pay state taxes. (Rev. & Tax. Code, § 23301.)…A
foreign corporation whose rights have been forfeited for failure to pay
state taxes may not prosecute or defend an action, nor appeal from an adverse
judgment. (Reed v. Norman (1957) 48 Cal. 2d 338,
343 [309 P.2d 809].) A foreign corporation whose rights have been
forfeited for failure to pay state taxes may be reinstated upon application to
the Franchise Tax Board and payment of outstanding taxes, penalties and
interest. (Rev. & Tax. Code, § 23305.) Upon
payment, the Franchise Tax Board issues a certificate of revivor reinstating
the corporation. (Rev. & Tax. Code, § 23305a.) The reinstatement of the
corporation is without prejudice to any action, defense or right which accrued
by reason of the forfeiture…‘If it pays its taxes and obtains a certificate of revivor during
the pendency of an action, the corporation may be allowed to carry on
litigation, even to the extent of validating otherwise invalid prior
proceedings.’ (Benton v. County of Napa (1991) 226 Cal. App. 3d 1485, 1490 [277
Cal. Rptr. 541].) The revival of corporate powers validates any procedural
act…taken on behalf of the corporation while its rights were forfeited…Substantive defenses, such as
the statute of limitations, are not revived…” 
NG Trucking asserts that at the time Plaintiff filed the Complaint in
this action on November 12, 2021, Plaintiff’s corporate powers, rights and
privileges were forfeited by the California Franchise Tax Board. NG Trucking
provides evidence of a California Secretary of State “Certificate of Status”
for Plaintiff, dated December 9, 2021. (NG Trucking’s RJN, ¶ 1, Ex. M, p. 10.)
The Certificate of Status Provides that “[t]he records of this office indicate
the Secretary of State forfeited the entity’s powers, rights and privileges on
February 4, 2020, pursuant to the provisions of the California Corporations
Code; the California Franchise Tax Board forfeited the entity’s powers, rights
and privileges on February 1, 2021, pursuant to the provisions of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code; and the entity’s powers, rights and
privileges remain forfeited.” (Emphasis added.) 
NG Trucking also indicates that on April 12, 2023, its counsel visited
“https://bizfileonline.sos.ca.gov/search/business” to conduct a business entity
search of “Recana Solutions LLC.” (Diaz Decl., ¶ 13.) NG Trucking’s counsel
states that “[a]fter clicking on the matching result, I then clicked on the
button labeled ‘View history’” and that “[o]pon the expansion of a pop up
window detailing various entry dates, I clicked on the tab ‘Expand All’ which
expanded each of the entries on the pop up page.” (Diaz Decl., ¶¶ 14, 15.) NG
Trucking’s counsel indicates that he “then printed a copy of the results, which
[he]…attached as Exhibit N to the [Index of Exhibits]…” (Diaz Decl., ¶ 15, Ex.
N.) NG Trucking’s Exhibit N includes an Item stating “FTB – Standing” changed
from “Not Good” to “Good,” next to the date June 21, 2022. (Ibid.) NG Trucking asserts that Plaintiff
accordingly “lacked capacity to both prosecute and maintain an action against
NG Trucking from February 1, 2021, to June 21, 2022.” (Mot. at p. 12:23-24.) 
NG Trucking asserts that the second cause of action for breach of oral
contract is subject to the two-year statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 339(1). This
provision provides in pertinent part, “[w]ithin two
years: 1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded
upon an instrument of writing…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
339(1).) 
NG Trucking
asserts that here, “[t]he latest time a breach occurred was January 28, 2020.”
(Mot. at p. 9:21.) NG Trucking provides the Declaration of Gregory S. Ritmire, the President
of Giuliano-Pagano Corporation (‘GPC’) and NG Trucking, Inc. (Ritmire Decl., ¶
1.)[2]
Mr. Ritmire states that “on or around January 28, 2020, [he] notified Alex
Stiles, the principle for Recana Solutions, that [he] would be terminating the
oral contract between NG Trucking and Recana Solutions, and the written
agreement between GPC and Recana Solutions.” (Ritmire Decl., ¶ 15.) Mr. Ritmire references a January 28,
2020 email he sent to Mr. Stiles, which provides, inter alia, that “[a]s
you know, the absence of your Worker’s Compensation insurance was discovered
when our company was named in a Worker’s Compensation claim relating to one of
your workers…In light of this material breach of our contract, we cannot
continue to do business with you, at least until breach has been cured to our
satisfaction and any damages resolve to our satisfaction. Therefore, this email
will provide you written notice that we are discontinuing any further services
from your company based upon this material breach...” (Ritmire Decl., ¶ 15, Ex.
L.)  
NG Trucking also cites to the
following testimony from Mr. Stiles deposition: “Q…am I correct
that the NG Trucking relationship also ended in January of 2020? A. Correct.”
(Diaz Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. G (Stiles Depo.) at p. 103:12-15.) Mr. Stiles was asked
“Okay. And how did you receive notice of Giuliano’s’ termination of the
contract with Recana?” to which he responded, “A. I believe it was e-mail.” (Id. at p. 104:4-6.) NG Trucking also cites to the following testimony: “Q.
And was there ever any separate communication from NG Trucking about the
termination, or you just understood that when they communicated they were
terminating Giuliano’s, they were terminating NG Trucking as well? A. That’s
correct, the second part.” (Id. at p. 104:19-24.)

NG Trucking asserts that “[s]ince there were no payments made by NG
Trucking to Plaintiff following this date, and because Plaintiff alleges NG
Trucking’s failure to pay the outstanding invoices, we can place the time of
breach at the time Ritmire cancelled [sic] NG Trucking agreement. Accordingly,
the two-year statute of limitations ran on January 28, 2022.” (Mot. at p.
13:20-24.) As set forth above, NG Trucking provides evidence that the December
9, 2021 Certificate of Status concerning Plaintiff provides, inter alia,
that “[t]he records of this office indicate…the California Franchise Tax Board
forfeited the entity’s powers, rights and privileges on February 1, 2021,
pursuant to the provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code; and the
entity’s powers, rights and privileges remain forfeited.” (NG Trucking’s RJN, ¶
1, Ex. M, p. 10.) NG Trucking also states that the Secretary of State website
indicates that Plaintiff’s corporate status was not revived by the Franchise
Tax Board until June 21, 2021. (Diaz Decl. ¶¶ 13-15; Ex. N.) NG Trucking
asserts that “Plaintiff’s corporate status was forfeited by the FTB as of
February 1, 2021 and remained as such through to the time that Plaintiff filed
the instant Complaint. Since Plaintiff did so while its rights and privileges
were forfeited, Plaintiff was required to revive its status prior to January
28, 2022—the date the statute ran. The Secretary of State website clearly
indicates that Plaintiff did not obtain revival status until June 21, 2022,
which was more than five months since the statute ran.” (Mot. at p. 14:14-19.) 
NG Trucking cites to City of San Diego v. San
Diegans for Open Government (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 568, 579, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he statute of limitations is regarded as a substantive
defense. If an action is commenced while the corporation is suspended, the
corporation’s subsequent revival does not prevent the running of the statute of
limitations; if the statute runs prior to revival, the corporation’s actions
will be time-barred, even if the complaint would have otherwise been
timely.” 
In the opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute NG Trucking’s assertion
that the latest time a breach occurred was January 28, 2020. Rather, Plaintiff
asserts that “[b]y agreeing to the terms of the written agreement with
[Plaintiff] and [Giuliano’s Bakery], NG Trucking is subject to the four-year
statute of limitations for an agreement based on a written contract.” (Opp’n at
p. 5:5-7.) In support of the opposition, Plaintiff submits the Declaration of
Adam Stiles, Plaintiff’s President. (Stiles Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Stiles states that
“[o]n or about January 31, 2015, [Plaintiff] and [Giuliano’s Bakery] entered
into a written agreement which memorialized the parties’ business
relationship.” (Stiles Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Stiles further states that “[i]n or
about 2013, [Plaintiff] also entered into an agreement to provide temporary
employees to work at NG TRUCKING, an affiliate of [Giuliano’s Bakery].” (Stiles
Decl., ¶ 4.) Mr. Stiles states that “[t]he Terms of [Plaintiff’s] agreement
with NG TRUCKING were to be the same as the written agreement between
[Plaintiff] and [Giuliano’s Bakery’s]…” (Stiles Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff cites to Pietrobon v. Libarle (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th
992, 994, where “Defendant Marc Libarle appeal[ed] from a judgment of the
Sonoma County Superior Court in favor of plaintiff Renzo Pietrobon on
plaintiff’s action against defendant for breach of a settlement agreement.
Defendant contend[ed] there was no written settlement agreement and that the
court erred in ruling that the four-year statute of limitations for an action
upon a contract founded upon an instrument in writing…applied.” In Pietrobon, “[o]n May 11, 2000,
defendant, an attorney, and plaintiff, a former client, entered into a
settlement of plaintiff’s lawsuit against defendant in open court…The parties agreed
to a stipulated judgment in the total amount of $55,000, and that defendant
would pay plaintiff certain sums on a payment schedule over a two-year
period…Counsel for defendant stated he would be reducing the stipulation to a
writing. He drafted such a writing and delivered it to plaintiff for signature.
Plaintiff signed the agreement on June 30, 2000. Defendant failed to sign the
agreement.” (Ibid.)
The Court of Appeal found
that “[t]he central question here is whether
the four-year statute of limitations for a written contract (§ 337) applies in these circumstances. We believe that
it does.” (Id. at p. 997.) The Pietrobon Court noted as follows:
 
“In Amen v. Merced County Title Co. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 528 [25 Cal.
Rptr. 65, 375 P.2d 33] (Amen), the California Supreme Court held that an action against an
escrow holder for failure to comply with escrow instructions was on a written
contract, despite the failure of the escrow holder or its agent to sign the
instructions…The instructions provided that any debts over a specified amount
to be assumed by the plaintiff would be paid by the escrow holder out of the
sale proceeds. The escrow was accepted by the escrow holder, but the instructions
were never signed by the escrow holder or its agent…The buyers sued the escrow
company for breach of the escrow contract when the escrow closed without
payment out of the escrow of debts exceeding the specified amount…According to the Supreme
Court, ‘[t]he contract may be ‘in writing’ for purposes of the statute of
limitations even though it was accepted orally or by an act other than
signing…’…‘When a party has agreed to the writing, there is no reason to
invoke the two-year statute of limitations applicable to oral
agreements. The four-year statute of limitations, unlike the statute of
frauds, does not require that the writing be signed by the party to be charged. Had the Legislature meant
to make a signature mandatory for a writing to qualify for the longer period of
limitations it would have so provided as it did in section
360 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which requires that a new promise to
perform under an old contract be signed to start the statute running anew.
Plaintiff’s action was therefore on a written contract.’…” (Pietrobon v. Libarle,
supra, 137 Cal.App.4th at p. 997 [emphasis omitted].)  
Plaintiff asserts that “[h]ere, NG Trucking agreed to the terms of the
RECANA-GIULIANO’S written agreement and the four-year statute of limitations
applies to [Plaintiff’s] contract action against NG Trucking.” (Opp’n at p.
7:5-6.) Plaintiff asserts that accordingly, the four-year statute of
limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 337,
subdivision (b) applies. (Opp’n at p. 7:11-12.)[3] 
But as noted by NG Trucking, “Plaintiff sued NG for breach of oral
contract and open book account,” and “does not allege it ever entered into a
written contract with NG.” (Reply at p. 2:18-19; 3:9-10.) The second cause of
action is “as against NG Trucking for breach of oral contract.” As NG Trucking
notes, “[t]he complaint serves to delimit the scope
of the issues before the court on a motion for summary judgment, and a party
cannot successfully resist summary judgment on a theory not pleaded.” (Whelihan
v. Espinoza (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1566, 1576 [internal citation
omitted.) 
NG Trucking
also asserts that Pietrobon v. Libarle, supra,137 Cal.App.4th 992 is distinguishable, as
that case involves writings between the actual parties in dispute. Indeed, NG
Trucking notes that here, there is no dispute that NG Trucking was provided a
written agreement that it failed to sign. NG Trucking also asserts that
Plaintiff’s reliance on Amen v. Merced County Title Co., supra, 58 Cal.2d 528 is misplaced, because
here, “there was no unsigned writing adopted through performance…” (Reply at p.
11:18.) As discussed, Plaintiff alleges a cause of action for breach of oral
contract, based on the allegation that “NG Trucking LLC also entered into an
Agreement whereby Plaintiff provided temporary employees to Defendant NG
Trucking LLC under the same terms and calculations as the agreement between
Plaintiff and [Giuliano’s Bakery]…” (Compl., ¶ 13.) 
NG Trucking also asserts that “by virtue of styling the second cause
of action against NG as ‘Breach of Oral Contract’ Plaintiff concedes the
agreement between Plaintiff and NG was not in writing and the statute of
limitations specified in CCP § 339 applies.” (Reply
at p. 3:18-20.) NG Trucking cites to Valerio v. Andrew Youngquist
Construction (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1264, 1271, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he admission of fact in a pleading is a ‘judicial
admission.’ Witkin describes the effect of such an admission: ‘An admission in
the pleadings is not treated procedurally as evidence; i.e., the pleading need
not (and should not) be offered in evidence, but may be commented on in
argument and relied on as part of the case. And it is fundamentally different
from evidence: It is a waiver of proof of
a fact by conceding its truth, and it has the effect of removing the matter
from the issues. Under the doctrine of ‘conclusiveness of pleadings,’ a pleader
is bound by well pleaded material allegations or by failure to deny well
pleaded material allegations.” (Emphasis in original.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds
that NG Trucking has met its burden of demonstrating that Plaintiff’s second
cause of action is time-barred, and that Plaintiff has failed to raise a
triable issue of material fact as to this cause of action. 
C.     Fourth Cause of
Action for Open Book Account  
NG Trucking asserts that the fourth cause of action for open book
account fails because “Plaintiff will be unable to present any evidence that an
open book account ever existed.” (Mot. at p. 14:28.) 
NG Trucking cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 337a,
subdivision (a), which provides that “[t]he
term ‘book account’ means a detailed statement which constitutes the principal
record of one or more transactions between a debtor and a creditor arising out
of a contract or some fiduciary relation, and shows the debits and credits in
connection therewith, and against whom and in favor of whom entries are made,
is entered in the regular course of business as conducted by such creditor or
fiduciary, and is kept in a reasonably permanent form and manner and is (1) in
a bound book, or (2) on a sheet or sheets fastened in a book or to backing but
detachable therefrom, or (3) on a card or cards of a permanent character, or is
kept in any other reasonably permanent form and manner. A ‘book account’ does
not include consumer debt.” NG Trucking also cites to Durkin v. Durkin (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 283, 29, where the Court of Appeal
found that “[t]his ‘Dealer’s Reserve Account’ does not bear the earmarks of an
‘open book account’ in the traditional sense of that term. The following
definition has been quoted with approval: ‘The expression ‘outstanding and
open account’ has a well-defined and well-understood meaning. In legal and
commercial transactions it is an unsettled debt arising from items of work and
labor, goods sold and delivered, and other open transactions, not reduced to
writing, and subject to future settlement and adjustment. It is usually
disclosed by the account books of the owner of the demand, and does not include
express contracts or obligations which have been reduced in writing, such as
bonds, bills of exchange, or promissory notes.’…An express contract, which
defines the duties and liabilities of the parties, whether it be oral or
written, is not, as a rule, an open account.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
NG Trucking asserts that here, “the obligations of NG Trucking and
Plaintiff are manifested solely out of their respective performances under
their express, oral agreement.” (Mot. at p. 15:25-26.) In his supporting
declaration, Mr. Ritmire states that “I acknowledge that [Plaintiff] has
alleged the existence of a written agreement between [Plaintiff] and GPC,
attached as Exhibit K to the Index of Exhibits…filed concurrently herewith,”
and that “[t]o the best of my knowledge that is my signature indicated on that
agreement.” (Ritmire Decl., ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. K.) Exhibit K is titled “Recana Client
Services Agreement” and provides, inter alia, that “This Addendum…is
made as of the day of January 31, 2015, by and between Recana Solutions, L.L.C.
and Giuliano’s Bakery.” (Ritmire Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. K.) NG Trucking notes that
this agreement contains a section concerning “Terms and Conditions of Payment”
which provides, inter alia, that “An itemized invoice for temporary
services, based on hours shown on Recana or Client time cards or associate
detail reports from time and attendance systems, will be mailed weekly by
Recana to Client. Such invoice is DUE AND PAYABLE WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF
RECEIPT.” (Ibid., ¶ 4(A).)
NG Trucking also indicates that it propounded Form Interrogatories,
Set One, on Plaintiff, including Form Interrogatory No. 50.1. (Diaz Decl., ¶ 5,
Ex. C.) Form Interrogatory No. 50.1 provides in part, “50.1 For each agreement
alleged in the pleadings: (a) identify each DOCUMENT that is part of the
agreement and for each state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each
PERSON who has the DOCUMENT; (b) state each part of the agreement not in
writing, the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each PERSON agreeing to
that provision, and the date that part of the agreement was made…” (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s response to NG Trucking’s
Form Interrogatory No. 50.1(a) provides in pertinent part, “[t]he written
agreement between Recana Solutions, LLC and Giuliano’s Bakery titled ‘Recana
Client Services Agreement’ dated January 31, 2015...” (Diaz Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. D.)
Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 50.1(b) provides, “Plaintiff and
NG Trucking, LLC entered into an oral argument [sic] whereby Plaintiff provided
temporary employees to NG Trucking, LLC under the same terms as the January,
2015 written agreement between Plaintiff and Giuliano’s…” (Ibid.) 
NG Trucking asserts that accordingly, “Plaintiff’s claim for open book
account fails as a matter of law because Plaintiff has failed to meet its
burden to show that an open book account ever existed. As the evidence shows,
the parties entered into no agreement, express or implied by conduct, in
contrast to the underlying services agreement.” (Mot. at p. 18:11-14.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that it “has brought a proper
action for breach based on its open book account with NG Trucking which is not
inconsistent with its claim of breach of an express contract.” (Mot. at p.
3:6-8.) Plaintiff cites to Warda v. Schmidt (1956) 146 Cal.App.2d
234, 237, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[a] book account is created by the agreement or conduct of the
parties thereto. The mere recording in a book of transactions or the incidental
keeping of accounts under an express contract does not of itself create a book
account. Such memoranda cannot be utilized under the guise of a book account as
a device to extend the statute of limitations beyond the time it would run on
the contractual obligation…However, the parties to a written or oral contract
may, by agreement or conduct, provide that monies due under such contract shall
be the subject of an account between them. In that event a cause of action
arising therefrom is on the account and not on the underlying contract.”
(Internal citations omitted.) 
            Plaintiff asserts that in this
matter, “[Plaintiff] has established that through the conduct of the parties, a
book account was established in addition to the express agreement between the
parties. The parties acted as having a book account relationship long before
the written agreement.” (Opp’n at pp. 4:25-5:1.) 
            In his supporting declaration, Mr.
Stiles states that “[Plaintiff] began doing business with [Giuliano’s Bakery]
on or around 2005 providing temporary employees to work at [Giuliano’s Bakery]
facilities. From the inception of the parties’ relationship, [Plaintiff] and
[Giuliano’s Bakery] agreed and conducted themselves in a manner in which all
monies due to [Plaintiff] for the services it provided were the subject of an
account between them.” (Stiles Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Stiles further states that
“[o]n or about January 31, 2015, [Plaintiff] and [Giuliano’s Bakery] entered
into a written agreement which memorialized the parties’ business relationship.
The parties continued to treat the monies due to [Plaintiff] for the services
it provided under the written agreement as an account. The written agreement
memorialized this by containing specific provisions on ‘Past Due Accounts.’”
(Stiles Decl., ¶ 3.) In addition, Mr. Stiles states that “[i]n or about 2013,
[Plaintiff] also entered into an agreement to provide temporary employees to
work at NG TRUCKING, an affiliate of [Giuliano’s Bakery].” (Stiles Decl., ¶ 4.)

Mr. Stiles asserts that “[w]hen [Giuliano’s Bakery] and [Plaintiff]
entered into the agreement in 2015, NG TRUCKING agreed to be bound by the terms
of the agreement, As a result, [Plaintiff] and NG TRUCING [sic] agreed and
conducted themselves in a manner in which all monies due to [Plaintiff] for the
services it provided were also the subject of an account between them.” (Stiles
Decl., ¶ 4.) As set forth above, the Court sustains NG Trucking’s evidentiary
objection to Mr. Stiles’s statement that “NG TRUCKING agreed to be bound by the
terms of the agreement…” (See Evid. Objection No. 1, Stiles Decl., ¶ 4.)
As noted by NG Trucking, Plaintiff does not allege that NG Trucking “agreed to
be bound by” Plaintiff’s agreement with Giuliano’s Bakery. Rather, Plaintiff
alleges that “Plaintiff and Defendant NG Trucking LLC also entered into an
Agreement whereby Plaintiff provided temporary employees to Defendant NG
Trucking LLC under the same terms and calculations as the agreement between
Plaintiff and Giuliano’s.” (Compl., ¶ 13, emphasis added.) Similarly,
Plaintiff’s response to NG Trucking’s Form Interrogatory No. 50.1(b) provides,
“Plaintiff and NG Trucking, LLC entered into an oral argument [sic] whereby
Plaintiff provided temporary employees to NG Trucking, LLC under the same terms
as the January, 2015 written agreement between Plaintiff and Giuliano’s…”  (Diaz Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. D.) NG Trucking cites to
Thompson v. Williams (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 566, 573-574, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[a]fter-the-fact
attempts to reverse prior admissions are impermissible because a party cannot
rely on contradictions in his own testimony to create a triable issue of fact. The assertion of facts contrary to prior testimony does not
constitute substantial evidence of the existence of a triable issue of fact.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) NG Trucking asserts that
“NG’s oral agreement to be bound by the same or similar terms included in GPC’s
contract with Plaintiff does not…add it as a party to that separate written
agreement.” (Reply at p. 10:23-24.) 
NG Trucking also asserts that Warda v. Schmidt, supra, 146 Cal.App.2d 234, relied upon by Plaintiff, is
distinguishable. NG Trucking asserts that “[w]hat Plaintiff fails to mention is
that the initial contract between the same parties in Warda was based on
a written agreement and the open accounts claims were based on two oral
agreements giving rise to the open accounts claim in which the court applied a
four-year statute of limitation. In Wanda [sic], the plaintiff’s claim
was solely on two counts: account stated and a book account – and not a claim
for breach of an oral contract which then gave rise to a common count. Thus,
the Wanda [sic] ruling is not applicable here, as it did not apply to
two distinct legal entities, nor did it support an end run around the oral
contract allegation...” (Reply at p. 7:11-18, emphasis omitted.) As set forth
above, “[a]n express contract, which defines the
duties and liabilities of the parties, whether it be oral or written, is not,
as a rule, an open account.” (Durkin v. Durkin, supra,133 Cal.App.2d at p.
290.) 
Indeed, in Warda, “[o]n May 22, 1947,
plaintiff and defendant entered into a written contract whereby plaintiff was
to do the plastering work on the 171 houses for which he was to be paid $ 500
per house for plastering the outside and $ 800 per house for plastering the
inside…The contract was based upon the master plan. Its terms provided for
installment payments of the amount due thereunder: 60 per cent was to be paid
to plaintiff when the first coat of plaster was put on; 30 per cent upon
completion of the second coat, and the remaining ten per cent when the wash was
applied and the job completed.” (Warda v. Schmidt, supra, 146 Cal.App.2d at pp.
235-236.) 
“Plaintiff complained to defendant about the extra
plastering necessitated by the changes in the master plan. The parties entered
into an oral agreement whereby defendant agreed to compensate plaintiff for the
extra plaster work.” (Warda
v. Schmidt, supra, 146 Cal.App.2d at p. 236.) In addition, “Defendant
planned to build an additional 110 houses in Meadow Glen. In the latter part of
1947 he entered into an oral contract with plaintiff whereby he agreed to pay
plaintiff the flat rate of $ 2.50 a square yard for the plaster work on these
houses.” (Ibid.) “A notice of completion of the 171 houses was recorded
on December 22, 1948. One for the 110 houses was recorded on February 25, 1949.
Plaintiff commenced this action on January 2, 1953. The complaint filed on that
day was in two counts: an account stated and a book account. Plaintiff sought
to recover $ 38,658.60 which was alleged to be the balance owed to him by
defendant as a result of the aforementioned events.” (Ibid.)  
The Warda
Court found that “George Bryant, who
was plaintiff’s foreman and bookkeeper at the time of the events here involved,
testified that the installment-payment provisions of the May 22, 1947, contract
were never followed and that all payments made by defendant to plaintiff were
on account. Plaintiff testified likewise. Linea Miller, who was defendant’s
bookkeeper at the time of the events here involved, was called as a witness by
defendant. She testified that the payments made to plaintiff during this period
were on account. The two oral contracts entered into between plaintiff and
defendant in 1947 had no payment provisions. The trial court could properly
infer that this was because payments thereunder were to be subject to the
account already established between the parties. A transfer in writing of a
credit of defendant with a third party to plaintiff expressly stated that it
was received by plaintiff on the account of defendant.” (Id. at
pp. 237-238.) 
Here,
Plaintiff does not appear to provide any evidence demonstrating how NG Trucking
(as opposed to Giuliano’s Bakery), through its conduct, created a
book account. As set forth above, in the Warda Court held that “the parties to a written or oral contract may, by agreement
or conduct, provide that monies due under such contract shall be the subject of
an account between them.” (Warda v. Schmidt, supra, 146 Cal.App.2d at p. 237.) Rather, Mr. Stiles states that “[f]rom the
inception of the parties’ relationship, [Plaintiff] and [Giuliano’s Bakery]
agreed and conducted themselves in a manner in which all monies due to
[Plaintiff] for the services it provided were the subject of an account between
them.” (Stiles Decl., ¶ 2, emphasis added.)  
Mr. Stiles also states that “[t]hroughout its business relationship,
with [Giuliano’s Bakery] and NG Trucking, [Plaintiff] had an agreement with a
factoring company under which [Plaintiff] assigned its accounts receivable for
its accounts with [Giuliano’s Bakery] and NG Trucking to the factoring company
in exchange for an advance on the total amount on the invoices submitted to [Giuliano’s
Bakery] and NG Trucking.” (Stiles Decl., ¶ 5.) 
NG Trucking notes that in his deposition, Mr. Stiles testified as
follows: “Q. Did those agreements assign the accounts receivable that were
between Giuliano’s and Recana Solutions or NG and Recana Solutions? Did it
assign those accounts receivable to Vertex and then BAM and then Dare? A. Yes.
Q. And Recana was -- received money in exchange for that assignment, correct?
It’s basically an advance on the AR factor? A. Yes.” (Diaz Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. G
(Stiles Depo.) at p. 56:9-18.) In the motion, NG Trucking asserts that “[d]uring
the course of its business relationship with the Defendants, Plaintiff retained
the services of Vertext and its successors, BAM Capital LLC and Dare Capital
Partners LLC (collectively hereafter ‘Vertext’)…to handle its AR factoring,”
and that the “credit arrangement with Vertext operated for the benefit of
Plaintiff’s own business practices, and was incidental to the obligations of
Plaintiff and NG Trucking under their express agreement.” (Mot. at pp. 16:26-28;
17:16-18.)  NG Trucking notes that “[a] book account is created by the agreement or conduct of
the parties in a commercial transaction. Nonetheless, the mere recording in a
book of transactions or the incidental keeping of accounts under an
express contract does not of itself create a book account. Parties to a written
or oral contract may, however, provide that monies due under such contract
shall be the subject of an account between them.” (H. Russell
Taylor's Fire Prevention Service, Inc. v. Coca Cola Bottling Corp. (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 711, 728.)
In the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute NG Trucking’s assertion
that “Vertext’s role was purely incidental.” (Mot. at p. 17:1.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
NG Trucking has met its burden of demonstrating that Plaintiff’s fourth cause
of action is without merit, and that Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable
issue of material fact as to this cause of action. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, NG Trucking’s motion for summary judgment is granted.
The
Court orders NG Trucking to file and serve a proposed judgment of dismissal
within 10 days of the date of this Order.¿¿  
NG
Trucking is ordered to give notice of this Order. 
 
DATED:  December 14, 2023                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


