 Case Number:  21STCV40286    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     March 19, 2024                      TRIAL
DATE: June 25, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Angelica Duarte v. Amazon.com, Inc., et
al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV40286            
 
(1)
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA FOR THIRD PARTY BUSINESS RECORDS (x2);
(2)
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A FIRST AMENDED ANSWER

 
MOVING PARTY:               (1) Plaintiff Angelica Duarte; (2) Defendants
Amazon.com Inc., Amazon.com Services LLC, and Prime Now, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) Defendants
Amazon.com Inc., Amazon.com Services LLC, and Prime Now, LLC; (2) Plaintiff
Angelica Duarte
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an employment discrimination action that was filed on November
20, 2021. Plaintiff alleges that she was harassed, penalized, and ultimately
terminated for having a disability that caused her to miss work. 
 
Plaintiff moves to quash two third
party subpoenas for business records propounded to Cricket Wireless and Dajani
Enterprises, Inc. Defendant moves for leave to file a first amended answer. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash Third-Party Subpoenas for Records is DENIED. This ruling is
conditioned on Plaintiff paying $60 in filing fees within 10 days of this
order. 
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Answer is GRANTED. Defendants are
ordered to file a clean standalone copy of the First Amended Answer within 5
days of this order. 
 
//
 
//
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion to Quash Third Party Subpoenas (x2)
 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash two third party subpoenas for business records propounded to
Cricket Wireless and Dajani Enterprises, Inc.
 
Multiple Motions in One
 
            Plaintiff
has improperly moved to quash two separate subpoenas in a single motion. Multiple
motions should not be combined into a single filing.¿(See¿Govt. Code,¿§
70617(a)(4) [setting forth the required filing fee for each motion,
application, or any other paper or request requiring a hearing];¿see¿also¿Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter
Group 2011)¿[“Motions to compel compliance with separate discovery requests
ordinarily should be filed separately.”].) 

 
            In the
interest of an efficient resolution of this dispute, the Court will consider both
subpoenas as presented in a single motion. However, the Court will condition
its ruling on the payment of an additional $60 in filing fees for the second
motion.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 provides:
 
If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein,
or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any
person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after
giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1(a).) There is
no meet and confer requirement in section 1987.1. There is also no requirement
for a separate statement when no response has been provided to the request
for discovery. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1345(b)(1).) Furthermore, there is
no requirement for a showing of good cause for production of documents in
connection with a deposition subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.510(b); Terry
v. SLICO (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 358.)
 
//
 
//
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves to quash a pair of subpoenas for business records propounded to Cricket
Wireless and Dajani Enterprises, Inc. Defendants propounded these subpoenas on
February 8, 2024, seeking:
 
All documents and records pertaining to
the attendance, payment, and/or medical accommodation of Angelica Duarte (DOB:
February 4, 1988, SS#: XXX-XX-4004) during her employment with you in 2019,
including, but not limited to time records; attendance records; sign-in sheets;
vacation, sick, PTO, or other time use and accruals; earning statements; W2
records; personnel file; and requests for medical accommodation or leave of
absence and any decisions regarding the same.
 
(Plaintiff’s Exhs. 1-2.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that these subpoenas are improper inquiries into Plaintiff’s records with
current employers that are intended to harass Plaintiff and stigmatize her for
suing her employer. Plaintiff cites a raft of federal district court cases stating
in express terms that “[t]he stigma associated with the issuance of the
subpoenas, as evidence of Plaintiff’s participation in a lawsuit against an
employer, is . . . profound.” (Bickley v. Schneider Nat’l (N.D. Cal.)
(2011 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 40674 at *9; see also Salas v. 3M (N.D. Ill.)
(2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 124993 at *3-4.) These cases express the view that
subpoenas searching for employment records from current or subsequent employers
should be strongly disfavored if permitted at all. However, this principle is
of little utility in this case, where, by Plaintiff’s own admission, she worked
for Cricket and Dajani from July 2019 to October 2019, contemporaneous with
many of the central events of this case. (Declaration of Genesis Guevara ISO Mot.
¶ 7.) The subpoenas at issue here are not propounded to Plaintiff’s current
employer, which would suggest an effort to stigmatize and harass, but to past
employers, and thus do not inherently carry such connotations. 
 
            Plaintiff
also asserts that the document request is overbroad and not reasonably
particularized, offering no explanation for why the categories of (1)
attendance records; (2) payment; and (3) medical accommodations are not
reasonably particularized. Contrary to Plaintiff’s assertion, these requests
are not seeking “anything and everything” related to Plaintiff Duarte’s
employment at Cricket and Dajani, but rather seeking documents which pertain to
those categories. 
 
            Plaintiff
next argues that the subpoenas seek information that is not relevant under the
heightened standard for disclosure of constitutionally protected information. 
 
            In ruling
on a privacy objection in the context of discovery, the party asserting a
privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy interest. (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) The party asserting a privacy
right must also establish an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
the given circumstances. (Id.) Further, the party asserting a privacy
right must establish a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Id.) The
Court need not proceed to the fourth step of balancing competing interests if
all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court
reaches the fourth step, the Court must balance these competing considerations:
The party seeking information may raise whatever legitimate and important
countervailing interests disclosure may serve. (Id. at 552.) The party
seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
need” simply because discovery of any facially private information is sought. (Id.
at 556-557.) When a privacy interest is asserted, the party seeking production
must show that the information sought is directly relevant to a cause of action
or a defense. (Harris v. Superior Court (Smets) (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
661, 665, citing Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859-62.)
 
            Existing
precedent is clear that Plaintiff has a legally protected interest in her personnel
records. (See, e.g., Harding Lawson Associates v. Superior Court (1992)
10 Cal.App.4th 7, 10.) These cases hold generally that “personnel records and
employment history are within the scope of the protection provided by the state
and federal Constitutions.” (San Diego Trolley, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2001) 87 Cal. App. 4th 1083, 1097, disapproved of on other grounds in Williams,
supra, at p. 557, fn. 8.) That said, Plaintiff provides no basis for the
conclusion that she has a reasonable expectation of privacy in the specific
documents at issue in this case. Further, Plaintiff provides no basis to
support a conclusion that the threatened intrusion is serious. 
 
            What is
more, these records bear direct relevance to the matters at hand on their face,
despite Plaintiff’s arguments to the contrary. Plaintiff’s work attendance,
whether her disability was reported to her other employers, and what
accommodations were required and appropriate for that disability all featured extensively
in the Motion for Summary Judgment recently heard by the Court. (See March 8,
2024 Ruling on Matter Taken Under Submission.) It is not difficult to see how
Plaintiff’s attendance records and requests for accommodations at a past concurrent
employer are relevant to those disputes. As Defendants argue in opposition,
these materials have probative value in that a disability which hampered
Plaintiff’s attendance and required accommodations at one job would likely be
reflected in Plaintiff’s concurrent employment history at a second job. Moreover,
Plaintiff herself concedes that compensation records are relevant to the
affirmative defense of Failure to Mitigate. (See Motion pp. 7:28-8:1.) 
 
            Finally,
turning to Plaintiff’s objection that these records seek impermissible
character evidence, Plaintiff again offers no basis for that position other
than the conclusion that these materials are not relevant to any dispute in
this case and improperly seek Plaintiff’s entire employment file. Neither
conclusion is correct. 


            In sum,
Plaintiff has not demonstrated that these subpoenas are irrelevant, overbroad,
an improper invasion of privacy, or harassing. 
 
//
 
Conclusion:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Third Party Subpoenas for Records is DENIED. 
 
Motion for Leave to File First Amended Answer
 
            Defendant
moves for leave to file a First Amended Answer. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on such terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 473(a)(1).) Amendments of pleadings may be
permitted up to and during trial, absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Judicial policy favors
liberal exercise of the discretion to permit amendment of the pleadings. (Royal
Thrift & Loan Co. v. County Escrow, Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 24,
41-42.) Absent prejudice to the Plaintiffs, a denial of leave to amend is an
abuse of discretion. (Kittridge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.) At the same time, “if a party seeking amendment has
been dilatory and/or the delay has prejudiced or will prejudice the opposing
party, the trial court in its discretion may deny leave to amend.” (M&F
Fishing, Inc. v. Sea-Pac Ins. Managers, Inc. (2012) 202 Cal. App. 4th 1509,
1534.)
 
A motion to amend a pleading before
trial must meet the following requirements:
 
(a) Contents of
motion
 
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must:
 
(1) Include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
 
(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and
 
(3) State what
allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are
located.
 
(b) Supporting
declaration
 
A separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify:
 
(1) The effect of the
amendment;
 
(2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper;
 
(3) When the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and
 
(4) The reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier.
 
(Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324.)
 
Contents of Motion
 
Defendants included a copy of the
proposed Amended Answer as an attachment to the Declaration of Hillary Marks in
support of the Motion. (Declaration of Hillary Marks ISO Mot. Exh. L.)
Defendants have therefore substantially complied with California Rule of Court
3.1324(a)(1). The notice of motion also indicates which allegations are
proposed to be added or deleted by page and line number. Defendants have
therefore also substantially complied with Rule 3.1324(a)(2) and (3).
 
Supporting Declaration
 
            Defendants
do not directly reference the requirements of Rule 3.1324(b) either in the
Motion itself or in the supporting declaration. However, close examination of
the papers demonstrates that Defendants set forth the relevant information. Both
the Notice of Motion (p.2:10-11) and the Marks Declaration (¶ 13) expressly
state that the purpose of the motion is to plead an “after-acquired evidence”
affirmative defense. (See, e.g., Salas v. Sierra Chem Co. (2014) 59
Cal.4th 407, 430-31.) Defendants have thus demonstrated the effect of the
amendments as required by Rule 3.1324(b)(1). Further, the pleading of an
affirmative defense based on subsequently discovered information is necessary
and proper on its face, thus satisfying subsection (b)(2). 
 
            Defendants
state that the new affirmative defense is based on discovery conducted in August
2023 which they contend establishes that Plaintiff was not hospitalized in
October 2019 and did not experience seizures at all in 2019, contrary to
Plaintiff’s representations to Defendants. (See Marks Decl. ¶¶ 9-12.)
Defendants state that they refrained from pursuing this motion while the
parties were engaged in mediation. (Marks Decl. ¶ 14.) Mediation was held on
November 21, 2023, but was unsuccessful. (Id.) The parties met and
conferred regarding amendment of the answer on December 18, 2023, via email,
but Plaintiff refused to stipulate to amendment of the answer. (¶ 15.) Defendants
have thus demonstrated when the facts giving rise to this amendment were
discovered, and have explained why leave to amend was not sought earlier.
Defendants have thus satisfied subdivision (b)(3) and (b)(4). 
 
//
Plaintiff’s Opposition
 
            Plaintiff
argues in opposition that leave to amend should not be granted because
Defendants unreasonably delayed in seeking amendment. Plaintiff characterizes
this motion as the product of a two-year delay from the filing of the original
answer in January 2022. However, as Defendants state, the evidence which was
after-acquired that gives rise to the “after-acquired evidence” defense was
uncovered in August 2023, not January 2022. This is a six-month delay, not a
two year delay. Further, Defendants have accounted for their delay in bringing
this motion, and the Court is not persuaded that Defendants were not diligent.
 
            Plaintiff
also contends that the evidence cited does not actually support the affirmative
defense that Defendants seek to allege. Whether or not this is so is beyond the
scope of this motion, and the Court declines to address the merits of the
defense here. 
 
            Finally,
Plaintiff contends that she will be prejudiced by the introduction of a new
affirmative defense at such a late date after the closure of discovery. The
Court is not persuaded. The affirmative defense pertains to evidence that has
already been elicited regarding Plaintiff’s medical condition—information which
has already been the subject of discovery and litigation, and which Plaintiff is
more likely to possess than Defendants. Moreover, Plaintiff is not
well-positioned to argue that trial will be delayed by the introduction of a
new affirmative defense when Plaintiff herself sought and obtained a trial
continuance on March 12, 2024. 
 
Conclusion
 
            In sum, the
Court finds that Defendants have satisfied the procedural requirements for
amendment of the answer, and that Plaintiff has not shown why leave to amend
should not be extended.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Answer is GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Third-Party Subpoenas for Records is DENIED. This
ruling is conditioned on Plaintiff paying $60 in filing fees within 10 days of
this order. 
 
            Defendants’
Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Answer is GRANTED. Defendants are
ordered to file a clean standalone copy of the First Amended Answer within 5
days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
//
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: March 19, 2024                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 