  Case Number:  20STCV30675    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  KENYCE SMITH and ABIGAIL GREY, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CODY ARAGHACHI, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV30675  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION    Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 30, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Kenyce Smith and Abigail Grey (“Grey”) filed this action against defendant Cody Yaraghchi sued as Cody Araghachi, Uber Technologies (Doe 1), Raiser LLC (Doe 2), and Raiser-CA LLC (Doe 3), for damages arising from an automobile collision.   Uber Technologies (Doe 1), Raiser LLC (Doe 2), and Raiser-CA LLC (Doe 3) (collectively, “Uber”) move for an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for a mental examination with Howard J. Friedman, Ph.D. (“Dr. Friedman”) on April 22, 2024 at 8:30 a.m., at 1855 San Miguel Drive, Suite 23, Walnut Creek, CA 94596.  II. MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION Legal Standard CCP § 2032.220 states in relevant part:  “(a) In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied:  (1) The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.  (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee.”  Furthermore, CCP § 2032.320(e) provides:  “(e) If the place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the following conditions are satisfied:  (1) The court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved.  (2) The order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.” Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP §2032.320(a).)   Discussion Uber asserts that Plaintiff claims post-concussive syndrome due to acceleration/deceleration traumatism with impairment in brain processing, traumatic disequilibrium syndrome, and post concussive headache. Uber further contends Plaintiff stated Dr. Jonathan Eskenazi diagnosed Plaintiff with traumatic brain injury given her memory problems and depression. Uber therefore asserts that a psychiatric examination is necessary to evaluate her claims of traumatic brain injury, depression, and emotional distress that has rendered her incapable of working.  In opposition, Plaintiff argues there is no good cause for the examination because Uber delayed in seeking leave for a second examination. Further, Plaintiff contends Dr. Friedman’s office is 482 miles away from Plaintiff’s residence located at 11645 South Figueroa St, Apt 2, Los Angeles, CA 90061. Here, Plaintiff does not directly dispute that she has placed her mental condition at issue. Nonetheless, Uber did not file a reply regarding Plaintiff’s contention that the examination location is more than 75 miles away from her residence. Uber therefore has not established good cause for the motion.   III. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Uber’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s mental examination is DENIED.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   