 Case Number:  22STCV29029    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOSE PRECIADO, ET AL., Plaintiff(s), vs.  SAN GABRIEL TRANSIT INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 22STCV29029  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. May 30, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Jose Preciado and Aline Preciado (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed their First Amended Complaint against defendants San Gabriel Transit Inc. (“SGT”), Access Services (“Access”), Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Steve Ly (“Ly”) and Does 1 through 50 for injuries arising from falling off an alleged moving or malfunctioning vehicle ramp on October 13, 2021.     Access, SGT, and Ly (collectively, “Defendants”) now move for a protective order to prevent to preclude them from providing any further responses to Plaintiffs’ request for production, set one, until Plaintiffs execute Access’ Request Form pursuant to Access’ chain of custody policy.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion, and Defendants filed a reply.  II. MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER Meet and Confer CCP § 2025.420(a) states that “Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” Defense counsel’s declaration fails to provide any details regarding a meet and confer effort specific to the issue of Access’ video request form. Plaintiff contends Defendants did not make any attempt to meet and confer in good faith prior to bringing the motion. The failure to provide a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040 is already sufficient grounds to deny the motion.  Discussion & Conclusion  Here, the parties have already participated at IDCs on this matter regarding the videos, in which it was agreed that the videos would be produced pursuant to a stipulated protective order. Access argues that its request form has terms and conditions to protect confidentiality of the videos. The Court fails to see how a stipulated protective order would not already address any concerns regarding confidentiality. Defendants may not tack on an additional requirement that appears to serve no genuine purpose aside from causing further delay. Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for a protective order is DENIED.    III. SANCTIONS CCP § 2025.420(h) “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Defendants’ request for monetary sanctions is denied.  However, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions. There was no substantial justification for Defendants to bring this motion. Plaintiffs are awarded 2 hours for preparing the opposition at the requested rate of $450 per hour, for a total of $900 as attorney’s fees. Plaintiffs are further awarded the motion filing fee of $61.65 as costs. Sanctions are imposed against Defendants and their attorney of record, jointly and severally. Defendants and/or their counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $961.65, within twenty (20) days. However, the sanctions will be adjusted accordingly depending on the length of the hearing, and whether the Court finds good cause for any oral argument Defendants may present, if any.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    