 Case Number:  21STCV11802    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  CARLOS FRANCISCO CHEVEZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  MOHAMMED RUHUL AMIN, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV11802  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 30, 2024  I. BACKGROUND On March 26, 2021, plaintiff Carlos Francisco Chevez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Mohammed Ruhul Amin (“Amin”) and Day & Nite Mini Mart & Grocery for damages arising from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on February 21, 2020. Trial is currently set for June 21, 2024.    Defendant Day N Nite Mini Mart (“Mini Mart”), sued as Day & Nite Mini Mart & Grocery, moves to continue the trial date by four months to October 21, 2024, or to a date thereafter. As of May 16, 2024, no opposition has been filed.  II. MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL Legal Standard Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.  (See generally, CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)  Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.  (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).)  Discussion Mini Mart argues that a continuance is necessary because Plaintiff’s physical examination, Plaintiff’s deposition, and the depositions of Plaintif’s treating physicians have not been completed. Mini Mart avers that its discovery propounded on Plaintiff is due May 9, 2024, and that this is the only continuance request by Mini Mart. Here, considering the procedural history of this matter and Mini Mart only recently obtaining representation on January 29, 2024, the Court finds good cause to continue the trial date. Further, no parties oppose the motion.  III. CONCLUSION Mini Mart’s motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  The June 21, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The June 7, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31. All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 29th day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   