  Case Number:  23PSCV00703    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Janelle Josie Venegas’ Motion for Leave to
File Designate Late Expert Designation
Respondent: Defendant Yolanda
Catalina Cuevas
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Janelle Josie Venegas’ Motion for Leave to
File Designate Late Expert Designation is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This is a personal injury
action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In April 2021, Plaintiff Janelle
Josie Venegas was driving eastbound on Temple Avenue in West Covina when
Defendant Yolanda Catalina Cuevas collided with Venegas’s vehicle at the intersection
of Temple Avenue and Azusa Avenue. Venegas alleges Cuevas was operating a
vehicle owned by Defendant Felipe Cuevas. As a result of the collision, Venegas
allegedly suffered severe bodily injury.
On March 9, 2023, Venegas
filed a complaint against the Cuevases and Does 1-10, alleging causes of action
for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) general negligence.
On April 11, 2023, the
Cuevases filed a cross-complaint against Venegas and Roes 1-10, alleging causes
of action for (1) implied and total indemnity and (2) declaratory relief and
apportionment of fault.
On May 10, 2023, Venegas
dismissed Felipe Cuevas from the present action.
On September 12, 2024,
Venegas filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for
September 17, 2024, along with a jury trial on September 24, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Venegas
moves for leave to submit an untimely expert designation. For the following
reasons, the court DENIES Venegas’ motion.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.710, subdivision (a), “[o]n motion of
any party who has failed to submit expert witness information on the date
specified in a demand for that exchange, the court may grant leave to submit
that information on a later date.” Such a motion “shall be made a sufficient time in advance of the
time limit for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with
Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion
relates to be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the
court may permit the motion to be made at a later time.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.710, subdivision (b), emphasis added.)
In
granting leave to submit tardy expert witness information, the court must “taken
into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the absence
of a list of expert witnesses,” determine “that any party opposing the motion
will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the
merits,” and find that the moving party “(1)[f]ailed to submit the information
as the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect[;] (2) [s]ought
leave to submit the information promptly after learning of the mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect[; and] (3) [p]romptly thereafter
served a copy of the proposed expert witness information described
in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.720.)
Discussion
In
this case, the cutoff for expert discovery occurred on September 9, 2024, which
is three (3) days before Venegas filed the present motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.030.) Because Venegas’ motion is untimely, the court must find
“exceptional circumstances” to permit its consideration.
Here,
the justification provided is that Venegas’s counsel was in trial August 5,
2024, and that counsel’s office failed to diary the expert designation deadline
for the present case. (Soong Decl., ¶ 3.) The court notes, however, that being
in trial and failing to calendar a deadline do not  constitute exceptional circumstances
justifying the relief sought. And even if they did, counsel for Venegas failed
to explain how a trial and calendaring error in early August resulted in
counsel failing to file the present motion in a timely manner before the cutoff
of discovery on September 9, 2024.
Notably,
the declaration of Venegas’ counsel fails to mention when Venegas’ counsel
first discovered the error. Thus, the court finds Venegas’ counsel failed to
justify the untimely filing of the present motion. To the extent Venegas also
attempts to rely on Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b), the court finds this provision is inapplicable here. (See Scottsdale
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263, 274-275.)
Accordingly,
the court DENIES Venegas’ motion.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Venegas’
motion for leave to file a late expert designation is DENIED.