 Case Number:  BC684588    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TATIANA SOLOMON, et al., 
 
                                 
  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
404 N MAPLE DR LLC, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  BC684588
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 18, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendant Samual Freshman (“Freshman”), in his capacity as a
trustee, moves for summary judgment against Plaintiff Tatiana Solomon
(“Plaintiff”). In the alternative, Freshman moves for summary adjudication as
to each of Plaintiff’s causes of action.
 
The Court DENIES Freshman’s motion for summary judgment.
 
The Court DENIES Freshman’s motion for summary adjudication.
 
Background
 
This is a landlord-tenant case.
 
Plaintiff lived at 404 N. Maple Drive, Unit 302 (the
“Property”) for roughly nine years. Plaintiff alleges that the Property
suffered a number of issues including mold growth, asbestos exposure, and
inadequate flooring and soundproofing, which went unremedied by management.
 
The Property was owned by Defendant 404 N. Maple Dr., LLC
(“404 Maple”) and Defendant Standard Management Company (“Standard Management”)
managed the Property as the agent of 404 Maple. (Solomon Decl., Ex. D at pp. 1,
3, 7, 8.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on November 28, 2017 against
Defendants 404 Maple, Standard Management Company (“Standard Management”), and
Samuel Freshman, individually and as trustee of the S and A Freshman Trust,
U/T/A 6/28/89 (the “Trust”) (collectively, “Defendants”). The operative
complaint is now the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), which raised claims for
(1) negligence, (2) breach of the warranty of habitability; (3) fraud; (4)
breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (5) nuisance; (6) breach of contract;
(7) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”); (8) violation of
Business & Professions Code, section 17200, et seq.; and (9) constructive
eviction.
 
The Court previously granted summary judgment in this case
as to all named Defendants. Plaintiff appealed. The Court of appeal affirmed in
part and reversed as to Plaintiff’s claims for (1) negligence; (2) breach of
the warranty of habitability; (4) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment;
(5) nuisance; and (9) constructive eviction. These claims are the only
remaining causes of action in this case.
 
On January 23, 2023, Freshman moved for summary judgment
both individually and as trustee of the Trust (the “January 23 Motion”).
Freshman argued, among other things, that he was entitled to summary judgment
because he did not own or manage the Property. The Court found that there were
triable issues of fact that some of Plaintiff’s injuries occurred during the
period when Freshman’s own evidence established that the Trust owned the
Property. The Court noted that it was possible that Freshman should only have
been sued in his capacity as a trustee, and not as an individual, but that
Freshman did not make that distinction in the moving papers. The Court denied
the motion. 
 
Freshman again moved for summary judgment on November 20,
2023 (the “November 20 Motion”), this time in his individual capacity. Freshman
again argued that he did not own or control the property when Plaintiff’s
injuries occurred. The Court denied the motion on March 27, 2024, finding that
there were triable issues of fact that Freshman controlled the Property during
the times when Plaintiff’s injuries occurred, and that Freshman had failed to
meet his initial burden to show that he did not control the Property.
 
On December 22, 2023, Freshman moved for summary judgment a
third time, this time only in his capacity as a trustee (the “December 22
Motion”). This is the motion that is now before the Court. Plaintiff filed an
opposition and Freshman filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules the Freshman’s evidentiary objections
without prejudice to his ability to raise them at trial.
 
The Court overrules the parties’ evidentiary objections
appearing in their separate statements, which is not the proper place for them.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Freshman’s requests for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
Motion for Reconsideration
 
When an application for an
order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part,
or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the
order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
 
Renewed Motion
 
A party who originally made
an application for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted
conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order
upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be
shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply with
this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be revoked or
set aside on ex parte motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b).)
 
For renewed motion purposes,
a moving party must provide not only new evidence but also a satisfactory
explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time. (See California
Correctional Peace Officers Assn. v. Virga (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 30, 46-48
(Virga) [affirming trial court order denying what amounted to a renewed
motion for attorney fees “in the absence of a sufficient explanation why
appellants did not rely on the federal statute [new law] in their original
motion”].)
 
A renewed motion can only be
brought by the party whose original motion was denied in whole or in part, has
no time limit for filing, and need not be considered by the same judge who
denied the original motion. (Deauville Restaurant, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 843, 851.) However, statutory or jurisdictional
deadlines attached to the underlying motions remain applicable. (See, e.g., Kunysz
v. Sandler (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1540, 1543 [motion to renew an anti-SLAPP
motion, brought nine months after the first amended complaint was filed, was
untimely because it was outside the 60-day statutory period for filing an
anti-SLAPP motion].)
 
Court’s Inherent Powers to Reconsider Prior Orders
 
The Court has statutory
authority to reconsider final orders and interim orders based on a change in
law. (Civ. Proc., § 1008, subds. (c), (e).)
 
Further, California courts
have a broader constitutional authority that goes beyond Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008 to reconsider interim orders that are erroneous. (Brown,
Winfield & Canzoneri, Inc. v. Superior Court (2010) 47 Cal.4th 1233,
1248 [courts have constitutional authority to reconsider interim orders]; Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1108 [“If a court believes one of
its prior interim orders was erroneous, it should be able to correct that error
no matter how it came to acquire that belief”].)
 
Case law suggests that while
California courts generally do not possess a constitutional authority to
reconsider erroneous final orders, a court may correct an error in legal
reasoning as to a final order subject to appeal but before the time to appeal has
expired. (See e.g., In re Marriage of Spector (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 201,
215; In re Marriage of Barthold (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1312-1313
& 1313, fn. 9.)
 
California courts have
interpreted summary judgment or adjudication orders as interim rather than
final orders. (Le Francois, supra, 35 Cal.4th pp. 1104-1105
[Trial court may sua sponte reconsider a prior interim order on a motion for
summary judgment even if outside the time permitted for a party to move for
reconsideration].)
 
Discussion
 
Freshman, for the second time in his capacity as trustee and
for the third time overall, argues that he is entitled to summary judgment
because he did not control the Property when Plaintiff’s injuries occurred.
 
            The
Court rejected each of Freshman’s arguments here in its ruling on the January
23 Motion which, just like this motion, moved for summary judgment as to
Freshman in his capacity as trustee. Freshman does not present law or facts
warranting a motion for reconsideration or renewed motion. Nor does it appear
that he could do so – Freshman bases his motion on the contention that the
Trust has not had an ownership interest in the Property since 2012 (an
argument that he also raised in the January 23 Motion, in any event).
 
            The
Court does not see any reason to reconsider its ruling sua sponte,
either. Plaintiff has provided evidence that the Trust is the sole member of
404 Maple, the LLC which owned the Property for most of Plaintiff’s tenancy.
Thus, the evidence presents a triable issue of fact that the Trust exercised
control over the Property.
 
            The
Court therefor denies Freshman’s motion. 