  Case Number:  21STCV33540    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LYNN MOSES, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV33540
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 18, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Defendants City of Los Angeles (the “City”) and Marqueece
Dawson (“Dawson”) collectively, “Defendants”) demur to the Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”) of Plaintiff Lynn Moses (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
For the reasons stated in the Background section, the Court
understands that four causes of action from the Second Amended Complaint are
still pending against Dawson.  The Court
will seek to clarify the status of these claims at the hearing.
 
Background
 
This action arises out of a small protest that Plaintiff
attended outside the house of Marqueece Dawson, a member of the Los Angeles
City Council. The following facts are taken from the allegations in Plaintiff’s
Second and Third Amended Complaints except where otherwise noted.
 
On December 15, 2020, around 8:10 a.m., Plaintiff and
several other protestors arrived outside Dawson’s house to picket. Plaintiff
and his party brought approximately five yard signs, which were temporarily
affixed to the public parkway outside Dawson’s house.
 
Approximately three to seven minutes after Plaintiff
arrived, Dawson allegedly exited his home, without wearing a mask in an
aggressive manner. Dawson demanded Plaintiff and his party get off Dawson’s
property and remove the yard signs. Dawson then allegedly pulled up some of the
signs and held them. A series of verbal exchanges and jockeying for possession
of the signs ensued, wherein Dawson allegedly chest-bumped Plaintiff several
times and waived his arms over his head and near Plaintiff’s face in a threatening
manner. Dawson then allegedly picked up a backpack belonging to Katlego Masego,
which also contained money that belonged to Plaintiff. Dawson walked up his
driveway with the backpack, but ultimately threw the backpack into the street.
 
Dawson went back into his house, and Plaintiff heard him
make a phone call and tell someone to “take out a restraining order on
[Plaintiff].”
 
On December 22, 2020, the City filed a temporary restraining
order (“TRO”) on Dawson’s behalf against Moses.
 
Defendants allegedly filed and prosecuted a “Workplace
Violence restraining order” against Plaintiff in Case No. 20STRO06980. The
action was pursued to termination in Plaintiff’s favor.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 10, 2021. 
 
On February 6, 2024, the Court sustained the City’s demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) without leave to amend with
respect to Plaintiff’s first four causes of action, and with leave to amend
with respect to Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for malicious prosecution. 
 
Because Dawson did not join in the City’s demurrer to the
SAC, the City did not dismiss those claims as to Dawson.  The Court understands that those first four
causes of action in the SAC are still pending against Dawson.  
 
The most recent complaint is the TAC, which raises a single
claim for malicious prosecution against the City and Dawson.
 
The City demurred to the SAC on March 6, 2023. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and the City filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants the City’s request for judicial notice.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
“A plaintiff must plead and prove three elements to
establish the tort of malicious prosecution: a lawsuit (1) was commenced by or
at the direction of the defendant and was pursued to a legal termination
favorable to the plaintiff; (2) was brought without probable cause; and (3) was
initiated with malice.” (Nunez v. Pennisi
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 861, 872, quotation marks omitted.)
 
Government Code, section 821.6
 
“A public employee is not liable for injury caused by his
instituting or prosecuting any judicial or administrative proceeding within the
scope of his employment, even if he acts maliciously and without probable
cause.” (Gov. Code, § 821.6.) “If a public employee is immune from prosecution,
section 815.2, subdivision (b), also immunizes the public employer.” (Shoemaker
v. Myers (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1407, 1422.) “Although Government Code
section 821.6 has primarily been applied to immunize prosecuting attorneys and
other similar individuals, this section is not restricted to legally trained
personnel but applies to all employees of a public entity.” (Asgari v. City
of Los Angeles (1997) 15 Cal.4th 744, 756–757.)
 
Furthermore, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute, a
public employee is not liable for an injury resulting from his act or omission
where the act or omission was the result of the exercise of the discretion
vested in him, whether or not such discretion be abused.” (Gov. Code, § 820.2.)
 
Plaintiff and Defendants have clarified that the City
actively prosecuted the TRO at issue on Dawson’s behalf in Case No. 20STRO06908.
(RFJN, Ex. A.)
 
“The scope of employment has been broadly interpreted by the
courts of this state. Employer liability has been imposed when the employee was
not pursuing the aim of the employment at the time of the tort, when the
employee's acts were willful or malicious, and even when the acts were against
the employer's rules or policies and conferred no benefit upon it.” (John Y.
v. Chaparral Treatment Center, Inc. (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 565, 575.) The employment nexus requires “that the tort be engendered
by or arise from the work[.]” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 298.)
 
Defendants argue
that Dawson directed the City to prosecute the TRO within the scope of his
employment because Plaintiff would not have been at Dawson’s home but for his
status as a councilman.  The Court
agrees.   This is manifest from the
allegations in the TAC.  Thus, Plaintiff
alleges that Dawson “was “an employee of the CITY, The City of Los Angeles
during the time of the incidents that gave rise to this complaint.”  (TAC ¶ 3.) 
He further alleges:  “Plaintiff .
. . personally attended and engaged in peaceful and lawful picketing/protesting
in front of Los Angeles City Councilman-, Defendant, DAWSON”s residence on two
or three other occasions. . . .in the exercising of MOSES’ Constitutional
rights of protected Free Speech and his Constitutional right to Peaceable
Assembly to address his community by speaking and expressing, and passing out
information about recalling DAWSON.  (TAC
¶ 7.)  In his opposition, Plaintiff
argues that the “public has a right to protest against what they perceive to be
corrupt government officials via recall activities.”  (Opp. at 8:27-28.)   Moreover,
a Workplace Violence Restraining order could only be sought by an employer to
protect its employee and related parties. 
(RJN Ex. A.)  The restraining
order thus sought to distance someone from Dawson who wanted access to him
because of his role as a councilman and government official.  
 
While Plaintiff
alleges that Dawson was not acting in his employment capacity (TAC ¶ 17), this
is a conclusory statement that is contradicted by the other allegations in the
complaint.  
 
In light of these
allegations, the Court concludes that the allegations establish that Dawson
took the actions alleged within the scope of his employment.  Government Code section 821.6 applies and
bars Plaintiff’s claim.  The Court
therefore sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.
 

Sovereign Immunity
 
“[T]here is no common law tort liability for public entities
in California; such liability is wholly statutory.” (In re Groundwater Cases
(2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 659, 688.) “Except as otherwise provided by statute …
[a] public entity is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out
of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other
person.” (Gov. Code, § 815.)
 
Defendants point out, correctly, that Plaintiff has not
alleged a statute subjecting the City to liability. Plaintiff does not address
this argument in his opposition or provide a statute that could serve as a
basis for liability here. The Court therefore concludes that amendment would be
futile and sustains the demurrer as to the City without leave to amend on this
basis as well.
 