 Case Number:  22STCV29253    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



EBONY ELAINE MOSS, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PROPERTY I.D. CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29253
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  April 18, 2024
 Calendar Number:  1



 
 
 
Plaintiff Ebony Elaine Moss (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order
compelling Defendant All California Title and Escrow Company (“Defendant”) to
provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents
(“RFP”), Set Four, Nos. 1-11 and 16-19.  
 
Plaintiff also seeks $6,300 in sanctions against Defendant
and his attorneys.  In its opposition,
Defendant seeks $2,213 in sanctions.  
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion IN PART as to RFP Nos.
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 16, 17, 18, and 19. Defendant shall be required to
produce only responsive documents that reference Plaintiff.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion as to RFP Nos. 1 and 2.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions.  The Court DENIES Defendant’s request for
sanctions.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff filed this action on September 8, 2022 against
Defendant, her former employer, alleging (1) discrimination under FEHA; (2)
retaliation under FEHA; (3) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; and (4) wrongful termination.
 
On October 26, 2023, Defendant answered and filed a
Cross-Complaint, raising cross-claims for (1) breach of fiduciary duty of
loyalty; and (2) violation of Comprehensive Computer Data and Access Fraud Act.
 
On January 21, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendant with Request
for Documents, Set Four. Defendant served responses on February 21, 2024. The
parties met and conferred from February 21, 2024 to March 22, 2024.
 
Plaintiff filed this motion on March 25, 2024. Defendant
filed an opposition and Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance
with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) Discovery
may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any
other party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)
 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence Code section 210
as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed
fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.’ The test of
relevance is whether the evidence tends logically, naturally, and by reasonable
inference to establish material facts. The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant
evidence.”  (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013)
217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
 
Requests for Production
 
“A statement that the party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with the particular
demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in whole or in
part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category that are in the
possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no objection is
being made will be included in the production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)
 
“A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent
search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that
demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to comply is
because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.230.)
 
“(a)
On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:
            (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
            (3) An objection in the response is
without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall comply with each of the following:
(1)
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the demand.
(2)
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.
(3)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
 
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have
agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further
response to the demand.
 
…
(h) Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel
further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310.)
 
            The
burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and
specific facts justifying discovery. (Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior
Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) 
Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then
shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document
disclosure. (Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.)
 
Discussion
Requests for Production
 
            The
parties’ respective positions can be found in their filings, including the
separate statements. The Court’s rulings on each request are set forth below.
 
RFP No. 1: Defendant shall not be required to produce
responsive documents. The request for documents relating to every application
received by Defendant is overbroad and violates the privacy rights of third
parties.  
 
RFP No. 2: Defendant shall not be required to produce
responsive documents.  The request for
every application received by Defendant is overbroad and violates the privacy
rights of third parties. 
 
RFP No. 3: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 4: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 5: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 6: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 7: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 8: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 9: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 10: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 11: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 16: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff. 
 
RFP No. 17: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 18: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
RFP No. 19: Defendant shall be required to produce
only responsive documents that refer or relate to Plaintiff.
 
Sanctions
 
            The
Court finds that most if not all of Plaintiff’s requests were overbroad, and
that Defendant’s opposition was therefore substantially justified. The Court therefore
does not award sanctions.
 
            The
Court has granted the motion in part. 
Because of this, and based on the circumstances of this case, the Court
denies Defendant’s request for sanctions.