 Case Number:  22STCV29050    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee
S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL MENTAL EXAMINATION 
Hearing Date: 11/26/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29050 CHLOE SANCHEZ vs MARCUS KYLE SY, et
al.
Moving Party: Defendant County of Los Angeles
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED

 
Background
Plaintiff CHLOE SANCHEZ
alleges that on January 19, 2022, while working as a paramedic in a marked
paramedic vehicle, she was involved in a collision with a Sheriff’s vehicle
driven by Defendant MARCUS KYLE SY, an employee of Defendant COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES. Plaintiff alleges a traumatic brain injury and claims to suffer from
head contusion, loss of consciousness, migraines, dizziness, and aphasia as a
result of the subject incident. Defendant County of Los Angeles now moves the
Court to compel Plaintiff to attend a neuropsychological/mental examination
with Dr. April Thames.
Legal Standard
Except for defense
physicals in personal injury cases and exams arranged by stipulation, a court
order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made
only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.”  (CCP § 2032.320(a).)   
The examination will be
limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §
2032.020 (a).)  This means the specific injury or condition that is the
subject of the litigation. The examination must be directly related thereto. 
(Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Often, a
party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy
... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting
from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.”  (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
839—plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by
former employer.)  Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding
the injuries and damages alleged.   
Discussion
Defendant has
demonstrated good cause to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff
alleges ongoing symptoms, including headaches, dizziness, difficulty focusing,
and ringing in the ears, which she attributes to a traumatic brain injury
(TBI). These allegations place her mental condition directly in controversy and
warrant evaluation by a qualified neuropsychologist.
The requested mental
examination is distinct from the physical examination conducted in September
2024, which assessed bodily injuries but did not evaluate the cognitive,
psychological, or neurological aspects of Plaintiff’s alleged damages.
Plaintiff asserts, in
conclusory fashion, that Defendant has not established good cause but fails to
explain how the requested mental examination would be duplicative of the prior
physical examination. Furthermore, Plaintiff offers no argument to contend that
her alleged mental conditions, including those she attributes to TBI, are no
subject to defense examination. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not persuaded the
court that Defendant lacks good cause for the mental examination at issue.
Plaintiff is ordered to sit for her mental examination within 20 days of today.

Plaintiff requests the
following orders if the Court allows the mental examination:
1.  Defendant to provide a detailed written
report setting out       the
history, examinations, findings, including the results of all             tests made, diagnoses,
prognoses, and conclusions of the     examiner
within 30 days after entry of the order; 

2. Plaintiff may record
the mental examination and read the written questions on the examination into
the recording during the examination; and 
3. Defendant provide
Plaintiff, within 30 days after entry of the order, with the raw test data and
written test questions, after entry of a protective order that limits the
dissemination and use of the raw test data and written test questions to use in
this case and trial, and that requires the Plaintiff destroy all raw test data
and written test questions at the termination of this case.
In applying CCP §
2032.310 and in balancing Plaintiff’s need for relevant information against the
protection of the integrity of the tests, the Court orders as follows: 
1. Defendant to provide a detailed
written report setting out the history, examinations, findings, including the
results of all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the
examiner within 30 days after the date of the examination pursuant to CCP §
2032.610;
 
2. Subject to a protective order
requiring the materials to remain confidential and used solely for the purposes
of this case, Plaintiff may audio record the examination and may read the
written questions on the examination into the recording during the examination.  (See CCP § 2032.530(a) (permitting the
examinee and/or the examiner to audio record the examination in its entirety); Randy's
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 835 (disclosure
of an examination recording is within the discretion of the trial court); 
 
3. Within 30 days after the date of
the examination and subject to a protective order requiring the materials to
remain confidential and used solely for the purposes of this case, 
raw testing data is to be provided
to Plaintiff’s counsel for cross examination purposes and to challenge
Defendant’s expert’s conclusions. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 