 Case Number:  22SMCV01481    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  I The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE as to the breach of
fiduciary duty claim unless plaintiff can suggest how an amendment might cure
the problem.  The demurrer is OVERRULED
in all other respects.  The motion to
strike is MOOT as to punitive damages. 
It is DENIED as to fees.  In
ruling on the motion to strike, the court did not particularly rely on the
untimely opposition or the reply filed later that day.  However, if the moving parties wish an
opportunity to file a new reply, the court will discuss continuing that motion.
 
Plaintiff filed a quiet title action against Monte Nido,
West Pointe Homes, and James Rasmussen.  
West Pointe Homes (WPH) filed a cross-complaint.  
 
WPH owned a tract of land in Calabasas that the parties
refer to as Lot 7.  Lot 7 had been
previously owned by Saddle Peak Associates and it is near a restaurant.  WPH alleges that Monte Nido was the HOA and
had concerns about the restaurant’s use of a patio across the street from Lot
7.  To settle the dispute, Monte Nido and
various Saddle Peak entities entered into an agreement that restricted the use
of Lot 7, providing that no home could be built on it.  However, that agreement was not
recorded.  Saddle Peak sold Lot 7 (and
other lots) to WPH in 1998.
 
WPH decided to sell Lot 7and sought $100,000.  After a potential buyer showed interest, WPH
alleges that it asked the potential buyer’s brokers, Nona Green and Lisa
Cataldo, to provide the potential buyer with the deed restriction.  That sale fell through.  WPH allegedly was later contacted by Green
and Cataldo concerning another potential purchaser: Reith.  Reith ultimately bought the lot and escrow
closed in 2016.  Reith contends that WPH
concealed the deed restriction from him and brought suit.  WPH filed a cross complaint (and later the
operative first amended cross complaint). 
Before the court is the demurrer by cross-defendants Anywhere Advisors,
Coldwell Banker, Green, and Cotaldo, who, collectively, are referred to as
Reith’s brokers.  They also move to
strike.  
 
The demurrer as to uncertainty is OVERRULED.  The cross-complaint is not uncertain.
 
The demurrer as to breach of fiduciary duty is
SUSTAINED.  The cross-defendants were
Reith’s brokers.  As such, the court can
see the argument for a fiduciary duty owed to Reith, but it is hard to see
where the fiduciary duty arises as to the seller, WPH.  Reith’s brokers did have some duties set by
statute, but those duties are not here at issue and are not fiduciary in
nature.  Other than those statutory
duties, the court has no idea what fiduciary duties were owed to the seller by
the buyer’s broker.  The Disclosure Form
does not appear to create them.  Nor does
it appear from the complaint that cross-defendants voluntarily undertook to
become fiduciaries to WPH.  WPH counters
that Green promised to give the Lot 7 restriction to an earlier potential
buyer.  That may be, but that is not the
same as undertaking a fiduciary obligation (even assuming that the promise
carried over to the Reith transaction). 
The court will inquire as to whether cross-complainants can amend around
that problem.  If some basis to amend is
offered, the court will grant leave. 
Otherwise, leave will be denied.
 
As to negligence, the court is inclined to OVERRULE the
demurrer.  Cross-defendants contend that
WPH’s claim is based on a statutory duty of care, which has a two year statute
of repose from close of escrow.  (Repose
is a doctrine far stronger than a statute of limitations.  A statute of repose generally cannot be
tolled; the same is not true of a statute of limitations.)  That will indeed bar a cause of action based
on Civil Code section 2079, which deals with inspection.  The problem is that section 2079 is not the
issue here.  Further, cross-defendants do
not address the notion that there also allegedly exists a common law duty of
care, and that duty can be tolled (unlike the 2079 duty).  (Greif v. Sanin (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th
412.)  Because there is an alleged common
law duty of care and WPH alleges delayed discovery, this is a theory better
tested on summary judgment or at trial than on the pleadings.  The court notes that the demurring parties
did not demur on the theory that there was no common law negligence alleged.
 
The motion to strike the request for punitive damages is
MOOT in light of the demurrer.  The
motion to strike the request for fees is DENIED.  The court will not award fees absent a basis
to do so, but the request at the moment does no mischief.  The court will wait to see if there is a
viable theory under which fees can be recovered.  The court notes that cross-complainants argue
that fees may be recoverable under the tort of another doctrine.  That is a nice try, but the court questions
whether the doctrine will apply here. 
The doctrine does not allow the recovery of attorneys’ fees as part of
the prayer.  It deals with fees that must
be pled and proved and awarded by the jury during the trial.  It might more typically be utilized in the
case of a claim for interference with contractual relations.  The plaintiff in such a suit would be a party
that contracted with a third party.  The
defendant’s interference might have forced plaintiff to sue that third party to
enforce the contract.  The fees incurred
in bringing the third party suit to enforce the contract could be an element of
damages for the interference tort.  But
it would not be recoverable in a fee motion; it would have to be awarded by the
jury.  It would also not permit the
recovery of fees in the interference action.