 Case Number:  23SMCV04742    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  I The unopposed demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART AND OVERRULED IN
PART.  The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff sued defendant, a former business associate.  Plaintiff argues that defendant signed a
management agreement through its entity Wilshire LLC but that defendant never
intended to perform.  Defendant also
allegedly leveraged plaintiff’s willingness to help with the initial business
stages but then terminated the agreement to partner with another investor.  Defendant demurred.
 
The demurrer as to fraud is OVERRULED.  The allegation is that the fraudulent
statements are in the contract itself because there was never an intent to
perform.  That is promissory fraud and it
is adequately alleged.  The economic loss
rule does not apply to a cause of action based on fraud.  The interference demurrer is SUSTAINED.  Defendant cannot conspire with himself.  The gist of the complaint is that Bronson and
Wilshire LLC are essentially one and the same such that Bronson controls
Wilshire.  To the extent he caused
Wilshire to breach the contract, a cause of action will lie for the breach, but
not for interference.  Negligent
interference fares no better and the demurrer is SUSTAINED.  As to unjust enrichment, that is not a cause
of action.  It is essentially
restitution, which is a remedy.  (Durell
v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350.)  Plaintiff may seek restitution in the prayer,
but not as a standalone cause of action. 
The declaratory relief demurrer is SUSTAINED.  There is no live controversy between the
parties; rather the plaintiff looks backwards to an award of damages or a
monetary recovery.  Because the fraud
cause of action survived, the motion to strike is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff has 30 days leave to amend.  The court notes, though, that plaintiff can
only amend through counsel.  If there is
no timely amendment, then the cause of action to which the demurrer was
sustained will be out of the case and defendant will have 30 days from the time
to amend expired to answer.