 Case Number:  22SMCV02010    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  I This is really unacceptable. 
The court has reviewed the moving papers and the opposition.  The court understands that the parties would
resort to violence were there not laws against it.  But the court insists that counsel act a bit
differently.  As the court understands
it, the facts are these.  There were
significant issues in discovery, including difficulty scheduling
depositions.  Eventually, firm dates were
set.  However, after those dates were
set, a trial in which defense counsel here is trial counsel there, was moved by
the court such that it would conflict with the deposition schedule.  Plaintiffs note that the new order was made
on April 30, 2024, defense counsel did not inform plaintiffs’ counsel of the
conflict until May 9, 2024.  Defense
counsel states that this was because he hoped that the trial would in fact not
go forward and the depositions could remain on calendar.  Plaintiffs’ reaction to the conflict was to
threaten to go in ex parte for some kind of order.  What order it was remains a mystery.  This court cannot compel defense counsel to
be at the deposition if defense counsel is actually in trial.  But plaintiffs sought an order
nonetheless.  Defense counsel eventually
proposed various alternatives to plaintiffs’ counsel, including depositions
after hours, on the weekends, or the week of May 20.  Defense counsel also stated that an
interpreter would be needed.  Plaintiffs’
counsel has, apparently, agreed to the deposition dates (May 20 and 22),
although the court would guess it is only because plaintiff had no option to go
forward on the original schedule of this week. 
The ex parte is nonetheless on calendar.
A few things.  First,
defense counsel was in the wrong to wait until May 9, 2024, to inform
plaintiffs’ counsel of the problem. 
Defense counsel should have immediately informed plaintiffs’
counsel of the potential conflict.  It
would, of course, be proper to say that defense counsel remained hopeful that
the other trial would not go forward, but by timely telling plaintiffs’ counsel
there could have been more options and plaintiffs’ counsel would have had
additional latitude in trying to figure out a solution.  Plaintiffs’ counsel was in the wrong to
insist that defense counsel abandon a trial and disobey a court order.  Asking for that kind of relief is bad faith.  Plaintiffs’ counsel knows, or ought to know,
that this court will not try to overturn another judge’s order that counsel be
in trial, and defense counsel cannot be in two places at once.  Asking for that strikes the court as
irresponsible.  
The matter is now on calendar.  The court assumes that defense counsel has
cleared the dates and that there are no problems lurking.  Other than hospitalization, the court assumes
the depositions will go forward.  This
also allows the May 24, 2024, mediation to go forward.  It would be a good idea for the parties to
approach that in a constructive manner.
The court does not understand the interpreter issue.  Defendant apparently verified interrogatory
responses in English.  Defense counsel is
aware that if the document had to be translated, then the interrogatory
responses are improper.  The proper way
to do it is for the verified interrogatory to be in the verifying party’s
language and for there to be a certified translation.  An English document that the verifier cannot
read or understand is worth exactly nothing. 
The court knows defense counsel is aware of this.  Even beyond that, if an interpreter is
needed, that should have been brought up immediately upon receipt of the
original deposition notice.  It is, of
course, possible that a person can read and understand written English because
a person can take the time needed to understand it, but still have trouble with
spoken English, which comes and goes at a faster speed and can include words or
idioms that are not understood.  So the
court is not finding that the English interrogatory responses demonstrate bad
faith—they might be proper, although it raises a question.  What the court is saying is that this should
have been brought to plaintiffs’ counsel’s attention immediately.  Under the circumstances, plaintiffs’ counsel
has a choice.  Counsel can go forward
without an interpreter and hope for the best—but if the deposition cannot go
forward, the fault lies with plaintiffs, not defendants.  Or plaintiffs’ counsel can hire an
interpreter, although the court would STRONGLY SUGGEST that defense counsel pay
the added cost of the interpreter under the circumstances.
The mutual requests for sanctions are DENIED.  The improper ex parte application for
reconsideration is DENIED.  The ex
parte application to compel attendance is GRANTED in the sense that
defendants are ORDERED to appear for the depositions as currently scheduled and
the failure to do so would be viewed as a violation of this order.