 Case Number:  23SMCV03134    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  I This is the latest in a series of lawsuits by plaintiff
against defendant—two brothers who were in business together but separated on
less than amicable terms.  In this case,
plaintiff seeks to require defendant to open a box in his presence to see what
is in it and, presumably, if plaintiff believes anything belongs to him, to
recover that property.   Defendant claims
that all of this has been litigated and cannot be litigated again.  To know who is right, the court has to give a
thumbnail sketch of the prior litigation.
 
First there was an arbitration.  In the arbitration, plaintiff was awarded
ownership of the entity PMI.  Plaintiff
was also awarded certain specific property, as was defendant.  (What the court refers to as “the”
arbitration was really two arbitrations.) 
Eventually, the award was confirmed in a judgment, which is now final
and binding on the parties.  After the
arbitration, in December 2017, plaintiff brought a complaint against
defendant.  The complaint alleged (among
other things) that defendant had stolen property that belonged to PMI and
conversion.  That action was dismissed
without prejudice on June 1, 2018, pursuant to a settlement.  In 2020, plaintiff brought a petition to
compel arbitration based on the settlement agreement’s arbitration
provision.  Plaintiff alleged a series of
complaints against defendant.  He
contended that certain jewelry was to be divided, but was not.  He stated that defendant had possession of a
box with additional jewelry in which plaintiff had, or might have, an
interest.  In January 2021, the court
denied the petition.  The trial court’s
award was appealed.  The Court of Appeal
affirmed the judgment denying the petition to compel arbitration in March
2022.  The appellate court stated that
things had been decided in the prior arbitration and were barred by res
judicata or could not be arbitrated because the chosen arbitrator had a
conflict of interest.  In April
2021—while the order denying the petition to compel arbitration was on
appeal—plaintiff brought another complaint, this one for conversion.  In it, plaintiff alleged that defendant had
stolen certain property and interfered with plaintiff’s rights.  Plaintiff dismissed that action in June 2022
with prejudice.
 
The court agrees that the arbitration did not deal with the
box in particular.  But it did resolve a
great many things, and it did include at least some division of property.  The settlement agreement, which led to the
dismissal of the derivative complaint, was drafted by Bennett—who was to be the
sole arbitrator in the event of a further dispute.  While it does not have a 1542 waiver, the waiver
is in broad form language and it purports to settle all disputes.  It does not mention the box or any rights to it.  The petition to compel arbitration does
mention the box at paragraph 90(b).  It
states that defendant refused to open it or to provide plaintiff with a
particular ring.  Plaintiff alleged that
there was jewelry that had to be divided. 
Plaintiff also included a statement from one of the arbitrators in the
original arbitration apparently recanting the award.  But that petition was resolved by Judge
Kleinfeld on January 10, 2021 and affirmed on appeal.  The court found that the prior arbitration
award could not be vacated because it had been more than 100 days and the award
had been converted to a judgment.  The
judgment was therefore binding and final. 
And the court found no further rights existed other than to enforce the
settlement agreement, which was the scope of the settlement’s arbitration
clause.  As such, the court found, there
was nothing left to be arbitrated.  The
court also notes that the case settled on the eve of a contempt trial against
plaintiff for sending a diamond out of state that the court had ordered be
turned over.  The court concluded that
everything related to the dissolution of PMI had been settled including the
division of jewelry between the parties. 
The final complaint before this one also claimed theft and the
like.  It, however, was dismissed with
prejudice.
 
That leads to this. 
The court can see nothing left to be litigated.  The court sees no point in opening the box or
in the possibility that there is anything in the box that belongs to
plaintiff.  The only exception is if any
of the specific diamonds that were awarded to plaintiff remain unaccounted
for.  In other words, plaintiff was given
(for example) the yellow diamonds as part of the past judgments.  If those diamonds have not been turned over,
then the court can see the reason why the box needs to be opened.  If the diamonds are in it, then the prior
agreements and judgments will be enforced. 
Otherwise, the court does not think there is anything left.  The court will inquire of plaintiff as to
whether any specific property specifically awarded to plaintiff in the
arbitration or the settlement agreement has not been turned over to plaintiff.  This is specific property, not some general
category of property.  If the answer is
yes, then the court is likely to DENY the motion and order the box to be opened
to see if that specific property is in the box. 
If not, then the motion will be GRANTED and defendant will prepare an
order of dismissal and, after submitting it to plaintiff for approval as to
form only, submit the order to the court for signature within 20 court days.
 