 Case Number:  22STCV13645    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


April
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV13645




MOTION


Motion to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendant
  Raul Espinoza




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs
  Marley Washington, Kenneth Washington, and Kimberly Hagan 



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Raul Espinoza (“Defendant”) moves to continue the trial and
all related dates to July 22, 2024 in order to complete discovery for Defendant,
who was served the summons and complaint on November 27, 2023, and filed an
answer on December 18, 2023. Plaintiffs Marley Washington, Kenneth Washington,
and Kimberly Hagan (“Plaintiffs”) oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on April 25, 2022. This is a negligence action
stemming from a motor vehicle accident, against Defendant and City of Hathorne
(“City”). Trial was originally set for October 23, 2023. 
 
City’s answer was filed on June 7, 2022. 
 
On August 8, 2023, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial and all related dates to April 22, 2024.
 
Raul Espinoza’s answer was filed on December 18, 2023.  
 
Defendants filed a motion to continue and extend the discovery
deadlines on January 29, 2024.
 
On
February 28, 2024, after denying Defendants’ ex parte application to advance
the hearing on this motion to continue, the Court, on its own, continued trial
from April 22, 2024 to May 29, 2024 in order to have this motion heard. (Min.
Order, 2/28/24.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
 “Continuances are granted only on an affirmative showing of good
cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke
(2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial court has broad discretion in
considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham v. Nguyen (1997)
54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of
civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the
date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the
parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex
parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)  
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;
(2)  
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3)  
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
(4)  
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5)  
The
addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B)  The other parties have not
had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in
regard to the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)  
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7)  
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance, the
court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to the
determination. These may include:
 
(1)  
The
proximity of the trial date;
(2)  
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;
(3)  
The
length of the continuance requested;
(4)  
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)  
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)  
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay;
(7)  
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)  
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)  
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 ¿ 
Discussion
 
Defendant argues that on December 18, 2023, he filed his answer and
served discovery requests on Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs served their responses on
January 18, 2024. Defendant argues these responses significantly differ from
earlier responses served to City and Defendant’s counsel requires more time to
analyze them. (Jordan Decl. ¶ 6.) Defendant argues this case involves three
Plaintiffs with varying degrees of injuries, and that they will not be
prejudiced by a continuance to July 22, 2024. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs’ counsel asserts Defendant was not served
the summons and complaint earlier because counsel mistakenly believed that City
had accepted service for Defendant. (Fletcher Decl. ¶ 10.) Plaintiffs contend
Defendant seeks to re-do all the discovery completed thus far by City and that
a continuance will likely result in a year long delay. (Opp., 2–3.) 
 
In reply, Defendant asserts that on April 3, 2024, the parties agreed
to private mediation, scheduled on June 24, 2024. (Stockalper Decl. ¶ 3, Exh.
A.) 
 
The Court notes there has only been one previous continuance requested
by the parties. The Court finds good cause to continue trial and related dates
in light of the mediation scheduled and the fact Defendant entered this case in
December 2023. It also does not appear Plaintiffs would be prejudiced by a
brief continuance to July 22, 2024. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court grants Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to July 8, 2024 at 10:00 a.m.
in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Trial is continued to July 22, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of
the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
All discovery and related deadlines are associated with the new trial
date.
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof of service
of such.
 