  Case Number:  20STCV35407    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  19, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35407




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Set Aside and Vacate Order of Dismissal 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Dexter Fuentes




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 16, 2020, Plaintiff Dexter Fuentes (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants 3 Alameda Plaza LLC and Does 1 to 20 for injuries
resulting from an alleged battery at a bar. 
 
Defendant 3 Alameda Plaza LLC was served the summons and complaint and
did not file an answer. Plaintiff obtained an entry of default against 3
Alameda Plaza LLC on November 9, 2022. The Court then set an order to show
cause re: dismissal for failure to enter default judgment, starting on January
11, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for default judgment was denied on June 22, 2023.
After this, Plaintiff failed to re-file a new default judgement request. 
 
On January 22, 2024, at the OSC re: dismissal and/or monetary
sanctions for failure to enter default judgment, no default judgment package
was submitted. As a result, Plaintiff’s complaint was dismissed without
prejudice. (Min. Order, 1/22/24.) 
 
On February 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to set aside the
dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely since it was filed within six months after the
case was dismissed.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel declares that after
the Court’s June 22, 2023 minute order denying the request for default
judgment, she filed a declaration on July 25, 2023, and another supplemental
declaration on November 15, 2023. (Casado Decl. ¶ 7–8.) Counsel states she “mistakenly
believed, as of [her] November 15, 2023 filing of the Supplemental Declaration,
that the Court had before it all papers necessary to enter Default Judgment
against Defendant. Thus, [counsel] did not re-file another Request for Entry of
Default Judgment, and erroneously awaited the Court's taking action on the
papers previously filed.” (Id. ¶ 8.) Counsel also declares she did not
appear at the OSC on January 22, 2024 because she had a stomach flu, and
instead asked counsel Lawrence Adamsky to appear on Plaintiff’s behalf. (Id.
 ¶ 9.)
 
Counsel declares: “Had I correctly
understood that the Court awaited my resubmission of the form, I could have and
would have done so quite readily.” (Id. ¶ 10.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s counsel failed to re-submit the default judgment package
due to excusable neglect. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to set
aside the dismissal entered on January 22, 2024 is granted. 
             
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal.

 
The matter is set for an Order to Show
Cause re: Dismissal and/or Monetary Sanctions for Failure to Enter Default
Judgment on May 20, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse. Plaintiff must file a new default package with all supporting
documents at least ten days in advance.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such.