 Case Number:  23SMCV02404    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 12, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02404




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Joseph Garcia




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Alan Ruzicka



 
MOTIONS
 
This case stems from a dispute over Defendant’s alleged violation of a
residential lease agreement.   Defendant
Joseph Garcia (“Defendant”), in pro per, demurs to both causes of action
alleged in Plaintiff Alan Ruzicka’s (“Plaintiff”) Complaint, for breach of
contract and for common counts. 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.  
 
Defendant filed a reply on December 7, 2023.  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005,
subdivision (b), Defendant’s reply was due on December 5 – 5 court days before
the hearing.  As such, the Court finds
Defendant’s reply to be untimely. 
Nevertheless, the Court exercises its discretion to consider the reply,
except for the Declaration of Joseph Garica attached to the reply. [1]  
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
“The demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a
declaration stating either” the means by which the parties met and conferred,
or that the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond
to the meet and confer request.  (Id.,
subd. (a)(3).)  
 
Here, Defendant has provided a declaration, signed under penalty of
perjury, indicating, “On June 20, 2023, prior to filing any response to this
action, I had my attorney attempt to meet and confer with Mr. Fidler regard in
the defects in the Complaint , but got no response.” [sic]  (Garcia Decl.)  
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues (but does not provide any declaratory
evidence) that this purported meet and confer never occurred.  Plaintiff also argues that the meet and
confer is deficient because it purportedly occurred more than 4 months prior to
the filing of the demurrer.
 
On its face, Defendant appears to have complied with the meet and
confer requirements, and Plaintiff has not proffered any contrary
evidence.  Moreover, the fact that the
attempted meeting occurred four months prior to the filing of the demurrer is
not unusual in this case, given that Defendant successfully challenged service
of the summons and complaint.
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet and
confer requirements.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
Defendant demurs to both causes of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint on
the basis that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of
action and for uncertainty pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivisions (e) and (f).
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although Defendant argues that “[t]he complaint is uncertain as to the
origin of the $50,340 demanded,” Defendant does not demonstrate that any
portions of the Complaint are so bad that Defendant cannot reasonably determine
what issues must be admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against Defendant.  The Court thus declines to sustain Defendant’s
demurrer on the basis of uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First Cause
of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that
on or about 6-14-2021, a written agreement was made between Plaintiff and
Defendant and does 1 to 10, inclusive, a copy of which is attached to the
Complaint as Exhibit A.  (Complaint at ¶ BC-1.)  The Complaint further alleges that on or
about January 1, 2022, Defendant breached the agreement “By failing and/or
refusing to pay monthly rent and other monetary Lease obligations.”  (Complaint at ¶ BC-2.)  The Complaint further alleges that “Plaintiff
has performed all obligations to defendant except those obligations plaintiff
was prevented or excused from performing” and “Plaintiff suffered damages
legally (proximately) caused by defendant’s breach of the agreement” as
“General and/or compensatory damages in the sum of $50,340.00 or in a sum
according to proof.”  (Complaint at ¶¶
BC-3, BC-4.)
 
Defendant argues that because
Plaintiff indicates in Attachment #9 to the Complaint that Plaintiff commenced
an Unlawful Detainer Action against Defendant and the other 3 tenants of the
unit at the time, that the lease agreement ceased by virtue of the unlawful
detainer action, and therefore, Plaintiff did not owe Defendant any rent after
that time, while he continued to occupy the premises.  In support, Defendant cites to Colyear v.
Tobriner (1936) 7 Cal.2d 735, 742 (hereafter Colyear) and Balassy
v. Superior Court (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 1148, 1151 (hereafter Balassy).  Defendant’s cases are inapposite.  
 
In Colyear, the tenant
leased premises at $45 per month, and the lease contained a two-year option to
renew the lease at a monthly rental not to exceed 20% increase of the rent.  The trial court held that the tenant failed
to exercise this option.  Subsequently,
the landlord attempted to raise the monthly rent to $750 per month, via a
defective notice to the tenant, who continued to hold over the tenancy.  The Supreme Court reversed and remanded to
the trial court the issue of whether the tenant was liable for “the reasonable
value of the use” or the prior rental rate of $45 per month during the holdover
period.  Colyear does not stand
for the proposition that a tenant who holds over after the termination of a
lease is not obligated to pay any rent during the holdover period.
 
Balassy is similarly inapposite.  In Balassy, landlord commenced an
unlawful detainer action based on nuisance. 
The jury determined the tenant was not liable for unlawful detainer, and
was entitled to the premises.  Yet, the
tenant must pay landlord unpaid rent, or else judgment of possession would be
awarded to the landlord.  The tenant
timely paid and then appealed.  The Court
of Appeal vacated the judgment and entered a new judgment in the tenant’s
favor, which included a refund of the rents paid in connection with the
unlawful detainer action, on the ground the trial court had no jurisdiction to
condition entry of judgment for tenant’s possession upon payment of the rent
where landlord failed to prove unlawful detainer, noting the landlord had other
remedies to collect the unpaid rent.  Therefore Balassy also does not stand
for the proposition that a tenant is not obligated to pay rent.
 
Moreover, the Court notes that
Attachment 9 indicates that there is no other pending action by Plaintiff
against Defendant which would necessarily include any unlawful detainer
action.  (See Complaint, Attachment 9, ¶
(9).)  Further, in opposition, Plaintiff
asserts that the aforementioned unlawful detainer action was dismissed
voluntarily by Plaintiff.  (Opposition,
p. 6.)  
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has
validly stated a cause of action for breach of contract.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second
Cause of Action – Common Counts
 
The elements of a cause of
action for common counts are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a certain
sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3)
nonpayment.”  (Allen v. Powell
(1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 502, 510.)  
 
Defendant concedes the
Complaint alleges “that Defendant became indebted to Plaintiff in excess of
$50,000.”  (Demurrer at p. 4.)  The Complaint also alleges that Defendant
occupied Plaintiff’s premises without paying. 

 
Defendant argues that the
common count cause of action fails because a common count exists only where
there is no contract.  At the pleadings
stage, a plaintiff may “plead in the alternative and make inconsistent
allegations.”  (Klein v. Chevron
U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)  The Court notes it is common for plaintiffs
alleging a breach of contract to plead common counts in the alternative, lest
no valid contract is ultimately found to exist between the parties.
 
Thus, the fact that Plaintiff
has pleaded inconsistent causes of action is not, in itself, a basis to sustain
a demurrer.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to
the Complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendant to file an Answer to the Complaint
on or before December 26, 2023.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  December 12, 2023                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


