 Case Number:  23SMCV04868    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 12, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04868




MOTION


Motion for Preliminary Injunction




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Stephen R. Hofer; Stephen R. Hofer Law
  Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group; Aerlex Tax Services, LLC; and Aerlex Tax
  Services, LLP




OPPOSING PARTIES


Defendants Vicky Boladian and Boladian Aviation Law Group,
  APC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case stems from Defendant Vicky Boladian’s alleged dissolution of
a working partnership between herself and Plaintiffs to jointly provide tax and
legal services to Plaintiffs’ aviation clients, and Defendants’ alleged
poaching of those clients.  
 
Plaintiffs Stephen R. Hofer (“Hofer”); Stephen R. Hofer Law
Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group (“ALG”); Aerlex Tax Services, LLC; and
Aerlex Tax Services, LLP (together, “ATS”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed
suit against Defendants Vicky Boladian (“Boladian”) and Boladian Aviation Law
Group (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging causes of action for breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach
of fiduciary duty, intentional misrepresentation, fraud in the inducement,
wrongful dissociation, conversion, intentional interference with contractual
relations, computer data access and fraud act (Penal Code § 502), receiving
stolen property (Penal Code § 496), unlawful business practices (Bus. &
Prof. § 17200), and declaratory relief.  
 
Plaintiffs previously filed an ex parte application for a temporary
restraining order preventing Defendants from “(1) soliciting or performing work
for ATS and/or ALG clients; (2) soliciting, hiring, or retaining ATS employees;
(3) removing, utilizing or accessing ATS’s tangible property, funds, and data;
and (4) requiring the immediate return to ATS of all property, funds, keys,
accounts, and data.”  (See November 1,
2023 Memorandum of Points and Authorities in support of Plaintiffs’ Ex Parte
Application)
 
The Court denied Plaintiffs’ ex parte application on the basis that
“Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that they have an inadequate remedy at
law.”  (November 2, 2023 Minute Order.)  
 
Plaintiffs now move for a preliminary injunction prohibiting Defendants
from the following:
 
1.      Directly
or indirectly owning, managing, operating, participating in, consulting with or
working for any business (including, without limitation, Defendant Boladian
Aviation Law Group, APC) that is engaged in the same business that ATS was
performing in or around September 2023, to wit, the provision of
post-acquisition aviation tax services; 
 
2.      Either
alone or in conjunction with any other person, partnership or business,
directly or indirectly, diverting or attempting to divert any of ATS’s clients
or customers (as they existed prior to Boladian’s breaches in or around
September 2023) away from ATS, or attempting to persuade a client or customer
to reduce, curtail or discontinue business with ATS. 
 
3.      Either
alone or in conjunction with any other person, partnership or business,
directly or indirectly doing business for any client or customer, if that
person / entity was a client or customer of ATS in or around September 2023;
 
4.      Either
alone or in conjunction with any other person, partnership or business,
directly or indirectly soliciting, diverting, or retaining, or attempting to
solicit, divert, or retain, any employees of ATS (as they existed prior to
Boladian’s breaches in or around September 2023) to perform work for or
represent any competitor of ATS (including, without limitation, Boladian
Aviation Law Group, APC); 
 
5.      Utilizing
or retaining, or disclosing or revealing to any competitor of ATS (including,
without limitation, Boladian Aviation Law Group, APC), any of ATS’s
confidential information including, without limitation, ATS’s data, account
access (including ATS’s telephone and email accounts, website domain, financial
accounts, and social media accounts), and the identities of and contact
information for any of ATS’s clients or customers, the terms and conditions of
such representations and/or the nature of the services rendered to such clients
or customers; 
 
6.      Refusing
to return any of the foregoing information previously taken by Defendants or
their agents, employees, and any others acting in concert with them; 
 
7.      Utilizing
or retaining ATS’s tangible property, including, without limitation, ATS’s
funds, furniture, electronics, and office, mail, and other keys; and, 
 
8.      Refusing
to return to Plaintiffs any such property previously taken by Defendants or
their agents, employees, and any others acting in concert with them.
 
(Notice
of Motion at pp. 2-3.)
 
            Defendants oppose the motion and Plaintiffs
reply.  In addition, Defendants have
filed a request for the Court to consider a sur-reply addressing a supposed
false and misleading representation made in Plaintiffs’ reply.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            The Court rules as follows with
respect to Plaintiffs’ objections to evidence filed in support of Defendants’
Opposition:
 
1.      Overruled
2.      Overruled
3.      Overruled
4.      Overruled
5.      Overruled
6.      Overruled
7.      Overruled
8.      Overruled
9.      Overruled
10.  Sustained
11.  Overruled
12.  Overruled
13.  Overruled
14.  Overruled
15.  Overruled
16.  Overruled
17.  Overruled
18.  Overruled
19.  Overruled
20.  Overruled
21.  Overruled
22.  Overruled
23.  Overruled
24.  Overruled
25.  Overruled
26.  Overruled
27.  Overruled
28.  Overruled
29.  Overruled
30.  Overruled
31.  Sustained
32.  Overruled
33.  Sustained
34.  Sustained
 
PLAINTIFFS’
REPLY DECLARATION AND DEFENDANT’S SUR-REPLY
 
            In general, a reply cannot contain
new evidence because it violates the opposing party’s right to due
process.  (See, e.g., San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316.)  Therefore, the Court declines to consider Plaintiffs’
declaration filed in support of the reply.
 
            Defendants have filed a request for
a sur-reply to address Plaintiffs’ characterization of the opposition brief and
of the non-compete clause in the parties’ contract as inaccurate and misleading.  Because the Court is capable of analyzing these
documents itself, it finds the sur-reply unnecessary and therefore denies
Defendants’ request to consider Defendants’ sur-reply.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 527, subdivision (a), “[a]
preliminary injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a
verified complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).) “The purpose of a preliminary
injunction is to preserve the status quo pending final resolution upon a
trial.” (Grothe v. Cortlandt Corp. (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1313, 1316.)  
 
The status quo has been defined to mean the last actual peaceable,
uncontested status which preceded the pending controversy. (14859 Moorpark
Homeowner’s Assn. v. VRT Corp. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1396. 1402.)
Preliminary injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create
a sufficient factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g.,
ReadyLink Healthcare v. Cotton (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016 (hereafter
ReadyLink); Ancora-Citronelle Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d
146, 150.)
 
The trial court considers two factors in determining whether to issue
a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood the plaintiff will prevail on the
merits of its case at trial, and (2) the interim harm the plaintiff is likely
to sustain if the injunction is denied as compared to the harm the defendant is
likely to suffer if the court grants a preliminary injunction. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 526, subd. (a); Husain v. McDonald’s Corp. (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 860, 866-867 (hereafter Husain).) The balancing of harm between
the parties “involves consideration of such things as the inadequacy of other remedies,
the degree of irreparable harm, and the necessity of preserving the status
quo.” (Husain, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at p. 867.)
 
“The decision to grant a preliminary injunction rests in the sound
discretion of the trial court ... before the trial court can exercise its
discretion the applicant must make a prima facie showing of entitlement to
injunctive relief. The applicant must demonstrate a real threat of immediate
and irreparable injury.” (Triple A Machine Shop, Inc. v. State of Cal.
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 131, 138.) “[A]n injunction is an unusual or
extraordinary equitable remedy which will not be granted if the remedy at law
(usually damages) will adequately compensate the injured plaintiff,” and the
party seeking injunctive relief bears the burden to prove its absence. (Department
of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist. (1992) 8
Cal.App.4th 1554, 1564-1565.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
1. IMMEDIATE AND IRREPARABLE HARM 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 526, an injunction may be granted “[w]hen it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(2).) The
threat of irreparable harm must be imminent as opposed to a mere possibility of
harm sometime in the future. “An injunction cannot issue in a vacuum based on
the proponents’ fears about something that may happen in the future. It must be
supported by actual evidence that there is a realistic prospect that the party
enjoined intends to engage in the prohibited activity.” (Korean Philadelphia
Presbyterian Church v. California Presbytery (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1069,
1084.) Plaintiffs need not wait until they have suffered actual harm before
applying for an injunction, however, they may seek injunctive relief against
threatened infringement of their rights. (Maria P. v. Riles (1987) 43
Cal.3d 1281, 1292.)
 
An
injunction may be granted “[w]hen pecuniary compensation would not afford
adequate relief.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
526, subd. (a)(4).)  “Specific
performance of a contract will not be compelled when an adequate remedy exists
at law, and if monetary damages afford adequate relief and are not extremely
difficult to ascertain, an injunction cannot be granted.”  (Thayer Plymouth Center, Inc. v. Chrysler
Motors Corp. (1967) 255 Cal.App.2d 300, 306.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff Hofer has attached a declaration to the Motion, indicating the
following, in relevant part.
 
Plaintiffs’
Partnership with Ms. Boladian
 
6. Still desirous of benefiting Boladian and her
career, I instead decided to form a new entity, Aerlex Tax Services, LLC, so
that I could transfer certain tax-related portions of my practice to, and also
make Boladian an equity member of, that company. I would own 55% and Boladian
would own 45% of ATS, and Boladian would pay for the transfer of ALG’s tax
practice, extensive client list, and existing business relationships to ATS. In
this way, ATS would provide tax-related services to ALG clients and others
within the aviation industry, and ATS clients would continue to maintain their
relationships with ALG for their other aviation-related legal needs.
 
7. Boladian’s attorney prepared an LLC Operating
Agreement, Buy-Sell Agreement, and Promissory Note to memorialize our
agreements in this regard. The Promissory Note reflected Boladian’s promise to
pay me 45% of the value of ALG’s tax practice and client list which were
transferred to ATS and were the most valuable assets of the newly formed
entity. That amount totaled $518,368.50, plus interest.
 
8. In early 2017, I ended my romantic
relationship with Boladian and began dating someone else. At first, I believed
my business relationship with Boladian could continue in a courteous and
professional manner. That hope quickly proved to be misplaced. In early 2018,
shortly after I got married, Boladian denied that she owed me anything under
the Promissory Note (which she had not yet paid) and began a campaign of
retaliation against me. This led to both a lawsuit in the Los Angeles Superior
Court (Case No. SC 129907) and arbitration proceedings before ADR Services,
Inc. (Case No. 19-6165-GSR). 
 
9. After two years of cross-complaints and
extensive litigation, followed by months of settlement negotiations, on or
about September 22, 2020, Boladian and I entered into three separate but
interrelated agreements to resolve our disputes and continue operating ATS: a
Settlement Agreement, an Amended and Restated Operating Agreement, and an
Amended and Restated BuySell Agreement (collectively, the “2020 Agreements”).
The Amended and Restated Operating Agreement and Amended and Restated Buy-Sell
Agreement are attached hereto as Exhibits A and B, respectively. The Settlement
Agreement is, by its terms, confidential and so is not attached but will be
available for in camera review upon request. 
 
10. Boladian and I continued our partnership in
ATS for nearly three years following the settlement, during which time Boladian
generally adhered to the terms of the 2020 Agreements. However, at some point
during this time and unbeknownst to me, Boladian concocted a plan to extricate
herself both from the 2020 Agreements and from her partnership with me, without
ever advising me that she wished to modify the Agreements or otherwise
discussing things with me first. I believe now that her plan was long in the
making.
 
(Hofer Decl. ¶¶ 6-10.)
 
The
Dissolution of the Partnership
 
11. First, beginning in mid-March 2023, Boladian
approached me and expressed concern that she was illegally practicing law by
operating ATS as a limited liability company (“LLC”), and that, for that
reason, we needed to change the company’s corporate form and convert it to a
legal liability partnership (“LLP”). I recognize now that this was a ruse,
especially given the fact that we had always agreed, if or when Boladian needed
to give legal advice to ATS clients, she would perform and bill such work under
ALG, since she was still a contract attorney for ALG and was covered, at all
times, by ALG’s malpractice insurance. Nevertheless, I eventually agreed to
Boladian’s insistent and continuing demands that we convert ATS to an LLP based
on her representation that it would be a simple change in structure that would
make her feel more comfortable. 
 
12. Boladian represented to me that the
dissolution of the LLC and the formation of the LLP would affect neither our
ownership interests in ATS, nor the terms and conditions of the ATS Operating
Agreement or Buy-Sell Agreement. I confirmed that understanding in writing and,
when I co-signed the Plan of Dissolution, I wrote that I was doing so “on the
understanding that our intent is to retain the existing structure and intent of
our various prior agreements.” […] 
 
13. After the formation of the LLP, Boladian went
on to secretly form her own law firm, Boladian Aviation, which she did just 12
days later, on August 21, 2023. Upon information and belief, Boladian promptly
began surreptitiously transferring information, property, and manpower from ATS
to her new firm. 
 
14. Next, Boladian drained ATS’s bank accounts by
making unplanned member distributions to herself and me on September 6, 2023.
This was inconsistent with our policy of always maintaining a minimum of
$200,000 in the ATS operating account, and I expressed confusion about the
timing and purpose of said distributions. I later learned that Boladian left
just enough in the operating account to cover one month’s rent on ATS’s office
space and the ATS employees’ September 15th payroll, before they rolled over to
the Boladian Aviation payroll. On information and belief, all or substantially
all of ATS’s assets have been transferred to Boladian Aviation.
 
15. As soon as I caught wind of what was going
on, I called Boladian. She did not take my telephone calls, but instead
informed me in an email dated September 12, 2023 that she was withdrawing from
ATS LLP effective September 15, 2023. […]
 
16. Upon information and belief, Boladian quickly
siphoned off and/or transferred the remainder of ATS’s personnel, clients,
information, accounts, data, property, and assets to her new law firm. In fact,
the only thing of substance she left in ATS was my personal guaranty on ATS’s
remaining two-year commercial lease, which she abandoned without informing me
(or as I learned later, even the landlord). […]
 
17. Indeed, despite representing to me that she
was leaving “55% of the furniture and equipment” in ATS’s office, she took
everything but a table, a few chairs, some computer room equipment, and
miscellaneous litter scattered throughout the space. True and correct copies of
photos of ATS’s office space are attached hereto as Exhibit G. She even took
the physical files owned by ATS and boxes of client files belonging to ALG,
files she originally had insisted she needed to carry out ATS’s activities.
 
(Hofer Decl. ¶¶ 11-17.)
 
Plaintiffs’
Harm
 
19. Since leaving ATS, Boladian insists that she
receive all incoming ATS funds and has refused to account for them. Despite
abandoning ATS, Boladian still maintains control of ATS’s bank account,
QuickBooks, client database, billing records, vendor accounts, website domain,
social media accounts, phone numbers, email accounts and physical mailbox, and
she refuses to turn any of this ATS property over to me as the remaining member
or to otherwise account for them in any way.
 
20. Over the course of decades, I built first
ALG’s, and then ATS’s, reputations among clients as leaders in providing
aviation legal and tax services to clients throughout the country and around
the world. As a result, our client base is highly valuable, as is the referral
network generated by many years of meaningful client relationships, all of
which continue to provide sources of new business for ATS and ALG. 
 
21. Boladian and Boladian Aviation have stolen
all of ATS’s assets. Most importantly, they have taken the entire ATS client
network. I am informed and believe that Defendants have solicited all of ATS’s
clients, and that the threat of those clients falling prey to Defendants’
fraudulent solicitations is imminent and ongoing. Defendants have also taken
all of ATS’s employees, as well as its computers, software, databases, computer
files, physical files, office equipment and even most of its office furniture –
all apparently spirited away in the middle of the night.
 
22. It is my strongly held belief that Boladian,
by opening Boladian Aviation, has and will continue to damage and confuse the
ATS and ALG brands by marketing itself as ATS’s replacement. In fact, several
clients already have reached out to me, confused about whether ATS and ALG will
continue to operate. Defendants’ conduct has and will necessarily impact the
goodwill among ATS, ALG, and its clients. In fact, Boladian has widely
circulated and published an updated biography that erases her years at ATS completely,
leading to speculation, confusion, and suspicion within the aviation industry.
[…]
 
[…]
 
27. Boladian has interfered with ALG and ATS.
Until September 2023, ALG and ATS acted as “sister companies” and shared many
of the same clients, with whom each had contractual relationships. Boladian and
Boladian Aviation knew of the aforementioned contractual relationships. Upon
information and belief, Boladian and Boladian Aviation interfered with the
contracts by inducing the clients to terminate their relationships with ATS
and/or ALG and enter into new contracts with Boladian Aviation. Boladian even
changed the outgoing voicemail message on ATS’s phone system to instruct
callers to contact Boladian Aviation instead. While still a managing member of
ATS and a contract employee for ALG, and while bound by the 2020 Agreements,
Boladian actively solicited both ATS and ALG clients to her new law firm by
informing them that she was leaving ATS and starting her own firm, Boladian
Aviation, and urging them to join her or suffer adverse consequences.
 
28. Boladian and Boladian Aviation also knew of
ATS’s contractual relationships with its employees, and actively solicited them
away from ATS, effectively giving them no choice but to join Boladian’s new
firm by usurping all of ATS’s clients, files, and other assets, so there would
be no work left for them if they stayed. 
 
29. ATS has suffered and will continue to suffer
harm, including the loss of confidential and proprietary information, goodwill,
competitive position, business relationships, and existing and future client
relationships as a result of Defendants’ actions. ALG and I have also been
damaged by Defendants’ conduct and face substantial imminent harm of future
damages, including loss of reputation, loss of goodwill, loss of clients and
employees, loss of present and future profits, and confusion in the industry.
 
30. If the Court fails to issue the requested
restraining orders, the harm to ATS will be catastrophic. ATS will likely cease
to retain any of its client base and will have no source of revenue. Further,
even if ATS were able to maintain any of its clients, it will have no employees
to perform work for them. And, finally, ATS’s reputation and goodwill will be
decimated. ALG may also lose clients, and suffer damage to its client and
referral network as a result of Boladian’s breaches.
 
(Hofer Decl. ¶¶
19-22, 27-30.)
 
Plaintiffs
attempt to resolve the deficiencies identified in the Court’s November 2, 2023
Minute Order denying Plaintiffs’ requested temporary restraining order – that
Plaintiffs had not demonstrated an inadequate remedy at law – by arguing (1) injunctive
relief can be appropriate to enjoin conduct in furtherance of a noncompete
clause that will damage Plaintiffs’ goodwill, confidential information, or trade
secrets; (2) ALS will suffer irreparable harm to its business; and (3) a
preliminary injunction will preserve the status quo.
 
Noncompete Clause and Confidential Trade Secrets
 
First,
Plaintiffs have not established that the client list is confidential to
the point of constituting a trade secret. 
Unlike in Nalley’s Inc. v. Corona Processed Foods, Inc. (1966)
240 Cal.App.2d 948, 949-51, where the Plaintiff processed and distributed
various specialty food items and the customer identities were not generally
known to the trade, there is no evidence here that the identity of ALS’s
aviation clients is particularly undiscoverable to the point of becoming a
trade secret.  Similarly, in Alliant
Insurance Services, Inc. v. Gaddy (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1292, 1301, the
trial court expressly found that the confidential client list constituted a
trade secret, and the defendant failed to timely challenge that issue on
appeal.  Likewise, in Readylink,
the business at issue was a nurse staffing company, so the identities of the
pool of nurses constituted a company trade secret.  (ReadyLink, supra, 126 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1023.)
 
Moreover, these cases are further distinguishable on the basis that in
all of these cases, the defendants were mere employees of the company, who
stole company-owned secrets, either for the benefit of an existing competitor
or to start their own competing business. 
By contrast, here, Boladian was alleged to be a partner of ALS, with an
ownership interest in the client accounts at issue, which she also personally
managed.[1]  
 
Furthermore, the non-compete clause, which is contained in the LLC
Agreement, applies only following the sale or transfer of all of a member’s
interests in ATS, which did not occur here, and clearly contemplates ATS’s
continued operations:
 
2.4 Covenant Not to Compete or Solicit. In the
event all of a Member's Interest in ATS is purchased pursuant to Sections 2.2
or 2.3 as set forth hereinabove, the Parties acknowledge and agree that in
consideration of the payments to be made to the Selling Member or on behalf of
the Transferring Member, the Selling Member/Transferring Member shall not, for
a period of two (2) years following the Closing Date/Involuntary Conveyance
Date of the sale of all of the Selling/Transferring Member's Interest in ATS: 
 
(a) directly or indirectly own, manage, operate,
participate in, consult with or work for any business which is engaged in the
same business that ATS is performing at the time of the Selling/Transferring
Member's departure, to wit, the provision of post-acquisition aviation tax
services; or 
 
(b) either alone or in conjunction with any other
person, partnership or business, directly or indirectly, divert or attempt
divert any of ATS's clients or customers away from ATS, or attempt to persuade
a client or customer to reduce, curtail or discontinue business with ATS; or 
 
(c) either alone or in conjunction with any other
person, partnership or business, directly or indirectly, solicit or divert or
attempt to solicit or divert any employees of ATS to work for or represent any
competitor of ATS; or 
 
(d) disclose or reveal to any competitor of ATS
any of ATS's confidential information, including without limitation, the
identities of and contact information for any of ATS's clients or customers,
the terms and conditions of such representations or the nature of the services
rendered, unless such disclosure is necessary pursuant to subsection (e) below.
 
[…]
 
(Hofer
Decl., Ex. A ¶ 2.4.)  
 
In that regard, it is unclear whether, or to what extent the clause,
which contemplates and relies upon characteristics of an LLC that do not exist
in an LLP (such as sale of member’s ownership interest, and continued existence
as an entity following either party’s departure) applies at all.  Moreover, the Court notes that California law
dictates that non-compete clauses are void and unenforceable, except in
situations where the assets were sold to a buyer, and then they are only
enforceable in the same geographical region as the buyer, and only as long as
the buyer continues to engage in that business. 
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 16601.) 

 
The non-compete clause here is limited to “any counties in the State
of California in which ATS has clients or customers on its client list at the
time of the Selling Member’s departure and any other jurisdictions in which ATS
is then doing business.”  (Hofer Decl.,
Ex. A, ¶ 2.4(g).)  But ATS, LLC was
dissolved (Boladian Decl. ¶ 9) and ATS, LLP is left without employees or
assets (Hofer Decl. ¶ 16; Boladian Decl. ¶ 10) and currently in the process of winding
down, by virtue of Boladian leaving the partnership with Mr. Hofer (Hofer Decl.
¶ 14, Boladian Decl. ¶¶ 10, 12.).  Thus, ATS
is no longer in business at all, much less the business of providing tax
services to aviation clients. 
 
Thus, because it is not clear from the record that the clients here
constitute ATS’s confidential trade secret information, or that the LLC
Agreement’s non-compete clause is applicable or enforceable, Plaintiffs have
failed to demonstrate preliminary injunctive relief is warranted on this basis.
 
Irreparable Harm to ATS or ALG
 
Second,
Plaintiffs’ only proffered proof of irreparable harm is that which will befall
ATS.    As noted above, ATS, LLC was dissolved and
ATS, LLP is dissolving by virtue of Boladian’s departure.  Thus, ATS, LLP will cease to exist,
regardless of whether the requested preliminary injunction is granted.
 
            And while it is Hofer’s “strongly
held belief” that Boladian’s continued handling of these clients’ tax accounts
will somehow “damage and confuse” the ALG brand, the only proof Hofer has
presented is an anecdote of a single client inquiring whether ATS and ALG will
continue to operate.  (Hofer Decl. ¶ 22.)
 
            Thus, Mr. Hofer has failed to
demonstrate the requested injunction will prevent “irreparable harm” to either
ATS or ALG.
 
            Status Quo 
 
Third, Plaintiffs’ request would not restore the status quo.  Prior to the instant conflict, Boladian was
personally managing all these clients’ accounts for the benefit of both Boladian
and Hofer via their ownership interests in ATS. 
But ATS, LLC was dissolved, and ATS, LLP is also dissolving by virtue
of  Boladian’s departure.  Meanwhile, the clients are continuing to have
their accounts managed by Boladian, as they did prior to the instant
conflict.  While Hofer may have a contractual
claim for lost revenue, a preliminary injunction forcing Boladian to stop
servicing the client accounts she has been personally managing for years would not
restore ATS, nor would it restore the parties’ or the clients’ day-to-day
operations as they existed prior to the instant dispute.  Given the inevitability of ATS, LLP’s demise,
the closest thing to the status quo is to let Boladian and the former ATS
employees continue servicing these clients’ accounts.[2]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction.
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
 
DATED:  December 12, 2023                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


