 Case Number:  23SMCV03256    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Finci v. Lyft
Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV03256
MOTION:                  Petition/Motion
to Compel Arbitration
HEARING DATE:   2/13/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Under California and federal law,
public policy favors arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of
resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blase (1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; AT&T Mobility
LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an
agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) or the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an arbitration agreement’s
scope in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at 9;
Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West
Assocs. (9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of the basic
policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a
presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an
arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that
apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ” (Higgins v. Superior Crout (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.)
 
            “Code of
Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to
compel arbitration if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.” (Avery v.
Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59,
quotations omitted.) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel
arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in
fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.”  (Ibid.) A petition to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity
to compel specific performance of a contract. (Id. at 71.) As with any other specific performance claim, “a
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s
terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only
the valid and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms
well-defined and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.” (Ibid.) An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give
effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of
contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, §
1636.) The language of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear
and explicit. (Civ. Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a
contract should be interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the
uncertainty to exist.” (Civ. Code, § 1654.) 
 
            The party
seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing
the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her
opposition. (See Ibid.) “In these
summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral
testimony received at the court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ibid.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
Lyft Inc. moves to arbitrate Plaintiff Lal Finci’s claims based upon Plaintiff’s
signature to an arbitration agreement covering such claims. Plaintiff has not
submitted an opposition to this motion.
 
As with any contract, mutual assent
or consent is necessary for the formation of a valid arbitration agreement.
(Civ. Code, §§ 1550, 1565.) “Consent is not mutual, unless the parties all
agree upon the same thing in the same sense.” (Civ. Code, § 1580.) The moving
party bears the initial burden of showing the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate by a preponderance of the evidence. (Mitri v. Arnel Mgmt. Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1169
[“Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.”].)  
 
Defendant presents evidence that Plaintiff
affirmatively accepted Lyft’s Terms of Service, including its prominent mutual
arbitration clause. On two separate occasions, including on July 15, 2021, the
day before the subject incident, Plaintiff consented to the December 9, 2020,
Terms of Service. (McCachern Decl., ¶¶ 4-12, Exs. 2, 3, 5.) The Terms of Service
provided the following disclaimer:
 
PLEASE BE ADVISED: THIS AGREEMENT
CONTAINS PROVISIONS THAT GOVERN HOW CLAIMS BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT CAN BE BROUGHT
(SEE SECTION 17 BELOW). THESE PROVISIONS WILL, WITH LIMITED EXCEPTION, REQUIRE
YOU TO SUBMIT CLAIMS YOU HAVE AGAINST LYFT TO BINDING AND FINAL ARBITRATION . .
. 
 
By entering into this Agreement,
and/or by using or accessing the Lyft Platform you expressly acknowledge that
you understand this Agreement (including the dispute resolution and arbitration
provisions in Section 17) and accept all of its terms. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO
BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY NOT USE OR
ACCESS THE LYFT PLATFORM OR ANY OF THE SERVICES PROVIDED THROUGH THE LYFT
PLATFORM. 
 
(Ex. 5 at p. 1.)
 
Lyft also provides a sufficient
record demonstrating that the electronic signature was the act of Plaintiff.
(See Civ. Code § 1633.9.) Plaintiff’s claims against Lyft arise out of her use
of the Lyft platform, and therefore fall squarely within the scope of the
arbitration agreement. Moreover, the arbitrability of her claims are subject to
arbitration through an express delegation clause. Accordingly, the Court finds
that there is an arbitration agreement between the parties that cover the
claims here.  Plaintiff fails to oppose
and therefore fails to demonstrate that the claims are not subject to the
agreement. Defendant’s motion is therefore GRANTED and the Court orders
Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration per the terms of the above agreement. The
entire action is STAYED pending the completion of the arbitration. (CCP §
1281.4.)  As status conference re
arbitration is set for December 5, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.