 Case Number:  23SMCV05689    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Autozone
Inc., v. Kingswood Capital Management LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05689
MOTION:                  Pro
Hac Vice Application 
HEARING DATE:   2/13/2024

 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
California Rules of Court, rule
9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may
apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon
due notice to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in
San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of California, does not work in California and does not perform
regular or substantial business, professional or other activities in the State.
 The written application must provide the
following information:
 
(1)  The applicant's residence
and office address;
(2)  The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)  That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts;
(4)  That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
(5)  The title of each court
and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years,
the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)  The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
 
(CRC Rule 9.40(d).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Stacy Dasaro and Jordan D. Weiss apply
to be admitted pro hac vice as counsel of record for Defendants Kingswood
Capital Management, LLC, Kingswood Capital Management, L. P., Axle Holding
Company, LLC, Alexander Mattson Wolf, Michael Niegsch, and Andrew Sanocki. The applications
satisfy rule 9.40. The declarations supplied sufficient information to satisfy
the requirements. (Dasaro Decl., ¶¶ 1-3; Weiss Decl., ¶¶ 1-4.) Accordingly, the
application is GRANTED.