 Case Number:  23STCV09244    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  68 Motion to Quash Service of Summons
Matevosian Enterprises, Inc. vs. Islick Trading, LLC, et
al., 23STCV09244
Moving Party: Defendant Islick Trading LLC

Responding Party: Plaintiff
Matevosian Enterprises, Inc. dba Nationwide Distributor

Background
            Defendant
Islick Trading LLC (Defendant) filed this motion to quash service of summons on
June 14, 2023, pursuant to CCP § 418.10. Defendant file the motion on the basis
that this Court lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendant. Defendant is a
wholesale distributor formed and headquartered in New Jersey. Defendant argues
that it lacks sufficient minimum contacts with California for the Court to
exercise general jurisdiction over Defendant and that Defendant has not
purposefully availed itself of forum benefits for specific jurisdiction to
exist.
            Plaintiff
argues in its opposition that California courts would have general and specific
jurisdiction over Defendant. Plaintiff argues that general jurisdiction exists
because Defendant’s contacts with California have been substantial, continuous,
and systematic because Defendant has been doing business with Plaintiff for over
5 years and regularly uses California companies and warehouses to move and
store its products. Similarly, Plaintiff argues that specific jurisdiction
exists because Defendant has purposefully availed itself of the jurisdiction of
California courts because it has been doing business with Plaintiff for over 5
years. Plaintiff argues that Defendant has reached out to Plaintiff again and
again to solicit sales from Plaintiff.
            Defendant
argues in its reply that the contacts listed by Plaintiff in its opposition are
not sufficient for jurisdiction to exist. Whether contacts in the forum are
continuous and systematic depends on factors such maintenance of an office,
presence of employees, use of bank accounts, and the marketing or selling of
products in the forum. Defendant argues that the only California-based business
that Plaintiff has shown that Defendant does business with is itself. Defendant
argues that this would not be sufficient to show minimum contacts because none
of the other factors are met to show continuous and systematic contacts.
Defendant also argues that it has not purposefully availed itself of the
forum’s benefits.
Legal Standard
            CCP §
418.10(a)(1) allows a defendant to serve and file a notice of motion to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court.
Where a nonresident defendant
challenges jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence the factual bases justifying
the exercise of jurisdiction. (Viaview, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
198, 216.) To satisfy this burden, a plaintiff must present competent evidence
showing that the defendant’s conducted related to the pleaded causes of action
is such as to constitute minimum contacts with the forum to justify
jurisdiction. (Id. at 217.)
Analysis
            As a
preliminary matter, while the basis for Plaintiff’s complaint is a breach of
contract, Plaintiff has alleged that the contract is an implied-in-fact
contract or an oral contract, so there is no choice of law provision or forum
selection clause for the Court to rely upon.
1.      General
Jurisdiction
A nonresident defendant is subject
to the forum’s general jurisdiction where the defendant’s contacts are
substantial, continuous, and systematic. (DVI, Inc. v. Superior Court (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1090.) A court has no general jurisdiction when the
company has no offices, employees, bank accounts, or real property in
California. (See Cassiar Mining Corp. v. Superior Court (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 550, 554.)
In this case, Plaintiff has
provided no evidence that Defendant has offices, employees, bank accounts, or
real property in California. Defendant is a New Jersey corporation
headquartered in New Jersey. Other than a few sales over the years to
Plaintiff, Defendant does not appear to have contacts that are substantial,
continuous, and systematic.
This Court has no general
jurisdiction over Defendant.
2.      Specific
Jurisdiction
If a nonresident’s contacts are not
substantial and systematic, a court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant only if (i) the defendant has purposefully availed itself
of forum benefits by purposefully and voluntarily directing its activities
toward the forum, (ii) the controversy is related to or arises out of the
defendant’s contacts with the forum, and (iii) the forum’s assertion of
personal jurisdiction over the defendant would comport with fair play and
substantial justice. (Jensen v. Jensen (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 682, 686-87.)
In determining whether a defendant
has purposefully availed itself of the benefits of the forum state, the
relevant inquiry is “the degree to which a foreign corporation interjects
itself into the forum state” such that the defendant can “reasonably expect to
be haled into court there.” (Felix v. Bomoro Kommanditgesellschaft
(1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 106, 115-17.) 
A “contract with an out-of-state
party does not automatically establish purposeful availment in the other
party’s home forum.” (Goehring v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th
894, 907 (holding that defendants’ execution of agreements were insufficient to
establish that defendants purposefully availed themselves of forum benefits).
“Relevant factors include prior negotiations, contemplated future consequences,
the parties’ course of dealings, and the contract’s choice-of-law provision.” (Id.)
In this case, the only way in which
Defendant may have interjected itself into California is by doing business with
Plaintiff. Defendant and Plaintiff have maintained contact for the purpose of
doing business for over 5 years. However, that is the only evidence that
Plaintiff has presented of Defendant’s purposeful availment in California.
Further, any contract that the parties might have would not be enough to establish
purposeful availment.
There is also no indication that
the action arises out of conduct in California because the contract
negotiations are alleged to have taken place remotely through WhatsApp and
texts. Defendant claims that it does not do any advertising in California or
otherwise solicit business in California outside of its contact with Plaintiff.

This Court does not have specific
jurisdiction over Defendant.
3.      Conclusion
Because this Court does not have
general or specific jurisdiction over Defendant, the Court grants Defendant’s
motion to quash services of summons.
Order
            Defendant’s
motion to quash service of summons is GRANTED.