


[1] By way of example, in 2023, total relocation assistance
for a two-bedroom unit is $8,077. (City RJN Exh. E at 2.) If a landlord
raised the rent in an unregulated unit to anything about 10 percent, it would
cost the landlord $8,077. Thus, having to pay a tenant $8,077 as relocation
assistance serves as an incentive to a landlord to limit any rent increases to
10 percent or less.


[2] A similar “real-world” example of a 15 percent
increase being discouraged by the ordinance is shown in the Declaration of
Silvia Anguiano submitted by Intervenors. (Reply 11:10-19.)  
 


[3] As Respondents and Intervenors point out, the
legislative history also shows another purpose of Ordinance No. 187764 is
mitigation of the harms on tenants of unregulated units caused by economic
displacement due to rent increases the tenants cannot afford. (See AR 2220
[“Relocation assistance based on economic displacement would provide renters
who are not protected by the RSO or State law with the financial means to
secure alternative housing when forced to relocate due to high rent increases .
. . .”])  


[4] Cf. Coyne v. City & County of San Francisco, supra, 9 Cal. App. 5th at 1226-27 [Ellis Act relocation
assistance must be reasonable and cannot place a “prohibitive price” on
landlord’s right to go out of rental business].)


[5] The court
requests Respondents and Intervenors address how the Threshold Eviction Ordinance
does not contradict this provision of state law during argument. The statute
turns on a tenant’s failure to pay rent pursuant to the rental agreement. The ordinance
eliminates consideration of the parties’ contract and focuses instead on FMR. 


[6] For any rental units for which rent may be due more
or less than once a month, the operation of the ordinance appears similar. Respondents
and Intervenors develop no argument to the contrary.  


[7] The court acknowledges the Court of
Appeal stated the ordinance at issue “simply has a procedural impact, limiting
the timing of certain evictions.” (Id. at 518.) The Court thereafter
noted: “this procedural impact—like the procedural requirement in Rental
Housing—is necessary to ‘regulate the
substantive grounds’ of the defense it creates.” (Ibid.)  Here, in contrast, the very purpose of
Ordinance No. 187763 is to limit the timing of evictions and give tenants more
time to pay rental arrearages. Thus, the ordinance operates with more than a
procedural impact.  


[8] Moreover, unlike here, none of the local legislation
involved in those authorities directly conflicted with the state statute.

