 Case Number:  23STCP00720    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  86 APARTMENT ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY, INC.
v. CITY OF LOS ANGELES
Case Number: 23STCP00720
Hearing Date: November 8, 2023 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 
 
Petitioner, Apartment Association of Los Angeles County,
Inc., seeks a writ of mandate directing Respondents, City of Los Angeles and
Council of the City of Los Angeles (City Council), to rescind Ordinance Nos. 187763
and 187764 as preempted by state law. Respondents and Intervenors, Community
Power Collective and Inner City Struggle, separately oppose the petition.  
 
Petitioner’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) of
Exhibits A through D is granted.  
 
Respondent’s RJN of Exhibits A through G is granted.    
 
BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
The City’s Rent Stabilization Ordinance (RSO) and
Just Cause for Eviction Ordinance 
 
The City regulates
residential rents and evictions through its RSO set forth in the City of Los
Angeles Municipal Code (LAMC), sections 151.00 through 151.34. (See City RJN
Exh. A.) The RSO regulates rent increases for “rental units,” as defined in the
RSO, and requires evictions be based on one of fourteen “grounds,” which
include both at-fault reasons like causing a 
nuisance as well as
other no-fault reasons like a landlord’s exit from the rental business. (LAMC,
§§ 151.04, 151.06, 151.09.A.) If a landlord wishes to evict a tenant for grounds
unrelated to the tenant, the RSO requires a landlord to pay relocation
assistance. (Id., § 151.09.G). The RSO applies to all “rental units” in the
City, unless expressly exempt. Generally, the RSO does not regulate dwellings where
the City issued a Certificate of Occupancy after October 1, 1978. (Id., §
151.02.)
 
In 2022, the City
began to consider enacting additional tenant protections due to concern that
the end of COVID-19-related landlord/tenant restrictions could lead to a sharp
increase in evictions. In January 2023, the City adopted a “Just Cause For
Eviction Ordinance” (Just Cause Ordinance) extending “just cause eviction
protections” to rental housing units not subject to the RSO. (AR 303-316
[Ordinance No. 187737].) The Just Cause Ordinance “provide[s] just cause
eviction protection to renters city-wide.” (AR 304.) Consistent with the RSO,
the Just Cause Ordinance permits a landlord to commence the tenant-eviction
process where a “tenant has defaulted in the payment of rent.” (AR 305.)
 
In adopting the
Just Cause Ordinance, the City’s recitals report “the California legislature
passed the Tenant Protection Act of 2019, Assembly Bill 1482 (‘TPA’), which
prohibits evictions without ‘just cause’ and owners of residential rental
property from increasing rents more than 5 percent plus the percentage change
in the cost of living or 10 percent, whichever is lower, per year.”  (AR 303.) The City Council noted the TPA does
not apply to rental units built within the last 15 years and “does not protect
all residential tenants.” (Ibid.; see Civ. Code, § 1947.12, subd. (d)(4).)
The City Council also made the following legislative finding: 
 
The TPA provides that municipalities may
adopt protections after September 1, 2019, that are consistent and more
protective than those provided under California Civil Code Section 1946.2. The
local municipality must also make a binding finding that its ordinance is more
protective than the provisions of Civil Code Section 1946.2. The City finds
that this Ordinance is consistent with Civil Code Section 1946.2 and is more
protective than Civil Code Section 1946.2 by further limiting the reasons for
termination of a residential tenancy, providing for higher relocation
assistance amounts, and providing additional tenant protections that are not
prohibited by any other provision of law. (AR 304.)
 
Shortly after
adopting the Just Cause Ordinance in early 2023, the City Council adopted the two
ordinances at issue here. The ordinances have been in effect since March 27,
2023. (City Opposition 3:3-4.)
 
Ordinance No.
187763 (Eviction Threshold Ordinance) 
 
On February 3,
2023, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 187763. (AR 472.) The ordinance
amended the RSO and the Just Cause Ordinance by restricting a landlord’s
ability to bring an unlawful detainer action until the tenant surpasses a
threshold amount of unpaid rent—“one month of fair market rent for the Los
Angeles metro area set annually by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development for an equivalent sized rental unit as that occupied by the
tenant.” (AR 470-472.)
 
The City’s Renter
Protections Notice for 2023 issued by the Los Angeles Housing Department (LAHD)
specifies the 2023 economic threshold fair market rent (FMR) per bedroom size
for Ordinance No. 187763. For 2023, the FMR is $1,747 for a one-bedroom unit;
$2,222 for a two-bedroom unit; and $2,888 for a three-bedroom unit. (City RJN
Exh. E at 2.) Thus, “if a tenant rents a 1- bedroom unit and the rent is
$1,500, the landlord cannot evict the tenant since the rent owed is less than
the FMR for a 1-bedroom unit.” (Ibid.) 

 
Ordinance No.
187764 (Relocation Assistance Ordinance)
 
On February 7,
2023, the City adopted Ordinance No. 187764. (AR 625.) The ordinance amended
the Just Cause Ordinance to require payment of relocation assistance when a
tenant “elects to relinquish their tenancy” following a proposed rental
increase “that exceeds the lesser of (1) the Consumer Price Index – All Urban
Consumers, plus five percent, or (2) ten percent.” (AR 623.) “For purposes of [the
ordinance], the proposed rental increase, whether imposed as a single increase
or payable periodically over a 12-month period, shall be calculated based on
the highest legal monthly rate of rent established as of the date of the notice
of rent increase.” (AR 623.)  
 
“[T]he relocation
assistance amount due under [the ordinance] shall be three times the fair
market rent in the Los Angeles Metro area for a rental unit of a similar size
as established by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
plus $1,411 in moving costs.”  (AR 623.) “A
landlord may offset a tenant’s accumulated rent or other amounts due to the
landlord against any relocation assistance payable under this section.” (AR
623.)  
 
In describing the
ordinance, the City’s Renter Protections Notice for 2023 states “[e]ffective
March 27, 2023, tenants who receive a rent increase of more than 10% within 12
months and are unable to afford the rent increase have the option to receive
relocation assistance to move out of their rental unit instead.”  The notice includes a chart specifying the
Economic Displacement Relocation Assistance Per Bedroom Size for tenants. For 2023,
total relocation assistance is $6,652 for a one-bedroom unit; $8,077 for a
two-bedroom unit; and $10,075 for a three-bedroom unit. (City RJN Exh. E at
2.)  
 
Writ Proceedings
 
On March 3, 2023, Petitioner filed its verified
petition for writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory relief.
 
On May 17, 2023, the court granted the motion of
Intervenors Community Power Collective and Inner City Struggle (“Intervenors”)
to intervene.  
 
On May 18, 2023, the court denied Petitioner’s
motion for preliminary injunction.  While
the court found Petitioner had shown some likelihood of success on the merits
of their claims, the balance of harms weighed against granting preliminary
injunctive relief.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Petitioner seeks relief from the court pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1085.
 
Ordinary
mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085 is generally used
to review an agency’s ministerial acts, quasi-legislative acts and
quasi-judicial decisions which do not meet the requirements for review
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5. (Bunnett v. Regents of
University of California (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 843, 848; Carrancho
v. California Air Resources Board (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1255,
1264-1265.) 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, a writ: 
 
may be
issued by any court to any . . . board . . . to compel the performance of an
act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from an office, trust,
or station, or to compel the admission of a party to the use and enjoyment of a
right or office to which the party is entitled, and from which the party is
unlawfully precluded by such inferior tribunal, corporation, board, or person.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1085, subd. (a).)
 
“To
obtain a writ of mandate under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, the
petitioner has the burden of proving a clear, present, and usually ministerial
duty on the part of the respondent, and a clear, present, and beneficial right
in the petitioner for the performance of that duty.” (Marquez v. State Dept.
of Health Care Services (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 87, 103.)
 
Traditional mandate under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1085 is the appropriate vehicle to challenge the
constitutionality or validity of statutes or other official acts. (See Jolicoeur
v. Mihaly (1971) 5 Cal.3d 565, 570, fn. 2 [noting mandate is
appropriate remedy for compelling public official to act in accordance with law
and challenging constitutionality or validity of statute].)
 
“The constitutionality of a statute is a question of
law . . . .” (Vergara v. State of California (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 619,
642.) However, “[i]t is well established . . . . that as a general rule statutes
are presumed to be constitutional.” (Property Reserve, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 151, 192.) “When the Legislature has enacted a
statute with constitutional constraints in mind there is a strong presumption
in favor of the Legislature's interpretation of a provision of the
Constitution.” (Ibid. [Cleaned up.])
 
“
‘[A]ll presumptions and intendments favor the validity of a statute and mere
doubt does not afford sufficient reason for a judicial declaration of
invalidity. Statutes must be upheld unless their unconstitutionality clearly,
positively, and unmistakably appears.’ [Citations.] If the validity of the
measure is ‘fairly debatable,’ it must be sustained. [Citations.]” (Calfarm
Ins. Co. v. Deukmejian (1989) 48 Cal.3d 805, 814-815; Hellinger v.
Farmers Group, Inc. (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1049, 1061-1062.)
 
“The issue of
preemption of a municipal ordinance by state law presents a question of law,
subject to de novo review.” (Apartment Assn. of Los Angeles County, Inc. v.
City of Los Angeles [AAGLA] (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 119, 129. See
Cone v. City and County of San Francisco (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1215, 1224.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Rules of Preemption 
 
“Under article XI, section 7 of the
California Constitution, a county or city may make and enforce within its
limits all local, police, sanitary, and other ordinances and regulations 
not in conflict with general laws. If
otherwise valid local legislation conflicts with state law, it is preempted by
such law and is void. A conflict exists if the local legislation duplicates,
contradicts, or enters an area fully occupied by general law, either expressly
or by 
legislative implication. . . . Local legislation
is ‘duplicative’ of general law when it is coextensive therewith . . .
Similarly, local legislation is ‘contradictory’ to general law when it is
inimical thereto.” (San Diego Gas
& Electric Co. v. City of Carlsbad (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 785, 792-793 [cleaned
up].)
 
“The first step in a preemption analysis
is to determine whether the local regulation explicitly conflicts with any
provision of state law. [¶] If the local legislation does not expressly
contradict or duplicate state law, its validity must be evaluated under implied
preemption principles. In determining whether the Legislature has preempted by
implication to the exclusion of local regulation we must look to the whole
purpose and scope of the legislative scheme. There are three tests [for implied
preemption]: (1) the subject matter has been so fully and completely covered by
general law as to clearly indicate that it has become exclusively a matter of
state concern; (2) the subject matter has been partially covered by general law
couched in such terms as to indicate clearly that a paramount state concern
will not tolerate further or additional local action; or (3) the subject
matter has been partially covered by general law, and the subject is of such a
nature that the adverse effect of a local ordinance on the transient citizens
of the state outweighs the possible benefit to the municipality.” (Johnson
v. City and County of San Francisco (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 7, 13-14 [cleaned
up].)  
 
“The question whether an actual conflict exists
between state law and charter city law presents a matter of statutory
construction.” (City of El Centro v. Lanier (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1494,
1505.) “To determine legislative intent, we turn first to the words of the
statute, giving them their usual and ordinary meaning. [Citations.] When the
language of a statute is clear, we need go no further. However, when the
language is susceptible of more than one reasonable interpretation, we look to
a variety of extrinsic aids, including the ostensible objects to be achieved,
the evils to be remedied, the legislative history, public policy,
contemporaneous administrative construction, and the statutory scheme of which
the statute is a part.” (Nolan v. City of
Anaheim (2004) 33 Cal.4th 335, 340.) 

 
Courts “have been particularly ‘reluctant
to infer legislative intent to preempt a field covered by municipal regulation
when there is a significant local interest to be served that may differ from
one locality to another.’ ” (Big Creek Lumber Co. v. County of Santa Cruz (2006)
38 Cal.4th 1139, 1149.) “ ‘[A]bsent a clear indication of preemptive intent
from the Legislature,’ we presume that local regulation ‘in an area over which
[the local government] traditionally has exercised control’ is not preempted by
state law. [Citation.] ‘The party claiming that general state law preempts a
local ordinance has the burden of demonstrating preemption.’ ” (Rental
Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 741, 752.)
 
State Law
Preemption of Ordinance No. 187764 (Relocation Assistance Ordinance)
 
Petitioner contends
the Relocation Assistance Ordinance (Ordinance No. 187764) is preempted by
state law because it “interferes with the exercise of a right expressly granted
under the Costa-Hawkins Act, i.e., the right to establish ‘all subsequent
rental rates for a dwelling or unit.’ (Civ. Code § 1954.52(a).)” (Opening Brief
13:15-17.) 
 
Respondents argue
the Relocation Assistance Ordinance does not conflict with the Costa-Hawkins Rental
Housing Act (Costa-Hawkins), Civil Code section 1954.50 et seq., because:
(1) it “does not set any limit to rent increases”; (2) it is permissible
“eviction regulation” that “prevent[s] landlords from circumventing the Just
Cause Ordinance, which regulates evictions and requires relocation assistance
for no-fault evictions”; and (3) “reasonable relocation fees” are a “standard
feature in any eviction regulation to help tenants who are displaced.” (City Opposition
10:12-15:12.) Intervenors develop similar arguments and also assert the Relocation
Assistance Ordinance does not eliminate economic benefit to landlords. (Int.
Oppo. 12:17-18.)
 
              Summary of Costa-Hawkins
 
“In August 1995,
California enacted [Costa–Hawkins], which established ‘what is known among
landlord-tenant specialists as ‘vacancy decontrol,’ declaring that
‘[n]otwithstanding any other provision of law,’ all residential landlords may,
except in specified situations, ‘establish the initial rental rate for a
dwelling or unit.’ (Civ. Code, §
1954.53, subd. (a).)’ (DeZerega v. Meggs (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 28,
41, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d 366.) The
effect of this provision was to permit landlords ‘to impose whatever rent they
choose at the commencement of a tenancy.’ (Cobb v. San Francisco Residential Rent Stabilization
and Arbitration Bd. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 345, 351, 119 Cal.Rptr.2d
741.) The
Legislature was well aware, however, that such vacancy decontrol gave landlords
an incentive to evict tenants that were paying rents below market
rates. (Bullard v. San Francisco Residential Rent
Stabilization Bd. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 488, 492, 130 Cal.Rptr.2d 819 [Bullard].) Accordingly, the statute expressly preserves the authority of local
governments ‘to regulate or monitor the grounds for eviction.’ (Civ. Code, §
1954.53, subd. (e).)” (Action Apartment Assn. Inc. v. City of
Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1237-38.)  
 
Petitioner contends
the Relocation Assistance Ordinance conflicts with Civil Code section 1954.52,
subdivision (a), a provision of Costa-Hawkins, which provides in pertinent part:

 
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an
owner of residential real property may establish the initial and all subsequent
rental rates for a dwelling or a unit about which any of the following is true:
(1) It has a certificate of
occupancy issued after February 1, 1995.
(2) It has already been exempt from the residential
rent control ordinance of a public entity on or before February 1, 1995,
pursuant to a local exemption for newly constructed units.
(3)(A) It is alienable separate from the title to any
other dwelling unit or is a subdivided interest in a subdivision, as specified
in subdivision (b), (d), or (f) of Section 11004.5 of the Business and Professions Code.
 
This provision of
Costa-Hawkins “generally prohibits public entities from applying rent control
laws to certain categories of dwellings, including newly constructed rental
units.” (Hirschfield v. Cohen (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 648, 663.)   
 
              The Relocation Assistance
Ordinance Does Not Directly Regulate Rents
 
The Relocation
Assistance Ordinance (Ordinance No. 187764) does not directly regulate the
rental rates landlords may charge for any rental units. As argued by
Respondents, “[t]he Ordinance does not set any limit to rent increases, and
tenants are free to accept any rent increase.” (City Opposition 10:26-27.) In
fact, the issue is undisputed. Petitioner concedes the ordinance does not
“impose a hard limit on the amount rent can be increased.” (Opening Brief
13:18.)  
 
Because the Relocation Assistance
Ordinance does not directly regulate rents, authorities relied upon by
Petitioner are distinguishable. (Bullard v. San Francisco Rent Stabilization
Bd. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 488 [Bullard]; Palmer/Sixth Street
Properties, L.P. v. City of Los Angeles (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1396 [Palmer/Sixth
Street]; and AAGLA, supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at 119.) In Bullard,
the Court
invalidated a local ordinance requiring landlords to offer replacement units at
regulated rates after evicting a tenant for personal occupancy. The ordinance
directly conflicted with Costa-Hawkins because it prevented the landlord from
establishing the initial rental rate for the replacement unit. (Bullard,
supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at 491-493.) In Palmer/Sixth Street, the
Court concluded that, as applied to a specific project, a local planning
condition was preempted by Costa-Hawkins because it denied the developer the
right to establish the initial rental rates for the affordable housing
units required by the ordinance. (Palmer/Sixth Street, supra, 175
Cal.App.4h at 1410.) In AAGLA, the Court held Costa-Hawkins preempted
an ordinance prohibiting landlords, after terminating a Section 8 contract with
the local housing authority, from charging tenants more than their portion of
the rent under the former contract, “without any limitation as to time.” (AAGLA,
supra, 136 Cal.App.4th at 122.)  
 
In all three cases relied upon by Petitioner,
the preempted ordinance directly regulated the initial rental rate of
housing units in a manner that conflicted with the Costa-Hawkins. The cases do
not address whether relocation assistance or some other cost imposed on the
landlord, on a one-time basis, conflicts with Costa-Hawkins.
 
Moreover, Petitioner has not identified
any provision of Costa-Hawkins expressly prohibiting landlords to provide the kind
of relocation assistance required by the Relocation Assistance Ordinance. The
court therefore finds the local law (Ordinance No. 187764) does not expressly
conflict with state law (Costa-Hawkins).
 
The Relocation Assistance Ordinance is Intended to Deter “Large Rent
Increases” in Units Exempt from Rent Control 
 
Petitioner argues the Relocation Assistance
Ordinance conflicts with Costa-Hawkins “by requiring property owners who
increase rent over a specified limit to pay substantial so-called
‘relocation benefits’ in such an amount that owners would nearly always lose
money if they choose to exceed the limit and are required to pay the benefits.”
(Opening Brief 13:19-22.)  Petitioner asserts
“by deterring rent increases, the ordinance undermines the purpose of
Costa-Hawkins’ restriction on rent control.” (Opening Brief 14:9-10.)
 
Respondents
acknowledge the Relocation Assistance Ordinance is intended, in part, to deter
landlords of exempt residential units from “forcing tenants out with large rent
increases.” (City Opposition 13:13.) The deterrent effect is clear from the
plain language of the ordinance. The ordinance requires payment of relocation
assistance when a tenant “elects to relinquish their tenancy” following a
proposed rental increase “that exceeds the lesser of (1) the Consumer Price
Index – All Urban Consumers, plus five percent, or (2) ten percent.” (AR 623.) “[T]he
relocation assistance amount due under this section shall be three times the
fair market rent in the Los Angeles Metro area for a rental unit of a similar
size as established by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development plus $1,411 in moving costs.” (AR 623.) “In 2023, no payment is
necessary for rent increases of up to 10 percent.” (City Opposition 4:2; City
RJN Exh. E at 2.) While some landlords may decide to impose rent increases of
more than 10 percent and pay the required relocation assistance, the reasonably
presumption is that landlords would limit any rent increases to 10 percent or
less given the economic disincentive (three months FMR plus $1,411) otherwise.[1]  
 
Petitioner also
provides the following hypothetical as an example of the Relocation Assistance Ordinance:

 
Thus, if the current rent for a
two-bedroom unit is $2,000, the property owner can raise it to $2,200 without
risk; if they attempt to instead raise it by 15% to $2,300, however, they may
be forced to pay $8,077—nearly 7 times the $1,200 in incremental increased rent
they could hope to obtain over the course of a year by raising rent by $300
instead of $200. Given that math, no rational property owner would raise rent
beyond the maximum amount that does not trigger the benefits, because they
would very obviously lose money by doing so. (Opening Brief 14:1-7.)  
 
As discussed infra,
Petitioner’s argument “no rational property owner would raise” the rents beyond
the 10 percent threshold depends on a variety of factors that may differ for
each rental unit—factors that are not in evidence here. Nonetheless, the court
acknowledges Petitioner’s hypothetical demonstrates the Relocation Assistance Ordinance
may economically discourage landlords from raising rents above the 10 percent
threshold.[2]  
 
The City’s legislative
history for the Relocation Assistance Ordinance confirms the City purposefully
acted to deter “high rent increases” for “unregulated units.” (See City Opposition
4:11-25.) In its report to the City Council, LAHD explained “[w]hile the
adoption of a Just Cause ordinance will extend protections from arbitrary
eviction to all tenants citywide, tenants in unregulated units (not subject to
the RSO nor the Tenant Protections Act of 2019) may be economically displaced
when their landlords impose high rent increases that the tenants cannot afford.
. . . [T]enants who cannot afford the rent increases have no choice but to
vacate their homes.” (AR 2219.) Therefore, “[a]dditional protections are needed
to close a loophole that allows tenants in non-RSO units to be forced out
through large rent increases amounting to a constructive eviction of the
tenant, with no allowance for relocation.” (AR 2220.)[3]  
 
Considered in isolation
and the abstract, the deterrent effect of the Relocation Assistance Ordinance
seemingly conflicts with the Costa-Hawkins provisions permitting landlords to “establish
the initial and all subsequent rental rates for a dwelling or a unit.” (Civ.
Code, 
§§ 1954.52, subd.
(a), 1954.53, subd. (a).) Depending on the specific factual circumstances, the
Relocation Assistance Ordinance may be inconsistent with notions of vacancy decontrol
and the free market. (See Pet. RJN Exh. B. [“Proponents view this bill as a
moderate approach to overturn extreme vacancy control ordinances which unduly
and unfairly interfere into the free market.”]) 

 
Of course, Civil Code
sections 1954.52, subdivision (a) and 1954.53, subdivision (a) cannot be read
in insolation. The provisions are part of a larger complex legislative scheme.
 
Is the Ordinance a Permissible Eviction
Regulation?  
 
“Costa Hawkins
expressly preserves . . . local authority to ‘regulate or monitor the grounds
for eviction’ on all residential rental properties, including properties exempt
from local rent control. (Civ. Code, § 1954.52, subd. (c) [‘Nothing
in this section shall be construed to affect any authority of a public entity
that may otherwise exist to regulate or monitor the grounds for eviction.’].)” (San
Francisco Apartment Association v. City and County of San Francisco (2022)
74 Cal.App.5th 288, 290 [SFAA II].) 

 
SFAA II is instructive. There the Court addressed a challenge to an
ordinance prohibiting landlords from using bad faith, pretextual rent increases
to coerce tenants to vacate units exempt from rent control. The Court
determined the ordinance was a valid exercise of local authority to regulate
grounds for evictions. The Court rejected the landlord’s argument the ordinance
indirectly limited the amount of rent a landlord could charge in contravention
of state law. The ordinance in issue, the Court explained:
 
“do[es] not prevent landlords from earning rent as determined
by the free market, and it imposes no caps to ensure the availability of
affordable rental housing.” Rather, the measures prohibit a landlord from
designating as rent an artificial sky-high amount that the landlord does not
intend to collect but intends to cause the tenant to vacate the unit
voluntarily or by eviction for nonpayment of the unrealistic figure. Section
37.10(A)(i) requires a finding that the rent increase was intended to coerce
the tenant to leave the premises. Costa Hawkins does not protect a landlord's
right to use a pretextual rent increase to avoid lawfully imposed local
eviction regulations.  (SFAA II,
supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at 292.)
 
In SFAA II, the
Court found persuasive Mak v. Berkeley Rent Stabilization Bd.
(2015) 240 Cal. App. 4th 60, 63 [Mak]. As summarized in SFAA II: 
 
[Mak] upheld a regulation promulgated by the local
rent board that created a rebuttable presumption that a tenancy which is
terminated voluntarily but within one-year of service of notice of owner
move-in “ ‘is presumed to have been terminated by the owner as a result of the
notice’ ” and provided that “ ‘[t]he rental rate for the next tenancy
established in the vacated unit shall be no more than the maximum allowed under
the Rent Ordinance for the tenant who vacated, plus any subsequent increases
authorized by the Rent Board.’ ” [Citation.] The court rejected plaintiffs’
argument that the rent restriction was preempted by the “vacancy decontrol”
provisions of Costa Hawkins which protect the landlord's right to “establish
the initial rental rate for a dwelling or unit.” [Citations.] The court
explained that the regulation “ ‘create[s] an administrative deterrent to
discourage landlords from serving less than good faith owner move-in notices’ ”
and that “ ‘[v]iewed as a sanction for the misuse of owner move-in notices,
[the regulation] does not regulate “the initial rate for a dwelling unit” [citation]
and is a permissible regulation of “the grounds for eviction” [citation].’ ” (Mak, supra, 240 Cal.App.4th at p. 69, [].) (SFAA II,
supra, 74 Cal.App.5th at 294.)
 
In contrast to SFAA II and Mak,
the Court in Bullard,
supra, 106 Cal. App. 4th at
488 invalidated a local ordinance requiring landlords to offer replacement
units at regulated rates when they evict tenants for personal occupancy. The
respondent rental board noted Costa-Hawkins expressly preserves public
entities’ authority to regulate the “grounds for eviction,” and argued the
ordinance merely established such grounds. (Id. at 491.) The Court of
Appeal disagreed, finding the ordinance was a “rent regulation”: 
 
[T]he Rent Board's reading of the statute
would substantially weaken the statewide vacancy decontrol contemplated by the
Costa–Hawkins Act. A local government might require a landlord who evicts a
tenant for any reason to offer the unit at a controlled rent. . . .
 
The Rent Board claims the rent restriction at issue serves a
legitimate regulatory purpose by helping ensure that landlords do not undertake
owner move-in evictions for the improper purpose of avoiding controlled rents.
But the extension of rent control for a replacement unit is a remarkably blunt
instrument for that purpose. It applies to landlords acting in good faith as
well as unscrupulous landlords. Because it is contingent on the availability of
another unit, it provides only an occasional, weak deterrent. When
another unit is not available, tenants are not protected and landlords are
not forced to accept a regulated rent. Permitting local governments to maintain
such a haphazard form of vacancy control would subvert the purpose of the Costa-Hawkins
Act.
. . . .
There can be no doubt the Legislature was well aware of the
incentive for eviction created by vacancy decontrol. Civil Code section 1954.53, subdivision (e) is a strong statement that the state law establishing
vacancy decontrol is not meant to affect the authority of local governments to
monitor and regulate the grounds for eviction, in order to prevent pretextual
evictions. Had the Legislature intended to preserve local authority to control
rent following evictions, we do not believe it would have spoken in terms of
the “grounds for eviction,” which simply do not include the amount of rent
a landlord may charge after evicting a tenant. The San Francisco rent control
ordinance, by purporting to limit the amount of rent a landlord may charge for
a replacement unit following an owner move-in eviction, directly contradicts
state law providing: “Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an owner of
residential real property may establish the initial rental rate for a dwelling
or unit. . . .  (Bullard, supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at 492.)
 
The court finds the Relocation
Assistance Ordinance (Ordinance No. 187764) more analogous to those ordinances
analyzed in SFAA II and Mak, than the ordinance in Bullard.
Like in SFAA II and Mak, and distinct from Bullard,
Ordinance No. 187764 does not directly regulate rents. In contrast, the ordinance
in Bullard “limit the amount
of rent a landlord may charge for a replacement unit following an owner move-in
eviction . . . .” (Bullard, supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at 492.)
 
The Relocation Assistance Ordinance is
reasonably expected to have a generalized deterrent effect on large rent increases—those
that exceed the lesser of inflation plus five percent or 10 percent. The ordinance’s legislative history as
well as related state laws, other California statutes, and common experience
all demonstrate rent increases exceeding the less or inflation plus five percent
or 10 percent could cause tenants to vacate the unit as no longer affordable. (See
Civ. Code, § 827, subd. (b)(3) [landlords required to provide tenants 90-days
notice of rent increases greater than 10 percent]; Civ. Code, § 1947.12, subds.
(a), (m) [prohibiting rent increases over 10 percent to “address rent
gouging”]; Pet. RJN Exh. D at 27 [legislative history for AB 1482: “This bill
limits rent-gouging in California by placing an upper limit on annual rent
increases: 5 percent plus inflation”]; AR 2220-2222 [LAHD report in support of
Ordinance No. 187764].)  
 
Petitioner asserts “[t]he
ordinance does not regulate evictions, however, but applies only where a tenant
‘elects to relinquish their tenancy’ following a rent increase.” (Opening Brief
15:8-9.) The argument is unpersuasive and assumes all tenants have the
financial wherewithal to pay a large (as defined by the ordinance) rent
increase. “If the landlord’s acts or omissions affect the tenant’s use of the
property and compel the tenant to vacate, there is a constructive eviction.”(Ginsberg
v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 897.) Accordingly, if acts of the
landlord compel the tenant to vacate, a constructive eviction occurs even if
the tenant “elects to relinquish” the tenancy.  

 
Relatedly, Petitioner
also contends the ordinance does not regulate evictions because the term
“constructive eviction” ordinarily refers to “wrongful behavior
that forces a tenant to vacate a property.” (Reply 6:18-19.) Although a
constructive eviction often implies wrongful behavior of the landlord, such as
failure to maintain habitability or bad faith rent increases intended to oust a
tenant, Petitioner fails to explain why a large rent increase, even if imposed
in good faith, could not result in a constructive eviction. “There is nothing
more likely to lead to an actual or constructive eviction than an increase in
rent.” (Freeman v. Vista de Santa Barbara Associates, LP (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 791, 798.)   
 
Petitioner argues,
like the ordinance in Bullard, Ordinance No. 187764 is both “under- and
over-inclusive” as an attempt to regulate constructive evictions. (Opening Brief
15:17.)  Petitioner explains: 
 
It does not apply to a tenant who chooses
to leave because they cannot afford an increase below the cap, yet does apply
where a tenant can afford an increase above the cap, but chooses to leave in
order to receive the benefits (or for some other unrelated reason). Thus, like
the ordinance determined invalid in Bullard, it is a ‘remarkably blunt
instrument’ for its asserted purpose. (Opening Brief 15:17-21.)   
 
Petitioner’s
argument is neither persuasive nor dispositive. The legislative history demonstrates
concern for renters—who are not otherwise protected by the RSO or TPA—from
becoming “economically displaced when their landlords impose high rent
increases that the tenants cannot afford” leaving those tenants with “no choice
but to vacate their homes.” (AR 2219.) Where a landlord has raised rents beyond
the ordinance’s threshold—as the landlord is permitted to do—the landlord is
only liable for relocation assistance where the tenant relinquishes his/her
tenancy “following” the large rent increase. (AR 623.) The relocation
assistance is mitigation for economic displacement and designed to cover the
tenant’s moving costs, first and last months’ rents, and a security deposit. (AR
2220.)
 
Bullard is distinguishable. There the alleged
eviction regulation was “contingent
on the availability of another unit [and] provides only an occasional, weak
deterrent” against wrongful evictions. “When another unit is not
available, tenants are not protected and landlords are not forced to accept a
regulated rent.” (Bullard, supra, 106 Cal.App.4th at 491-492.)  
 
Here, the Relocation Assistance Ordinance requires economic
displacement mitigation only where a tenant has vacated the unit after a large rent
increase. Thus, the
ordinance will have the intended effect of either deterring large rent
increases that could result in a constructive eviction or, alternatively,
mitigating the harms of the constructive eviction from a large rent increase. In
either case, the ordinance serves as effective regulation of eviction. (See
Civ. Code, § 1954.52, subdivision (c); see also Pieri v. City & County
of San Francisco (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 886 [rejecting facial challenge
under Ellis Act to relocation assistance ordinance requiring landlords to pay
up to $13,500 per rental unit being withdrawn from the rental market].) While
the ordinance may not deter or mitigate all constructive evictions from rent
increases, Bullard does not stand for the proposition that eviction
regulation must work “perfectly” to fall within the statutory authorization in Costa-Hawkins
allowing local authorities to “regulate or monitor the basis for eviction.”
 
Finally, as argued
by Respondents, “it is possible that excessive relocation assistance could
effectively prohibit any rent increase.” (City Opposition 15:7-8.) In this challenge
to the ordinance, however, Petitioner does not demonstrate, with evidence and
analysis, the relocation fees required by Ordinance No. 187764 place a
“prohibitive price” on landlords exercising their rights under Costa-Hawkins.[4]  
 
              Implied
Preemption 
 
Petitioner has not argued the Relocation Assistance Ordinance
is impliedly preempted. Given that Costa-Hawkins expressly authorizes local authorities “to regulate or
monitor the basis for eviction” (Civ. Code, § 1954.52, subd. (c)), such an
argument would be unavailing. (See Johnson v. City and County of San
Francisco, supra, 137 Cal.App.4hh at 13-14 [implied preemption can occur in
three ways].)  
 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds Petitioner has not
met its burden of demonstrating Ordinance No. 187764 is preempted by
Costa-Hawkins. Therefore, Petitioner is not entitled to relief based on its
second cause of action.
 
State Law
Preemption of Ordinance No. 187763 (Eviction Threshold Ordinance) 
 
Petitioner contends
the Eviction Threshold Ordinance (Ordinance No. 187763) is preempted by
California’s unlawful detainer statutes, specifically Code of Civil Procedure
section 1161, paragraph 2 (Section 1161) because: (1) the ordinance is
procedural in nature and places a limitation on the timing of evictions thereby
conflicting with Section 1161; and (2) exceeds the City’s authority even if
viewed as a substantive limitation on a landlord’s ability to pursue eviction
for a default in payment of rent.
 
The court agrees Ordinance
No. 187763 is preempted by state law. The court finds the Eviction Threshold
Ordinance directly conflicts with the three-day notice provisions of Section
1161. Ordinance No. 187763 is therefore void. 

 
              Legal Framework 
 
The relevant
framework for determining whether the ordinance is preempted by the state’s
unlawful detainer statutes is set forth in Birkenfeld v. City of Berkeley (1976)
17 Cal.3d 129 [Birkenfeld].  
 
In Birkenfeld,
the plaintiff argued a local law limiting the grounds for eviction of tenants
in rent-controlled apartments was preempted by the state’s unlawful detainer
statutes. The Supreme Court rejected the argument reasoning: 
 
The purpose of the unlawful detainer
statutes is procedural. The statutes implement the landlord's property rights
by permitting him to recover possession once the consensual basis for the
tenant's occupancy is at an end. In contrast the charter amendment's
elimination of particular grounds for eviction is a limitation upon the
landlord's property rights under the police power, giving rise to a substantive
ground of defense in unlawful detainer proceedings. The mere fact that a
city’s exercise of the police power creates such a defense does not bring it
into conflict with the state's statutory scheme. Thus, a landlord’s violations
of a city’s housing code may be the basis for the defense of breach of warranty
of habitability in a summary proceeding instituted by the landlord to recover
possession for nonpayment of rent. [Citations.] Similarly, the statutory
remedies for recovery of possession and of unpaid rent (see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1159-1179a; Civ. Code, § 1951 et seq.) do not preclude a defense based on municipal rent
control legislation enacted pursuant to the police power imposing rent ceilings
and limiting the grounds for eviction for the purpose of enforcing those rent
ceilings. (Id. at 149.)
 
Under Birkenfeld,
“municipalities may by ordinance limit the substantive grounds for eviction by
specifying that a landlord may gain possession of a rental unit only on
certain limited grounds. [Citations.] But they may not procedurally impair the
summary eviction scheme set forth in the unlawful detainer statutes . . . .”  (Rental Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda
County v. City of Oakland (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 741, 754.)
 
As this court
recognized in its ruling on the motion for preliminary injunction, there is no
bright line between substantive and procedural rules. (Ruling at 9, fn. 3; see
also San Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco
(2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 510, 516. [“As this case illustrates, the distinction
between procedure and substantive law can be shadowy and difficult to draw in
practice.”])  
 
              The
Ordinance Imposes a Procedural Limitation on the Timing of Evictions
 
Petitioner contends the Eviction Threshold
Ordinance conflicts with Section 1161, which provides in pertinent: 
 
A tenant of real property, for a term less than life, or the
executor or administrator of the tenant's estate heretofore qualified
and now acting or hereafter to be qualified and act, is guilty of unlawful
detainer:
 
2. When the
tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, without the
permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate
of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of
rent, pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is held,[5]
and three days' notice . . . in writing, requiring its payment, stating the
amount that is due . . . shall have been served upon the
tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises,
also upon the subtenant.
 
The notice may be served at any time
within one year after the rent becomes due.  (§ 1161 [emphasis added].) 

 
Section 1161 has remained unchanged
since 1905. (See Levitz Furniture Co. v. Wingtip Comm., Inc.
(2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1037, fn. 3.) The Court of Appeal has described the operation of the statute: 
 
Due to the summary nature of such an
action, a three-day notice is valid only if the landlord strictly complies with
the provisions of section 1161, subdivision 2 (section
1161(2)). [Citation.] As set forth
above, a three-day notice must include “the amount which is due.” (§ 1161(2).) A notice that seeks rent in excess of the amount due is
invalid and will not support an unlawful detainer action. [Citation.] In
addition, a three-day notice must be served within one year after the rent
“becomes due.” (§ 1161(2).) If the landlord waits over a year to sue for unpaid rent,
he or she is limited to collecting such rent in a standard breach of contract
action, “which results only in a money judgment without restitution of the
demised property.” (Id. at 1038.)
 
Petitioner contends “the very
structure [Ordinance No.
187763]
makes clear that the financial threshold is a proxy for an extension of the
time provided by the unlawful detainer statute.”  (Opening Brief 18:22-23.) The court agrees.
 
Before analyzing the Eviction Threshold
Ordinance itself, the court observes Section 1161 does not specify any amount
of default—that is, a threshold—that must occur before an eviction proceeding
may be commenced under the unlawful detainer statutes. Rather, Section 1161
applies “after default in the payment of rent, pursuant to the lease
or agreement under which the property is held.” 
Thus, the Legislature has dictated that a three-day notice may be
served if there is any default in payment of the contractual rent due. To
the extent the ordinance imposes a default minimum as a threshold to a landlord’s
ability to commence a summary proceeding to regain possession, it conflicts
with state law and is preempted.
 
[Given the apparent conflict between the ordinance and state law, it
appears the court need not consider the procedural/substantive issues briefed
by the parties.]
 
The Ordinance No. 187763 amended the RSO at LAMC section
151.09 of the RSO to state, in pertinent part: 
 
A. A landlord may bring an action to recover possession of a
rental unit only upon one of the following grounds: 
 
1.     
The tenant has failed to pay rent to
which the landlord is entitled, including amounts due under Subsection F. of
Section 151.05; provided, however, that the landlord's right to evict a
tenant lawfully in possession of residential housing under this subdivision is
limited to defaults in payment where the amount due exceeds one month of
fair market rent for the Los Angeles metro area set annually by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for an equivalent sized rental unit
as that occupied by the tenant. 
 
(AR 470; Resp. RJN Exh. A [emphasis added].)
 
The City’s Renter
Protections Notice for 2023 specifies the 2023 FMR per bedroom size for
Ordinance No. 187763. For 2023, the FMR is $1,747 for a one-bedroom unit;
$2,222 for a two-bedroom unit; and $2,888 for a three-bedroom unit. (City RJN
Exh. E at 2.) Thus, “if a tenant rents a 1- bedroom unit and the rent is
$1,500, the landlord cannot evict the tenant since the rent owed is less than
the FMR for a 1-bedroom unit.” (Ibid.) 

 
The City’s Renter
Protections Notice for 2023 focuses on monthly rental payments. To the extent
the FMR for the rental unit exceeds the contractual monthly rent due, the
Threshold Eviction Ordinance will always result in an extension of the 3-day
notice period in Section 1161 by at least a month, even where the tenant has defaulted
as to the entire contractual rent due.
 
For a defaulting
tenant, the 3-day notice period could be extended beyond a month, and even indefinitely,
depending upon the rental payments made by the defaulting tenant. For example, 
in the one-bedroom
example given in the City’s Renter Protections Notice for 2023, a tenant could fail
to pay the $1,500 monthly rent for the first month; pay the regular rent and $10
payments each month thereafter; and still be exempt from eviction
pursuant to the Threshold Eviction Ordinance more than a year after the first-monthly
payment became due.[6]  
 
If the FMR for the
rental unit is less than the contractual monthly rent, the landlord would be
permitted to serve a 3-day notice only if the tenant makes a partial payment of
rent that is less than the FMR. As long as the tenant pays the FMR—without regard
to the contractual rate of monthly interest—the landlord could not serve a 3-day
notice.
 
Based on the
foregoing, the structure and operation of Ordinance No. 187763 strongly
indicates the provision is procedural, not substantive. That is, Ordinance No. 187763
is a limitation on the Section 1161’s timing of evictions.
 
The legislative
history and context of Ordinance No. 187763 supports the court’s
conclusion.  (See Tri County Apartment
Assn. v. City of Mountain View (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1283, 1292 [“the setting in
which legislation was adopted well may be helpful in interpreting the language
used in the enactment”].)  
 
A report by LAHD provides
the circumstances under which the City Council enacted Ordinance No. 187763. “The
emergency measures adopted during the pandemic dramatically reduced the number
of evictions filed and provided a safety net from displacement and homelessness
for thousands of renters. When the eviction moratorium is lifted, City renters
still have an extended timeframe to pay COVID-19 accrued rental debt. COVID-19
rental arrears for rent accrued from March 1, 2020, to September 30, 2021, must
be paid by August 1, 2023. COVID-19 rental arrears for rent accrued from
October 1, 2021, to January 31, 2023, will be due by February 1, 2024.” (AR
2221; see also AR 16-22 [summarizing COVID-19 rental protections].)  
 
In that context,
the City sought input from stakeholders regarding potential additional tenant
protections that might replace the COVID-19 protections. (See AR 22.) As
explained in LAHD’s report, “[t]he primary tenant recommendations were
presented in a report issued by a consortium of tenant advocates under the Keep
LA Housed (KLAH) umbrella.” (AR 22.) That report urged the City to enact
“reasonable limits on evictions for failure to pay,” arguing such limits would
allow “tenants time to get back on their feet” in the event of a
financial hardship. (AR 65 [emphasis added].) According to the report,
“existing social safety nets that would help tenants cover unpaid rent do
not provide relief within the 3 day window state law requires to avoid
eviction. For example, if a tenant unexpectedly loses their job, it may take
several weeks to receive unemployment insurance . . . .” (AR 65 [emphasis added].)
In response to such requests, the City indicated it would investigate
“[s]etting a reasonable financial and/or timeliness threshold for rental
arrearages as the basis for eviction due to non-payment of rent.” (AR 110 [emphasis
added].)  
 
The LAHD thereafter
recommended the City Council adopt a monetary eviction threshold: 
 
Under current law, evictions for
non-payment of rent can take place for minor amounts of past due rent, even as
little as one dollar. Evictions are extremely painful and disruptive to an
individual, family, and community and can be viewed as an extraordinary legal
remedy that should not be used as a debt collection tool to recover relatively
small sums. If a renter loses their employment and applies for unemployment
benefits, on average it takes six weeks to receive the assistance, by which
time the eviction process may be underway. If the City establishes a minimum
threshold for rental arrearages before a landlord may proceed with an eviction
action, tenants would still owe this money, but failing to pay relatively small
amounts would not be grounds for eviction. (AR 2221 [emphasis added].)  
 
Thus, the
legislative history demonstrates the City acted with the goal of delaying
unlawful detainer proceedings to allow defaulting tenants more time to pay their
arrearages. Additional time would allow defaulting tenants to access social
programs to obtain funds to avoid eviction.
 
Respondents and
Intervenors contend the ordinance does not conflict with the unlawful detainer
statutes because it only creates a “substantive” defense to eviction. Respondents
phrase the argument as follows: 
 
A “just cause” does not exist to evict a
tenant for nonpayment of rent until a monetary threshold is met. If a landlord
attempts to evict a tenant for nonpayment of rent before the monetary threshold
is met, then the ordinance provides the tenant with a substantive defense to
that attempted eviction. If the tenant owes more than the applicable monetary
threshold, then the defense fails. Here, once a tenant accrues more than one
month of fair-market rent, and a landlord elects to evict, the landlord
would serve a notice to pay rent or quit as required by the unlawful detainer
statute, which begins the unlawful detainer process.”  (City Opposition 8:8-14 [emphasis added].)  
 
Intervenors make a
similar argument.   
 
Respondents and
Intervenors acknowledge the FMR limitation in the ordinance has the effect of
giving tenants more time to pay rent that is due before an eviction may occur. Respondents
and Intervenors do not dispute that a significant purpose of the ordinance was
to provide tenants with more time to pay rental arrearages thereby avoiding
eviction. Respondents and Intervenors have not persuasively challenged
Petitioner’s interpretation of the legislative history set forth above.  
 
Both Respondents
and Intervenors rely on case authority upholding local regulations placing substantive
limitations on the unlawful detainer statutes. The local regulations in those cases,
however, are qualitatively different from the Threshold Eviction Ordinance at
issue here. 
 
In Birkenfeld,
supra, 17 Cal.3d at 129, the Court upheld local regulations
requiring “good cause” to terminate a tenancy. Specifically, “the permitted
grounds for eviction [could] be grouped into three categories”:
 
One category consists of breaches of the tenant’s duties to
the landlord: failure to pay rent or to perform an obligation of the tenancy
after notice, commission of a nuisance on or of substantial damage to the
rented premises, conviction of using the premises for an illegal purpose,
refusal of reasonable landlord access for repairs, inspection, or showing to a
prospective purchaser, or transferring possession to an
unauthorized subtenant. [Citations.] A second category consists of the
landlord's good faith intention to withdraw the unit from the rental housing
market for occupancy by the landlord or specified relatives of the landlord [citations],
or for demolition or conversion to nonhousing use [citation]. The remaining
category is the refusal of the tenant holding at the expiration of a lease . .
. to execute a written renewal or extension for the same duration as the
original lease and on terms that are materially the same. [Citation.] (Id.
at 147-148.)  
 
Our Supreme Court summarized the
restrictions: 
 
These permitted grounds for eviction appear to cover most if
not all of the grounds that would otherwise be available except that of
termination of the tenancy. No other omitted grounds have been called to our
attention and we assume for present purposes that the effect of the provision
is simply to prohibit the eviction of a tenant who is in good standing at
the expiration of the tenancy unless the premises are to be withdrawn from
the rental housing market or the landlord's offer of a renewal lease has been
refused.  This prohibition is a
reasonable means of enforcing rent ceilings by preventing landlords from
putting out tenants because of their unwillingness to pay illegal amounts of
rent or their opposition to applications for increases in rent ceilings. (Id.
at 148 [emphasis added].)
 
In Fisher v. City of Berkeley (1984)
37 Cal.3d 644, the Supreme Court upheld local legislation allowing tenants to withhold rent when
landlords violate local rent ceilings or fail to register rental units with the
local rent board. (Id. at 705.) The Court relied on the analysis from Birkenfeld
and concluded “the statutory remedy for recovery of possession does not
preclude limitations on grounds for eviction for the purpose of enforcing a
local rent control regulation.”  (Ibid.)  
 
In Rental
Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at 751, the Court of Appeal held the unlawful detainer statute does
not preempt an ordinance requiring landlords to provide “notice and an
opportunity to cure any offending conduct” before resorting to an unlawful
detainer action. (Id. at 762.) The Court reasoned: 
 
The warning notice requirements in
Measure EE limit a landlord's right to initiate an eviction due to certain
tenant conduct by requiring that the specified conduct continue after the
landlord provides the tenant written notice to cease. These notice
requirements thus regulate the substantive grounds for eviction, rather than
the procedural remedy available to the landlord once grounds for eviction have
been established. If the tenant ceases the offending conduct once notified
by the landlord, there is no good cause to evict. (Id. at 762-763.)
 
Finally, in San
Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco, supra, 20
Cal.App.5th at 510, the Court of Appeal upheld a San Francisco law that
prohibits no-fault evictions of tenant households with a child or an “educator”
during the school year against a preemption challenge. As relevant here, the
Court reasoned: 
 
The purpose of the Ordinance is to
protect children from the disruptive impact of moving during the school year or
losing a relationship with a school employee who moves during the school year.
When tenants belong to this protected group (or have a custodial or familial
relationship with a resident protected group member), they have a substantive
defense to eviction; when they no longer belong to the group—because the
regular school year has ended or will have ended by the effective date of the
notice of termination—they no longer have a substantive defense. At this time,
landlords may avail themselves of the unlawful detainer procedures, which are
not altered by the Ordinance. (Id. at 518.)[7] 
 
The foregoing authorities addressed substantive
defenses to eviction created by a local regulation. San Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and
County of San Francisco provides a clear
example: the local regulation created a defense to a no-fault eviction during
the school year for families with children and educators. The defense applied
only to tenants within a specific category and was a substantive provision governing
eviction.  Similarly, in Fisher v. City of
Berkeley, the local regulation allowed tenants to withhold rent only
when landlords violate local rent ceilings or fail to register rental units
with the local rent board.
 
Here, in contrast,
the Eviction Threshold Ordinance operates without regard to any underlying factual
circumstances. A landlord may not initiate the eviction process unless the tenant
has failed to pay FMR for a unit. The ordinance’s structure, effect, legislative history, and
setting demonstrate its purpose is to delay the procedure involved in the eviction
process. The ordinance is procedural in nature because it dictates when a landlord
may serve a 3-day notice provision after a tenant has defaulted on his/her obligation
to pay rent—that is, only after a tenant’s default exceeds FMR. The authorities
relied upon by Respondents and Intervenors are distinguishable.[8]  
 
The circumstances here are analogous
to those in Tri County
Apartment Assn. v. City of Mountain View (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1283 where a city sought to lengthen the period
of notice required for rent increases beyond the requirements of state law. In
finding the local regulation to be preempted by state law, the Court of Appeal noted
“Landlord-tenant relationships are so much affected by statutory timetables
governing the parties’ respective rights and obligations that a ‘patterned
approach’ by the Legislature appears clear.” (Id. at 1296.) The Court
concluded: “[T]he extensive scheduling provided by the Legislature reveals that
the timing of landlord-tenant transactions is a matter of statewide concern not
amenable to local variations. The Ordinance directly conflicts with the
legislative scheme.” (Id. at 1298.) 
The same analysis and conclusion apply here.  
 
              De Minimis Arrearages;
Facial Challenge; and Reformation and Severability 
 
Intervenors contend
“[t]he Nonpayment Ordinance targets situations where a tenant falls short on
rent by a de minimis amount.” (Int. Opposition 6.) Intervenors fail to
explain, or show with evidence, how failure to pay FMR could reasonably be
viewed as de minimis. While the ordinance would mostly apply to de
minimis arrearages, the ordinance is not so limited. As noted earlier, the
ordinance could have the effect of indefinitely extending the time for a tenant
to pay a month of FMR in unpaid rent before an eviction could be initiated. 
 
Respondents and
Intervenors have also not developed an argument that the ordinance could be or
should be reformed by this court to apply only to de minimis non-payments
of rent. 
 
Respondents and
Intervenors do not argue the preempted provision may be severed from the balance
of the ordinance.
 
Based on the
foregoing, the court finds Ordinance No. 187763 directly conflicts with Section
1162 because it is procedural in nature. Accordingly, the ordinance is
preempted by state law. Petitioner’s request for a writ of mandate invalidating
Ordinance No. 187763 is granted.
 
Third Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief 
 
Petitioner’s third cause of action for declaratory relief is
derivative of its writ causes of action. 
Accordingly, Petitioner is not entitled to a judicial declaration. (See Hannon v. Western Title Ins. Co. (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 1122, 1128. [“The object
of the statute [Code Civ. Proc., § 1060] is to afford a new form of relief
where needed and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for
the determination of identical issues.”]) 

 
CONCLUSION 
 
Petitioner’s first cause of action challenging Ordinance
No. 187763 is granted. A writ shall issue directing Respondents to rescind the
ordinance.
 
Petitioner’s second and third causes of action
are denied.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
November 8, 2023                                                                 ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


