 Case Number:  22STCV26465    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant Yard House
U.S.A., Inc.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff
Laurie Scott (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was injured on March 23, 2022, when
she slipped and/or fell on a substance on a floor and/or walkway negligently
owned, controlled, operated, and maintained by Defendant Yard House USA, Inc.
(sued as The Yard House, L.P.) (“Defendant”) on Shoreline Village Drive in Long
Beach, California. On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed her complaint against
Defendant and Does 1 through 100. On September 27, 2022, Defendant filed its
answer.
On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed her complaint
against Defendant and Does 1 through 100. On September 27, 2022, Defendant
filed its answer. 
On April 9, 2024,
Defendant filed a motion to continue trial. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be
analyzed when determining whether good cause for a trial continuance is
present. A court considers factors such as: 

“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).)  
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
contends that good cause for a 8 month continuance exists as (1) Defendant has
not obtained the necessary testimony for trial, (2) Plaintiff has not agreed to
a neurological and orthopedic examinations, (3) Plaintiff has not provided
Defendant with contact information for non-party witnesses, (4) American
Express has refused to produce non-party witnesses, (5) Defendant wishes to
take deposition of American Express’s most knowledgeable person as to
Plaintiff’s employment, (6) Defendant is unable to obtain documentation as to
Plaintiff’s damages, (7) Defendant has not had the opportunity to depose
Plaintiff’s four medical treaters, and (8) Defendant is still retaining expert
witnesses. (Motion, 4-5:11-28, 1-6.)
 
Defendant
contends it has been diligent in obtaining discovery, but has not been able to
obtain the above listed discovery. (Id., 8:14-16.)
Defendant contends this would be the third trial continuance, and there are no
alternative means to address the issue of obtaining the discovery. 
 
Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition.
 
The Court finds Defendant has established good cause for the parties to
complete discovery.
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED.  
CONCLUSION
 
The Court
GRANTS the motion to continue. 
 
The trial date is advanced
and continued to late February 2025.  The
Final Status Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial
date.
 
Moving party
is to give notice.
 