 Case Number:  20STCV25074    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff Sion
Goel
Defendants’ Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff Shokouh Adamous 
 
Tentative
 
The motions are granted. 
 
Background
This case arises out of an alleged vehicle
accident on July 8, 2018, near the intersection of La Cienega Boulevard and
Wilshire Boulevard in Beverly Hills, California.  On July 2, 2020, Plaintiffs Sion Goel and
Shokouh Adamous (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Camille D. Muepo, Zacharie Muepo,
and Christina Muepo (“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 100, inclusive asserting
causes of action for general negligence and motor vehicle negligence.  
 
On January 7, 2022, Defendants
filed their answer to the complaint.  That
same day, Defendants also served written discovery and deposition notices: the
depositions of both Plaintiff was noticed for April 13, 2022.  (Grandy Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs. A.)  Defendants took the deposition off calendar after
they did not receive Plaintiffs’ responses to the written discovery.  (Id., ¶ 3.)
Defendants sent a second deposition
notice for each Plaintiff on September 13, 2023, setting the depositions for
November 1.  (Id., ¶ 6 & Exhs.
C.)  Neither Plaintiff objected, but one
day before the deposition Plaintiffs’ counsel asked for continuances.  (Id., ¶ 8 & Exhs. D.)
On November 10, 2023, Defendants
sent a third deposition notice for each Plaintiff, setting the depositions for
November 29.  (Id., ¶ 10 &
Exhs. F.)  Again, neither Plaintiff served
an objection, but again, one day before the deposition, Plaintiffs’ counsel stated
that the depositions would not go forward as noticed.  (Id., ¶¶ 11-12 & Exhs. G.)
Defendants inquired about nonappearance
and alternative dates, but Plaintiffs never offered any no alternative dates.  (Id., ¶¶ 12-15 & Exhs. G-H.) 
On January 23, 2024, Defendants filed these
two motions to compel the depositions of Plaintiffs. Defendants also seek
sanctions.
No opposition to either motion has been
filed.
Legal Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery … by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2025.210 through 2025.280 provide the
requirements for (among other things) what must be included in a deposition
notice, when and where depositions may be taken, and how and when the notice
must be served.  
“The
service of a deposition notice … is effective to require any deponent who is a
party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a
party to attend and to testify, as well as to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and
copying.”  (Id., § 2025.280, subd.
(a).)
Section
2025.410, subdivision (a), requires any party to serve a written objection at
least three days before the deposition if the party contends that a deposition
notice does not comply with the provisions of sections 2025.210 through
2025.280.
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization
that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  Any such motion to compel
must show good cause for the production of documents and, when a deponent has
failed to appear, the motion must be accompanied “by a declaration stating that
the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (Id., subd.
(b).)  
When
a motion to compel is granted, “the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.”  (Id., subd. (g)(1).) 
In Chapter 7 of
the Civil Discovery Act, section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses
of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to
an authorized method of discovery.” 
Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the discovery
process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of “the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).)
Discussion
Defendants
have noticed the depositions of the Plaintiffs three times, once in 2022 and
twice in the Fall of 2023.  As to the two
occasions in 2023, Plaintiffs did not serve a timely objection and did not
appear.  (Grandy Decls., ¶¶ 6-12 &
Exhs. C-G.)  Defendants followed up with
Plaintiffs’ counsel to inquire about the non-appearances.  (Id., ¶¶ 12-15
& Exhs. G-H.)
 
Defendants
have satisfied all substantive and procedural requirements for their
motions.  Plaintiffs have not filed any
opposition.
 
The
motions to compel are granted.
 
The requests
for sanctions are also granted in part. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  On each motion, the Court sets sanctions at $530,
calculated based on 2 hours of attorney time for each motion at the reasonable
billable rate of $235 per hour, plus the $60 filing fee. (See Grady Decls., ¶
18.)
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Defendants’ motions to compel the depositions of Plaintiffs. 
 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Sion Goel to appear for deposition and give testimony
under oath on May __, 2024, at 10:00 am, by a remote deposition.  Defendants’ counsel will provide the link for
the deposition to Plaintiffs’ counsel at least 48 hours in advance of the
deposition.
 
The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff Shokouh Adamous to
appear for deposition and give testimony under oath on May __, 2024, at 2:00 pm,
by a remote deposition.  Defendants’
counsel will provide the link for the deposition to Plaintiffs’ counsel at
least 48 hours in advance of the deposition.
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendants’ requests for sanctions in part.
 
The Court
ORDERS Plaintiff Sion Goel and counsel of record The Goel Firm, P.C., jointly
and severally, to pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to
Defendants in the amount of $530, within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
The Court
ORDERS Plaintiff Shokouh Adamous and
counsel of record The Goel Firm, P.C., jointly and severally, to pay monetary
sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to Defendants in the amount of $530,
within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.