 Case Number:  22STCV01731    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant Herrera to Requests for
Admission (Set One)
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant Herrera to Form Interrogatories
(Set Two)
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Initial Response from Defendant Guerra to
Supplementary Interrogatory (Set One)
 
Tentative Ruling
The
motions to compel are granted in part and denied as moot in part.
The
requests for sanctions are granted in part and denied in part.
Background
On
January 14, 2022, Plaintiffs Rafael Marron Perez, Nancy Marlen Lopez, and Elisa
Marron Perez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint in this action
against Defendants Eric Scott Herrera (“Herrera”), Cynthia Guerra (“Guerra”),
and Does 1 through 30, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence
and general negligence arising out of an accident on January 27, 2020, at or
near the intersection of Rinaldi and Porter Ranch Drive in Porter
Ranch.  Herrera and Guerra filed their answer on March 8, 2022.
As is
relevant to the matters set for hearing on May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs served Herrera
with discovery on May 9, 2023, including Requests for Admission (Set One), and
Form Interrogatories (Set Two).  (Aziz Decls., ¶ 2 & Exhs.
1.)  Herrera did not serve a timely response.  (Id.,
¶¶ 3-4.)  Months later, on January 10, 2024, Herrera served
responses, including objections.  (Id., ¶ 4 & Exhs.
2.)  Plaintiffs contend that the responses are not code compliant;
they sent meet and confer correspondence, but the parties were unable to
resolve their dispute.  (Id., ¶¶ 5-9 & Exhs.
3-5.)  The Court conducted an Informal Discovery Conference on April
10, 2024, but the dispute was not resolved.
In
addition, Plaintiffs served Guerra with Supplementary Interrogatory (Set One)
on January 11, 2024.  (Aziz Decl., ¶ 2 & Exh. 1.)  As
of the time of the filing of this motion, Herrera had not responded at all.  (Id.,
¶ 7.)
On March
11, 2024, Plaintiffs filed these motions seeking further responses to the
requests for admission and form interrogatories from Herrera, and initial
responses to the supplemental interrogatory from Guerra.  Defendants
filed oppositions on April 22, and Plaintiffs filed their replies on April 30.
Shortly
before Herrera and Guerra filed their oppositions, on or about April 18, Herrera
served verified amended responses to the requests for admission and form interrogatories,
and Guerra served verified initial responses to the supplemental
interrogatory.  (Yegoyan Decls., ¶ 10 & Exh. A.) 
Legal Standard
A party
must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed
does not provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd.
(b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no
meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who fails to
provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)
When a
party moves to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the
motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)
“On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of
the following apply: (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete. (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section
2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is
inadequate. (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
Notice
of a motion to compel further responses must be given “within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion
to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
“On receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the
party requesting admissions may move for an order compelling a further response
if that party deems that either or both of the following apply: (1) An answer
to a particular request is evasive or incomplete. (2) An objection to a
particular request is without merit or too general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
Notice of a motion to compel further responses must be given
“within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental
verified response, or any specific later date to which the requesting party and
the responding party have agreed in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer
declaration and a separate statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a
“concise outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id.,
subd. (b)(1) & (b)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)
In
Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030,
subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that any person “engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result
of that conduct.” A “misuse of the discovery process” includes (among other
things) failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery;
making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to
discovery; making an evasive response to a discovery request; disobeying a
court order to provide discovery; and making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a
motion to compel without substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).)
Discussion
The
Court has reviewed the evidence in the record and the arguments presented by
both sides.
The
Court finds that Plaintiffs satisfied the statutory meet-and-confer
requirement.
The
Court finds that Plaintiffs’ motions are timely filed.
The
Court finds that Defendant Herrea did not serve timely responses to the Requests
for Admission (Set One) and Form Interrogatories (Set Two).  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.260, subd. (a) & 2033.250, subd.
(a).)  Defendants therefore waived “any objection to the
requests.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a) & 2033.280,
subd. (a).)  Defendants have not filed a motion for relief from that
waiver.  (See ibid.)  Nor have they shown that
the failure to serve a timely response “was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290,
subd. (a)(2) & 2033.280, subd. (a)(2).)
The
amended responses served by Herrera on April 18 to Requests for Admission (Set
One) contain no objections and are complete and straightforward.  Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses from Herrera to Requests for Admission (Set
One) is denied as moot.
The
amended responses served by Herrera on April 18 to Form Interrogatories (Set Two),
in some instances, contain no objections and are factual in nature.  The
amended response to Form Interrogatory 17.1(b), as it relates to Requests for
Admission Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 17, 19, 20, 21, 22, all contain statements
that express, in non-objection form, a concern about
the interrogatories; this is an improper objection-in-all-but-name-only.  Herrera must provide responses that are “as
complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the
responding party permits.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.220, subd. (a); see also id., subd. (c) [responding
party must “make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain [responsive]
information, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party”].)  “If an
interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent
possible.”  (Id., subd. (b).)  That is what is required.  Nothing less, and nothing more.  Herrera has waived his objections.  He may not seek to avoid the effect of that
waiver through generalized statements of concerns that are, in effect if not
form, objections.
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses from Herrera to Form Interrogatories
(Set Two) is granted as to Form Interrogatory 17.1(b), as it relates to
Requests for Admission Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 17, 19, 20, 21, and 22, and
is otherwise denied as moot.
The
Court finds that Defendant Guerra did not serve timely responses to the
Supplemental Interrogatory (Set One).  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).)  She therefore waived “any objection to the
requests.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  Guerra
has not filed a motion for relief from that waiver.  (See ibid.)  Nor
has she shown that the failure to serve a timely response “was the result of
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.”  (Id., subd.
(a)(2).)
Guerra has
now served initial responses to the Supplemental
Interrogatory.  Accordingly, the motion to compel him to serve
initial responses is denied as moot.  The Court notes, however, that
the response contains objections.  This is improper.  Guerra
may face a motion to compel, and potentially sanctions, if she does not amend
and provide substantive responses, without objections.
In sum, Plaintiffs’
motions to compel further responses from Herrera to Requests for Admission (Set
One) and initial responses from Guerra to Supplemental Interrogatory (Set One) are
denied as moot.  Plaintiffs’ motion to
compel further responses from Herrera to Form Interrogatories (Set Two) is
granted in part and denied as moot in part.
The Court
denies the requests for sanctions as to Plaintiffs’ motions to compel further
responses from Herrera to Requests for Admission (Set One) and initial
responses from Guerra to Supplemental Interrogatory (Set One).  Code of Civil Procedure sections 2033.290,
subdivision (d), and 2030.300, subdivision (d), authorize sanctions against a
party or attorney “who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel.”  Here, the motions are denied as moot, and so Defendants
have not unsuccessfully opposed any motion. 
(See City of Los Angeles v.
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.)
Plaintiffs argue that sanctions should nonetheless be awarded and that,
in the absence of monetary sanctions, there are not sufficient negative
consequences for a party who fails to provide, for example, timely amended
responses and, instead, essentially forces the requesting party to incur the expense
of filing a motion to compel.  That is a
reasonable argument and an understandable concern, but the short answer is that
the Legislature is entrusted to make these decisions.  The Legislature has seen fit to provide for an
award of sanctions, in some contexts, even against a party that does not
unsuccessfully make or oppose a motion to compel.  For example, with regard to Requests for
Admission, a party who fails to serve timely initial responses may be
sanctioned even if the responses are provided prior to the hearing, and the motion
for a deemed-admitted order is denied. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Similarly, the court is authorized to impose
a sanction when a motion to compel a deposition is granted, even if the other
party does not file an opposition.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
And the Legislature has specifically authorized sanctions against a
party who produces documents shortly before a hearing on a motion to compel
production of documents.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.050, subd. (a)(2).)  But in
the context of the motions that are currently before the Court (further
responses to requests for admission and initial responses to interrogatories),
the Legislature made the decision not to authorize sanctions unless a party has
unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel.  The Court must apply the Civil Discovery Act
as written and may not, in the guise of interpretation, modify the express provisions
of the Act.

The Court grants in part the
request for sanctions as to Plaintiffs’ motion to compel further responses from Herrera to Form Interrogatories
(Set One).  Defendant Herrera has, in
part, unsuccessfully opposed the motion to compel (and even as to the parts of
the motion that are denied, they are denied as moot because of Defendant’s late
served responses, not because they motion was not well founded when
filed).  Defendant and counsel have not
acted with substantial justification, and the imposition of sanctions would not
be unjust.
In setting the
amount of the sanction, the Court has taken into consideration the relatively
straightforward nature of this motion to compel further responses, the fact
that the motion was granted only in part, and the economies of scale associated
with preparing multiple discovery motions. 
The Court sets the amount of the sanction at $660.  That is calculated based on 1.5 hours of
attorney time, multiplied by counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $400 per
hour, plus a $60 filing fee.  (Aziz
Decl., ¶ 10.)
Sanctions are
sought, and awarded, against Defendant only. 
(See Notice of Motion, at p. 2:12-14.)
Conclusion
The
Court DENIES as moot Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant Herrera to provide
further responses to Requests for Production (Set One).
The
Court DENIES as moot Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant Guerra to provide
initial responses to Supplemental Interrogatory (Set One).
The
Court GRANTS in part and DENIES as moot in part Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
Defendant Herrera to provide further responses to Form Interrogatories (Set Two).
The
Court ORDERS Defendant Herrera to serve code compliant, verified, written
responses, without objection to Plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories (Set One), Form
Interrogatory 17.1(b), as it relates to Requests for Admission Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7,
8, 9, 10, 17, 19, 20, 21, and 22, within 21 days of notice.  
The
Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ requests for sanctions as to Plaintiffs’ motions to
compel further responses from Herrera to Requests for Admission (Set One) and
initial responses from Guerra to Supplemental Interrogatory (Set One).
The
Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff’s request for sanction as to the motion to
compel further responses from Herrera to Form Interrogatories (Set Two).
The Court ORDERS
Defendant Herrera to pay monetary sanctions under the Civil Discovery Act to
Plaintiffs in the amount of $660 within 30 days of notice.
The
Court ORDERS moving parties to give notice.
 