 Case Number:  21STCV23847    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant Angelica Bianca Diaz
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted. 
 
Background 
 
Two consolidated cases arise out of a
multi-vehicle automobile accident on July 6, 2019, near the Adams Exit on the
101 North Freeway in Los Angeles.
In Case No. 21STCV23847 (the “Marinero Action”), Plaintiffs
Luis Felix Marinero, Ana Rodriguez, and Nathaly Rodriguez filed a complaint on
June 28, 2021, asserting causes of action for negligence and negligence per se
against Defendant Angelica Bianca Diaz (“Diaz”) and Does 1 through
25.  Diaz filed her answer on August 20, 2021.
In Case No. 21STCV24492 (the “Smith Action”), Plaintiff
Lloyd Smith filed a complaint on July 1, 2021, asserting a cause of action for
negligence against Defendants Diaz, Luis Rodriguez, and Does 1 through 50.  On February 1, 2023, Diaz and Luis Rodriguez
each filed their answers.  Diaz and Luis Rodriguez filed
Cross-Complaints against each other as well.
On March 15, 2023, the Court determined that the
Marinero Action and the Smith Action are related cases.  On February 23, 2024, the Court consolidated
the Marinero Action and the Smith Action, with the Marinero Action as the lead
case.
On March 29 and April 4, 2024, Diaz and Luis
Rodriguez filed requests for dismissals of the claims in their cross-complaints
against each other.  The dismissals were
entered on April 2 and 5, 2024. 
On April 9, 2024, Defendant Diaz filed this motion to continue trial.  No opposition has been filed.
Trial is currently set for June 6, 2024. 
Legal Standard
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial
date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation):
(1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the
new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial;
(3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready
for trial. (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant
considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery,
(2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the
likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and
(4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
Discussion
Defendant
moves to continue trial to October 7, 2024, and requests that all
discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date.  Defendant Diaz argues good cause exists
because, despite reasonable diligence, Defendant has been unable to obtain
essential testimony, documents, and other material evidence.  Although Defendant timely noticed Plaintiff
Smith’s deposition, Plaintiff Smith did not appear for deposition or cooperate
in rescheduling.  Accordingly, this
necessitated Defendant Diaz filing a motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Deposition
which resulted in Defendant scheduling the motion to be heard on the Court
Calendar’s earliest available hearing date—June 12, 2024.  Thus, the hearing on Defendant’s motion to
compel Plaintiff’s deposition is scheduled six days after the present trial
date of June 6, 2024 which would severely prejudice Defendant Diaz. 
The Court finds there is good cause to continue trial, as Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff Smith’s Deposition is scheduled after trial.  Further, it does not appear that any party
would be prejudiced by a trial continuance, and no party has filed an
opposition contending otherwise. Rather, Defendant would suffer prejudice if it
were not afforded sufficient time to litigate the matter. Thus, the motion is
granted. Trial is continued to October 7, 2024. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, the motion to continue trial is GRANTED. 
 
The trial date is advanced and continued to on or after October 7, 2024.
 The Final Status Conference and all
deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 