 Case Number:  22STCV34488    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for
Leave to Conduct Mental Examination of Plaintiff filed by Defendant Lyft, Inc. 
Tentative
The Court will hear from counsel. 
Background 
On October 27, 2022, Eric Jason Austin (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Amadu Tejan Bah (“Bah”), and
Does 1 to 100, asserting causes of action for general negligence; negligent hiring,
training, retention, and supervision; and motor vehicle negligence arising out
of an automobile accident that occurred on October 14, 2021, at or near the
intersection of Vermont Avenue and 43rd Street in Los Angeles.  Lyft and Bah filed their answers on January
27 and May 1, 2023.
On March 15, 2024, Lyft filed this motion for
leave to conduct a mental examination of Plaintiff. Plaintiff filed an
opposition and objection on April 3. Defendant filed a reply and response to
the objection on April 9.
The motion came on for hearing on April 16,
2024.  The Court continued the hearing and
allowed the parties to submit supplemental briefs by April 23 and supplemental
responses by April 30.  
Plaintiff filed a supplemental brief and
supplemental response on schedule.  Lyft
filed its supplemental brief one day late (on April 24) and its supplemental
response on schedule.  Plaintiff filed an
objection to Lyft’s supplemental brief, and Lyft filed a response to that
objection. 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action,
(2) an agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the
legal control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical
condition (including the blood group) of that party or other person is in
controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal
injury action, the defendant may demand one physical examination of plaintiff
as of right, without advance leave of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220.)  
If a defendant
seeks a further physical examination of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the
defendant must first file a motion and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., §
2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion must “specify the time, place, manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and
the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the
examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The court may grant such a motion “only
for good cause shown.” (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good
cause generally requires “that the party produce specific facts justifying
discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of the action
or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson
v. Super. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) 

 “An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic
tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).) “The court is to describe¿in
detail¿who will conduct the examination, where and when it will be
conducted, the conditions, scope and nature of the examination, and the
diagnostic tests and procedures to be employed.  The way to describe these
‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in detail—is to list
them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249,
260.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
The moving
party¿must support the motion with a meet and confer declaration.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration must
state facts “showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (Id., §
2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ ¿¿ 
The examination
will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id.,
§ 2032.020, subd. (a).) A mental examination is appropriate only if the
plaintiff alleges continuing emotional distress. (Doyle v. Super. Ct.
¿(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.) “While a plaintiff may place his
mental state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional
distress, the opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing
solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may
surface.”  (Vinson,¿supra, 43 Cal.3d at 840.) By
alleging a causal link between the emotional distress and the defendant's
conduct, however, a plaintiff “implicitly claims it was not caused by a
preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative sources
for the distress.” (Ibid.)  
A court shall not
(except under “exceptional circumstances”) order a mental examination if the
plaintiff stipulates (1) “that no claim is being made for mental and emotional
distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries
claimed” and (2) “that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and
emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for
damages.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (b) & (c).)
Preliminary Matters
Lyft has satisfied the meet and confer requirement of
section 2032.310, subdivision (b).  (Sellers Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.)
Plaintiff’s objection to Exhibit 3 to the Sellers
Declaration on the ground that it is a confidential settlement communication is
SUSTAINED.
Plaintiff’s objection to Lyft’s late supplemental brief
and supporting declarations is OVERRULED. 
The Court exercises its discretion to consider these filings, which were
one day late.
Discussion
Defendant seeks
leave of court to conduct a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff.  
The Court
has reviewed all of the evidence and argument submitted by both sides and has
questions for counsel.
First, has
Plaintiff actually made the written stipulation set forth in Code of Civil
Procedure section 2032.320, subdivisions (b) and (c), or merely offered to make
the stipulation?  That seems to the Court
to be a potentially significant distinction.
Second, the
stipulation, according to subdivision (c)(2), must state that “no expert
testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented
at trial in support of the claim for damages.” 
Lyft states that Shannon Gillam, MS, of the Centre for Neuro Skills, performed
neuropsychological testing on Plaintiff. 
Is Ms. Gillam going to provide expert testimony at trial regarding this
testing in support of Plaintiff’s claim for damages?  Will any other expert be called by Plaintiff
at trial to testify about mental or emotional distress in support of Plaintiff’s
claim for damages?
Third, this Court has already expressed its concerns that Lyft (and its
expert Dr. Light) had not adequate specified which tests will be administered
at the requested examination.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2032.310, subd. (b) & 2032.320, subd. (d); Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ ¿¿ 
Previously, Lyft
stated that the testing will “include only standard neuropsychological and
psychological testing procedures” and then listed approximately 48 tests that
Lyft described as “commonly used and well-accepted cognitive tests.”  Now, Dr. Light says that he will administer “psychological
tests that are in the public domain and not subject to copyright and proprietary
restrictions.”  But he still has not said
which ones.  The Court may be compelled
to deny the motion on that ground alone.
 