  Case Number:  20STCV17331    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


October 12, 2023 




CASE NUMBER


20STCV17331




MOTION


Motion to Tax Costs




MOVING PARTIES


Cross-Complainants Shane W. Josephs and Jennifer L.
  Josephs




OPPOSING PARTIES


Cross-Defendants MRB Construction, Inc. and Marvin Ramos



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from an accident
during the construction of a new home in early 2019.  Plaintiff Isac Hernandez (“Hernandez”), who
suffered a fall during the construction, initiated the lawsuit against the project
owners, Shane W. Josephs and Jennifer L. Josephs (the “Josephs”) on May 6,
2020.  Subsequently, the Josephs (project
owners) cross-complained against the general contractor, Zalman N., Inc. and
Zalman T. Nemtzov (“Zalman”) and also substituted in via Doe amendments a
subcontractor, MRB Construction and Marvin Ramos (“MRB”) for indemnity, etc.  MRB (framing subcontractor) then
cross-complained against the Josephs (project owner) and Zalman (general
contractor) for indemnity, etc.  Finally,
Zalman (general contractor) cross-complained against Hernandez, the Josephs,
and MRB.  
 
In December 2021, the Court granted
the Josephs’ motion for good faith settlement with Hernandez, effectively barring
Zalman’s and MRB’s indemnity claims against the Josephs.[1]  The Josephs did not seek entry of a final
judgment as to Zalman or MRB with respect to their indemnity claims.
 
On July 25, 2023, the Court granted
MRB’s motion for good faith settlement with Hernandez, effectively barring
Zalman’s and the Joseph’s indemnity claims against MRB.  MRB subsequently sought orders (1) dismissing
Zalman’s cross-complaint (which contained only indemnity and related claims
barred by virtue of the good faith settlement) with prejudice, and (2) entering
judgment against the Josephs as to their indemnity cross claims against MRB,
which are similarly barred by the good faith settlement.  On August 8, 2023, the Court signed MRB’s
proposed orders for entry of judgment against Zalman and the Josephs, which expressly
state “MRB CONSTRUCTION, INC. and MARVIN RAMOS are entitled to recover costs
per statute.”
 
On August 30, 2023, MRB submitted a
memorandum of costs, seeking $64,805.69 in costs.  The Josephs have now moved to strike and tax
the costs MRB seeks.  MRB has opposed the
motion to tax costs and the Josephs have replied.
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Except as otherwise expressly
provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to
recover costs in any action or proceeding.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) 
“Prevailing party” includes, among other things, “a defendant where
neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against
those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5, subdivision (a) sets forth items that are allowable as costs. Allowable
costs under Section 1033.5 must be “reasonably necessary to the conduct of this
litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation” and
“reasonable in amount.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subds. (c)(2), (3).) “Items
not mentioned in [Section 1033.5] and items assessed upon application may be
allowed or denied in the court’s discretion.” (Id., subd. (c)(4).)
 
On a motion to tax, “[i]f the items
appearing in a cost bill appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the
party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not reasonable or necessary.
On the other hand, if the items are properly objected to, they are put in issue
and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. Whether a cost
item was reasonably necessary to the litigation presents a question of fact for
the trial court and its decision is reviewed for abuse of discretion. However, because
the right to costs is governed strictly by statute a court has no discretion to
award costs not statutorily authorized.” (Ladas v. California State Auto.
Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774, internal citations omitted.) “The
court’s first determination, therefore, is whether the statute expressly allows
the item, and whether it appears proper on its face. If so, the burden is on
the objecting party to show them to be unnecessary or unreasonable.” (Nelson
v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 131, internal citations omitted.)
The objecting party does not meet this burden by arguing that the costs were
not necessary or reasonable, but must present evidence and prove that the costs
are not recoverable. (Litt v Med. Ctr. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1217,
1224; Seever v. Copley Press, Inc. (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1557.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The Josephs
move to tax the costs on the grounds that (1) MRB is not a “prevailing party”
entitled to costs as to the Josephs; (2) MRB wrongfully seeks to recover from
the Josephs costs MRB incurred in defending against Hernandez’s complaint, not
Josephs’ cross-complaint; (3) MRB wrongfully seeks to recover costs that were
not reasonably necessary; and (4) the costs sought are unreasonable, excessive,
and/or duplicative.
 
            Prevailing
Party
 
The Josephs argue that there is no
“prevailing party” as between the Josephs and MRB because (1) each of them
reached a good faith settlement with Hernandez, effectively cutting off each
others’ indemnity claims; and (2) MRB is not yet the prevailing party because the
Josephs’ writ petition is still pending and the Court has yet to sign the
proposed judgment.  The Josephs also
argue that MRB’s recoverable costs against the Josephs and the Josephs’
recoverable costs against MRB should cancel each other out.
 
1.      Effect
of Good Faith Settlements
 
  With
regard to the Josephs’ first argument, MRB cites to Great Western Bank v.
Converse Consultants, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 609, 614.  Great Western held that, pursuant to
the plain language of Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, a cross-defendant
against whom the cross-complaint is dismissed as a result of a good faith
settlement is a “prevailing party” because “it is a cross-defendant in whose
favor a dismissal of the cross-complaint is entered.”  (Ibid.)  Great Western also pointed out that the
appellate court also upheld a cost award to a cross-defendant resulting from a
good faith settlement dismissal of a cross-complaint in Crib Retaining
Walls, Inc. v. NBS/Lowry, Inc. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 886.  
 
The Josephs argue on reply that
they are each “prevailing parties” as a result of their respective good faith
settlements with Hernandez, neither prevailing party was awarded the “net”
monetary judgment, and therefore, the Josephs, as the first party to settle
with Hernandez, should be considered the “prevailing party.”  (Reply at p. 2:14-19.)
 
The Court finds that, per the plain
language of the statute, and pursuant to Great Western and Crib
Retaining, MRB is a prevailing party with respect to the Josephs’
cross-complaint against it, because the Josephs’ claims against MRB were dismissed
as a result of MRB’s good faith settlement. 

 
The Court disagrees with the
Josephs’ argument that there are two prevailing parties to the action.  “A cross-complaint is generally considered to
be a separate action from that initiated by the complaint.”  (Westamerica Bank v. MBG Industries, Inc.
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 109, 134.)  Thus,
each cross-complaint “is a separate pleading and represents a separate cause of
action […] and must be complete and sufficient by itself [….]”  As such, MRB is the prevailing party as to
the Josephs’ cross-complaint against it, which was dismissed as a result of
MRB’s good faith settlement with Hernandez. 
While the Josephs may also be the prevailing party as to MRB’s complaint
against them, the Josephs are not a prevailing party with respect to the
“action” they brought (and which was dismissed) against MRB.
 
Therefore, with respect to the
Josephs’ cross-complaint against MRB, MRB (including Ramos) is the “prevailing
party” and the Josephs are not a “prevailing party” as to that action.
 
2.      Finality
of Action
 
The Josephs’ second argument is that
MRB is not yet the prevailing party, because of the Josephs’ pending writ
petition and because the Court has not yet signed the final judgment.  MRB argues in opposition that the pending
writ does not impact their entitlement to costs, because proceedings are not
automatically stayed pending writ proceedings, like they are for appeals.  (Opp. at p. 5:5-15.)  The Court agrees with MRB.  The action is not stayed, automatically or
otherwise, as a result of the Josephs’ pending writ petition.  Moreover, under the plain language of the
statute, MRB is a prevailing party. 
“Prevailing party includes […] a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is
entered [….]” and “a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not recover
any relief against that defendant[.]” 
The Court ordered that judgment shall be entered against the Josephs on
their cross-action against and in favor of MRB (including Ramos), that the
Josephs shall receive nothing from MRB, and that MRB is entitled to recover costs
per statute.  
 
3.      The
Josephs’ and MRB’s Costs Should Cancel Each Other Out
 
The Josephs third argument as to
why MRB is not a prevailing party is that, because they are each able to
recover costs as to the respective cross-complaints that were dismissed as a
result of the good faith settlements, these costs effectively cancel each other
out.  MRB argues in opposition that the
Josephs waived their right to recover costs in connection with MRB’s action,
because they have now waited 1.5 years to seek a formal dismissal.  Alternatively, if the Josephs can recover,
MRB argues they would at most be entitled to an offset, and since the Josephs’
cross-complaint lasted 1.5 years longer than MRB’s, MRB has more costs to
recover. 
 
The Josephs argue on reply that
permitting a party who refuses to settle for an additional year and a half to
recover more costs as a result of their delay in settling would discourage
settlement.  The Josephs also point out
that by settling after the Josephs, MRB obtained the benefit of the Josephs’
settlement, and as a result was able to settle for a lesser amount than the
Josephs, and therefore it would be unfair to also reward them with additional
costs incurred by their delay in settling.
 
The Court need not decide whether
the Josephs’ delay in seeking an order of dismissal bars their entitlement to
recover costs unless and until that issue is before it.  However, the Court agrees with MRB that, to
the extent the Josephs and MRB are each able to recover costs in connection
with the respective cross-complaints that were dismissed as to each of them, the
amounts would offset each other.  The
mere fact that two parties are each entitled to costs against each other with
respect to two separate actions does not undermine either’s status as a
prevailing party or otherwise invalidate their respective rights to recover
costs as the prevailing party in their respective actions.
 
Therefore, MRB is the “prevailing
party” entitled to recover its reasonable costs with respect to the Josephs’
cross-complaint against it.
 
            Costs
Incurred Defending Against Hernandez’s Complaint
 
The Josephs next contend that many
of the costs sought pertain to costs MRB incurred in defending against the Hernandez’s
complaint, not in defending against the Josephs’ claim for indemnity as to the
$4,000,000 settlement they reached with Hernandez.  Specifically, MRB seeks reimbursement for deposing
Hernandez’s medical providers and other costs to defend against the underlying
liability to Hernandez, not for deposing the Josephs or any costs incurred with
the specific issues of indemnity to the Josephs.
 
MRB argues in opposition that apportionment
of costs based on comparative fault is improper, and it is entitled to recover
all its costs incurred.  
 
While the Court agrees that costs
are not apportioned with respect to comparative fault, the Court does not agree
that MRB is entitled to recover from the Josephs all of the costs it incurred
in connection with the entire case.  As
discussed above, each cross-complaint is its own separate action.  (Westamerica Bank, supra, 158
Cal.App.4th at p. 134.)  
 
As such, MRB, as the prevailing
party with respect to the Josephs’ cross-complaint against it, is entitled to
recover its reasonable costs incurred in connection with defending against that
cross-complaint.  But just as MRB would
not be entitled to recover from the Josephs costs it incurred in connection
with an entirely unrelated lawsuit, MRB is not entitled to recover costs it
incurred in defending against Hernandez’s complaint.  With respect to the action between Hernandez
and MRB, the good faith settlement agreement between them provided that each
side was to bear its own attorneys’ fees and costs incurred.  
 
Therefore, while MRB is entitled to
recover costs it incurred in defending against the Josephs’ cross-complaint for
indemnity, MRB is not entitled to recover costs it incurred in defending
against Hernandez’s complaint.
 
            Costs
That are Not Reasonably Necessary
 
The Josephs similarly argue that
many of the costs MRB lists, such as subpoena costs to obtain medical records
from Hernandez’s medical providers, which could have been obtained directly
from Hernandez in discovery, were not reasonably necessary to the
litigation.  
 
The Josephs have not demonstrated
that the costs to subpoena medical records from Hernandez’s medical providers
were not reasonably necessary to the litigation generally.  However, to the extent MRB’s requested costs were
not reasonably necessary to defend against the Josephs’ cross-complaint, such
costs are improper.
 
            Unreasonable,
Excessive, and/or Duplicative Costs
 
The Josephs argue that some of the
costs are unreasonable in amount, excessive, and/or duplicative.  Specifically, (1) MRB does not explain why it
subpoenaed Hernandez’s medical providers multiple times (some upwards of 5-10
times or more); (2) MRB requests interpreter fees incurred in August 2021 for
Arnulfo Cerda, who was not deposed until December 2022; and (3) MRB seeks
$7,457.40 in costs for Mr. Cerda’s 1-day zoom deposition, which is about double
the cost of Zalman Nemtzov’s deposition, which lasted three days.
 
In opposition, MRB explains that
the billing shows what the Josephs consider to be the “same” medical provider
subpoenaed multiple times because of (1) the internal structure of the medical
providers often requires that they subpoena each department separately; and (2)
the attorney service bill also sometimes splits invoices into multiple
categories, including subpoena preparation, subpoena service, custodian fee,
and collection of records.  The Court
therefore finds that multiple entries for subpoenas to the same medical
providers is not, in itself, unreasonably excessive or duplicative, under the
circumstances presented.
 
With regard to Arnulfo Cerda’s
deposition, MRB concedes it erroneously charged the court reporter’s $3,081.20
fee twice.  As for the interpreter fee,
MRB explains “the interpreter fees that day were for other purposes.”  (Opp. at p. 8:24-25.)  The Court finds that MRB is not entitled to
count the court reporter’s fee twice, and MRB has not demonstrated that the
interpreter fees it incurred in August 2021 for “other purposes” were
reasonably incurred in defending against the Josephs’ cross-complaint.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
            Because the
Court cannot reasonably discern which costs were incurred in defending against
the Josephs’ cross-complaint versus which costs were incurred in defending
against Hernandez’s complaint, the Court grants the Josephs’ request to strike
the memorandum of costs without prejudice. 

 
The Josephs shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.   
 
 
DATED: 
October 12, 2023                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


