 Case Number:  22STCV02576    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING - NO 1
 



DEPARTMENT 


207




HEARING DATE


October 12, 2023




CASE NUMBER 


22STCV02576




MOTION


Motion to Quash Doe Amendment/Motion to Dismiss, or in the
  alternative, Barrows Motion




MOVING PARTY


Specially Appearing Defendant Venue Residences, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Susana Madrid and Daniel Villa



 
 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a fatal motorcycle accident that occurred on or
about June 19, 2021, whereby decedent hit a metal plate on a road while riding a
motorcycle.  The metal plate was placed
there by virtue of a construction project. 
Defendant Helio Group (“Helio”) is the general contractor for the construction
work being done at the site where the metal plate was located, and Defendant
O.L. Development (“O.L.”) was the subcontractor.  Defendant Venue Residences, LLC (“Venue”) is
the owner of the construction project.    
 
Venue, appearing specially, moves to quash the doe amendment and to
dismiss, or in the alternative, a Barrows motion.  Plaintiffs Susana Madrid and Daniel Villa
(“Plaintiffs”) oppose the motion, and Venue has replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“When the plaintiff is
ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint,
or the affidavit if the action is commenced by affidavit, and such defendant
may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true
name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly . .
. .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 474.)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 474 permits a
plaintiff to amend complaints by adding parties as Doe defendants when the
plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant at the time the complaint is
filed. The purpose of section 474 is to enable a plaintiff to avoid the bar of
the statute of limitations when he or she is ignorant of the identity of the
defendant. The cases discussing section 474 deal with whether the plaintiff was
truly ignorant of the identity of the person brought into the case as a Doe defendant
because if that requirement is met, the amendment to the complaint relates back
to the date the complaint was filed and the statute of limitations is
preserved.
 
(Davis v. Marin (2000) 80
Cal.App.4th 380, 386–387 [cleaned up].) And as stated in Weil & Brown:
 
Where a complaint is amended after the statute of
limitations has run to identify a fictitiously-named defendant, and to assert a
cause of action against that defendant not included in the original complaint,
the amended complaint will be given relation back effect, so as to avoid the
statute of limitations, provided:
 
·        
the original complaint stated a valid cause of
action against the now-identified “Doe” defendant; and
 
·        
plaintiff was “genuinely ignorant” of the
defendant's identity or the facts rendering defendant liable when the original
complaint was filed; and
 
·        
the amended complaint, identifying the
defendant, is based on the “same general set of facts” as the original and
refers to the “same accident and same injuries.” (Austin v. Massachusetts
Bonding & Ins. Co. (1961) 56 Cal.2d 596, 600-601; San Diego Navy
Broadway Complex Coalition v. California Coastal Comm'n (2019) 40
Cal.App.5th 563, 579; Eghtesad v. State Farm Gen. Ins. Co. (2020) 51
Cal.App.5th 406, 415.)
 
(Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2022), ¶ 6:740, emphasis added
(hereafter Relation Back Doctrine).)  A
Doe defendant bears the burden to prove that the plaintiff was aware of the
identity of the Doe defendant at the time the plaintiff filed the initial
complaint. (See Breceda v. Gamsby (1968) 267 Cal.App.2d 167, 179.)
 
Yet, “Even a person whose
identity was known to the plaintiff when the action was filed may be brough in
under section 474 as a ‘Doe’ defendant if the plaintiff was initially unaware
of that person’s true relationship to the injuries upon which the action was
based; or if a change in law has indicated that persons not originally joined
might also be held liable. But in each of the cases allowing late joinder of
known persons under section 474, there has been some showing that at the time
the original complaint was filed the plaintiff was ignorant of something having
a bearing upon the liability of the newly-summoned party.” (Miller v. Thomas
(1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 440, 445.)
 
In addition, “unreasonable
delay in filing an amendment after actually acquiring such knowledge can bar a
plaintiff's resort to the fictitious name procedure.” (Barrows v. American
Motors Corp. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 1, 8.)  But as Court of Appeal further noted, a Doe
defendant needs to establish that “[p]laintiff, after learning of his cause of
action against defendant, was dilatory in amending his complaint, or that
defendants suffered prejudice from any such delay.” (Ibid.)
 
[T]hree lessons may be drawn from Barrows:
 First, section 474 includes an implicit
requirement that a plaintiff may not “unreasonably delay” his or her filing of
a Doe amendment after learning a defendant's identity. Second, a defendant
named in an action by a Doe amendment under section 474 may challenge the
amendment by way of an evidence-based motion, which argues that the plaintiff
“unreasonable delayed” his or her filing of the challenged amendment. Third,
“unreasonable delay” within the meaning of “Barrows ” includes a
prejudice element, which requires a showing by the defendant that he or she
would suffer prejudice from plaintiff's delay in filing the Doe amendment.
 
(A.N. v. County of Los Angeles
(2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1066–1067.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Venue contends that the
doe amendment naming it as a defendant should be quashed and the action
dismissed as to it, on the basis that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in bringing
the doe amendment, and it has therefore been prejudiced, pursuant to Barrows.  Specifically, Venue argues that Plaintiff
waited over a year after receiving contracts and subcontract agreements naming
Venue as the owner of the construction project, before naming Venue as a
defendant via the doe amendment.  (Motion
at p. 3:21-27; Lee Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4.)  
 
Plaintiffs respond that they
learned new information about Venue at the June 12, 2023 deposition of Helio’s
PMQ and Venue has not established prejudice. 
(Opp. at pp. 6:17-11:9; 13:15-17:14.)
 
The incident allegedly
occurred on or about June 19, 2021.  (Complaint
¶ 1.)  The original complaint, which was
filed on January 21, 2022, alleges causes of action for (1) negligence; (2)
negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; (3) negligence – dangerous
condition of public property; (4) survival action; and (5) wrongful death.  The statute of limitations for negligence, wrongful
death, and survival actions is two years. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 335, 335.1.) 
Plaintiffs filed the Doe amendment, substituting Venue for Doe 3 on June
13, 2023, just under two years after the alleged incident occurred.  (See also Opp. at p. 11:15-17.)
 
Thus, it appears there is
no statute of limitations problem, requiring application of the relation-back
doctrine, or of Barrows.  (See Davis,
supra, 80 Cal.App.4th at p. 387 [where there is no statute of
limitations problem, such that Plaintiff could have filed an amended complaint naming
the defendant, as opposed to a doe amendment to the complaint, an analysis of
whether and when the doe defendant’s identity was known to the plaintiff is
irrelevant.])
 
Equally important, “Proceeding
to judgment in the absence of a party is an extraordinary and disfavored
practice in Anglo–American jurisprudence:  The policy of the law is to have every
litigated case tried upon its merits, and it looks with disfavor upon a party,
who, regardless of the merits of the case, attempts to take advantage of the
mistake, surprise, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary.”  (Au-Yang v. Barton (1999) 21 Cal.4th
958, 963 [cleaned up].)  
 
Against that backdrop,
the Court finds that Venue’s contention that it has been prejudiced by the
delay in Plaintiffs’ filing of the Doe amendment is wanting.  Other than general notions of prejudice
caused by the delay, Venue points to no other basis for claiming prejudice,
especially when the prior trial date has been vacated due to the transfer of
the action to Department 207.  And with
respect to any purported prejudice impacting discovery, Venue is within its
right to seek discovery as permitted by the Discovery Act.  But whether Venue is prejudiced because it was
not able to participate in prior discovery may be wanting as Venue’s counsel
represents other defendants in the action, and there is no issue that those
defendants were precluded from fully engaging in the discovery process to date.  Surely whatever information counsel gleaned
from the previous discovery will be utilized by, and shared with, Venue in its
defense against Plaintiffs’ claims.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Therefore, for the reasons
noted above, the Court denies Venue’s motion to quash the doe amendment and to
dismiss on the basis of Barrows.  
 
Venue shall file a response to
the complaint on or before October 26, 2023. 
 
 
The Clerk of the Court shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling.
 
 
DATED:
October 12, 2023                                                     ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior CourtTENTATIVE
RULING - NO 2
 



DEPARTMENT 


207




HEARING DATE


October 12, 2023




CASE NUMBER 


22STCV02576




MOTION


Special Motion to Strike (Anti-SLAPP) 




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Simon Lazar




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Susana Madrid and Daniel Villa



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a fatal motorcycle accident whereby decedent hit
a metal plate in the road while riding his motorcycle.  The metal plate was placed there by virtue of
a construction project.  Defendant Helio
Group (“Helio”) is the general contractor for the construction work being done
at the site where the metal plate was located, and Defendant O.L. Development (“O.L.”)
was the subcontractor.  Doe Defendant
Simon Lazar (“Lazar”) is the managing director of Helio and the manager of Doe Defendant
Venue Residences, LLC (“Venue”), the owner of the construction project.  
 
On March 20, 2023, before Lazar was named as a Doe defendant, the
Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Lazar’s deposition on the basis that
Lazar is an apex witness, and Plaintiffs had not met their burden to depose an
apex witness.  (See March 20, 2023 Minute
Order.)  Specifically, the Court held
“Plaintiffs have not shown that [Lazar] has unique or superior knowledge that
could be obtained via any other source. 
Should Plaintiffs later discover, via the discovery process, that there
are certain questions only [Lazar] can answer, Plaintiffs will then be entitled
to take [Lazar’s] deposition.”  (Ibid.)
 
On June 13, 2023, Plaintiffs named Lazar and Venue as Defendants via
Doe amendments.  Lazar has now filed a
special motion to strike the complaint as to Lazar, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP). 
Plaintiffs have opposed the motion, and Lazar has replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“A cause of action
arising from a person's act in furtherance of the ‘right of petition or free
speech under the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in
connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to
strike[….]’”  (Monster Energy Co. v.
Schechter (2019) 7 Cal.5th 781, 788 (hereafter Monster).)  Such lawsuits are commonly known as “SLAPP”
suits (Strategic Litigation Against Public Participation).  (Id. at fn. 1.)
 
Background
 
The California
Legislature enacted Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16, known as the
“anti-SLAPP statute” to “allow[] defendants to seek early dismissal of
unmeritorious claims arising from protected speech and petitioning activities.”  (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1004 (hereafter Bonni.)  “Enacted by the Legislature in 1992, the
anti-SLAPP statute is designed to protect defendants from meritless lawsuits
that might chill the exercise of their rights to speak and petition on matters
of public concern.”  (Wilson v. Cable
News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 883–884 (hereafter Wilson).)  
 
The anti-SLAPP statute is
also designed to expedite the early dismissal of unmeritorious claims arising
from protected activity.  (Newport
Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th
637, 642; Simpson Strong-Tie Co., Inc. v. Gore (2010) 49 Cal.4th 12, 21.)  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate
defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected
rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at
an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.”  (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th
376, 384, emphasis in original (hereafter Baral).)  But anti-SLAPP motions are not permitted in
limited civil cases. (1550 Laurel Owner’s Assn., Inc. v. Appellate Division
of Superior Court (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1146, 1149.)
 
“SLAPPs are
unsubstantiated lawsuits based on claims arising from a defendant's
constitutionally protected speech or petitioning activity.”  (Kurz v. Syrus Systems, LLC (2013) 221
Cal.App.4th 748, 757 (hereafter Kurz).) 
They “seek[] to chill rights to free speech or petition by dragging the
speaker or petitioner through the litigation process, without genuine
expectation of success in the suit.”  (Area
51 Productions, Inc. v. City of Alameda (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 581, 591–592
(hereafter Area 51 Productions.) 
They are “generally brought to obtain an economic advantage over the
defendant, not to vindicate a legally cognizable right of the plaintiff.”  (Grenier v. Taylor (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 471, 479.)  
 
“The Legislature enacted
section 425.16 to provide a summary disposition procedure for SLAPP
claims.”  (Area 51 Productions, supra,
20 Cal.App.5th at p. 592.)  The
statute “authorizes courts, upon motion by anyone who claims to be the target
of a SLAPP suit, to probe the basis for any cause of action allegedly arising
from protected communicative activities, and to strike it if the claimant
cannot show minimal merit.”  (Ibid.)  A special motion to strike may only be
directed to a complaint, cross-complaint, or petition, but not to an answer or
affirmative defenses.  (Morris Cerullo
World Evangelism v. Newport Harbor Offices & Marina, LLC (2021) 67
Cal.App.5th 1149, 1156-1157.)
 
Procedure
 
To determine whether an
anti-SLAPP motion should be granted, courts engage in a two-step process and
evaluate the merits of the claim(s) using a “summary-judgment-like
procedure.”  (Baral, supra, 1
Cal.5th at p. 384.)  “The procedures
authorized in the statute allow a defendant to stay discovery before litigation
costs mount, obtain early dismissal of the lawsuit, and recover attorney fees.”  (Kurz, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at
p. 757.)  A special motion to strike “is
not a substitute for a motion for a demurrer or summary judgment.”  (Belen v. Ryan Seacrest
Productions, LLC (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145, 1161.)  And there is no meet and confer requirement
prior to filing an anti-SLAPP motion.  (Trinity
Risk Management, LLC v. Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions, Inc. (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 995, 1008.)  
 
First Step
 
In the first step, the
moving defendant has the initial burden of showing that the challenged cause of
action arises from protected free speech or petitioning activity.  (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p.
1009; Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2
Cal.5th 1057, 1061 (hereafter Park).) 
“The defendant's first-step burden is to identify the activity each
challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that that activity is protected by
the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Wilson,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 884.)  When
the defendant has not met this burden, the court may summarily deny the special
motion to strike “without putting the plaintiff to the burden of establishing
the probability of success on the merits.” 
(Whitehall v. County of San Bernardino (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 352,
360 (hereafter Whitehall).)
 
“[I]n ruling on an
anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim
and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently form
the basis for liability.”  (Park, supra,
2 Cal.5th at p. 1063.)  It is not enough
that a claim was filed after or even “because of” protected activity, but
rather the protected activity must “supply elements of the challenged
claim.”  (Id. at p. 1064.)  Moreover, courts “must distinguish between
speech or petitioning activity that is mere evidence related to liability, and
liability that is based on speech or petitioning activity.”  (Whitehall, supra, 17
Cal.App.5th at p. 361.)
 
Moreover, the anti-SLAPP
statute does not require a defendant “to disprove allegations of illicit
motive.”  (Wilson, supra, 7
Cal.5th at p. 887.)  Courts must
distinguish between “allegations of conduct on which liability is based” and
“allegations of motives for such conduct” because “the anti-SLAPP statute is
triggered only when the alleged injury-producing conduct is protected activity,
not merely the motivating conduct for that activity.”  (Gaynor v. Bulen (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
864, 887 (hereafter Gaynor).) 
However, a defendant’s motives are not “categorically off-limits in
determining whether an act qualifies as protected activity under the anti-SLAPP
statute” but “the plaintiff's allegations cannot be dispositive of the
question.”  (Wilson, supra,
7 Cal.5th at p. 889.)  “[W]hether the defendant's
act qualifies as one in furtherance of protected speech or petitioning will
depend on whether the defendant took the action for speech-related
reasons.”  (Ibid.)  “But there is an important difference between
permitting the defendant to present evidence of its own motives in an effort to
make out its prima facie case of protected activity and treating a plaintiff's
allegations of illicit motive as a bar to anti-SLAPP protection,” which is not
proper.  (Ibid.)  
 
Second Step
 
Once the court finds the
defendant has made the threshold showing, the “the burden then shifts to the
plaintiff to show a probability of prevailing on [the] claims.”  (De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 854.)  To meet
this burden, “the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.”  (Finton Construction, Inc.
v. Bidna & Keys, APLC (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 200, 211.)  “[T]he plaintiff must then demonstrate its
claims have at least ‘minimal merit.’ ” 
(Park, supra, 2 Cal.5th at p. 1061.)  “[A] plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the
merit of the claim ‘may not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified;
instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence.’”  (Monster, supra, 7 Cal.5th at
p. 788.)  “[A] court must at the second
step accept as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff” but is not
required to give “similar credence” to allegations in the complaint “in the
face of contrary evidence.”  (Wilson,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 887.)  
 
This procedure is
essentially a summary judgment motion in reverse.  (Area 55, LLC v. Nicholas & Tomasevic,
LLP (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 136, 152.) 
“Rather than requiring the defendant to defeat the plaintiff's
pleading by showing it is legally or factually meritless, the motion requires
the plaintiff to demonstrate that he possesses a legally sufficient
claim which is ‘substantiated,’ that is, supported by competent, admissible
evidence.”  (Ibid.)  “Consistent with this summary-judgment-like
procedure, the court “must draw all reasonable inferences from the evidence in
favor of [the party opposing the anti-SLAPP motion.’”  (Ibid.)  “Only a [cause of action] that satisfies both
prongs of the anti-SLAPP statute—i.e., that arises from protected speech
or petitioning and lacks even minimal merit—is a SLAPP suit, subject to
being stricken under the statute.”  (Sheley
v. Harrop (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 1147, 1162.) 

 
DISCUSSION
 
1.      Protected Activity
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16, subdivision (e) provides: 
“As used in this section, ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of
petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in
connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or
writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law [….]”  
 
“[S]tatements, writings, and
pleadings in connection with civil litigation are covered by the anti-SLAPP
statute” and “shall be construed broadly” in order to “protect[] the right of
litigants to the utmost freedom of access to the courts without the fear of
being harassed subsequently by derivative tort actions.”  (Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates
(2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467, 1478-1479.) 
 “[I]t is the principal thrust or
gravamen of the plaintiff's cause of action that determines whether the
anti-SLAPP statute applies[.]”  (Martinez
v. Metabolife Internat., Inc. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 188.)
 
Lazar contends that Plaintiffs
have named him as a Defendant as a means of circumventing the Court’s prior
order denying their motion to compel Lazar to a deposition, and therefore the
addition of Lazar to the lawsuit arises from Lazar’s protected activity of
successfully asserting the Apex doctrine in response to a deposition notice.  
 
Plaintiffs argue that they are
“not suing Lazar for speech incorporated in his declaration in support of
Helio’s opposition to the motion to compel.” 
(Opp. at p. 13:7-8.)  Rather, Plaintiffs
contend that after the hearing on the motion to compel Lazar, they deposed
Helio’s PMQ, during which deposition they “learned for the first time that
Simon Lazar is an officer of Overland Asset Group, LLC, a Managing Member for
Venue Residences, LLC and the Corporate Officer and Director for Helio
Group[.]”  (Opp. at p. 13:11-13.)  Thus, Lazar “hired his own business to
conduct the construction work.”  (Opp. at
p. 13:13-14.)  Therefore, Plaintiffs’
current theory of liability is that Venue “negligently hired, retained, and/or
supervised Defendant Helio Group” in the construction project because “Mr.
Lazar was financially motivated to take safety shortcuts and hire his own
company, on his own timeline, as compared to hiring an independent contracting
business that he does not have ownership interest in.”
 
Thus, while Lazar contends
that Plaintiffs were motivated to add him to the lawsuit because of his
assertion of the Apex doctrine, the allegations themselves stem from Lazar’s
conduct in hiring his own general contracting company to do the construction
work on the project he had an ownership interest in.  
 
Therefore, the gravamen of
Plaintiffs’ claims against Lazar do not arise out of the protected activity of
raising the Apex doctrine in opposition to a motion to compel.
 
Therefore, Lazar has not met his
burden to establish that Plaintiffs’ claims against him arise from protected
conduct under the anti-SLAPP statute.[1]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Because the Court finds Lazar
has not met his burden to establish that Plaintiffs’ claims against him arise
from protected activity under the anti-SLAPP statute, the Court denies Lazar’s special
motion to strike.
 
Lazar shall file a response to
the complaint on or before October 26, 2023.
 
Lazar shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
DATED:
October 12, 2023                                                     ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


