 Case Number:  22SMCV00322    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Fryer, v. the
Sunset Restaurant and Beach Bar LP, et al.
CASE NO.:                22SMCV00322
MOTION:                  Motion
to Vacate Stay
HEARING DATE:   10/11/2023

 
Legal
Standard
 
            Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section
1281.97(a)(1) states:  
 
“In
an employment or consumer arbitration that requires, either expressly or
through application of state or federal law or the rules of the arbitration
administrator, the drafting party to pay certain fees and costs before the
arbitration can proceed, if the fees or costs to initiate an arbitration
proceeding are not paid within 30 days after the due date, the drafting party
is in material breach of the arbitration agreement, is in default of the
arbitration, and waives its right to compel arbitration under Section 1281.2.” 
 
            CCP section 1281.98(a) provides a
similar requirement for payment and resulting material breach and waiver with
respect to fees required to be paid by the drafting party “during the pendency
of an arbitration proceeding.”  Under
both CCP sections 1281.97(b)(1) and 1281.98(b)(1), if the drafting party fails
to timely pay the arbitration fees required, then a material breach and waiver
have occurred the employee may “[w]ithdraw the claim from arbitration and
proceed in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.” 
 
            In addition, CCP section 1281.99(a)
states that the court shall impose a monetary sanction against a drafting party
that materially breaches an arbitration agreement pursuant to section 1281.97(a)
or section 1281.98(a), by ordering the drafting party to pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees and costs, incurred by the employee or
consumer as a result of the material breach.
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED.
(Evid. Code § 452(c), (d).)
 
Plaintiff Amber Fryer moves to
vacate this Court’s arbitration stay because Defendants The Sunset Restaurant
and Beach Bar LP, Francesco Simplicio, Pedro Martinez and Denise McCurdy failed
to timely pay the certain retainer fees in this matter. Plaintiff also requests
$13,120.00 in sanctions against Defendants and their counsel of record, Tharpe
& Howell, LLP, jointly and severally.
 
On September 29, 2022, the Court
heard and granted Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration and stayed any
further court proceedings. On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed her demand for
arbitration with Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services, Inc. (“JAMS”).
(Gabriel Decl., ¶¶ 3, 4)  On January 13,
2023, a Notice of Appointment of Arbitrator to all parties was issued by JAMS, along
with an invoice for a preliminary deposit to cover the expense of all
pre-hearing work, such as reading, drafting of orders, and conference calls. (Gabriel
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. C.) According to the invoice, Defendants were required
to pay an amount of $9,500.00, which was due upon receipt of the invoice. Payment
was due on February 12, 2023, pursuant to CCP section 1281.98.
 
Defendants failed to render payment
by February 12, 2023. On January 31, 2023, JAMS sent a reminder notice to
counsel that fees were due upon receipt. (Gabriel Decl., Ex. C.) On February
15, 2023, after the statutory due date passed, JAMS sent a second email
entitled “FEES DUE,” stating that it was a “friendly reminder” that retainer
fees are “due upon receipt” and there “remains outstanding
payment from RESPONDENTS SUNSET RESTAURANT AND BEACH BAR LP.” (Id.) On
that same date, Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to JAMS and Defendants’
counsel that the statutory deadline to pay for the Arbitration fee had passed,
that Defendants were in material breach of the arbitration agreement, and that
pursuant to De Leon v. Juanita’s Foods and CCP §§ 1281.97 and 1281.98,
Plaintiff elected to withdraw the demand for arbitration and proceed in Court.
(Id.) Defendants apparently made the payment on February 21, 2023.
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in bringing
this motion. The equitable defense of laches “consists of a failure on the part of a plaintiff to assert
his rights in a timely fashion accompanied by a period of delay with consequent
results prejudicial to the defendant . . ..  A mere delay, considered alone, does not
usually constitute laches; normally, to be an effective bar, the delay must be
disadvantageous to a defendant, and constitute a quasi-estoppel.” (Swart v.
Johnson¿(1942) 48 Cal.App.2d 829, 834.) In other words, laches is warranted
where there is unreasonable delay plus prejudice to the defendant resulting
from the delay. (Drake v. Pinkham (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 400, 406.)
"The existence of laches is a question of fact to be determined by a
weighing of all of the applicable circumstances by the trial judge." (Rouse
v. Underwood (1966) 242 Cal. App. 2d 316, 325.) Defendants point to the delay between the expiration of the time to
pay in February 2023 and Plaintiff’s motion in September 2023. However, this is
not the correct metric. Plaintiff did not delay in asserting this defense, as
they noticed their withdrawal of their arbitration on February 15, 2023, to
JAMS and Defendants, only two days after the defense became ripe. This
apparently led JAMS to “pause” the arbitration. (Magnanimo Decl., Ex. B.) Further,
even if the Court considers the delay between February 2023 and September 2023,
Defendants point to no prejudice stemming from this delay. Defendants argue
that they have a due process right to defend themselves in arbitration.
However, their actions waived arbitration by failing to pay fees required by
the arbitrator within the statutory framework. 
 
Defendants argue that they did not violate section 1281.98 because
they paid their initial filing fee per section 1281.97. They reason that
once they paid the initial filing fee, the arbitrator selection process commenced,
and Hon. Elizabeth White was appointed as arbitrator, completing all
obligations under section 1281.97. (Magnanimo Decl., ¶ 3.) They further argue
that they did not breach the agreement because payment of the fees was not
required to “continue” the arbitration. They point out that the invoice at
issue described the retainer deposit as a “preliminary deposit to cover the
expense of all pre-hearing work, such as ready, drafting of orders, and
conference calls” and did not reference sections 1281.98 or state the case
would be closed if payment is not made. (Gabriel Decl., Ex. C, p. 1.) They note
the cited cases involved notices of the initial filing fees, and
invariably stated that the arbitrator would close the parties’ case if the fees
were not received. They assert that the arbitrator has the power to terminate
or suspend proceedings pursuant to the JAMS rules. However, Defendants do not
provide authority that the arbitrator needs to inform the employer of their
obligation to pay fees by directly citing the statutes. The notices sent by JAMS
unambiguously stated that the invoices were to be paid by Defendants and that
they were due upon receipt. The fact that JAMS could suspend or
terminate the proceedings for non-payment of such fees does not change the fact
that an employee may elect to withdraw if fees are not paid pursuant to CCP § 1281.98.

 
Defendants
further argue that this Court should defer to the Arbitrator and allow the
Arbitrator to decide whether Defendants are in material breach of the
arbitration agreement. The Court, however, would not have the jurisdiction to
consider the instant motion. The statute allows the employee to “unilaterally
elect” to “[w]ithdraw the claim and proceed in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. (CCP § 1281.98.) The Court certainly has power to lift the stay
on its own case and sanction Defendants where Plaintiff made this unilateral
election.
 
            As Defendants failed to pay
necessary fees to continue the arbitration, and Plaintiff timely elected to
withdraw the arbitration, the Court is will lift the stay.
 
The
Court “shall impose a monetary sanction against a drafting party that
materially breaches an arbitration agreement” pursuant section 1281.98 in the
form of the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees and costs, incurred
by the employee due to the breach.
 
Plaintiff claims $12,700.00 and
$420.00 in costs related to the instant arbitration efforts. (Gabriel Decl.,
¶¶8-17.) Plaintiffs’ counsel claims an hourly rate of $800.00 and counsel’s
“employee” (perhaps a paralegal) claims an hourly rate of $350.00. Counsel
spent 2 hours drafting and submitting the demand for arbitration, and his
employee spent an hour drafting, reviewing and finalizing the demand for
Arbitration. Counsel spent 2 hours meeting and conferring with Defense counsel
regarding the initial Arbitration Payment. Counsel spent an hour drafting the declaration,
an hour on the request for judicial notice, three hours conducting research and
drafting this Motion. His employee spent an hour conducting research and
drafting this Motion. Counsel anticipates spending four hours reviewing
Defendant’s opposition and drafting a reply brief, and two hours preparing for
and attending this hearing. In total, counsel claims 15 hours and counsel’s
employee claims 2 hours. The Court finds these times and rates inflated and
therefore unreasonable. The Court will adjust the times and rates to be
reasonable in light of counsel and employee’s time spent and experience. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
The Court grants a reasonable sanction of $5,560.00 against Defendants and
counsel of record, jointly and severally, inclusive of costs, to be paid to
Plaintiff’s counsel within 30 days.
 
 