 Case Number:  21SMCV01662    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Clayton, et
al., v. Malibu West Swimming Club, et al.
CASE NO.:                21SMCV01662
MOTION:                  Demurrer
to the Second Amended Complaint 
HEARING DATE:   10/11/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§
430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            A
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if
the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)

 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
Objections
 
Defendants’
objections to the declaration of Dale Reicheneder are GRANTED. The Court
will consider this declaration only in terms of an offer of proof for leave to
amend.
 
Breach of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions &
Equitable Relief
 
Malibu West demurs to the first and
fourth causes of action on the grounds that the second amended complaint (SAC)
does not allege it has breached any obligations under Defendant Malibu West’s Conditions,
Covenants and Restrictions (“CC&Rs). 
 
A cause of action for breach of
contract requires the following elements: (1) existence of a contract; (2)
plaintiff’s performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance; (3)
defendant’s breach; and (4) resulting damage. (Harris v. Rudin, Richman
& Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) “On a demurrer, the court must
consider the sufficiency of the allegations, including any parol evidence
allegations, to determine whether the contract is reasonably susceptible to
plaintiff’s alleged interpretation.” (George v. Automobile Club of Southern
California (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1128.) A pleader’s legal characterization of a
contract is not controlling, particularly when the contract is attached to the
pleading. (Morris v. Redwood Empire Bancorp¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1305,
1314.) However, courts will defer to plaintiffs’ reasonable interpretations. (Performance
Plastering v. Richmond American Homes of Cal., Inc.¿(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
659, 672.)¿
 
CC&Rs are contracts between a
homeowner and a homeowner association. (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners
Association (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 513.) Civil Code section 5975(a) provides
that CC&Rs terms are enforceable by owners as an equitable servitude. It
states:
 
“(a) The
covenants and restrictions in the declaration shall be enforceable equitable
servitudes, unless unreasonable, and shall inure to the benefit of and bind all
owners of separate interests in the development. Unless the declaration states
otherwise, these servitudes may be enforced by any owner of a separate interest
or by the association, or by both.”
 
Plaintiffs purchased their property
at Malibu West in 2013. (SAC, ¶ 37.) Malibu West is a Common Interest
Development Association and Planned Development governed by the provisions of its
CC&Rs and the Architectural Guidelines. (SAC, ¶¶ 6, 40-42.)
 
In November 2018, the Clayton
Property was destroyed by a wildfire. (SAC, ¶ 31.) Thereafter, Plaintiffs
decided to rebuild their home and submitted their proposed design plans to the
Architectural Committee for approval. (SAC ¶ 45.) The Architectural Committee
received the first set of proposed plans from Plaintiffs in December 2019, and
denied the plans in May 2020. (SAC ¶ 45.) The denial of the plans was based on
the violation of various Architectural Guidelines, in particular, guidelines
that dictated roof height and type, square footage, and pad location. (SAC, ¶
46.) Plaintiffs submitted a second set of proposed plans in June 2020, which
were also rejected since the Board found them to unreasonably obstruct a
neighbor’s mountain views, which is at issue here. (SAC, Ex. L.)
 
The SAC focuses on Malibu West’s letters
rejecting Plaintiffs’ second proposed build design, which allegedly manifested
“ongoing, selective, unreasonable and picayune mandates, including demanding
the Claytons execute an extralegal and unauthorized baseless and over
burdensome, one-sided, unconscionable contract with the Association, that is
not provided for in the Governing Documents.” (SAC ¶185.)  Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that Malibu
West breached the CC&Rs sections 5.2(d)(1), 7.2, 7.7 and 7.9 by denying
their construction plans. (SAC ¶¶ 181-225.) Plaintiffs allege that Malibu West
engaged in unreasonable selective enforcement and favoritism in conflict with
the Association's expressed right to grant reasonable variances. (¶ 205.) The
SAC provides that the denial provided the following conditions which are
unreasonable under the CC&Rs:
 
1. The roof cannot exceed 13 feet, 11 inches;  
2. All work must be completed within a year; 
3. Disallowing rooftop equipment, etc.; 
4. Complaining the rebuild is 35 feet too large; 
5. Disallowing any changes to so-called drainage patterns
and permeability issues; 
6. Demanding the Claytons' building permits issued from the
City of Malibu, must conform not with the City's Code's, but those of the
Association; 
7. Requiring the Claytons to insure against damage to the
Common Area Streets, Curbs and Sidewalks, etc.; 
8. Stating that the Claytons will be subject to fines or
other unknown remedies unilaterally decided by the Association; 
9. Demanding the Claytons provide an open-ended, over broad,
indemnification and hold-harmless provisions; and
10. Asserting that the Claytons must sign the November 6,
2020 "approval' or the Association will not allow the rebuild.
 
(SAC ¶132.)
 
The fourth cause of action for
equitable relief alleges that the Board improperly rejected the second proposed
rebuild plans in conflict with the CC&Rs. (SAC ¶¶ 325-373.) It relies on
the same substantive allegations as the breach of CC&R cause of action.
Thus, the Court will consider both causes of action together.
 
Section 5.2(d)(1) of the
CC&Rs
 
            Defendant Malibu
West argues that it could not have violated Section 5.2 because the section
does not impose any duty on it to evaluate Plaintiffs’ proposed design plans
for their rebuild. (SAC, ¶ 210.) Section 5.2 of the CC&Rs pertains to the
“Common Area” and states:
 
(d) Limitations
on Owners' use of Common Area. The Lot and Condominium Owners' rights of
use and enjoyment of the Common Area shall be subject to the Governing
Documents and the right of the Association… to: (1) Adopt and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations for the use of the Common Area and the Project[.]
 
(SAC ex. C § 5.2.) Section 1.5 defines "Common
Area" as “the entire Property except all of the Lots, as defined in this
Restated Declaration, including, but not limited to, the private streets,
tennis courts, private beach, clubhouse, the parking lot serving the clubhouse,
and any easements owned by the Association.” Section 1.10 defines
"Lot" as “any residential lot or parcel of land shown upon any
recorded subdivision map or recorded parcel map of the Property… and dwelling
unit and any other Improvements constructed or to be constructed thereon.”
 
Read in context, section 5.2 merely
provides that the Owners may use Common Areas subject to the Association’s
“right” to “enforce reasonable rules and regulations for the use of the Common
Area and the Project.” Logically, this implies a duty on Malibu West to enforce
only reasonable rules and regulations when limiting an Owner’s use of Common
Areas. As such, Malibu West could not have violated section 5.2 by denying Plaintiff’s
proposed construction plans as Malibu West did not limit or deny use of Common Areas
by Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs argue that the “view” obstruction issue pertains to
common areas of the Project, without further explanation. However, Plaintiffs
challenge Malibu West’s denial of Plaintiffs’ construction on their own Lot/Unit.
As alleged, Plaintiffs’ construction project on their own Lot does not relate to
Plaintiffs’ use or enjoyment of Common Areas, as their Lot is excluded from the
definition of Common Areas by the CC&Rs. Therefore, Plaintiffs have not
stated a breach of this section.
 
Section 7.2 of the CC&Rs
 
Malibu West argues that it could
not have violated Section 7.2 because it does not require Malibu West to
authorize tree removal in any event. This section provides:
 
Section 7.2 Removal
of Sycamore and Oak Trees. No Owner shall destroy or remove any sycamore
and/or oak trees located on the Owner's Lot without obtaining the prior written
approval of the Board. In deciding whether or not to grant approval of the
proposed destruction or removal of any sycamore or oak tree(s), the Board shall
consider the effect on the environment arising from the destruction or removal
of such trees.
 
(SAC, Ex. C § 7.2.)
 
The allegations contained in the
SAC are confusing on this point. The SAC alleges that the Sycamore Trees on the
Plaintiffs’ Lot died from the wildfire and must be removed prior to the
commencement of construction. (SAC ¶¶ 123, 188.) Malibu West denied the removal
of the dead Sycamore Trees, which prevented construction. (Id.) To evidence
this, the SAC alleges that the Committee wrote on November 6, 2020, that “All
Coastal Live Oaks or Sycamores on [Plaintiffs’] property, if any, shall
not be removed. (Id., emphasis added.) This does not contradict Plaintiffs’
desire to remove dead Sycamore trees. In any event, these facts do not
show that the Board violated section 7.2. By its terms, this section requires
Owners to obtain written approval of the Board prior to removing sycamore
trees. This does not require the Board to come to any conclusion on removal. It
only requires that the Board must consider the effect of the environment in
making this determination. Plaintiffs argue in opposition that the Board did
not consider any effect on the environment from tree removal. However, the SAC
does not allege facts demonstrating that the Board failed to consider this
issue. In fact, the SAC is silent on the Board’s environmental impact consideration.
Thus, the SAC fails to state a breach of this section.
 
Section 7.7 of the CC&Rs
 
Section 7.7 provides in relevant
part:
 
Section 7.7 Variances.
The Board of Directors shall be entitled to allow reasonable variances with
respect to this Article or any restrictions specified in this Restated
Declaration in order to overcome practical difficulties, avoid unnecessary
expense or prevent unnecessary hardship, provided that the Board makes a good
faith determination that: 
(a) the
requested variance does not constitute a material deviation from the overall
plan and scheme of development within the Properties or from any restriction
contained herein or that the proposal allows the objectives of the violated
requirement(s) to be substantially achieved despite noncompliance; or
(b) the variance
relates to a requirement under this Restated Declaration that is unnecessary or
burdensome under tile circumstances; or 
(c) the
variance, if granted, will not result in a material detriment, or create an
unreasonable nuisance, with respect to the Common Area or any other Owner
within the Properties. 
 
(SAC, Ex. C § 7.7.)
 
Plaintiffs allege that Malibu West
violated Section 7.7 when it did not grant their requested “reasonable”
variances, including allowing for an additional 164 square feet and permission
to move the home forward by approximately five feet. (SAC, ¶ 210.) Plaintiffs
contend that the rebuild should not be subject to unreasonable, biased and
racially motivated scrutiny by the Board. (SAC ¶146.) Plaintiffs contend that
they should be allowed a roof line that may be a foot too high and lower than
the original roof, a home that is 164 sq. ft. too large. (Id.) This is
especially true considering that the Board has granted variances to other homes
which are higher, larger and have unique roofing systems. (Id.)
 
Section 7.7 places no obligation on
Malibu West to grant variances, even if reasonable. Section 7.7 only permits the
Board to grant variances, stating that the Board “shall be entitled to allow
reasonable variances” under certain circumstances. Plaintiffs do not allege
that those circumstances arose, i.e., that the Board determined, in good faith,
that a) the requested variance was not a material deviation from the overall
plan and scheme of development; (b) the relevant requirement was unnecessary or
burdensome; or (c) the requested variance would not be material detriment or
unreasonable nuisance. Plaintiffs argue that Malibu West violated the express
“good faith” requirements in section 7.7. However, Plaintiffs have the “good
faith” requirement backwards. The CC&Rs do not require the Board to make a
good faith determination that a variance is not required. Instead, the
CC&Rs require that the Board make a good faith determination that a
variance is required. Malibu West could not have violated the good faith
requirement by denying a variance. Plaintiffs’ allegations of the
Board’s bad faith in determining that a variance is not required is
therefore irrelevant. Accordingly, the SAC does not state a breach of section
7.7.
 
Section 7.9 of the CC&Rs
 
Plaintiffs allege that Malibu
West’s demand conflicted with section 7.9.
 
Section 7.9 View
Obstructions. No vegetation or other obstruction shall be planted or
maintained on a Lot in such location or of such height as to unreasonably
obstruct the view of the ocean or mountain from a Lot. If there is a dispute
between Owners concerning the obstruction of a view from a Lot, the Owners
involved shall make a good faith attempt to resolve the dispute between
themselves. If, after a reasonable attempt to resolve the dispute, the Owners
cannot reach a mutually agreeable resolution, the dispute shall be submitted to
the Board, whose decision in such matter shall be binding. Any such obstruction
shall, upon request of the Board, be removed or otherwise altered to the
Board's satisfaction, at the cost and expense of the responsible Owner, as
determined by the Board.
 
(SAC, Ex. C §7.9.) This section places an obligation on Owners
from unreasonably obstructing the view from any Lot. Further, it requires that
if there is a dispute over obstruction, the Owners must attempt an informal
resolution. If the Owners cannot resolve the dispute themselves, then the Board
makes a final determination on the obstruction.
 
The SAC alleges that no neighbors
made any attempt to resolve any obstruction dispute in accordance with section
7.9. (SAC ¶195.) Further, the proposed rebuild has, at most a de minimis
impact, as any reasonable evaluation would conclude the placement of the home
results in an unascertainable impact. (SAC ¶196.) However, this does not state
any facts which show Malibu West violated the terms of this section. Plaintiffs
reiterate their bad faith arguments from section 7.7. Plaintiffs contend that
Malibu West has an obligation to grant a modest variance regarding approving a
small corner portion of Plaintiffs' rebuild in order to accommodate Malibu's
Fire Department's rules and the City of Malibu's setback requirements. However,
section 7.9 (or section 7.7) does not provide any such duty.  
 
Plaintiffs therefore fail to cite
any provision of the CC&Rs that Malibu West breached. Without a breach,
there is no cause of action for breach of contract.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the first and fourth causes of action.
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The elements for a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED) are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct
by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate causal
link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress. (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.) A defendant’s conduct is
“outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community. (Id.) The defendant must either
intend his or her conduct to inflict injury or engaged in it with the
realization that injury will result. (Id.) Liability for intentional
infliction of emotional distress does not extend to mere insults, indignities,
threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities. (Id.)
 
“[I]t is not enough that the
defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that
he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has
been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.” (Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 496.) “Liability has been found only where the
conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go
beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and
utterly intolerable in a civilized community.” (Id.) While there is no
bright-line as to what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a
case-by-case analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently
outrageous at the demurrer stage. (Id. at 494.) 
 
That said, when reasonable persons
may differ, it is for the jury, subject to the control of the Court, to
determine whether, in the particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently
extreme and outrageous to result in liability.¿(Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering,
Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.) For instance, “[b]ehavior may be considered
outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him
power to damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is
susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or
unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness
through mental distress.” (McDaniel v. Gile (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 363,
372.) 
 
A plaintiff must allege with “great
specificity the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th
819, 832.) 
 
The SAC alleges that the Board
denying Plaintiffs’ their preferred design plans for their new home has caused
and continues to cause severe emotional distress. (SAC ¶ 383.) The SAC alleges
that certain Board members, including Biglow and Little, have actual conflicts
of interest in the rebuilding process within the Association. (¶¶ 375-377.)
They are involved in the design and construction industries, and other owners
that hired the Board’s preferred contractors had their variances approved.
(Id.) 
 
Further, Plaintiffs are the only
African-American family in this neighborhood. (SAC ¶ 379.) After Plaintiffs
raised these conflicts with the Board, Biglow stated that "you people [a
triggering phrase for African-Americans] need to follow the rules" on
several occasions. (¶ 378.) Biglow’s comments towards the Claytons were
accusatory, with racial undertones. (Id.) Biglow also made racist remarks directed
at Plaintiffs, stating that "you people are troublemakers." (¶ 379.) There
is no credible explanation why Plaintiffs’ design and reasonable variances are being
singled out. (¶¶ 380-381.) Little owns a downslope residence from Plaintiffs’
Lot. (¶ 382.) Little stated that he became a Board Member "to specifically
prevent the Claytons from building their proposed home and prevent the pad of
the home being approved for being moved forward.” (Id.) This also reflects a
racial prejudice against Plaintiffs. (Id.) The Board described Plaintiffs’ proposed
home as a "nuisance" at a general meeting, because the new home would
be built a few feet forward per local code, including a de minimis 164 sq. ft.
increase. (¶ 384.) This statement was malicious, unreasonable, outrageous and
exaggerated, and further evidences the bias and racial prejudice. (Id.) 
 
The Board also led Plaintiffs to
believe a new roof design would resolve the issues. (SAC ¶ 385.) After Plaintiffs
acquiesced to the new Flat Roof design, the Association reneged on its promise,
and invented new issues to prevent the Claytons from building their home and
that the Board. (Id.) This punitively singled out Plaintiffs and misled them
into thinking their new home would be built, causing additional severe
emotional distress. (Id.)
 
Defendants argue that there is no
authority suggesting that a common interest development’s denial of a member’s
proposed architectural plans constitutes “outrageous” conduct. Indeed,
surveying the case law, even a bad faith denial of reasonable variance(s) would
not arise to level of conduct required by IIED. Further, the comments by the
individual board members are, at worst, insults,
indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions or other trivialities. While
these comments may be hurtful and racist, IIED does not protect against such comments.

 
Plaintiffs argue that their home is
indefinitely held hostage. The alleged facts do not show that this is the case.
Defendants do have some power to grant variances for Plaintiffs’ construction. Defendants
allegedly abused this power by denying variances in bad faith and with racial
animus. However, Plaintiffs do not cite authority which suggests that the mere denial
of a variance to a CC&R could ever be considered extreme or
outrageous conduct. Denial of a variance is not holding Plaintiffs’ home
“hostage,” as Plaintiffs may simply comply with the CC&Rs and architecture
guidelines as written to proceed with construction. Considering this
context, a reasonable juror could not conclude that enforcing the CC&Rs as
written was so outrageous, atrocious and extreme as to go beyond all possible
bounds of decency and would be utterly intolerable in a civilized community even
if considered racist. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to this cause of action.
 
Conversion 
 
Plaintiffs concede that the
conversion cause of action is improper here. Simply put, “[t]he tort of conversion applies to personal property, not
real property.” (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1295.)  Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to this cause of action.
 
Plaintiff has 10 days to file an amended complaint.