 Case Number:  24VECV04770    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  B ENIE IRAWATI SOEBROETO, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO DECEDENTS ANDREA BULLO AND MARCO BULLO VS FORD MOTOR COMPANY, ET AL.APPLICATION FOR PRO HAC VICEDate of Hearing: November 18, 2024 Trial Date: NoneDepartment: B Case No.: 24VECV04770Moving Party: Plaintiff Ernie Irawati SoebrotoResponding Party: NoneBACKGROUNDThis action arises from a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff Ernie Irawati Soebroto (“Plaintiff”), individually and as successor in interest to decedents Andrea Bullo and Marco Bullo (“Decedents”), alleges that, on November 22, 2022, Decedents died as a result of Defendants Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) and Kevin Ivan Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”)(collectively “Defendants”)’s negligence.On September 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Ford, Gonzalez, and Does 1 to 100, alleging three causes of action: (1) strict product liability; (2) negligence; and (3) breach of express warranty.On October 17, 2024, Clyde T. Turner, Esq. (“Counsel”) filed the instant unopposed application to be appear pro hac vice on behalf of Plaintiff.[TENTATIVE] RULINGClyde T. Turner’s Application to Appear Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.LEGAL STANDARDCal. Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon due notice to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State. (CRC Rule 9.40.)The written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the attorney applicant is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicantattorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (CRC 9.40(d).)ANALYSISCounsel seeks to appear on behalf of Plaintiff pro hace vice in this action. Based on the application and the attached declaration: (1) Counsel is not employed or residing within California (Turner Decl. ¶¶ 1 and 2; 7); (2) Counsel has not applied to any other California courts to appear pro hace vice within the past two years (Ibid. at ¶ 8); (3) the application has the proper admission information for other courts where the attorney is admitted (Ibid. at ¶¶ 3 and 4); (4) the attorney is in good standing (Ibid. at ¶ 6); and (5) the applicant is to be associated with local counsel, Mark S. Algorri (Ibid. at ¶ 9). Additionally, notice of hearing upon this application was served upon the State Bar of California, along with the required $50.00 fee. (Algorri Decl. ¶ 5.)Accordingly, the application abides by CRC Rule 9.40 and is granted.CONCLUSIONCounsel’s application to appear on behalf of Plaintiff pro hace vice is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice and the Court will sign the proposed Order.