  Case Number:  21STCV22415    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  B TENTATIVE RULINGMATTHEW LAREZ, et al, Plaintiffs, vs. KAYRY GONZALEZ, Defendant. Case No.: 21STCV22415 Hearing Date: November 18, 2024BACKGROUNDOn May 7, 2024, Defendant Kayry Gonzalez (“Defendant”) initially noticed the deposition of Plaintiff’s non-retained expert witness Jon Greenfield, M.D. (“Dr. Greenfield”) for June 5, 2024. (Muench Decl. ¶ 9; Exh. B [notice of deposition].) Dr. Greenfield was served with the deposition subpoena on May 20, 2024. (Ibid. at ¶ 10; Exh. C [subpoena].) The deposition did not proceed as scheduled. (Ibid. at ¶ 11.) On August 7, 2024, Defendant attempted to reschedule Dr. Greenfield’s deposition. That day, Dr. Greenfield’s administrator indicated that Dr. Greenfield was “unable to participate” and had no return date as he suffered from medical issues. (Ibid. at ¶ 12; Exh. D [August 7, 2024, email correspondences].) Defendant now moves the Court to compel Dr. Greenfield’s deposition.LEGAL STANDARDAny party may obtain any discovery of information, documents, land, property, or electronically stored information so long as the discoverable matter is notprivileged, is relevant to the subject matter and can lead one to admissible evidence. (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.)CCP § 2025.450 provides in pertinent part the following:“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040 or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.CCP § 1987.1(a) further states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.” (emphasis added). “[U]pon motion reasonably made by the party, judges may rule upon motions for quashing, modifying or compellingcompliance with, subpoenas.” (Lee v. Swansboro Country Property Owners Ass'n (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 575, 582-583.)DISCUSSIONWhile the Court is sympathetic to Dr. Greenfield’s health issues, Defendant would be prejudiced without his deposition. This case arises from a vehicle collision which Plaintiff claims caused continuing neck pain, back pain, shoulder pain, and other physical ailments which Dr. Greenfield has treated. (Muench Decl. ¶¶ 2-4.) Dr. Greenfield likely made relevant findings in his reports and examinations with Plaintiff. (Ibid. at ¶ 4.) Dr. Greenfield was served with a valid subpoena on May 20, 2024. (Muench Decl. ¶ 10; Exh. C [subpoena].) Neither Plaintiff nor Dr. Greenfield raised objections to this subpoena.In light of his health issues, the deposition shall take place via video conferencing. Therefore, Dr. Greenfield is ordered to sit for his deposition, via video conferencing, within 20 days of this hearing.Moving party to give notice to opposing counsel and Dr. Greenfield.