 Case Number:  22STLC08613    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  26  Nissanoff
v. Oscar Health Plan of Cal., et al.MOTIONS TO COMPEL DEFENDANT’S FURTHER RESPONSES
TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION AND SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES(CCP §§ 2030.300, 2031.310)
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Plaintiff
Jonathan Nissanoff’s Motion for Order Compelling Further Responses to Requests
for Production, Set One, is GRANTED AS TO REQUEST NOS. 1-4 AND 6-8. THE MOTION
IS DENIED AS TO REQUEST NO. 5. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
Set One, is CONTINUED TO June 4, 2024 AT 10:00 AM IN DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE
SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Jonathan
Nissanoff (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant action for common counts and
breach of contract against Defendant Oscar Health Plan of California (“Defendant”)
on December 27, 2022. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on February 14,
2023. 
 
Plaintiff
filed a “Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses” on February 20, 2024. At
the hearing on March 21, 2024, the Court noted that the motion improperly
combined multiple motions into one and ordered that they be filed separately.
Plaintiff filed the instant (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One; and (2) Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request
for Production of Documents, Set One, on March 26, 2024. Defendant filed an
opposition to the second Motion on May 10, 2024 and Plaintiff replied on May
13, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Notice of the
motion to compel further must be given “within 45 days of service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or any specific later
date to which the requesting party and the responding party have agreed in
writing,” otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further
response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c); § 2031.310, subd. (d).) Defendant’s
discovery responses were served electronically on June 13, 2023. (Motions, Nissanoff
Decl., ¶5.) Notice of the Motions was initially timely filed and served on July
23, 2023. 
 
Also, the Motions must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1); 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) The supporting declarations demonstrate
an effort by defense counsel to obtain further responses from Plaintiff after
service of the original responses. (Motions, Rickett Decl., ¶¶6-7 and Exh. A.)
The meet and confer requirement, therefore, is satisfied. 
 
Finally, Cal. Rules
of Court Rule 3.1345 requires all motions or responses involving further
discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the
response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further
responses. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a).) Alternatively, “the court
may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request
and each response in dispute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(3).) The
Motions are accompanied by separate statements. (Separate Statements, filed
02/21/24.) 
 
Request for Production of Documents, Set One
 
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 1-8. Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.310 states in relevant part:
 
(a) On receipt of a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply:
(1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.
(2) A representation of inability
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
(3) An objection in the response
is without merit or too general.
 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with each of the following:
(1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subds. (a), (b).) The Court
will address each request for production.
 
Request No. 1 asks Defendant to produce all documents
referring or relating to the amounts charged for any and all healthcare
services provided to its insureds from January 1, 2019 to the present for CRT
Codes 99283, 26605, and 66450.
 
Defendant objected to the request as overbroad and unduly
burdensome, calling for proprietary, confidential, and trade secret
information, potentially calling for disclosure of protected health
information. It goes on to respond that it will produce relevant documents in
its custody following the Court’s adoption of a protective order. Defendant
then provided a supplemental response with further objections on the grounds
that producing these documents will cause irreparable commercial harm to it and
a protective order cannot address these concerns because Plaintiff is
self-represented and will see the information himself. 
 
Initially, the Court notes that Defendant’s opposition
memorandum does not address the overbreadth and burdensome objection. 
 
The parties dispute whether the documents sought are relevant
the claims alleged in the Complaint. The Complaint alleges that Defendant
failed to make payments due and owing to physicians (“the Physicians”) who
provided emergent care, and/or post-stabilization emergent care, treatment,
procedures, and medication prescriptions, to patients insured by Defendant.
(Compl., ¶¶7-8.) The Physicians were out-of-network because they did not have
provider contracts with Defendant. (Id. at ¶12.) Out-of-network
physicians are entitled to receive payment based on their billed or total
charges, therefore, Defendant was required by law and/or contract to compensate
the Physicians at the lesser of the billed charge or the usual, customary, and
reasonable (“UCR”) rate. (Id. at ¶¶15, 18.) Instead, Defendant routinely
reimbursed the Physicians’ claims below the UCR rate by using illegal and/or
flawed databases and systems to calculate reimbursement. (Id. at
¶¶19-20.) The rates paid by Defendant were arbitrary, capricious, and
inexplicable. (Id. at ¶21.) For example, the rates paid to the
Physicians by Defendant were different in the same year despite involving the
exact same procedure, treatment, surgery, or services. (Id. at ¶22.) As
another example, the Physicians were sometimes paid rates less than what they
would have received as an in-network provider even though in-network providers
should have paid significantly less than the URC rate. (Id. at ¶23.) 
 
Under California Code of Regulations section
1300.71(a)(3)(B)
 
the payment of the reasonable and
customary value for the health care services rendered based upon statistically
credible information that is updated at least annually and takes into
consideration: (i) the provider’s training, qualifications, and length of time
in practice; (ii) the nature of the services provided; (iii) the fees usually
charged by the provider; (iv) prevailing provider rates charged in the general
geographic area in which the services were rendered; (v) other aspects of the
economics of the medical provider’s practice that are relevant; and (vi) any
unusual circumstances in the case;
 
(28 Cal. Code of Regs., § 1300.71, subd. (a)(3)(B).)
Defendant first argues that these documents are not relevant to this action
because they are not specific to Plaintiff’s circumstances as an orthopedic
surgeon providing emergency services with his training, qualifications, length
of time in practice, and general geographic service area. The relevance of the
documents, however, arises from what they show regarding Defendant’s
consideration of these factors for payment of services provided to any of its
insureds, including those treated by the Physicians. They are also relevant to
“prevailing provider rates charged in the general geographic area in which the
services were rendered.” As noted above, Plaintiff alleges Defendant used
improper databases or systems to calculate reimbursement, resulting in
arbitrary, capricious, and inexplicable rates. 
 
The cases on which Defendant relies for the relevance
objection are also not controlling. NorthBay HealthCare Group v. Blue Shield
of California (2018) 342 F.Supp.3d 980 involved a similar assertion of
flawed methodology against an insurance company. However, in that case, the
district court determined that NorthBay could not pursue a claim for unfair
competition against Blue Shield based on a claim of flawed methodology without
also challenging the actual reasonable and customary value derived from it. (NorthBay
HealthCare Group v. Blue Shield of California (2018) 342 F. Supp. 3d 980,
988-990.) This action does not involve an unfair competition claim challenging
only the methodology used by Defendant; it is brought in quantum meruit and
contract to challenge the amount actually paid. Also, in NorthBay, the
district court looked at evidence submitted in support of a motion for summary
judgment and determined that the methodology did take into account the factors
under section 1300.71, subdivision (a)(3)(B). (Id. at 984.) Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant does not take those factors into account as
required by law, resulting in a non-UCR rate. 
Finally, the district court pointed out that although the
insurer’s methodology must be submitted to the Department of Managed Health
Care (“DMHC”) for licensure under the Knox Keene Act, the DMHC “does not
specifically approve or disapprove filings purporting to establish a
methodology.” (Id. at 984.) Even if Defendant provided evidence of submission
of its methodology to the DMHC, which it does not, this does not necessarily
mean it complies with section 1300.71, subdivision (a)(3)(B). The other case on
which Defendant relies includes an unpublished section, which the Court
declines to consider. The relevance objection, therefore, is overruled.
 
Next, Defendant argues that the information sought is
protected as a trade secret. “Trade secret” means information, including a
formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process,
that: (1) Derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not
being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic
value from its disclosure or use; and (2) Is the subject of efforts that are
reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.  (Civ. Code, § 3426.1.) Other than providing
the definition of a trade secret under the Civil Code, Defendant’s opposition
does not address the standard for addressing a trade secret objection in
discovery. 
 
The party claiming the privilege has
the burden to show that the communication sought to be suppressed falls within
the terms of the claimed privilege. (D.I. Chadbourne, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1964) 60 Cal.2d 723, 729, 36 Cal.Rptr. 468, 388 P.2d 700.) The party opposing
the privilege must bear the burden of showing that the claimed privilege does
not apply or that an exception exists or that there has been an expressed or
implied waiver. (See, e.g., Alpha Beta Co. v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 818, 824–825, 203 Cal.Rptr. 752.)
 
(Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1619.) Defendant offers no evidence to show that the documents sought fall
within the definition of a trade secret. Even if the Court were to assume the
first factor of a trade secret is met, there is no evidence of what efforts
Defendant undertakes to maintain the secrecy of the documents sought. The trade
secret objection, therefore, is also overruled. As Plaintiff points out, the
parties have entered into a stipulated protective order. Defendant’s contention
that the protective order is insufficient because Plaintiff is in pro per is
overruled. First, it is dependent on Defendant’s trade secrets claim, which it
has not proven. Second, Defendant was aware of Plaintiff’s pro per status at
the time the protective order was created. 
 
Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further responses
to Request No. 1 is granted. 
 
Request No. 2 asks Defendant to produce all documents
referring or relating to the amounts actually paid for the services listed in
Request No. 1. Based on the same objections and arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s
request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Request No. 2 is granted. 
 
Request No. 3 asks Defendant to produce all documents
referring or relating to the calculation or determination of amounts actually
paid for the services listed in Request No. 1. Based on the same objections and
arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Request No. 3 is granted. 
 
Request No. 4 asks Defendant to produce all documents
referring or relating to the calculation or determination of the URC rate for
the services listed in Request No. 1. Based on the same objections and
arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Request No. 4 is granted. 
 
Request No. 5 asks Defendant to produce all documents or
communications referring or relating to complaints, disputes or appeals
referring or relating to the amount paid for services listed in Request No. 1.
Plaintiff argues that these documents should be produced to show that Defendant
paid for these CPT codes and the amounts that were paid after an appeal was
made by other providers. The Court finds this request seeks more documents than
those that only showing what Defendant paid following an appeal; documents
showing what Defendant paid following an appeal will necessarily be produced in
response to the other requests. Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s
further responses to Request No. 5 is denied. 
 
Request No. 6 asks Defendant to produce all documents
relating or referring to the database and/or statistical model used to
determine the usual, customary and reasonable rate(s) for services rendered
listed in Request No. 1. Based on the same objections and arguments discussed
above, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further responses to Request
No. 6 is granted. 
 
Request No. 7 asks Defendant to produce all documents
relating or referring to the process and/or system used to determine the usual,
customary and reasonable rate(s) for services rendered listed in Request No. 1.
Based on the same objections and arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s request
to compel Defendant’s further responses to Request No. 7 is granted.
 
Request No. 8 asks Defendant to produce all documents that
support its position that it paid the Physicians reasonable, usual and
customary rates with respect to the Claims. Based on the same objections and
arguments discussed above, Plaintiff’s request to compel Defendant’s further
responses to Request No. 8 is granted.
 
Special Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, is CONTINUED TO June 4, 2024 AT 10:00 AM IN
DEPARTMENT 26 IN THE SPRING STREET COURTHOUSE.
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 