  Case Number:  23STCV23298    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
18, 2024                                           TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Emmanuel Akuamoah v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV23298
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENA TO SEDWICK CLAIMS MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC. FOR PLAINTIFF’S WORKERS’
COMPENSATION RECORDS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Emmanuel Akuamoah
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Kaiser
Foundation Hospitals
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
This is a discrimination and wrongful termination action.  On September 26, 2023, Plaintiff, Emmanuel
Akuamoah, filed a Complaint against Defendant, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals,
alleging causes of action for (1) Retaliation in Violation of CFRA, (2) Violation
of Labor Code §§ 233, 234, 246.5, (3) Disability and Associational Disability
Discrimination (FEHA), (4) Violation of Labor  Code §§ 1102.5-1105, (5) Retaliation (FEHA),
(6) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy, and (7) Failure to
Prevent Discrimination and/or Retaliation (FEHA).
 
The Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was employed by
Defendant as a social worker.  It is
further alleged, in relevant part, that Defendant retaliated and wrongfully
terminated Plaintiff after he took medical leave on January 26, 2023 because of
a rotator cuff injury suffered while driving from a patient’s home.  Plaintiff received workers’ compensation
benefits for the injury.
 
On November 3, 2023, Defendant issued a subpoena to Sedgwick
Claims Management Services, Inc., demanding production of all documents related
to Plaintiff’s workers compensation benefits. 
Specifically, Defendant sought to discover documents related Plaintiff’s
workers compensation claims made in 2016 and 2023 as they concerned similar
injuries to Plaintiff’s shoulder.  
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to quash the
subpoena.  Plaintiff does not seek
sanctions.   
 
Defendant filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD FOR QUASHING A DEPOSITION SUBPOENA 
 
A deposition subpoena may request (1) only the attendance
and testimony of a deponent, (2) only the production of business records for
copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony, as well as the production of
business records.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)  The court, upon
motion or the court’s own motion, “may make an order quashing the subpoena
entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any other
orders as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) “A deposition
subpoena that commands only the production of business records for copying
shall designate the business records to be produced either by specifically
describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing each category
of item . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).)  
 
III.         DISCUSSION
 
 Plaintiff moves for
an order quashing the subpoena for the following reasons: (1) the documents
sought are inadmissible under the collateral source rule and therefore not
discoverable, and (2) the subpoena violates Plaintiff’s privacy rights.  The arguments lacks merit.
 
First, admissibility does not determine discoverability.  “[A]dmissibility is not a prerequisite to
discovery.”¿ (Volkswagen of Am., Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 139
Cal.App.4th 1481, 1491.)  Plaintiff
cannot resist the subpoena simply because purportedly inadmissible information
is sought.  
 
Moreover, the information sought is relevant.  The subpoena seeks relevant information
regarding Plaintiff’s credibility. 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s 2016 and 2023 workers compensation claims
are “striking similar to each other.” 
(Opposition, p. 7.)  Defendant seeks
information regarding the worker’s compensation claims because the information may
support Defendant’s argument it did not discriminate or retaliate against
Plaintiff based upon the injuries or absences. 
 
Second, Plaintiff’s right to privacy does not overcome the
discoverability of the 2016 and 2023 workers’ compensation claims.  Plaintiff relies on Labor Code section 138.7
for the proposition that his right to keep his workers’ compensation claims
private is statutorily recognized.  Labor
Code section 138.7 states: “Except as expressly permitted in subdivision (b), a
person or public or private entity not a party to a claim for workers'
compensation benefits shall not obtain individually identifiable information
obtained or maintained by the division regarding that claim.”  (Lab. Code, § 138.7, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff’s reliance on section 138.7 is
unavailing.  It is undisputed that Defendant
was Plaintiff’s employer when he suffered the shoulder injury in 2016 and 2023.  Therefore, Defendant is a party to
Plaintiff’s claim for workers’ compensation benefits.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
Accordingly, the motion to quash is DENIED.
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   January 18,
2024                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 