  Case Number:  23STCV22106    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
1-25-24
Case
#23STCV22106
Trial
Date: Not Set 
 
STAY
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff, Wilshire Gayley, LLC
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Stay Pending Adjudication of Writ of Mandate
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Wilshire Gayley, LLC alleges a grant of entitlements to construct a residential
tower, with a subterranean parking lot on a 26,816 sq. ft. parcel on the corner
of Wilshire Blvd. and Gayley Ave. Approximately two years following approval of
the project, Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
began an extension project of the Purple Line public transportation system,
which would run adjacent to the Wilshire Gayley, LLC project. Vested rights
were extended until June 13, 2023. 
 
In
2016, University of California Los Angeles/Regents of the University of
California and/or City of Los Angeles requested the placement of a station
portal adjacent to the Wilshire Gayley property. While no modifications to the
residential project were ordered at the time of or after the announced
extension, the building permit process was subsequently conditioned on approval
from Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority. 
 
The
parties sought solutions for allowing construction to proceed on the
residential project, including specific address of seismic and soil analysis.
According to Wilshire Gayley, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority continues to impose demands rendering construction unfeasible and/or
refuses to approve of multiple proposed construction solutions, thereby
preventing Wilshire Gayley from obtaining a construction permit for the City of
Los Angeles. The continued delays in construction both substantially increases
costs, and threatens a lapse of entitlements for the construction project.
 
On
September 13, 2023, Wilshire Gayley, LLC filed a complaint against Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, et al. for Inverse Condemnation,
Nuisance, Dangerous Condition of Public Property, and Declaratory Relief.
 
RULING: Granted.
Request for Judicial Notice: Granted.
The court takes judicial notice of the filed pleadings, and
notice, but cannot take judicial notice of the content of any and all said
items for the truth of the matter asserted. 
 
Defendant, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (MTA) moves for a stay of the action pending litigation of a writ of
mandate, 21STCP03121, Wilshire Gayley, LLC v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, et al. (Department 86). MTA moves
for the stay on grounds that both actions involve the same parties over the
same construction project. MTA acknowledges the distinction between the writ—a
challenge to the construction permit approval process—versus the subject
action—an action seeking inverse condemnation damages from the loss of use of
the property caused by an adjacent public project. Nevertheless, MTA maintains
any adjudication of the damages claim is premature pending adjudication of the
writ of mandate. Wilshire Gayley, LLC (WG) opposes the motion on grounds that
the respective actions seek separate and distinct relief, and are therefore
sufficiently decoupled for purposes of independent adjudication of the claims.
MTA in reply emphasizes the interrelated nature of the actions given the
potential impacts to the design and construction of both projects pending resolution
of the writ. Any potential order from the writ will directly impact the scope
of the damages claim.
 
“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to
stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of
Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.) It remains
substantively undisputed from the carefully drafted writ of mandate and separately
filed complaint for inverse condemnation that WG seeks different bases of
relief albeit on claims arising from the same construction projects. WG cites a
valid basis for recovery for the recovery of damages caused as a result of the
mitigation process with MTA and consequential delays to the construction permit.
(See Holtz v. Superior Court (1970) 3 Cal.3d 296, 311; see also CUNA Mutual Life
Ins. Co. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2003)
108 Cal.App.4th 382, 393.) 
 
Nevertheless, the declaratory relief actions in the
respective actions, while pleading for certain forms of distinctive relief,
effectively encompass the mitigation measures dispute:
 
“116. Thus, WG seeks a declaration of its rights or duties
with respect to the Project; particularly that: (1) ZI No. 1117 does not apply
to or have any legal effect on the Project; (2) Metro does not have the right
to impose requirements on the Project through ZI No. 1117; (3) due process
would be frustrated if WG is forced to comply with ZI No. 1117; (4) the City
cannot condition issuance of a building permit on the requirement that WG
assess whether Metro’s Station will impact the Project and whether design
changes need to be made to the Project to account for Metro’s Station; and (5)
that Metro cannot interfere with the WG permitting process with the City or
otherwise prevent WG from pulling permits in the ordinary course, including,
but not limited to, the main building permit and early start permits for
excavation and shoring.”
 
“93. An actual, present controversy exists between WG on the
one hand and Metro, and Regents on the other, specifically as to whether the
application of excessive pressure to the WG Property resulting from the
installation of Metro’s SOE System beneath the ground surface on Lot 36 at the
westerly boundary line of the WG Property constitutes the taking and use of an
easement in the WG Property. 
94. Metro and Regents contend they have not created and are
not using an easement in the WG Property and WG contends Metro and Regents have
done so and are using, and will continue to use, an easement. 
95. WG seeks a declaration that such an easement exists in
the WG Property and has been taken and is being used by Metro and Regents
without WG’s consent and the payment of just compensation in violation of
Article 1, Section 19 of the California Constitution.”
 
The allegations somewhat factually dovetail at the
point where the MTA demands for mitigation measures for both the structural
integrity of the residential project and outlet station intersect. Whether and
when construction will proceed through via signoff on the construction permit
by MTA remains integral to the writ, but also impacts the potential scope of
mitigation damages and/or complete loss of use of damages. (Holtz v. Superior Court, supra,
3 Cal.3d at p. 311; CUNA Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra, 108 Cal.App.4th at p. 393.)

 
Case law analyzing the scope of a stay on a writ of
mandate addresses the process: a writ of mandate follows upon the finding of a
“regulatory taking” rather than a final determination. (Hensler v. City of
Glendale (1994) 8 Cal.4th 1, 13.) WG challenges application of
the authority based on denial of a regulatory taking and instead pushes for a
finding of a ripe claim for inverse condemnation. Regulatory takings are
conditionally defined as “one that results from the application of zoning laws
or regulations which limit development of real property.” As part of the
determination of a regulatory taking, “the owner must afford the state the
opportunity to rescind the ordinance or regulation or to exempt the property
from the allegedly invalid development restriction once it has been judicially
determined that the proposed application of the ordinance to the property will
constitute a compensable taking.” (Ibid.) 
 
WG seeks distinction based on a claim of “physical damage”
to the property due to MTA tunneling activity already occurring, though
admittedly no construction activity has occurred on the WG property. “When
property is damaged, or a physical invasion has taken place, an inverse
condemnation action may be brought immediately because an irrevocable taking
has already occurred.” (Ibid.) It remains unclear how the property
otherwise suffered damage or a physical invasion in the instant action.
Tunneling constitutes a necessary form of construction of the MTA subway
tunnel, but nothing in the complaint or opposition suggests a finding of any
actual tunneling underneath the actual WG property, or destabilization of the
parcel itself. Again, the dispute involves structural mitigation measures
required for the placement of the station adjacent to the proposed residential
development. WG also presents insufficient substantive argument on the issue of
a complete deprivation of an “economically feasible use of the property,”
thereby also potentially supporting the finding of an immediate claim for
inverse condemnation. (Ibid.) 
 
Given the efforts to proceed with construction via the writ
of mandate, the court finds the damages claim submitted in the subject action at
a minimum effectively requires a finding of the impacts of required mitigation
measures. The court finds the circumstances of the currently negotiated process
constitutes a land use/development rite public versus private debate, and
therefore a regulatory taking issue for purposes of considering the imposition
of a stay. (Ibid.; see Mola Development Corp. v. City of Seal Beach
(1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 405, 407.) The court grants the motion to stay the action
pending adjudication of the writ of mandate. 
 
Case Management Conference set for February 1, 2024. The
court will set an OSC re: Status of the Writ of Mandate and Stay of the Action.
 
MTA to give notice to all parties.