 Case Number:  23STCV01605    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  17  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



SKETCHERS USA, INC. 
  
        
  vs.
 
CONTINENTAL CASUALTY COMPANY, et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV01605
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 9, 2024



 
Defendants
Continental Casualty Company and Columbia Casualty Company’s motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED.
 
            On
1/25/2023, Plaintiff Sketchers USA, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Continental Casualty Company, Scottsdale Insurance Company (Continental),
Columbia Casualty Company (Columbia), Lexington Insurance Company, Great American
Assurance company, and National Fire & Marine Insurance Company, alleging:
(1) breach of contract; (2) tortious breach of contract; and (3) unfair
competition. 
 
            Now,
on 1/10/2024, Defendants Continental Casualty Company and Columbia Casualty Company
(collectively, CNA Insurers) move for summary adjudication as to the issue of
duty. 
 
Discussion 
 
            CNA
Insurers argue that with respect to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
breach of contract, they are entitled to a finding that they had no duty to
defend Skechers in the proceeding filed by Converse Inc. (Converse) before the
International Trade Commission (ITC), styled as In re Certain Footwear
Products, Investigation No. 337-TA-936 (the ITC Proceeding).
 
A.   
The Continental Policies 
 
            In
support, CNA Insurers submitted evidence that Continental issued to Skechers
Commercial Umbrella Policy No. L 2084424221 for annual consecutive policy
periods from September 1, 2005 to September 1, 2009 (collectively, the
Continental Policies). (UMF No. 1) The Continental Policies each contain a $25
million limit of liability. (UMF No. 2.)
 
The
Continental Policies provide coverage for “those sums in excess of ‘scheduled
underlying insurance,’ ‘unscheduled underlying insurance’ or the ‘retained
limit’ that [Skechers] becomes legally obligated to pay as ‘ultimate net loss’
because of” covered personal and advertising injury that is caused by an
incident committed during the policy period. (UMF No. 3.)
 
Section VI.2.
of the Continental Policies provides that Continental will investigate and
defend an insured or reimburse an insured for ‘suits’ brought against an
insured for a claim or ‘suit’ that alleges damages because of [personal and
advertising injury] not covered under:
 
a.     
‘Scheduled underlying insurance’; and 
b.     
‘Unscheduled underlying insurance’;
 
but which seeks damages because of
[personal and advertising injury] otherwise covered under this policy. (UMF No.
4.) 
 
Thus, if the
scheduled underlying insurance is not triggered but the Continental Policies
are, Continental is obligated to “drop down” to defend Skechers.
 
The
Continental Policies define a “suit” as “a civil proceeding in which damages
because of [personal injury and advertising injury] to which this insurance
applies are alleged.” (UMF No. 5.) It includes “[a]n arbitration proceeding
alleging such damages to which [the insured] must submit with [Continental’s]
consent” or “[a]ny other alternative dispute resolution proceeding in which
such damages are claimed and to which [the insured] submits with [Continental’s]
consent.” (Id.)
 
The
Continental Policies define “personal and advertising injury” as injury arising
out of one or more enumerated offenses—namely, “[i]nfringing upon another’s
copyright, trade dress or slogan in [the insured’s] ‘advertisement.’ ” (UMF No.
6.) “Personal and advertising injury” is only covered if “caused by an
‘incident’ committed during the policy period.” (UMF No. 7.) An “advertisement”
is “a notice that is broadcast or published to the general public or specific
market segments about your goods, products or services for the purpose of
attracting customers or supporters” including material published on the
internet and portions of websites. (UMF No. 8.)
 
The 2007-2008
and 2008-2009 Continental Policies exclude coverage for personal and
advertising injury “[a]rising out of the infringement of copyright, patent,
trademark, trade secret or other intellectual property rights” but not
including “infringement, in [the insured’s] ‘advertisement,’ of copyright,
trade dress or slogan” (the “IP Exclusion”). (UMF No. 9.)
 
B.   
The Columbia Casualty
Company Policies 
 
In support,
CNA Insurers submitted evidence that Columbia issued to Skechers General
Liability Policy No. 5086742083 for two consecutive policy periods, September
1, 2012 through September 1, 2013, and September 1, 2013 through September 1,
2014 (collectively, the “Columbia Policies”). (UMF No. 10.) 
 
Coverage
B—the Personal & Advertising Injury Insuring Agreement—provides that
Columbia “will pay those sums that [Skechers] becomes legally obligated to pay
as damages because of ‘personal and advertising injury’ to which this insurance
applies.” (UMF No. 11.) The Columbia Policies each include a $1,000,000 limit
of liability for “Personal & Advertising Injury,” exclusive of defense
costs. (UMF No. 12.) 
 
Coverage B
also provides that Columbia “will have the right and duty to defend” Skechers
against any “suit” seeking “damages because of ‘personal and advertising
injury.’ ” (UMF No. 13.) But Columbia “will have no duty to defend [Skechers]
against any ‘suit’ seeking damages for ‘personal and advertising injury’ ” to
which the Columbia Policies do not otherwise apply. (UMF No. 14.) The Columbia
Policies impose upon Skechers a duty to cooperate with Columbia “in the
investigation or settlement of the claim or defense against the ‘suit.’ ” (UMF
No. 15.)
 
The Columbia Policies
define a “suit” as “a civil proceeding in which damages because of ‘bodily
injury,’ ‘property damage’ or ‘personal and advertising injury’ to which this
insurance applies are alleged.” (UMF No. 16.) It includes “[a]n arbitration
proceeding in which such damages are claimed and to which the insured must
submit or does submit with [Columbia’s] consent” or “[a]ny other alternative
dispute resolution proceeding in which such damages are claimed and to which
the insured submits with [Columbia’s] consent.” (Id.)
 
The Columbia
Policies “appl[y] to ‘personal and advertising injury’ caused by an offense
arising out of [the insured’s] business but only if the offense was committed
in the ‘coverage territory’ during the policy period.” (UMF No. 17.) They define
“personal and advertising injury” as injury arising out of one or more
enumerated offenses—namely, “[i]nfringing upon another’s copyright, trade dress
or slogan in [the insured’s] ‘advertisement.’ ” (UMF No. 18.) An “advertisement”
is “a notice that is broadcast or published to the general public or specific
market segments about your goods, products or services for the purpose of
attracting customers or supporters” including material published on the
internet and portions of websites. (UMF No. 19.)
 
The Columbia
Policies exclude coverage for personal and advertising injury arising out of
(1) “oral or written publication of material whose first publication took place
before the beginning of the policy period” (the “Prior Publication Exclusion”),
UMF No. 20, and (2) “the infringement of copyright, patent, trademark, trade
secret or other intellectual property rights” but not including “the use of
another’s advertising idea in [the insured’s] ‘advertisement’” or
“infringement, in [the insured’s] ‘advertisement,’ of copyright, trade dress or
slogan” (the “IP Exclusion”), UMF No. 21.
 
            Based
on both these policies’ terms, CNA Insurers argue they did not owe a duty to
Plaintiff.
 
Under
California law, the interpretation of an insurance policy is a question of law.
(Palmer v. Truck Ins. Exch. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 1109, 1115.) The duty to
defend is “assessed at the very outset of a case.” (Hartford Cas. Ins. Co.
v. Swift Distrib. Inc. (2014) 59 Cal.4th 277, 287.) The insurer must
consider the allegations asserted and other extrinsic facts known to the
insurer that reveal a possibility that a claim is potentially covered. (Gunderson
v. Fire Ins. Exch. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1106, 1114 (1995) (duty to defend
inquiry is based on those facts the insurer “knew at the time [the insured]
tendered” the claim and “whether these known facts created a potential for
coverage under the terms of the Policy.” Safeco Ins. Co. of Am. v. Parks,
122 Cal.App.4th 779, 791 (2004) (emphasis in original).
 
Here, CNA
Insurers argue they did not owe a duty to defend because: (1) the CNA Policies
do not afford coverage for the ITC Proceeding because it is not a “suit”
seeking covered “damages”; (2) the ITC Proceeding does not allege an offense
that occurred in any Continental Policy Period; (3) the Columbia Policies’
Prior Publication Exclusion bars coverage for any offenses that allegedly
occurred during the Columbia Policy Period; (4) the ITC Proceeding did not
allege “personal and advertising injury” but rather only causes of action for
which the IP Exclusion bars coverage; and (5) there is no duty to defend the
ITC Proceeding even if the EDNY Lawsuit is a related suit seeking damages.
 
            As
for the first contention, the CNA Policies define “suit” to include civil
proceedings in which potentially covered damages are sought. (UMF Nos. 5, 16.) 
 
Here, the
proceeding brought by Converse sought:
 
[A]n
investigation, hearing, and a general exclusion order forbidding entry into the
United States of footwear products that violate Converse’s rights in one or
more of the Asserted Trademarks” or “a limited exclusion order forbidding entry
into the United States of footwear products imported, sold for importation, or
sold after importation by Respondents that violate Converse’s rights in one or
more of the Asserted Trademarks” and “a permanent cease and desist order . . .
directing Respondents to cease and desist from the importation, marketing,
advertising, demonstrating, warehousing of inventory for distribution, sale,
and use in the United States of imported footwear articles that violate
Converse’s rights in one or more of the Asserted Trademarks.
 
            (UMF
No. 37; MSA, 10:1-6.)
 
As such, CNA
Insurers contend the ITC was an administrative, rather than civil, proceeding.
In support, CNA Insurers cite caselaw wherein courts have concluded that
similar proceedings do not trigger coverage under similar policies. For
example, the insured in Australian Unlimited, Inc. v. Hartford Casualty Ins.
Co. (2008) 147 Wash.App. 758 (2008), was sued in federal court and
simultaneously named in an ITC proceeding. (Id. at p. 778.)  The court concluded that the ITC proceeding
did not trigger coverage because it did not seek monetary relief and because
the ITC is without authority to grant that relief in any event. (Id. at pp.
779-80.) Similarly, in Broughton v. Ohio Casualty Ins. Co. (N.D. Cal.
2021), 533 F.Supp.3d 838, the court held that a TTAB proceeding was not a
“suit”—based on the same definition included in the CNA Policies—“seeking
damages” because the plaintiff did not seek damages and “the Ninth Circuit has
consistently held that the TTAB has no power to award damages.” (Id. at p.
845.)
 
            CNA
Insurers also note that the ITC has no authority to grant monetary damages. (19
U.S.C. § 1337; see also Albert H. Kritzer, et al., International Contract
Manual § 41:24) (“[S]ection 337 [i.e., 19 U.S.C. § 1337] does not permit a
plaintiff to seek money damages to compensate for a defendant’s unfair
practices. This remedy scheme relates to the ITC’s purpose of preventing unfair
importations without regard for quantifying damages suffered as a result of an
unfair practice.”). Because Converse did not and could not seek damages in the
ITC Proceeding, the ITC Proceeding does not trigger the CNA Policies’ insuring
agreements.
 
            As
to the second contention, the ITC Proceeding alleges that the first instance of
Skechers’ trademark infringement occurred in 2010. (UMF Nos. 28-29.) It alleges
that the remainder of the offenses occurred in 2012 and later. (See UMF
No. 33.) However, the last Continental Policy expired in 2009. (UMF No. 1.) By
their express terms, the Continental Policies only afford coverage for damages
that are caused by incidents committed during the policy period. (UMF No. 7.).
“[I]n an action wherein none of the claims is even potentially covered because
it does not even possibly embrace any triggering harm of the specified sort
within the policy period caused by an included occurrence, the insurer does not
have a duty to defend.” (Aerojet-General Corp. v. Transport Indem. Co.
(1997) 17 Cal.4th 38, 59) (citation omitted.)
 
            As
to the third contention, the Columbia Policies contain a Prior Publication
Exclusion that states that the Columbia Policies do not apply to:
 
 ‘Personal and advertising injury’ arising out
of oral or written publication of material whose first publication took place
before the beginning of the policy period.
            
(UMF No. 20.) 
 
Thus, the
exclusion bars coverage for personal and advertising injury arising out of
material first published prior to September 1, 2012—the inception date of the
first Columbia Policy. 
 
Under
California law, publications need not be literally identical to come within the
terms of the exclusion. (Ringler Assocs. Inc. v. Maryland Cas. Co.
(2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1165, 1182.) Rather, the Prior Publication Exclusion bars
coverage for offenses arising out of material published during the policy
period if it is the same or “substantially the same” as material published
prior to the inception of the policy period. (Id. at p. 1183.)
 
The purpose
of the Prior Publication Exclusion (PPE) is to bar coverage “when ‘the wrongful
behavior had begun prior to the effective date of the insurance policy.’” (Street
Surfing, LLC v. Great Am. E&S Ins. Co. (9th Cir. 2014) 776 F.3d 603,
613 (quoting Taco Bell Corp. v. Continental Cas. Co. (7th Cir. 2004) 388
F.3d 1069, 1072).) In other words, it precludes coverage “for risks that have
already materialized.” (Kim Seng Co. v. Great Am. Ins. Co. of New York
(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1030, 1044. For that reason, the
touchstone is whether the later publication involves “fresh wrongs.” (Id.
at p. 1043.) That inquiry focuses on the alleged wrongful act, not all the
differences between the alleged publications. (Street Surfing, supra,
776 F.3d at pp. 612-613.)
 
Here, CNA
Insurers submitted evidence that:
 
-        
Converse alleged that Skechers’ various
products each infringed the Converse Midsole Trademark. (See UMF No. 28,
34.)
 
-        
The ITC Proceeding explicitly alleges
that the wrong is the use of the Converse Midsole Trademark in various Skechers
shoes over a multi-year period, starting in or around 2010. (Ibid.)
 
-        
As illustrated in Table 1 of the ITC
Proceeding complaint (as it pertains to the Skechers’ accused products), every
alleged trademark infringement from 2010 forward is based on the same conduct:
Skechers’ alleged misuse of the Converse Midsole Trademark. (UMF No. 67.) 
 
CNA Insurers
also contend that the ITC Proceedings make clear that Sketchers advertised the
infringing products in 2010. 
 
As to the
fourth contention, the Continental and Columbia Policies afford coverage for
alleged infringement of “another’s copyright, trade dress or slogan” in
Skechers’ advertisements. (UMF No. 6, 18.) The IP Exclusion expressly excludes
coverage, however, for “‘[p]ersonal and advertising injury’ arising out of the
infringement of copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret or other
intellectual property rights.” (UMF No. 9, 21.)
 
             In its ruling on Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication, the Court concluded there were triable of fact as to what
information was available to CNA Insurers to assess their duty to defend.
(Minute Order 9/5/2023.) However, CNA Insurers argue that the only question
here is whether the ITC Proceeding itself seeks potentially covered damages for
personal and advertising injury, and Skechers conceded at oral argument of its
MSA and in its petition for a writ of mandate, that Converse’s Declaration in
support of the ‘753 Registration is unnecessary to the duty to defend analysis.
As such, CNA Insurers argue there is no evidence that the ITC Proceeding alleged
a covered proceeding: 
 
The ITC
Proceeding alleged only that Skechers infringed the narrow Converse Midsole
Trademark. It never used the term “trade dress” or alleged any issues with
Skechers’ packaging or overall design. UMF No. 27. By contrast, Converse
asserted that other respondents in the ITC Proceeding violated both the
Converse Midsole Trademark and the “Converse Outsole Trademark,” which Converse
defined as the diamond pattern outsole design, reinforcing that Skechers’
alleged infringement did not pertain to the overall visual impression of the
shoes but was focused on the singular Converse Midsole Trademark. UMF No. 26.  
 
            (MSA,
18: 10-16.)
 
            Finally,
as to the fifth contention, there is a separate, related EDNY Lawsuit that does
seek damages. CNA Insurers argue that “irrespective of whether the EDNY Lawsuit
triggers potential coverage, there is no coverage for the costs Skechers
incurred defending itself in the ITC Proceeding.” (MSA, 18: 27- 19:2.) 
            
Where there
are two separate but related proceedings, courts have not found a duty to
defend the related but uncovered proceeding. See, e.g., Stein v.
International Ins. Co. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 609, 614–615 (professional
liability insurer not required to pay for criminal defense of attorney in
criminal case, even where related civil lawsuit threatened); United Pac.
Ins. Co. v. Hall (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d 551, 556 (homeowners’ insurer not
required to pay for representation of minor in administrative juvenile
proceeding regarding arson of a school, even though same witnesses also
appeared in civil suit for damages that triggered duty to defend).
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the issue for which CNA Insurers seek summary
adjudication (i.e., it had no duty to defend Skechers in the ITC Proceeding)
cannot be granted because “it is black letter law and beyond dispute that a
party cannot seek summary adjudication of an issue which is not raised in the
complaint.” (Opp., 1: 3-4.) Indeed, as even CNA itself concedes, “Skechers did
not reference the ITC Proceeding in its Complaint” (Motion at 1), and “even a
cursory review of Skechers’ complaint herein shows that Skechers only seeks
coverage for the Converse Action and not the ITC Proceeding.” (Opp., 6: 13-15.)

 
Given that
Plaintiff does not actually allege a duty to defend in the ITC Proceeding, the
Court agrees that summary adjudication is not appropriate of that issue. 
 
While CNA
Insurers’ motion must be denied on that basis, the Court briefly addresses the
remaining issues raised by CNA Insurers.
 
First, as
also noted by Plaintiff, the Court already determined that there was a triable
issue of material fact as to whether or not the Converse alleged trade dress
infringement in Plaintiff’s own motion for summary adjudication.  That analysis applies with equal force here. 
 
Second, the Prior
Publication Exception applies to personal and advertising injury “arising out
of oral or written publication of material whose first publication took place
before the beginning of the policy period.” CNA Insurers argue that PPE bars
coverage because the “the first alleged offense occurred in 2010 and all later
offenses are mere continuations of that earlier offense.” (MSA, 7.)  
 
 “In order to prevail on a motion for the
summary adjudication of the duty to defend, ‘the insured need only show that
the underlying claim may fall within coverage; the insurer must prove it
cannot.’” (Atl. Mut. Ins. Co. v. J. Lamb, Inc. (2002) 100 Cal. App. 4th 1017,
1032.) As applied here, in order to evade its duty to defend, CNA must produce
competent evidence—with no triable issues of fact—that conclusively eliminates
any and all possibility of coverage. (Montrose Chemical Corp. v. Superior
Court (1993) 6 Cal.4th 287, 295.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff notes that: CNA relies upon a mere allegation—on
information and belief—from the ITC proceeding that “around 2010, Skechers
intentionally copied the Converse Midsole Trademark, applying it to Skechers’
Twinkle Toes Shoes” to conclusively establish the applicability of the PPE. The
Court agrees that this isolated extrinsic allegation fails to “clearly
establish the date of the critical ‘first publication’ ” such that the Court
can conclusively ascertain the date of first publication. Moreover, even
assuming Plaintiff did commence using the mark in 2010, CNA Insurers has not
conclusively established that the advertisement of the allegedly infringing
products commenced in 2010.
 
Third, and
finally, CNA Insurers contends that the ITC Proceeding is not a “suit” seeking
covered “damages” and is thus not covered under the CNA policies, and even if
the Converse Action were covered, the ITC Proceeding would still not be covered
because California courts have rejected any duty by insurers to defend related
but uncovered proceedings. 
 
However, as
noted above, Plaintiff has never alleged that the ITC Proceeding was a “suit”
or sought coverage for the ITC Proceeding in this lawsuit. Moreover, CNA
Insurers only cited non-binding out of state cases for the proposition that
defense costs incurred in connection with ITC proceedings are not covered under
commercial general liability policies. Just like Plaintiff, the Court was
unable to locate any reported California cases addressing this issue. Moreover,
there is at least competing legal support for the proposition that defense
costs that Skechers incurred during the pendency of both the ITC Proceeding and
the Converse Action should have been covered, given that “the ITC’s findings
and determinations on the validity and scope of Converse’s trade dress, and Skechers’
infringement of the same, were binding in the Converse Action.” (Opp., 20:
16-18; See, e.g., Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. v. FCA US LLC
(E.D. Mich. 2020) 503 F. Supp. 3d 542, 548-55.) As such, “Skechers’ defense
costs benefitted Skechers defense of the ITC Proceedings but were also
necessary to avoid or minimize liability and defend the Converse Action.”
(Opp., 20: 18-19.)
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 