  Case Number:  21STCV36851    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CYNTHIA
  JUAREZ 
                           
         vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV36851
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date: July 9, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel responses to her supplemental RFPs and Special Interrogatories
is MOOT. The Court declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
On 10/5/2021,
Plaintiff Cynthia Juarez (Plaintiff) filed suit against County of Los Angeles,
Billy Nettles, and Andrea Wood, alleging: (1) whistleblower retaliation; (2)
civil rights: free speech; (3) failure to provide a safe workplace; (4) failure
to provide a safe workplace; (5) failure to provide a safe work place; and (6)
defamation. 
 
            On
4/23/2024, Plaintiff move to compel responses from Defendant County of Los
Angeles (the County) to Plaintiff’s supplemental Requests for Production (RFPs)
and supplemental Special Interrogatories. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that an order compelling the County to provide responses to her
supplemental RFPs and Special Interrogatories is necessary. 
 
            In
opposition, Defendant indicated that it has since served supplemental responses
as of 6/21/2024. As such, these motions are moot.  
 
            After
review, the Court concludes that these motions could have been avoided with
adequate meet and confer. Accordingly, the Court declines to award sanctions at
this time. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to her supplemental
RFPs and Special Interrogatories is moot. The Court declines to award sanctions
at this time.
 
It is
so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend
to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party
submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and
must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a
motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information, please contact the
court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
            
 