  Case Number:  22PSCV02862    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Lightking  America Technology (L.A.) LTD. v. Arbor CPA, APC, et al. Motion to Quash Subpoena, and/or for Protective Order  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court DENIES the motion to quash subpoena, and/or for  protective order.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract action. On December 13, 2022, plaintiff  Lightking America Technology (LA), LTD filed this action against defendants  Arbor CPA, APC, Hui Heidi Liu, CPA, (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1  through 50. On May 9, 2023, Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD. And  Lightking American (L.A.), LTD (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed the operative  First Amended Complaint against Defendants, alleging causes of action for  breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, and aiding and abetting breach of  fiduciary duty.  On November 20, 2023, non-party Zeming Qi (Qi) filed a motion to  quash subpoenas, and/or for protective orders. On December 27, 2023, Plaintiffs  opposed the motion. No reply was filed.  LEGAL  STANDARD If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or  the production of books, documents, electronically  stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of  an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion  reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's  own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make  an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance  with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including  protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be  appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands,  including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,  subd. (a).)  DISCUSSION             Meet and Confer             Although a meet-and-confer  declaration is not required for a motion to quash a subpoena, the Court  appreciates Qi’s efforts to meet and confer before bringing this motion. (See  Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Shambaugh Decl., ¶ 5.)                        Analysis Courts  look to the following factors to determine whether good cause has been shown to  enforce a subpoena: (1) if the defendant satisfied  the burden of showing a plausible justification for acquiring documents from a  third party, (2) whether the material sought is adequately described and not  overly broad, (3) whether the material is reasonably available to the entity  from which it is sought and not readily available to defendant from other  sources, (4) whether production of the requested materials would violate a  third party's confidentiality or privacy rights or intrude upon any protected  governmental interest, (5) whether defendant's request is timely, (6) whether  time required to produce the requested information would necessitate an  unreasonable delay of defendant's trial, and (7) whether production of records  containing the requested information would place an unreasonable burden on a  third party. (See Facebook, Inc. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2020)  10 Cal.5th 329, 345-347; 50A Cal. Jur. 3d Process, Notices, and Subpoenas §  102.)              Here, non-party Qi seeks to quash a Deposition Subpoena  for Production of Business Records recently served on East West Bank (the  Subpoena). (Shambaugh Decl., Ex. A.) The Subpoena seeks various banking records  and documents as they relate to Lightking America Technology (L.A.) LTD from  the time period of September 27, 2016 to the present. (Id.) Qi contends  the Subpoena should be quashed because the scope of requested documents may  include personal records of Qi. As with Qi’s prior motion to quash, the Court  finds Qi’s arguments unpersuasive.              “The party asserting a privacy right must establish a  legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of  privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is  serious.” (Williams v. Superior Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) Qi’s motion to quash is  speculative, as it only contends that the Subpoena “seeks records which may include  personal records of Mr. Qi.” (Memorandum of Points and Authorities, 4:18-19,  italics added.) Qi presents no evidence that the Subpoena will include Qi’s  personal records and thereby violate Qi’s privacy rights.  Moreover, as Plaintiffs correctly argue, Qi does not  demonstrate that the requested bank records relate to his personal interests or  that they are protected by any privilege. The declaration submitted by Qi’s  attorney only indicates that Qi was “previously involved with Plaintiff  corporation, and that his personal records may be a part of the documents  responsive to” the Subpoena. (Shambaugh Decl., ¶ 3.) This statement lacks  foundation and is based on hearsay. (Evid. Code § 702; Id. § 1200.)  Furthermore, even if Qi was involved with Plaintiffs,  it is unclear how this would confer a reasonable expectation of privacy upon Qi.  It does not follow that someone who was involved with a corporation has a  reasonable expectation of privacy for personal records contained within bank  records of that corporation, which is treated as a separate person under the  eyes of the law, (see Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin (2017) 14  Cal.App.5th 214, 220), and where third-party banks possess those records, (see Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 36-37 [plaintiff must  have had a reasonable expectation of privacy under the circumstances, which  includes the customs, practices and physical settings surrounding the particular  activity.])               Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to  quash subpoena, and/or for protective order.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES the motion to quash subpoena, and/or for  protective order.               Plaintiffs are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.