

 
Background
 
            On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff 1200, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Michael Marcus (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50. Plaintiff leased a
residence to Defendant. Defendant failed to make payments as required by the
lease and was eventually evicted. Plaintiff filed this action to recover unpaid
rent, fees, and repairs for damages from Defendant. The Complaint alleges the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract and (2) Common Counts. 
            
            On
April 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proof of service of summons and a declaration
of non-service. 
 
Defendant
failed to file responsive pleadings. On June 20, 2024, default was entered
against Defendant. 
 
            On
September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed this default prove-up packet and mailed a
copy of the CIV-100 Form to Defendant. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1800 sets forth
the requirements for default judgments. In pertinent part, the rule dictates
that a party must use form CIV-100 and file the following documents with the
clerk: (1) except in unlawful detainer cases, a brief summary of the case
identifying the parties and the nature of plaintiff's claim; (2) declarations
or other admissible evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest
computations as necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a
declaration of nonmilitary status for each defendant against whom judgment is
sought; (6) a proposed form of judgment; (7) a dismissal of all parties against
whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate judgment against
specified parties under Code of Civil Procedure section 579, supported by a
showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a
request for attorney fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the
parties.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1800(a)(1)-(9).) 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff has filed a
CIV-100 form with the appropriate sections filled out, including a memorandum
of costs and a declaration of nonmilitary status for the Defendant.
Plaintiff  submitted an entered request
for dismissal of Does 1 to 50. Plaintiff submitted a proposed judgment (Form
JUD-100). Plaintiff has also filed a CCP § 585(d) declaration in support of the
judgment requested. The declaration contains a brief summary of the case
identifying the parties and the nature of the Plaintiff’s claim. The
declaration also contains a calculation of interest (Rias-Thompson Decl., ¶¶ 4,
5.) The declaration is unclear as to how attorneys’ fees were calculated
pursuant to Local Rules section 3.214. (Rias-Thompson Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6.)
 



Demand of Complaint


$74,191.82




Interest 


$21,769.71




Costs


$505.00




Attorney Fees


$695.00




Total: 


$97,161.53



 
            While the Default
Judgment packet has generally met the requirements of California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1800, the Court finds Defendant was not properly served. 
 
Plaintiffs
filed a proof of service and a declaration of non-service on April 29, 2024.
The declaration of non-service indicates three attempts to serve Defendant were
made at 9008 Artisan Way, Sarasota, FL 34240 (“the Sarasota address”) on March
13, 18, and 22. There seems to be confusion as to whether Defendant is Michael
Marcus Junior or Senior. At the first attempt of service, Salwa, Michael Marcus
Sr.’s wife, indicated that her husband was out of the county for a few weeks
and that her son lived in Indianapolis. At the third attempt of service,
Michael Marcus Jr.’s brother and Michael Marcus Sr.’s son indicated that
neither Michael Marcus lived at the Sarasota address. He indicated that Michael
Marcus Sr.’s primary residence is in Egypt, and when he visits, he stays at a
rental property near Sarasota.
 
The
proof of service states that Defendant was served by substituted service to a
resident of Defendant’s household, Salwa (or Salva) Marcus, at the Sarasota
address, on April 5. Copies of the documents were also mailed to the Sarasota
address on April 17. Yet there is no
evidence that the Sarasota address is Defendant’s “dwelling house, usual place
of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address” under Code of
Civil Procedure section 415.20, subdivision (b). Thus, Defendant was not
properly served. Because Defendant was not properly
served, entry of judgment is vacated and the request for default judgment is
denied.    
 
Conclusion
 
            The Court VACATES the Entry of Default and DENIES the
Request for Default Judgment. 