  Case Number:  23STCV20494    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THATCHARNOK PICHITCHARTEE, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LIFE STEPS FOUNDATION, INC., et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV20494
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  INTERROGATORIES
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
  REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
Date: 
  December 9, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Life Steps
Foundation, Inc. (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None 
 
The Court has considered
the moving papers.  No opposition or
reply papers were filed.
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of
an employment relationship.  The
currently operative second amended complaint (the “SAC”) alleges: (1)
discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”);
(2) failure to prevent discrimination under FEHA; (3) Labor Code section
1102.5; and (4) Labor Code section 98.6. 
On June 3, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the first,
second, and fourth causes of action without leave to amend.
 
In relevant part, the SAC
alleges: Plaintiff was employed in Defendant’s accounting department.  (SAC ¶ 6.) 
After Plaintiff refused to conduct unlawful accounting practices,
Defendant subjected Plaintiff to various retaliatory actions that culminated in
his termination.  (SAC ¶¶ 11-21.)  
 
On September 17, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories
(“Interrogatories Motion”) and Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One (“RFP Motion”) (collectively, the
“Motions”).  
 
MEET AND CONFER
The Court finds the meet
and confer requirement for the Motions has been met.
 
TIMELINESS
            The
Court also finds the motions timely. 
Defendant was required to bring the Motions within 45 days of the
service of verified responses, or on or before any specific later date to which
the parties agreed in writing.  (CCP §§
2030.300(c); 2031.310(c).)  Here, defense
counsel has submitted copies of emails showing that the parties’ agreed to
extend the deadline to file the Motions to September 26, 2024.  (RFP Motion, Nimoy Decl., Exhibit 6;
Interrogatories Motion, Nimoy Decl., Exhibit 4.)  Defendant filed the Motions on September 17,
2024, making them timely.  
 
DISCUSSION
Interrogatories Motion 
Defendant moves to compel
Plaintiff’s further responses to Form Interrogatories – General (Set One), Form
Interrogatories – Employment Law (Set One), and Special Interrogatories (Set
One).  
 
On receipt of a response
to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: (1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete;
(2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under CCP section 2030.230
is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate;
or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.  (CCP § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
 
If only a part of an
interrogatory is objectionable, the remainder of the interrogatory shall be
answered; and if an objection is made to an interrogatory or to a part of an
interrogatory, the specific ground for the objection shall be set forth clearly
in the response, and if an objection is based on a claim of privilege, then the
particular privilege invoked shall be clearly stated.  (CCP § 2030.240, subds. (a)-(b).)  The burden is on the party responding to
discovery to justify his or her objections to such discovery.  (Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa
County (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
Defense counsel testifies
that on June 10, 2024, Defendant propounded the interrogatories at issue on
Plaintiff.  (Nimoy Decl., ¶ 4.)  The day the responses were due (on July 12,
2024), Plaintiff served objections but also stated that he will serve
substantive responses by August 2, 2024.  (Nimoy Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6; Separate Statement [arguing
that Plaintiff served the following objections to the interrogatories:
“Plaintiff objects to the request to the extent it is vague and unduly
burdensome and seeks information that is irrelevant, calls for a legal
conclusion is unfairly prejudicial, invasive of privacy, subject ot [sic]
taxpayer/attorney client privilege or work product doctrine”].)  Defendant granted Plaintiff additional extensions
to serve supplemental responses.  (Nimoy
Decl., ¶¶ 7-9.)  Plaintiff, however,
never served those responses as promised. 
(Nimoy Decl., ¶ 10.)  
 
The Court finds that by
failing to oppose the Interrogatories Motion, Plaintiff has failed to justify
her sweeping objections or dispute that he promised to serve supplemental
responses. 
 
Therefore, the Court
GRANTS the request to compel further responses to the interrogatories. 
 
Defendant seeks sanctions
of $2,700 for the Interrogatories Motion. 
(Nimoy Decl., ¶ 11.)  That amount
represents 4.5 hours defense counsel spent on the moving papers plus 1.5 hours he
anticipated spending on the reply and appearing for the hearing, a total of six
hours at a billing rate of $450 per hour. 
(Ibid.)
 
Since no opposition or
reply was filed, the Court GRANTS Defendant reasonable monetary sanctions in
the total amount of $2,250, which represents five hours at a billing rate of $450
per hour.  Plaintiff and his counsel are
responsible for paying this amount within 20 days of the date of this order.
 
RFP Motion
Unlike a motion to compel
further responses to interrogatories, a motion for further responses to
document production requests must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
It is not necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be
admissible in evidence.  “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery
where specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial
preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.  (Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior
Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2017.010,
2019.030(a)(1) [“Information is discoverable if it is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.”]; Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1611-1612 [noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged,
that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action, if the
matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence].)   
 
The Court finds that
Defendant has failed to set forth specific facts establishing good cause to
compel further responses to the RFPs. 
“In law and motion practice, factual evidence is supplied to the court
by way of declarations.”  (Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216,
224.)  Like in Calcor, Defendant has
failed to produce evidence to permit the Court to conclude the material sought was
“admissible in evidence or appear[ed] reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  (Id.;
Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224
[identifying manner for establishing good cause under Calcor] [“To
establish good cause, a discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that
is of consequence in the action and explain how the discovery sought will tend
in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will
tend to prove or disprove the fact”].)  Defense
counsel’s declaration only contains a recitation of the parties’
communications.  The declaration does not
explain why further responses to the RFPs should be compelled and why the
documents requested will tend to prove or disprove a fact of consequence in
this action or will lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove
such fact. 
 
The Court, therefore,
DENIES the RFP Motion in its entirety, including the request for
sanctions. 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties who intend to
submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar. 
 
 
  Dated
this 9th day of December 2024
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 


