 Case Number:  24STCV12424    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 GABRIELLE JONES; DANIELA CEDILLO; MARIANGELA
  CROVETTO, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
JORDAN
  DOBBIN-STYLES ; DOES 1 through 99, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV12424
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE ORDER OF DISMISSAL
 
Date: December 9, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Gabrielle Jones, Daniela Cedillo, Mariangela Crovetto (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) 
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers. No opposition or reply has been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises from a motor vehicle
collision. On May 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a complaint (“Complaint”) against
Defendant Jordan Dobbin-Styles (“Defendant”) alleging a cause of action for general
negligence in operating a motor vehicle.                    
 
            On August
5, 2024, the Court issued a minute order noting that Defendant had not been
served and that Plaintiff was to file a declaration by August 29, 2024 as to
why the case should not be dismissed. No declaration was filed. On September 4,
2024, the Court dismissed the Complaint, without prejudice. 
 
            On
October 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for an Order to Set Aside Plaintiff’s
Involuntary Dismissal of the Complaint (the “Motion). No opposition has been
filed. 
 
DISCUSSION
            “A motion for relief under section
473 is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and an appellate
court will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an abuse.
[Citation.] The statute is remedial and should be liberally applied to carry
out the policy of permitting trial on the merits, but the moving party has the
burden of showing good cause. [Citations.]” (David v. Thayer (1980) 133
Cal.App.3d 892, 904-905.) 
 
Section 473 subdivision (b) of the Code of
Civil Procedure (“CCP”) provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief
from a judgment, dismissal, and/or order or other proceeding taken against a
party through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(CCP § 473, subd. (b) [mandatory relief more narrowly targeted to defaults,
default judgments, and dismissals]; Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018)
28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) 
 
The provision of section 473, subdivision
(b) provides that a court must vacate any resulting default judgment or
dismissal entered against an attorney’s client whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entering of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by the attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect, unless the court finds that the
fault or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (CCP § 473, subd. (b).) The affidavit need
only attest to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect in
causing the default or default judgment—the reasons for it need not be
explained. (Martin Potts & Associates, Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016)
244 Cal.App.4th 432, 439.) Attestation that one of these reasons existed is
sufficient to obtain relief unless the trial court finds that the dismissal did
not occur because of these reasons. (Graham v. Beers (1994) 30
Cal.App.4th 1656, 1660.) This is because “the purpose of the mandatory relief
provision under section 473, subdivision (b) is achieved by focusing on who is
to blame, not why.” (Martin Potts, supra, 244 Cal.App.4th at p.
439.) 
 
            Plaintiffs bring this motion on the
ground that dismissal was entered based on mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect of their counsel, Abraham Abginesaz (“Counsel”). This
position is supported by Counsel’s declaration. Counsel explains that the case
management conference date for the OSC re Proof of Service was inadvertently
not put on his calendar. (Abginesaz Decl. ¶ 10.) Counsel further acknowledges
not receiving the minute orders dated August 5 and September 4, 2024, due to
relocating to a new office suite and failing to file a notice of change of
address with the Court. (Abginesaz Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
            The Court finds that the dismissal
of the Complaint was the result of Plaintiff’s counsel’s mistake, inadvertence
or excusable neglect. In addition, the Motion was timely filed within six
months of the dismissal and is accompanied by Counsel’s sworn affidavit attesting
to his mistake. 
 
 
            Thus, Plaintiff’s Motion is GRANTED.
 The Court orders that the dismissal be
vacated, and that the Complaint be reinstated. 

 
The
Court notes, however, that no Proof of Service has yet been filed with the
Court.  The Court therefore sets an Order
to Show Cause re Dismissal for Failure to File a Proof of Service for December
31, 2024 at 8:30 am.  Plaintiff is
ordered either to file a Proof of Service or file a Declaration explaining why service
has not been effected at least seven Court days before that hearing.  If Plaintiff has not served the Complaint by
the time of the hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel is ordered to appear in person to
explain to the Court the circumstances of this failure.
 
If
Proof of Service is filed as ordered, a Case Management Conference will be held
March 12, 2025 at 8:30 am.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 9th day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



