 Case Number:  24STCV06876    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




joel weiss

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
vons

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV06876




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   1, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
motion to be relieved as counsel for
  plaintiff
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Saideh Ghasemi Moghadam  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed. 
DISCUSSION
Saideh Ghasemi Moghadam (“Plaintiff’s Counsel”) moves to be relieved
as counsel for plaintiff Joel Weiss (“Plaintiff”) in this action.
“The
question of granting or denying an application of an attorney to withdraw as
counsel (Code Civ. Proc., § 284, subd. 2) is one which lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court ‘having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.’”¿ (People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 406 [internal quotations omitted].)¿ The court
should also consider whether the attorney’s “withdrawal can be accomplished
without undue prejudice to the client’s interests.”  (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) 
For
a motion to be relieved as counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2), California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice
of motion and motion directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion and
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration
stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284, subdivision (2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil
Procedure section 284, subdivision (1) (made on the Declaration in Support of
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-052)); (3)
service of the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the
proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney’s
Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel -- Civil form (MC-053)).¿¿¿ 
The court finds that Plaintiff’s Counsel has served (1) Plaintiff with
the moving papers by email and by mail at Plaintiff’s last known address, which
Plaintiff’s Counsel has been unable to confirm is current or to locate a more
current address after making reasonable efforts to do so, and (2) defendant The
Vons Companies, Inc. with the moving papers by mail and email.  (MC-052, ¶ 3, subds. (a)(2), (b)(2)(a),
(b)(2)(b), (b)(2)(d), (b)(2)(e); MC-052, pp. 4-5 [proof of service of moving
papers by email and mail on Plaintiff and defendant The Vons Companies, Inc.].)  The court also finds that Plaintiff’s Counsel
has shown sufficient reasons why the motion should be granted, and why Plaintiff’s
Counsel has brought the motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284,
subdivision (2) instead of filing a consent under section 284, subdivision
(1).¿ (MC-052, ¶¿2.)
The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s Counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel for Plaintiff.
Saideh Ghasemi Moghadam will be relieved as counsel of record for plaintiff
Joel Weiss effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed
“Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” on the
client. 
 
The court orders Saideh Ghasemi Moghadam to give notice of this ruling
and the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel –
Civil” to plaintiff Joel Weiss and to all other parties who have appeared in
this action. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court