 Case Number:  21STCV23699    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




william faulkner

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
city of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV23699




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   1, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant City of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff William Faulkner
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on defendant City of Los Angeles’s evidentiary
objections, filed on July 25, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 1, 27, and 30. 
The court overrules Objections Nos. 2-26, 28-29, and 31.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”)
moves the court for an order granting summary judgment in its favor and against
plaintiff William Faulkner (“Plaintiff”) on Plaintiff’s Complaint.  
In the alternative, Defendant moves the
court for an order granting summary adjudication in its favor and against
Plaintiff on each of Plaintiff’s three causes of action.[1]

1.     First
Cause of Action for Discrimination
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, because
of the race . . . of any person, . . . to bar or to discharge the person from
employment . . . or to discriminate against the person in compensation or in
the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)  “To establish a prima facie case of
discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must show they were a member of a
protected class; they were qualified for the position or were performing
competently in the position they held; they suffered an adverse employment
action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available job; and some
other circumstance suggested discriminatory motive.”  (Khoiny v. Dignity Health (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 390, 397.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the first cause of action for discrimination has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that (1) the element of causation cannot be established,
or (2) it had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for taking all of the
alleged adverse employment actions against Plaintiff.  (Zamora v. Security Industry Specialists,
Inc. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1, 32 [“The ‘employer, as the moving party [on a
motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication in an employment
discrimination case], has the initial burden to present admissible evidence
showing either that one or more elements of the plaintiff’s prima facie case is
lacking or that the adverse employment action was based upon legitimate, non-discriminatory
factors’”].) 
Plaintiff has alleged the adverse employment actions taken against
him to be the following: (1) upon his return to the Recruitment Division in the
Personal History Statement Unit (“PHS”), he was treated differently from other
PHS officers by Sergeant Williams (Compl., ¶ 20), and (2) Defendant generated a
1.28 personnel complaint against him for the failure to telephonically
interview candidates (Compl., ¶ 23), which was militarily endorsed (i.e.,
reopened) to add new charges for the falsification of information, forging of
electronic documents, and the neglect of duty (Compl, ¶ 25).  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 13
[“Plaintiff claims he was subjected to discrimination and retaliation when a
1.28 personnel complaint was generated against him for failure to
telephonically interview candidates”].) 
First, as set forth above, Plaintiff has alleged one adverse
employment action to be the differential treatment by Sergeant Williams.  (Compl., ¶ 20 [“Plaintiff suffered further
adverse actions in the form of the differential treatment between how Sgt.
Williams treated him and all other PHS officers”].)  However, Defendant did not address this
theory in its motion by arguing that (1) this differential treatment does not
constitute an adverse employment action, (2) Sergeant Williams did not engage
in differential treatment of Plaintiff, or (3) this theory fails for any other
reason.  Moreover, while it is undisputed
that Plaintiff has alleged that he suffered an adverse employment action after
the 1.28 personnel complaint was generated against him (UMF No. 13), Defendant
did not submit evidence establishing that the generation of that complaint is
the only adverse employment action on which Plaintiff bases this cause of
action.  (UMF No. 13 [citing Plaintiff’s
deposition, pages 73:8-74:16]; Autrey Decl., Ex. C, Pl. Dep., pp. 73:8-74:16
[testifying generally that Plaintiff believed that the 1.28 personnel complaint
generated against him was related “to the fact that [he] felt Williams was
engaging in discriminatory activity”].)  Further,
Plaintiff has referenced this treatment in his opposition, such that it appears
that he has not abandoned this theory. 
(Opp., p. 5:12-15 [“Plaintiff suffered further adverse actions in the
form of differential treatment between how Williams treated him in comparison
to all other PHS officers”].) 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment motion.  ‘ “The function of the pleadings in a motion
for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues” ’ and to frame ‘the
outer measure of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.’”  (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493.)  Here,
Plaintiff has alleged the existence of two adverse employment actions that were
taken against him.  Thus, Defendant was
required to show that both theories alleged in support of this cause of action
do not have merit on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff cannot establish the
element of causation between the alleged discrimination and both adverse
employment actions, and (2) Defendant had legitimate, non-discriminatory
reasons for taking those actions against him. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action . . . .”].)
Second, even if the court were to construe Plaintiff’s Complaint
to allege only the second adverse employment action, the court finds that the
evidence presented by Defendant shows that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether its reasons for taking the second adverse employment
action against Plaintiff was a pretext for discrimination.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 850, n. 11 [moving party must persuade the court there is no material fact
for a reasonable trier of fact to find].) 
As to the legitimacy of the 1.28 personnel complaint, Defendant
has presented the following evidence.  On
July 18, 2019, Sergeant Williams was approached by Adrian Ponce, a police
candidate, who stated that he had not been interviewed by an officer in his
PHS.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. G, Jan. 21, 2021
Williams Testimony before Los Angeles Police Department Board of Rights
(“Williams BOR Testimony”), pp. 36:20-37:17.) 
After conducting a random audit of the PHS applications assigned to
Plaintiff, Sergeant Williams contacted four applicants and concluded that
Plaintiff did not telephonically interview three out of four of those
applicants.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. G,
Williams BOR Testimony, pp. 38:1-11, 42:13-21, 43:12-21.)  Sergeant Williams informed Captain McCraney
of his conversation with Adrian Ponce, who subsequently instructed Sergeant
Williams to initiate a 1.28 personnel complaint.  (UMF No. 18.) 

Defendant has also presented evidence showing that (1) Defendant
required a telephonic interview of candidates, and (2) Plaintiff admitted, in
his deposition, that he did not telephonically interview candidates and that he
was disciplined by the Board of Rights for his failure to do so.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. J, McCraney Decl., ¶ 8
[“The process converted from an in-person interview to a telephonic interview,
however, never to an email only investigation”]; Autrey Decl., Ex. C, Pl. Dep.,
p. 84:15-25 [testifying that he “was disciplined for not interviewing
candidates” and that he was “guilty of” doing so].)  The court acknowledges that this evidence may
be sufficient to show that Defendant’s adverse employment action taken against
Plaintiff was motivated by legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons (i.e.,
Plaintiff’s failure to comply with Defendant’s policy to telephonically
interview applicants).  (Nakai v.
Friendship House Assn. of American Indians, Inc. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 32,
41 [“A reason is legitimate if it is facially unrelated to prohibited bias, and
which if true, would thus preclude a finding of discrimination”] [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) 
However, the evidence presented by Defendant also supports the
finding of a triable issue of material fact as to pretext. 
As to Sergeant Williams’s discriminatory animus and circumstances
suggesting discriminatory motive, Plaintiff alleged that Sergeant Williams
(i.e., the officer that investigated Plaintiff, raised the issue with the
Captain, and was thereafter instructed to generate the 1.28 personnel
complaint) rejected a substantial portion of the Black / African American
applicants and would make derogatory comments about them.  (Compl., ¶¶ 15-16.)  Defendant did not appear to submit evidence
establishing that Sergeant Williams did not disproportionately reject Black /
African American applicants.  Defendant
has submitted the testimony of Sergeant Williams before the Los Angeles Police
Department Board of Rights, in which he testified that officers should ask
follow-up questions when an applicant answers “no” to questions because some
applicants “do all types of things to try and get in . . . [and to] try and
scheme the system.”  (Autrey Decl., Ex.
G, Williams BOR Testimony, pp.93:24-95:2.)  However, Sergeant Williams did not dispute
that he made the alleged derogatory comments about the Black / African American
applicants in this testimony.  
Similarly, the testimony of Officer Fredy Yi before the Los
Angeles Police Department Board of Rights asserting that applicants lie “a lot
of times” on their applications does not establish that Sergeant Williams was
not making derogatory comments about Black / African American applicants.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. H, Fredy Yi Los Angeles
Police Department Board of Rights Testimony, pp. 109:20-22, 110:19-111:1.)  Moreover, while Plaintiff testified that Sergeant
Williams did not make negative comments to him directly about his race,
Plaintiff also testified that Sergeant Williams made comments in Plaintiff’s presence
“about collections or drugs or no criminal record . . . [and] negative comments
about the [B]lack race.”  (Autrey Decl., Ex.
C, Pl. Dep., pp. 65:17-66:16.) 
Thus, Defendant did not present evidence establishing that
Sergeant Williams did not make negative comments about Black / African American
applicants.  Although Defendant presented
evidence, as set forth above, showing that Plaintiff was required to conduct
telephonic interviews of applicants but did not, which may support the
legitimacy of the adverse employment action of generating the 1.28 personnel
complaint, the evidence presented by Defendant supports a finding of pretext
based on (1) Defendant’s failure to establish that Sergeant Williams did not
make discriminatory and derogatory comments about individuals of Plaintiff’s
race, and (2) Plaintiff’s testimony describing the discriminatory and
derogatory comments.  (Zamora, supra,
71 Cal.App.5th at p. 32.) 
Third, even if the court had concluded that Defendant met its
burden, the court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to pretext.  (Zamora, supra, 71 Cal.App.5th
at p. 32 [if the employer meets its burden, the plaintiff must produce
admissible evidence which raises a triable issue of fact material to the
defendant’s showing].) 
Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which he states that
(1) he conducted interviews of applicants by email instead of telephone because
his supervisor and former OIC, Detective III Cherie Clair told him that it was
permissible to do so, and (2) when he asked Sergeant Williams if there was
guidance on how to conduct interviews, Sergeant Williams said there wasn’t
“‘anything like that.’” (Faulkner Decl., ¶¶ 15, 14.)  As to discriminatory animus, Plaintiff states
that Sergeant Williams made comments to Plaintiff about African American
applications, such as “‘He said no to drugs[.] 
I . . . find that hard to believe[,]” and “I can’t believe they have no
collections.’”  (Faulkner Decl., ¶¶ 5, 11.)  Plaintiff further attests that Sergeant
Williams “‘never made similar comments to [Plaintiff] about applicants of other
ethnicities or races[,]’” and that he “rejected a substantial portion of the
African American applicants that [Plaintiff] would green light, a number that
amounted to far more than a 50% rejection rate, which was far higher than the
rejection rates for other ethnicities or races that [Plaintiff]
recommended.”  (Faulkner Decl., ¶¶ 5,
12.)  
Taken together, the court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden
to present evidence to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether Defendant’s investigating Plaintiff and subsequently generating a 1.28
personnel complaint against Plaintiff was pretextual because (1) Plaintiff has
stated, in his declaration, that he (i) was permitted to conduct interviews by
email pursuant to Detective Clair’s guidance, and (ii) was told by Sergeant
Williams that there wasn’t “guidance on how to conduct interviews[,]” but
Sergeant Williams initiated an investigation that led to the generation of a
personnel complaint against him on the ground that he did not telephonically
interview Defendant’s applicants, and (2) Plaintiff has presented evidence showing
a triable issue of material fact as to whether Sergeant Williams harbored
discriminatory animus against Plaintiff because of his race.  (Martin v. Board of Trustees of California
State University (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 149, 162 [employee has burden to
show that “the employee’s stated reason was a pretext for unlawful animus in
order to avoid summary judgment”].)
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for discrimination.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Harassment
It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer, because of
race, “to harass an employee . . . .” 
(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).) 
“To establish a prima facie case of unlawful harassment under FEHA, a
plaintiff must show ‘(1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was
subjected to unwelcome . . . harassment; (3) the harassment was based on [the
plaintiff’s membership in an enumerated class; (4) the harassment unreasonably
interfered with his work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or
offensive work environment; and (5) [the defendant] is liable for the
harassment.’”  (Martin, supra,
97 Cal.App.5th at p. 170.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the second cause of action for harassment has no merit because Defendant
has not shown that the element of an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work
environment cannot be established.
First, the court notes that Defendant did not set forth argument
in its moving papers addressing this cause of action directly.  Instead, Defendant has only summarized Plaintiff’s
allegations and has asserted that (1) Sergeant Williams merely questioned the
truthfulness or veracity of statements by applicants, and (2) Plaintiff cannot
remember the names of any candidates about which Sergeant Williams spoke
negatively.  (Mot., p. 5:5-8.)  Defendant, however, did not present analysis
as to which element was negated by such evidence. 
Second, Defendant did not submit evidence establishing that
Plaintiff cannot prove an element of this cause of action in its separate
statement.  
Specifically, Defendant states that this cause of action fails
“because [Plaintiff] cannot establish a prima facie case as he has no evidence
that he was subjected to sufficiently severe or pervasive misconduct based on
his protected status.  The actions that
Plaintiff complains of were personnel management decisions wholly unrelated to
his race or national origin.”  (Def.
Separate Statement, p. 16:8-11.)  
As to the severity and pervasiveness of the conduct, Defendant
again cites to Plaintiff’s testimony, in which Plaintiff testified that Sergeant
Williams did not make negative comments to Plaintiff directly about his
race.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. C, Pl. Dep., p.
66:2-12.)  However, Plaintiff also
testified that Sergeant Williams made negative comments about Black / African
American applicants in Plaintiff’s presence, including “negative comments about
the [B]lack race.”  (Id., pp.
65:24-66:1.)  Defendant has not presented
authority or argument establishing that Sergeant Williams’s negative comments
about persons of Plaintiff’s race, made in Plaintiff’s presence, were not
“sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the conditions of [Plaintiff’s]
employment and create an abusive working environment.”  (Martin, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th
at p. 170 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) 
Moreover, Defendant did not cite evidence establishing that the
alleged conduct consisted of “personnel management decisions,” such that the
alleged actions are not actionable as harassment.  (Def. Separate Statement, p. 16:10-11.)  The court acknowledges that “‘[h]arassment
claims are based on a type of conduct that is avoidable and unnecessary to job
performance.  No supervisory employee needs
to use slurs or derogatory drawings, to physically interfere with freedom of
movement, to engage in unwanted sexual advances, etc., in order to carry out
the legitimate objectives of personnel management.’”  (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 830, 860.)  However,
Defendant has not presented argument establishing that Sergeant Williams’s
derogatory comments made about Black / African American applicants constituted
conduct necessary to carry out the legitimate objectives of personnel
management.  (Ibid.)  To the extent that Defendant has attempted to
argue that Sergeant Williams was merely questioning the veracity of Defendant’s
applicants, the court disagrees.  While
Defendant may have shown that questioning the veracity of an applicant is
necessary to job performance, Defendant did not (1) dispute that Sergeant
Williams made the alleged comments, or (2) present argument establishing that
Sergeant Williams’s comments finding it “hard to believe” that African American
applicants “said no to drugs” and expressing disbelief that they had “no
collections” was unavoidable and necessary to vet its applicants.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. G, Wiliams BOR Testimony,
pp. 93:24-96:2; Autrey Decl., Ex. C, Pl. Dep., pp. 29:16-30:15.)
            Even if the court were to find that
Defendant had met its burden to show that Plaintiff cannot establish the
element of severe or pervasive conduct, the court finds that Plaintiff has met
his burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that
element.  Plaintiff has submitted his
declaration, in which he states that Sergeant Williams frequently made negative
comments to Plaintiff only about African American applicants.  (Faulkner Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, 10-12.)  The court finds that Plaintiff has shown a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether this conduct (i.e.,
Sergeant Williams’s comments that he could not believe that African American
applicants did not take drugs or did not have collections) was avoidable and
unnecessary to job performance, and therefore has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of severe and pervasive
harassing conduct based on race.  (Serri,
supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 869.)
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for harassment.
 
 
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Retaliation
It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer “to discharge,
expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the person has
opposed any practices forbidden under this part . . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h).)  “‘[T]o establish a prima facie case of
retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a
“protected activity,” (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer’s action.’”  (Meeks
v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the third cause of action for retaliation has no merit because Defendant
has not shown that it had legitimate, non-retaliatory reasons for taking all of
the alleged adverse employment actions against Plaintiff.
First, as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the first cause of action for
discrimination, Plaintiff has alleged the existence of two adverse employment
actions taken against him: (1) the differential treatment of him by Sergeant
Williams upon his return to PHS (Compl., ¶ 20), and (2) the generation of a
1.28 personnel complaint against him in or around July 2019 (Compl., ¶ 23) and
the reopening of that complaint in or around May 2020 (Compl., ¶ 25).  Defendant, however, did not address the first
alleged adverse employment action, and did not argue, for example, that the
alleged differential treatment of Plaintiff by Sergeant Williams did not
constitute an adverse employment action or did not occur as alleged.  The court is therefore required to deny
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to this cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) 
Second, even if the court were to conclude that (1) Plaintiff alleged
only the existence of the second adverse employment action, and (2) Defendant
met its burden to show that Plaintiff cannot establish the element of causation
and that Defendant had a legitimate reason to take the second adverse
employment action against him, the court finds that Plaintiff has met his
burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to causation and
pretext. 
Plaintiff has alleged that the adverse employment actions were taken
against him after he (1) complained to Sergeant Lavender that Sergeant Williams
was treating Black / African American applicants unfairly (Compl., ¶ 18), (2)
complained to Lieutenant Eppolito that forcing Plaintiff to work with Sergeant
Williams would again lead to the creation of a hostile work environment
(Compl., ¶ 19), and (3) complained directly to Sergeant Williams that he was
treating Black / African American candidates harsher than he was treating other
candidates (Compl., ¶ 22).  In support of
its motion, Defendant has produced evidence establishing that Plaintiff did not
complain about Sergeant Williams’s conduct to Sergeant Lavender and Lieutenant
Epolito as alleged.[2]  Specifically, Sergeant Lavender has attested,
in his declaration, that Plaintiff advised him “that he did not want to return
to the PHS Unit because of a personality conflict with Sergeant Williams,” but
did not inform him that “Sergeant Williams treated African-American candidates
harsher than any other ethnicity of candidates or made ethnic remarks about
African-American candidates.”  (Autrey
Decl., Ex. L, Lavender Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Similarly, Lieutenant Epolito states that Plaintiff expressed a concern
that Sergeant Williams did not like him, but did not tell Lieutenant Epolito
that Sergeant Williams was disqualifying more than 50 percent of African
American applicants and making negative remarks about them.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. M, Epolito Decl., ¶¶ 3,
5.) 
In addition, as set forth above, Defendant has produced evidence
showing that it generated the 1.28 complaint against Plaintiff based on his
failure to telephonically interview candidates as required.  (Autrey Decl., Ex. J, McCraney Decl., ¶ 8
[“The process converted from an in-person interview to a telephonic interview,
however, never to an email only investigation”]; Autrey Decl., Ex. C, Pl. Dep.,
p. 84:15-25 [testifying that he “was disciplined for not interviewing
candidates” and that he was “guilty of” doing so]; Light v. Department of
Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 91 [after an employee
establishes a prima facie case of retaliation, the burden is on the employer to
offer a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action].) 
Thus, Defendant has produced evidence showing that (1) Plaintiff did
not make complaints about Sergeant Williams’s discriminatory and harassing conduct
to Sergeant Lavender and Lieutenant Epolito, such
that Defendant could not have retaliated against Plaintiff based on those acts
as alleged, and (2) Defendant initiated the 1.28 personnel complaint against
Plaintiff for a legitimate, non-retaliatory reason. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to the elements of causation and
pretext. 
Plaintiff has presented evidence establishing that (1) in or
around May 2019, he had a meeting with Sergeant Williams, during which
Plaintiff told Sergeant Williams that he believed that Sergeant Williams was
treating African American candidates harsher than others, and that Plaintiff
had “never heard him bring up any stereotypes or negative comments about
Hispanic applicants or other races in the manner that he did about African
Americans[,]” which Sergeant Williams denied, and (2) two months later, in or
around July 2019, the 1.28 personnel complaint was generated against Plaintiff
despite the fact that he had been advised by his supervisor that he was
permitted to conduct interviews by email. 
(Faulkner Decl., ¶¶ 12, 14-15; Pl. Ex. 2, Williams Dep., p. 129:10-15
[there was not a written policy requiring telephonic interviews].)  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to submit
evidence showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the
1.28 personnel complaint generated against him (following the investigation
initiated by Sergeant Williams) for failure to conduct telephonic interviews of
PHS candidates was pretext for retaliation because Plaintiff has submitted
evidence showing that (1) he was told that he was permitted to conduct
interviews by email, there was no written policy requiring telephonic
interviews, and when asked for guidance, Sergeant Williams did not advise
Plaintiff of this requirement, but (2) two months after complaining to Sergeant
Williams about his discrimination, Defendant generated a 1.28 personnel
complaint against Plaintiff for conducting interviews by email.  (Def. Material Fact No. 17 and UMF Nos. 18-19
[after conducting an audit of Plaintiff’s reviewed applications, Sergeant
Williams was instructed to initiate a 1.28 personnel complaint]; Faulkner
Decl., ¶¶ 12, 14-15; Pl. Ex. 2, Williams Dep., p. 129:10-15.)  The court finds that the circumstances
presented by Plaintiff’s evidence “as a whole support[] a reasoned inference
that the challenged action was the product of . . . retaliatory animus.”  (Light, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th
at p. 95 [internal quotations and citation omitted].)  
Finally, the court notes that, in reply, Defendant contends that
this cause of action fails because Plaintiff did not engage in activity
protected by FEHA on the ground that he did not report that Sergeant Williams
was discriminating against African American applicants to Sergeant Williams, Sergeant
Lavender, or Lieutenant Epolito.  The
court disagrees.  As set forth above, Defendant
does not dispute that Plaintiff made such a complaint to Sergeant
Williams.  (UMF No. 59 [Plaintiff
“complained to Williams that he was discriminating against African-American
Candidates, Williams denied the accusation”].) 
Moreover, Plaintiff has stated, in his declaration, that he complained
to those individuals about Sergeant Williams’s conduct.  (Faulkner Decl., ¶¶ 8-9, 12.)  While Plaintiff’s assertions of his
complaints conflict with those of Sergeant Lavender and Lieutenant Epolito, the
court may not evaluate the credibility of these declarants on a motion for
summary judgment or adjudication.  (Taylor
v. Financial Casualty & Surety, Inc. (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 966, 982
[“summary judgment may not be granted on the court’s evaluation of
credibility”].) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for retaliation.
ORDER
The court denies defendant City of Los Angeles’s motion for summary judgment
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.  
The court orders plaintiff William Faulkner to give notice of this
ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


