 Case Number:  22STCV00532    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




tennia taylor

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
memorial hospital of
   gardena

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV00532




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   1, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Citiguard, Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Tennia Taylor
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with the demurrer and motion to strike.
The court did not consider the opposition papers filed in connection
with the demurrer and motion to strike because plaintiff Tennia Taylor served
those opposition papers on defendant Citiguard Inc. on July 23, 2024, i.e., only
seven court days before the hearing on these matters.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b) [“All
papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a copy
served on each party at least nine court days . . . before the hearing”]; Opp.
to Demurrer, p. 17 [proof of electronic service on July 23, 2024]; Opp. to Mot.
to Strike, p. 10 [proof of electronic service on July 23, 2024].) 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Tennia Taylor
(“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action on January 6, 2022 against defendants
Memorial Hospital of Garden and Citiguard Inc., alleging five causes of action
for (1) constructive discharge in violation of public policy, (2) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, (3) retaliation, (4) failure to pay wages,
and (5) waiting time penalties. 
Defendant Citiguard Inc.
(“Defendant”) now moves the court for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer to
each of Plaintiff’s causes of action, and (2) striking from the Complaint the
prayer for punitive damages, related allegations, and the alter ego allegations.
 
DEMURRER
The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action for constructive discharge in violation
of public policy because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since Plaintiff has not identified the public policy, delineated
in either constitutional or statutory provisions, that Defendant violated in
constructively discharging her.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 144, 154 [elements of claim for wrongful discharge in violation
of public policy]; Mendoza v. Western Medical Center Santa Ana (2014)
222 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1338 [setting forth requirements of public policy that
may support a common law wrongful discharge claim].)  
The court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action since (1) it does not appear to be preempted by the workers’
compensation exclusivity rule, and (2) Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing
that Defendant’s conduct was extreme and outrageous and that she suffered
severe emotional distress.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051
[elements of cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress].)
“Physical and emotional
injuries sustained in the course of employment are preempted by the workers’
compensation scheme and generally will not support an independent cause of
action.”  (Yau, supra, 229
Cal.App.4th at p. 161.)  However, “[e]ven
where an injury is otherwise compensable under the workers’ compensation
system, a cause of action seeking damages based on the injury may nevertheless
be allowable where the employer’s conduct falls outside the compensation
bargain: If the alleged injury falls within the scope of the exclusive remedy
provisions, then courts consider whether the alleged acts or motives that
establish the elements of the cause of action fall outside the risks
encompassed within the compensation bargain. 
[I]n some exceptional circumstances the employer is not free from
liability at law for his intentional acts even if the resulting injuries to his
employees are compensable under workers’ compensation.  [Citation.] 
Where the acts are a normal part of the employment relationship [citation],
or workers’ compensation claims process [citation], or where the motive behind
these acts does not violate a fundamental policy of this state [citation], then
the cause of action is barred.  If not,
then it may go forward.”  (Light v.
Department pf Parks & Recreation (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 75, 96-97
[internal quotations and citation omitted].)  
Thus, “[s]o long as the basic
conditions of compensation are otherwise satisfied [citation], and the employer’s
conduct neither contravenes fundamental public policy [citation] nor exceeds
the risks inherent in the employment relationship [citation], an employee’s
emotional distress injuries are subsumed under the exclusive remedy provisions
of workers’ compensation.”  (Light,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 97; Singh v. Southland Stone, USA, Inc. (2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 338, 366 [“The compensation bargain does not encompass conduct
that contravenes a fundamental public policy or exceeds the risks inherent in the
employment relationship”].) 
Plaintiff has alleged that,
while employed by Defendant as a security guard, she was “presented with a work
task” and “required to transfer deaths to both the morgue freezer in the
hospital for non-COVID deaths, and to the outside freezer for COVID deaths.”  (Compl., ¶¶ 12, 16.)  Because both freezers were not cold enough,
blood and other bodily fluids seeped out of the body bags and made contact with
Plaintiff at least two or three times.  (Compl.,
¶¶ 16, 18, 22-23.)  Although Plaintiff
reported the unsafe conditions to Defendant’s supervisors, she (1) was told
that the security guards were lazy and on a 30-day notice, and (2) was informed
that anyone who did not want to touch the bodies could “go home,” i.e., that
any such person would be terminated. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 30, 33.)  As alleged, it
appears that Defendant’s conduct “exceed[ed] the risks inherent in the
employment relationship” with Plaintiff and therefore falls outside of the
scope of the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule.  (Light, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th
at p. 97.)  The court further finds that
these allegations establish the element of extreme and outrageous conduct on
the part of Defendant.  (Hughes, supra,
46 Cal.4th at pp. 1050-1051.)  The court
also finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged that she suffered severe
emotional distress.  (Ibid.;
Compl., ¶¶ 33, 48.)
The court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action for retaliation because (1)
it is not ambiguous or unintelligible and therefore is not uncertain, and (2)
it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has
alleged that (i) she complained about health and safety violations to Defendant
(i.e., requiring Plaintiff and other employees to transfer deteriorating
bodies, causing blood and fluid to make contact with Plaintiff), and           (ii) Defendant, in retaliation,
informed Plaintiff that she was “on a 30-day notice” that required her “to
either increase her performance or be terminated.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (f), (e);
Compl., ¶¶ 53, 24, 30; Lab. Code, §§ 1102.5, subd. (b), 6310, subd. (b).) 
The court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action for failure to pay all wages
because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since
Plaintiff has alleged facts establishing that she was not paid wages for all
hours worked (Compl., ¶ 63), including that she was not (1) paid for the first
two months that she worked for Defendant (and therefore was paid less than the
minimum wage), and (2) provided her last paycheck after she resigned.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Compl.,
¶¶ 12, 36; Lab. Code, §§ 201-202, 1194, subd. (a).) 
The court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action for failure to pay wages due
upon termination because (1) it is not ambiguous or unintelligible and
therefore is not uncertain, and (2) it states facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action since it is not derivative of the first cause of action, as
argued by Defendant, because the obligation of an employer to pay the wages of
a separated employee is not dependent on a cause of action for wrongful
termination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subds. (f), (e); Lab. Code, §§ 201, subd. (a) [wages earned and unpaid at the
time of discharge by an employer are due and payable immediately], 202, subd.
(a) [an employee who quits shall have her wages become due and payable not
later than 72 hours thereafter unless the employee has given 72 hours previous
notice of her intention to quit, in which cases the wages are due at the time
of quitting], 203.)
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant moves the court for an order striking the following from
Plaintiff’s Complaint: (1) paragraphs 8-11 in their entirety; (2) the
allegations supporting the request for punitive damages, set forth in
paragraphs 43 and 53; and (3) the prayer for punitive damages, set forth in
paragraph 4 of the prayer. 
First, the court denies Defendant’s motion to strike paragraphs 8-11
in their entirety because they are not improper, irrelevant, or false since
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the elements of alter ego liability.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Cam-Carson,
LLC v. Carson Reclamation Authority (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 535, 549
[elements of alter ego liability]; PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683 [use of motion to strike should be cautious and
sparing and should not be used as a procedural line item veto].) 
Second, the court denies as moot Defendant’s motion to strike
paragraph 43 because     (1) that paragraph is alleged in support of
the first cause of action, and (2) the court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer
to that cause of action, such that the first cause of action and its supporting
allegations are removed from the Complaint. 
Third, the court grants Defendant’s motion to strike paragraph 53 and
paragraph 4 of the prayer because Plaintiff has not alleged facts establishing advance
knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification, or an act of
oppression, fraud, or malice on the part of an officer, director, or managing
agent of Defendant.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
436, subd. (a); Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  The court acknowledges that Plaintiff has
alleged that (1) while working for Defendant, her supervisors, Lawerence and
Jaimie, required her to continue to transport deteriorating corpses that were
leaking blood and bodily fluids onto Plaintiff and other security guards, and
(2) after reporting these safety concerns, Defendant did not remedy the safety
risks and retaliated against her by, inter alia, putting her on a 30-day
notice.  (Compl., ¶¶ 12, 30-32, 53.)  However, while these facts establish malice and
oppression, Plaintiff did not allege that Lawrence and Jaimie are officers,
directors, or managing agents of the corporation, or that other of Defendant’s
officers, directors, or managing agents authorized or ratified this conduct as
required.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(b).)  
ORDER
The court sustains defendant Citiguard Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiff
Tennia Taylor’s first cause of action. 
The court overrules defendant Citiguard Inc.’s demurrer to plaintiff
Tennia Taylor’s second through fifth causes of action. 
The court grants defendant Citiguard Inc.’s motion to strike paragraph
53 and paragraph 4 of the prayer of plaintiff Tennia Taylor’s Complaint. 
The court denies all other relief requested in defendant Citiguard
Inc.’s motion to strike.
            The court grants plaintiff Tennia
Taylor 20 days leave to file a First Amended Complaint that cures the defects in
the first cause of action and the allegations and prayed for punitive damages
set forth in this ruling.  
            The court orders defendant Citiguard
Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  August 1, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court