 Case Number:  23STCV28807    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASHOn November 15,
2023, Plaintiffs Jerry Kudenov and Kathryn Kudenov filed this action alleging
Jerry Kudenov developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos in
Defendant Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC’s talc. 
On January 3, 2024, Defendant filed its motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
A
defendant may move to quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her. ( Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without
prejudice the complaint in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is
made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)
"A
court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent
with the Constitution of this state or of the United States." (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  "The Due Process
Clause protects an individual's liberty interest in not being subject to the
binding judgments of a forum with which he has established no meaningful
'contacts, ties, or relations."'  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal
jurisdiction over a party under circumstances that would offend
"traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice."  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v.
Superior Court of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)
When
a defendant moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the
plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction.  (Jayone Foods, Inc.
v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the
forum state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate the
exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.)  "The plaintiff must provide specific
evidentiary facts, through affidavits and other authenticated documents,
sufficient to allow the court to independently conclude whether jurisdiction is
appropriate.  [Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely on allegations in an
unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of ultimate facts.  [Citation.]"  (Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair
& Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 222.)
A
defendant is subject to a state's general jurisdiction if its contacts
"are so continuance and systematic as to render [it] essentially at home
in the forum State."  (Daimler AG
v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S. 117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be subject to the
specific jurisdiction of the forum "if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the 'controversy
is related to or "arises out of' a defendant's contacts with the forum.'
[Citations.]"  (Vons Companies,
Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.)  This test does not require a "causal
relationship between the defendant's in-state activity and the
litigation."  (Ford Motor Co. v.
Montana Eighth Judicial District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The "arise out" of standard
"asks about causation," but "relate to" does not.  (Ibid.)  "[W]hen a corporation has
'continuously and deliberately exploited [a State's] market, it must reasonably
anticipate being haled into [that State's] court[s]' to defend actions 'based
on' products causing injury there."  (Id. at p. 1027.)
"In
a case raising liability issues, a California court will have personal
jurisdiction over a successor company if (1) the court would have had personal
jurisdiction over the predecessor, and (2) the successor company effectively
assumed the subject liabilities of the predecessor."  (CenterPoint Energy, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1101, 1120.)
Defendant provided
evidence that it is incorporated in Delaware and has its principal place of
business in Connecticut.  (Stewart Decl.,
¶ 2.)  Therefore, it is not a resident of
California and not subject to its general jurisdiction.  Plaintiffs do not argue otherwise.  (Opposition at p. 4.)
Defendant argues it is
not subject to California’s specific jurisdiction unless Plaintiffs can prove
that Jerry Kudenov was exposed in California to asbestos in a specific product
that contained Defendant’s talc.  (Motion
at p. 5.)  Defendant correctly argues
that the complaint itself does not allege the specific products at issue.  (Id.) 
In their opposition,
Plaintiffs identify the product – Paco Joint-Compound.  (Opposition at p.2.)  Plaintiffs cite Jerry Kudenov’s declaration where
he recalls purchasing and working with Paco Joint-compound in mid-1979 in
Southern California.  (Kudenov Decl., ¶
3.)  Plaintiffs cite evidence that
Defendant sold talc to Kelly-Moore in California during the 1960s to the 1980s.
 (Opposition at p. 3.)  Plaintiffs also cite
evidence that Paco Joint Compound products contained Vanderbilt talc in the
1970s.  (Ibid.) 
In its reply, Defendant
acknowledges it mines and sold talc in California.  (Reply at p. 2.)  Thus, it availed itself of the benefits of the
forum.  However, Defendant contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence that Defendant’s talc was in a specific Kelly-Moore’s
Paco joint compound to which Kudenov was exposed.  (Reply at p. 5.)  Defendant cites the deposition of
Kelly-Moore’s corporate representative, Douglas Merrill, where he testified that
different Paco Ready-Mix Joint Compound formulas do not list Vanderbilt’s talc
as an ingredient.  (Id. at pp.
2-3.)
Plaintiffs request
jurisdictional discovery to obtain evidence that Defendant’s talc was in the Kelly-Moore
product to which Jerry Kudenov was exposed.  The motion is CONTINUED to April 29, 2024 for
discovery on the use of Defendant’s talc in Paco joint compound during the time
Kudenov used the product.
Plaintiffs and Defendant
may file supplemental opposition and reply briefs based on regular notice.
            The
moving party is to give notice. 
            