 Case Number:  23CHCV02662    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  F43 Golden Hammer Ops, LLC vs. JETNET, LLC, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant JETNET, LLC
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainants Gregory Rowlee and
Golden Hammer Ops, LLC
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
·        
First Cause of Action for Fraud and Conspiracy
to Commit Fraud
·        
Second Cause of Action for Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
RULING: Demurrer is sustained in part and
overruled in part.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 5, 2023, Golden Hammer Ops, LLC (Golden
Hammer) filed the complaint that began this action. Golden Hammer filed that
complaint against JETNET, LLC (JETNET) and two other Defendants. Golden Hammer
alleged causes of action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets, Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations, and Violation of California Computer
Fraud and Abuse Act against JETNET.
 
On October 30, 2023, JETNET filed a cross-complaint
against Golden Hammer and Gregory Rowlee (Rowlee). JETNET alleges three causes
of action for Breach of Contract, Intentional Interference with Contractual
Relations, and Declaratory Relief. In JETNET’s Cross-Complaint, JETNET alleges
that Golden Hammer and Rowlee breached an agreement between the two parties and
interfered with JETNET’s contract with another party, AWS.
 
On December 6, 2023, Rowlee and Goldener Hammer
(Cross-Complainants), rather than amending the original complaint to add Rowlee
as a plaintiff, filed a cross-complaint against JETNET and ADSBExchange.com
(ADSB). The cross-complaint alleged four causes of action for (1) Breach of the
Services Agreement (against ADSB Exchange); (2) Breach of the Hosting Agreement
and the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing (against JETNET); (3) Declaratory
Relief (against both Cross-Defendants); and (4) Reformation of Written
Instrument. Rowlee and Golden Hammer alleged that JETNET breached an agreement
between the parties by failing to disclose that JETNET did not acquire the
Services Agreement during its acquisition of ADSB.
 
After this Court sustained JETNET’s demurrer to the
original cross-complaint, ADSB agreed to take its demurrer off calendar, and
Rowlee and Golden Hammer filed their First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) on
June 12, 2024, against JETNET and ADSB. The FACC alleges four causes of action
for (1) Fraud and Conspiracy to Commit Fraud; (2) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Declaratory Relief; and (4)
Reformation of Written Instrument.
 
JETNET filed its demurrer to the FACC on July 12, 2024. Rowlee
and Golden Hammer oppose the demurrer.
 
ANALYSIS
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
First Cause of Action for Fraud
and Conspiracy to Commit Fraud
JETNET demurs to the First Cause of Action for Fraud and
Conspiracy to Commit Fraud on the basis that it does not plead fact sufficient
to constitute a cause of action.
 
JETNET argues that this cause of action is superseded by the
California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (CUTSA) because it is premised on the same
nucleus of facts as Cross-Complainants’ trade secret misappropriation claim and
because it is dependent on the trade secret misappropriation allegations.
 
CUTSA supersedes other civil remedies based upon the same
nucleus of facts as a claim for trade secret misappropriation. (See Silvaco
Data Systems v. Intel Corp. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 210, 236.) Causes of
action that follow the logic of a trade secret misappropriation claim are
governed exclusively by trade secret law. (See Coast Hematology-Oncology
Assoc. Med. Group, Inc. v. Long Beach Mem. Med. Ctr. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th
748, 769-770.)
 
Cross-Complainants argue in their opposition that this cause
of action is not superseded by CUTSA because it does not arise from the same
nucleus of facts as their claim for trade secret misappropriation. They also
argue that this Court previously found that the fraud claim is it not displaced
by CUTSA in its August 12, 2024, minute order on ADSBexchange.com’s demurrer to
the FACC.
 
Whether or not the claim for fraud should be displaced
depends on whether it falls within one of the enumerated categories of
exclusion. (Civ. Code § 3426.7(b).) In particular, the Court will need to
determine whether the fraud claim is “based upon misappropriation of a trade
secret.” (Id.). The Court of Appeal clarified that “[C]UTSA does not
displace noncontract claims that, although related to a trade secret
misappropriation, are independent and based on facts distinct from the facts
that support the misappropriation claim.” (Angelica Textile Services, Inc.
v. Park (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 495, 506.) This determination, it noted, “is
largely factual.” (Id. at 505.) If a claim has “a basis independent of
any misappropriation of a trade secret,” then it survives displacement. (Id.
at 507 [reversing a trial court’s finding that CUTSA displaced plaintiff’s
breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, unfair competition, interference
with business relations, and conversion claims].)
 
Cross-Complainants argue that there are allegations under
their fraud cause of action that are separate from their trade secret
misappropriation claims. The FACC does allege that Mr. Streufert of ADSB
tortiously deceived Golden Hammer by making false statements regarding JETNET’s
acquisition of its contracts with Golden Hammer. (FACC, ¶ 81.) Alternatively,
the FACC alleges that Mr. Streufert of ADSB tortiously deceived Golden Hammer
by providing only partial details regarding the acquisition but withholding
other material facts in a manner which rendered its partial disclosure
deceptive. (FACC, ¶ 82.) The FACC also alleges that “Upon information and
belief, JETNET, through the conduct of its legal representative Erin Pawlowski
tortiously deceived Golden Hammer by rendering false statements regarding ownership
status of the Hosting and Services Agreements” and “Upon information and
belief, JETNET, through the conduct of its then Vice-President (and now Chief
Operating Officer) Joshua Baird, tortiously deceived Golden Hammer by rendering
false statements regarding ownership status of the Hosting and Services
Agreements.” (FACC, ¶¶ 84-85.) The FACC also alleges other misrepresentations
made by other officers of JETNET. (FACC, ¶¶ 86-87.) None of these allegations
appear to be related to trade secret misappropriation, as they are all related
to the acquisition of the contracts and alleged misrepresentations made by
officers of JETNET.
 
As for the other elements of fraud, a fraud cause of action
requires a plaintiff to plead and prove: “(a) [a] misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
“scienter”); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal 4th 631, 638.) Fraud causes of action must be pled with specificity. “…This
particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which ‘show how, when,
where, to whom and by what means the representations were tendered.’” (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73, quoting Hills Trans. Co. v.
Southwest (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.) 
 
Fraud claims against a corporation must “allege the names of
the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority
to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or
written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) 
 
All the elements of a fraud cause of action are present in
the FACC. Cross-Complainants have alleged that there were misrepresentations
(FACC, ¶¶ 81-87); that there was knowledge of the falsity (FACC, ¶ 81-87); that
the intended to defraud them (FACC, ¶ 88); that there was justifiable reliance
(FACC, ¶ 88); and that Golden Hammer was harmed (FACC, ¶¶ 91-92.) Additionally,
the FACC alleged how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered, and it alleges who made the representations on behalf of JETNET.
 
As for JETNET’s arguments that the FACC is contradictory as
to what misrepresentations were made and whether they were reasonably relied
upon, Cross-Complainants’ allegations for the fraud cause of action are
sufficient at this stage of the proceedings to survive demurrer.
 
JETNET’s demurrer to the First Cause of Action is overruled.
 
Second Cause of Action for
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
JETNET demurs to Rowlee and Golden Hammer’s Second Cause of
Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing on the
basis that it does not plead facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
The covenant of good faith and fair dealing is implied by
law in every contract. (Avidity Partners, LLC v. State of California
(2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1204.) It is read into contracts “to protect the
express covenants or promises of the contract, not to protect some general
public policy interest not directly tied to the contract’s purpose.” (Id.)
It exists merely to prevent one party from unfairly frustrating the other
party’s “right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.”
(Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349, emphasis in the
original.) “It cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting
parties beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.” (Id.
at 349-350.)
 
The FACC alleges that the Services and Hosting Agreements at
issue contained an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing requiring
ADSB to “honestly report the assignment status of both agreements, and not to
mislead Golden Hammer into providing an assignee of only the Hosting Agreement
with benefits under both.” (FACC, ¶ 101.) The FACC further alleges that the
Hosting Agreement is a valid and enforceable contract with JETNET because
JETNET is successor to ADSB. (FACC, ¶ 96.) However, Cross-Complainants appear
to conflate the Services and Hosting Agreements. Any requirements that the Cross-Complainants
have alleged would have been under the Services Agreement, but JETNET is not a
party to the Services Agreement. Therefore, Cross-Complainants have failed to
sufficiently allege that JETNET did anything to unfairly interfere with
Cross-Complainants’ right to receive the benefits of the Hosting Agreement. The
Hosting Agreement also contains no express terms that concern JETNET’s rights,
or lack thereof, under the Services Agreement
 
Furthermore, the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing “cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties
beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.” (Guz v.
Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-350.) Nothing about JETNET’s alleged
actions unfairly frustrated Cross-Complainants’ “right to receive the benefits
of the agreement actually made.” (Id. at 349.) The allegations in the
FACC do not indicate that there were any benefits from the agreement actually made
that they did not receive. The allegations are insufficient because they
improperly seek to add new terms to the Hosting Agreement.
 
Accordingly, JETNET’s demurrer to the Second Cause of Action
is sustained with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION
JETNET’s demurrer is overruled for the First Cause of Action
and sustained with leave to amend for the Second Cause of Action.
 
Rowlee and Golden Hammer are given 30 days leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice to all parties.