 Case Number:  22STCV36203    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  1 Moving Party:             Defendants
King’s Hawaiian Bakery West, Inc. and King’s Hawaiian LLC 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff
Juan Jorge Gonzalez 
Ruling:                        Motion
to compel arbitration is granted.
 
This is a
wage-and-hour proposed class and Private Attorney General Act (PAGA)
action.  Plaintiff Juan Jorge Gonzalez
(Plaintiff) alleges that he and others were employed by defendants King’s
Hawaiian Bakery West, Inc. and King’s Hawaiian LLC (Defendants), during which
employment Defendants committed various violations of labor law.  Defendants move to compel Plaintiff to submit
his claims to binding arbitration pursuant to an arbitration agreement
Plaintiff purportedly signed.
Legal Standards
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states, in relevant
part:¿ 
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists….¿ 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in favor of
arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes. To further that policy, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to
enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions
applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real
Estate Group¿(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967, citations omitted.)¿ 
“There is no public policy favoring arbitration of disputes
which the parties have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Engineers & Architects
Assn. v. Community Development Dept.¿(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 644, 653.)
Nevertheless, the strong public policy promoting private arbitration of civil
disputes gives rise to a presumption in favor of arbitrability and compels the
Court to construe liberally the terms of the arbitration agreement. (Vianna
v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189).¿ ¿¿ 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of
a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court's discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿ The
movant may bear this initial burden “by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party's signature.” (Iyere v.
Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 755 (Iyere); Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060.)  “At this step, a movant
need not ‘follow the normal procedures of document authentication’ and need
only ‘allege the existence of an agreement and support the allegation as
provided in [Rules of Court, Rule 3.1330].’” 
(Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at 755; Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 (Condee).)  
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of
demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration
of the dispute. Nonetheless, this policy does not override ordinary principles
of contract interpretation. The contractual terms themselves must be carefully
examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to arbitration:
Although [t]he law favors contracts for arbitration of disputes between
parties, there is no policy compelling persons to accept arbitration of
controversies which they have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Rice v. Downs¿(2016)
247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223, citations and quotations omitted.)¿¿¿ 
“A party seeking
to enforce an arbitration agreement has the burden of showing FAA
preemption.”  (Lane v. Francis Capital
Management, LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 687; see also Nixon v.
AmeriHome Mortgage Company, LLC (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 934, 946
[“The party seeking to enforce the arbitration agreement also bears the burden
of establishing the FAA applies and preempts otherwise governing provisions of
state law or the parties’ agreement.”].)
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff’s 2/23/24
Objections to Declarations of Alison Hamer and Gioconda Nunez
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #1 is overruled.  Ms. Hamer describes
meet-and-confer discussions, not presenting any out-of-court statement for its
truth.
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #2 is overruled.  Ms. Nunez is
the custodian of records of Defendants’ employment files and has foundation to
describe the conditions in which Defendants’ employees create business records.  Plaintiff’s business records objection to
this assertion in a declaration appears to be an inapplicable copy-paste.
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #3 is overruled.  Plaintiff not
asking any questions is not an out-of-court statement, it is an objective
circumstance witnessed by Ms. Nunez, and not hearsay.
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #4 is overruled.  Ms. Nunez is
not testifying to any legal conclusion or contention, merely the uncontradicted
fact that Plaintiff signed the Agreement (and did not refuse to sign the
Agreement).
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #5 is sustained in part as to Ms. Nunez’s statement that Plaintiff
“indicat[ed] his consent to be bound by [the] terms” of the Agreement.  Ms. Nunez has no foundation to testify to
Plaintiff’s state of mind, nor is her opinion of the legal effect of his
signature a proper one.  The objection is
otherwise overruled.
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #6 is overruled.  Ms. Nunez’s
recitation of the contents of the Agreement is merely to give context to her
assertion that Defendants did not receive an opt-out from Plaintiff.  The Agreement itself is in evidence and not
objected to.  The fact that Plaintiff did
not opt-out is not an out-of-court statement presented for its truth, it is the
absence of such a statement presented for the fact of its non-existence, and
not hearsay.  
 
Defendant’s
Objections to Declaration of Juan Jorge Gonzalez 
 
Defendant’s
objections #1-#4 are sustained.  This
testimony is not relevant to the issues in this motion.
 
Defendant’s
objection #5 (unnumbered) is overruled. 
A lack of recollection as to whether a person signed an agreement when it
was in fact signed by him may be contradictory but is admissible.   
 
Defendant’s
Objections to Declaration of David B. Bibiyan
 
Defendant’s
objections #5-#8 are overruled.  The
writings are part of the Court’s file and they are relevant to the question of
whether Defendant waived the right to arbitrate.
 
Defendant’s
objections #9-#11 are sustained.  The description
of writings created in anticipation of mediation is barred by the mediation
privilege, Evid. Code §§ 1119 and 1126.  
 
Defendant’s
objections #12-#13 are overruled.  This
testimony is relevant to determining Plaintiff’s claim of prejudice.
 
Defendant’s
objection #14 is sustained as to the last sentence, which violates the
mediation privilege.  (Evid. Code §§
1119, 1126.)
 
Plaintiff’s
Objections to the Reply Declaration of Gioconda Nunez
 
For the reasons
set forth below, the Court has not considered the declaration of Ms. Nunez
submitted in reply.  The objections
thereto are therefore not material to the disposition of this motion but are
preserved.
 
Plaintiff’s
Objections to the Reply Declaration of Neil Eddington
 
Plaintiff’s objection
#3 is overruled.  Mr. Eddington’s
declaration is directed to the waiver issue that Plaintiff himself raised and
the Court will exercise its discretion to consider the admissible portions of
the declaration.
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #4 is overruled.  Mr. Aviles is
counsel of record for Plaintiff and his statements in that capacity are
authorized admissions not barred by the hearsay rule.
 
Plaintiff’s
objection #5 is overruled.  Neither of
the circumstances described in Evid. Code § 1521(a) (genuine dispute or
unfairness) is present.  
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff does
not dispute that the FAA is applicable to the Agreement, nor that the Agreement
encompasses all his claims in this litigation. 
Rather, Plaintiff contends that the Agreement was never formed due to
lack of mutual assent, that it is unenforceable due to unconscionability, and
that Defendants waived their right to arbitrate. The Court will address these
contentions in turn. 
 
I.                  
Existence of an Enforceable Agreement
 
Defendants present a document
titled “COMPREHENSIVE AGREEMENT EMPLOYMENT AT-WILL AND ARBITRATION” which
apparently bears Plaintiff’s signature. 
(See Nunez Decl., Ex. A.) 
Plaintiff does not dispute that this is his signature.  Defendants have borne their initial
burden.  Iyere, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at 755.)
 
Plaintiff contends that the
Agreement is not enforceable because Plaintiff lacked fluency in English.  
 
Mutual assent is
determined under an objective standard applied to the outward manifestations or
expressions of the parties, i.e., the reasonable meaning of their words and
acts, and not their unexpressed intentions or understandings. [Citation.] A
party's acceptance of an agreement to arbitrate may be express, as where a
party signs the agreement. [Citation.] One who accepts or signs an instrument,
which on its face is a contract, is deemed to assent to all its terms, and
cannot escape liability on the ground that he has not read it. If he cannot
read, he should have it read or explained to him.  [Citation.]
(Caballero v.
Premier Care Simi Valley LLC (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 512, 518 (Caballero),
internal quotation marks and brackets omitted.)
 
Plaintiff does not contradict
Defendants’ account that he signed the Agreement and asked no questions about
it.  (See Nunez Decl., ¶ 4.)  Although Plaintiff was not presented with a
Spanish translation, he does not claim he asked for one and was refused, nor
that he asked anyone to translate the documents for him.  (See, generally, Gonzalez Decl.)  It is seemingly undisputed that he stated in
his hire paperwork that English was one of his “preferred languages,” despite
that he also identified Spanish as a preferred language (spelling it
“Espanish”) in his employee data form. 
(See Bibiyan Decl., Ex. 1.) 
Plaintiff apparently was able to complete this form, which is entirely
in English, without any difficulty.  
 
“Generally, a party may not avoid
enforcement of an arbitration provision because the party has limited
proficiency in the English language.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff signed the Agreement, manifesting
his intent to be bound by it.  It is
therefore not unenforceable due to lack of mutual assent.
 
II.               
Unconscionability
 
Unconscionability is a valid
defense to a petition to compel arbitration. (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v.
Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1143 (Sonic-Calabasas A).)  State law governs the unconscionability
defense. (Doctor’s Assocs., Inc. v. Casarotto (1996) 517 US 681, 687.)
The core concern of the unconscionability doctrine is the “absence of
meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties together with contract
terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas
A, Inc., 57 Cal.4th at 1145.) The unconscionability doctrine ensures that
contracts—particularly contracts of adhesion—do not impose terms that have been
variously described as overly harsh, unduly oppressive, so one-sided as to
shock the conscience, or unfairly one-sided. (Id.)
 
The prevailing view is that
procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present for a court
to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114 (Armendariz).) But they
need not be present to the same degree; the more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
conclude that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa. (Id.)  However, when there is no other indication of
oppression other than the adhesive aspect of an agreement, the degree of procedural
unconscionability is low. (Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc.
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695, 704.)
 
a.      Procedural
Unconscionability
 
“A procedural unconscionability
analysis ‘begins with an inquiry into whether the contract is one of adhesion.’
[Citation.]  An adhesive contract is
standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and offered by the party with
superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it basis.’”  (OTO, LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
126 (OTO).)  “Arbitration
contracts imposed as a condition of employment are typically adhesive[.] The
pertinent question, then, is whether circumstances of the contract's formation
created such oppression or surprise that closer scrutiny of its overall
fairness is required.”  (Ibid.)  “Oppression occurs where a contract involves
lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the allegedly
unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, it is undisputed that the
Agreement was a contract of adhesion, which supplies some amount of procedural
unconscionability.  (See OTO, supra, 8
Cal.5th at 126.)  Additionally,
although a person’s limited comprehension of English may not be sufficient to
entirely invalidate an arbitration agreement, it can supply some degree of procedural
unconscionability.  (See, e.g., Nunez
v. Cycad Management LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 276, 284
[procedural unconscionability present where employer knew employee was not
proficient in English, yet did not explain the arbitration provision in Spanish
or provide a translated copy].) 
Plaintiff declares that he responded to Ms. Nunez only in Spanish during
his onboarding (Gonzalez Decl., ¶ 5), and his misspelling of Spanish as
“Espanish” on his employee data form (Bibiyan Decl., Ex. 1) indicates more
facility with Spanish than English. This is not as egregious a situation as in Nunez
v. Cycad Management LLC, supra, because Plaintiff does understand some English
and so indicated to Ms. Nunez (Bibiyan Decl., Ex. 1). Nonetheless, it is
somewhat procedurally unconscionable to provide only English-language documents
to someone with limited English proficiency.
 
Defendant provides numerous
declarations on reply tailored to Plaintiff’s arguments concerning the
English-language Agreement and the conduct of the onboarding meeting.  As set forth below, Plaintiff has shown no
substantive unconscionability, so it is unnecessary for the Court to consider
Defendant’s reply declarations. Plaintiff has established some procedural
unconscionability and the Court now turns to whether any substantive
unconscionability is present.
 
b.     
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Substantive
unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates
whether they create an overly harsh or one-sided result. (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at 114.)  Where provisions
of the arbitration contract are unconscionable, courts may sever or restrict
the operation of those provisions.  (Id.
at 124.)  Where the “central purpose of
the contract is tainted with illegality,” then severance is not appropriate and
the contract should be voided.  (Ibid.)  Where “multiple defects indicate a systematic
effort to impose arbitration on an employee not simply as an alternative to
litigation, but as an inferior forum that works to the employer's advantage
[,]” voiding the contract rather than severing the unconscionable provisions is
appropriate.  (Ibid.) “Although
procedural unconscionability alone does not invalidate a contract, its
existence requires courts to closely scrutinize the substantive terms ‘to
ensure they are not manifestly unfair or one-sided.’”  (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at
130.)
 
Plaintiff identifies three areas
of purported substantive unconscionability: a lack of mutuality in the
contemporaneously-executed Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement
(the Proprietary Agreement), that the Agreement requires the arbitration of
sexual harassment and assault claims in violation of 9 U.S.C. § 402, and that
the Agreement unlawfully requires a waiver of PAGA claims.  
 
                                                             
i.     
Proprietary Agreement
 
Plaintiff contends that the
Proprietary Agreement permits Defendants to bring claims against Plaintiff in
court, while the Arbitration Agreement requires Plaintiff to bring all claims
against Defendants in arbitration, in violation of Armendariz.  (See Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at 117 [“it is unfairly one-sided for an employer with superior bargaining
power to impose arbitration on the employee as plaintiff but not to accept such
limitations when it seeks to prosecute a claim against the employee[.]”])  
 
It is appropriate to read an
arbitration agreement together with a contemporaneously-executed
confidentiality agreement where the agreements represent “separate aspects of a
single primary transaction— [the employee’s] hiring” and where “[t]hey both govern
[], ultimately, the same issue—how to resolve disputes arising between [the
employee] and [the employer] arising from [the employee’s] employment.”  (See Alberto v. Cambrian Homecare (2023)
91 Cal.App.5th 482, 490-491 (Alberto).)
 
The Proprietary Agreement provides,
in pertinent part:
 
19.  Applicable Law and Exclusive Forum.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of
California without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.  The state or federal courts within California
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any litigation arising out of or
relating to this Agreement and by executing this Agreement the Company and
Employee irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of these courts. 
(Bibiyan Decl.,
Ex. 2, ¶ 19.)
 
Both the Arbitration Agreement and
the Proprietary Agreement were executed the same day, December 20, 2017.  (See Nunez Decl., Ex. A; Bibiyan Decl., Ex.
2.)   Both the Arbitration Agreement and the
above-quoted provision articulate wholly different methods on how Defendant and
Plaintiff are to resolve disputes on completely unrelated subjects. In addition,
the Arbitration Agreement provides:
 
3. This is the
entire agreement between the Company and the Employee regarding
dispute
resolution, the length of Employee's employment, and the at-will nature of the
employment relationship, and this agreement supersedes any and all prior
agreements regarding these issues. By issuance of this Agreement, the Company
agrees to be bound without signing it.
(Nunez Decl., Ex.
A, p. 3.)  
 
The Proprietary Agreement states:
 
18. Integrated
Agreement.  This is the entire
agreement between the Company and Employee regarding confidentiality of the
Company’s Confidential Information and Trade Secrets and supersedes any and all
prior agreements regarding these issues.
(Bibiyan Decl.,
Ex. 2, ¶ 18.)
 
Unlike the two agreements in Alberto,
supra, both of which governed dispute resolution, only the Arbitration
Agreement here governs dispute resolution. 
While the Proprietary Agreement contains additional provisions for
injunctive relief, it is, at its core, an agreement “regarding confidentiality
of the Company’s Confidential Information and Trade Secrets” and not one
regarding dispute resolution.  Even if
read together, any unconscionable provisions in the Proprietary Agreement are
confined to the context of confidential information and trade secrets (which
are not relevant to this action) and the Court can and would sever them. Therefore,
this supplies no substantive unconscionability. 

 
 
                                                           
ii.     
Requirement to Arbitrate Sexual Harassment and
Assault Claims
 
Plaintiff contends that the
Agreement is unenforceable because it “illegally requires the employee to
arbitrate sexual harassment and assault claims in violation of federal law[,]”
specifically 9 U.S.C. § 402.  9 U.S.C. §
402 which provides, in pertinent part:
 
(a)In General
 
Notwithstanding
any other provision of this title, at the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or
the named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such
conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.
 
This statute does not support
Plaintiff’s argument.  It does not
provide that it is illegal for a sexual assault dispute or sexual harassment
dispute to be arbitrated.  Rather, it
provides that where a person alleges conduct constituting such a dispute, they
may choose to void the agreement.  (See 9
U.S.C. § 402(a).)  Plaintiff is not alleging
a sexual harassment dispute or a sexual assault dispute.  This section therefore has no applicability
here whatsoever, and supplies no substantive unconscionability.
 
                                                         
iii.     
PAGA Waiver
 
The Agreement provides the
following waiver (the Class Action Waiver):
 
(f) Except where
prohibited by federal law, covered claims must be brought on
an individual
basis only. No arbitrator has authority to resolve multi-plaintiff, class,
collective or representative action claims under this Agreement. Any disputes
concerning the validity of this multi-plaintiff, class, collective and
representative action waiver will be decided by a court of competent
jurisdiction, not by the arbitrator. In the event a court determines that this
waiver is unenforceable with respect to any claim or portion of a claim, this
waiver shall not apply to that claim or portion of the claim, which may then
only proceed in court as the exclusive forum. […]
(Nunez Decl., Ex.
A, ¶ 2(f).)
 
The Agreement also states:
 
(a) … Not covered
by this Agreement are: claims arising under the National Labor Relations Act
which are brought before the National Labor Relations Board; claims for medical
and disability benefits under the California Workers' Compensation Act;
Employment Development Department claims; claims under employee pension,
welfare benefit or stock option plans if those plans provide a dispute
resolution procedure; and claims which are not subject to mandatory binding
pre-dispute arbitration pursuant to federal law. To the extent federal law
prohibits enforcement of the representative action waiver (discussed in
subparagraph (f) below), also not covered by this Agreement are: representative
claims under California's Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, California
Labor Code§§ 2698, et seq. and representative claims for public injunctive
relief under California Business and Professions Code § 17203.
(Nunez Decl., Ex.
A, ¶ 2(a), emphasis added.)
 
As Plaintiff points out, no
federal law prohibits waivers of PAGA claims; rather, that prohibition arises
from California law.  (See Adolph v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1117 (Adolph)
[“a predispute categorical waiver of the right to bring a PAGA action is
unenforceable”], citing Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014)
59 Cal.4th 348, 382-383 (Iskanian).)  
 
The Agreement provides that “any
claim, dispute, and/or controversy…arising from, related to, or having any
relationship or connection whatsoever with Employee’s…employment by, or other
association with the Company, shall be submitted to and determined exclusively
by binding arbitration[.]” (Nunez Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 2(a).)  Because the Class Action Waiver provides that
claims may be brought in arbitration only on an individual basis, and the
Agreement’s arbitrability provisions provide that all claims must be
arbitrated, the Class Action Waiver is effectively a waiver of PAGA claims (or
at least, non-individual PAGA claims).  “[W]here,
as here, an employment agreement compels the waiver of representative claims
under the PAGA, it is contrary to public policy and unenforceable as a matter
of state law.”  (Iskanian, supra, 59
Cal.4th at 384; see also Adolph, supra, 14 Cal.5th
at 1117-1118.)  
 
However, the unconscionability
here may be cured by severing the inclusion of PAGA claims in the Class Action
Waiver, which may be achieved by striking language as follows:
 
(f) Except where
prohibited by federal law, covered claims must be brought on an individual
basis only. No arbitrator has authority to resolve multi-plaintiff, class,
collective or representative action claims under this Agreement. Any
disputes concerning the validity of this multi-plaintiff, class, collective and
representative action waiver will be decided by a court of competent
jurisdiction, not by the arbitrator. In the event a court determines that this
waiver is unenforceable with respect to any claim or portion of a claim, this
waiver shall not apply to that claim or portion of the claim, which may then
only proceed in court as the exclusive forum. This subparagraph (f) of this
Agreement is not a mandatory condition of employment. Employee may opt out by
mailing via U.S. Mail, Return Receipt Requested, written notice of the intent
to opt out within 30 calendar days of signing this Agreement to: Human
Resources Department. If the Company receives written notice of the intent to
opt out of subparagraph (f) within the 30 calendar day period, the Parties
shall be bound by all parts of this Agreement except subparagraph (f). If the
Company does not receive written notice of the intent to opt out of
subparagraph (f) within the 30 calendar-day period, the Parties shall be bound
by this Agreement in its entirety. Employee will not be subject to retaliation
for exercising the right to assert claims or opt out of subparagraph (f).
 
The Court will strike that
language.
 
c.      
Unconscionability Summary
 
Plaintiff has established at best
some procedural unconscionability, but with severance, no substantive unconscionability.
The Agreement is therefore not void for unconscionability.
 
III.            
Waiver
 
While “... no single test delineates the nature of the
conduct of a party that will constitute such a waiver,” our Supreme Court has
“found a waiver of the right to demand arbitration in a variety of contexts,
ranging from situations in which the party seeking to compel arbitration has
previously taken steps inconsistent with an intent to invoke arbitration
[citations] to instances in which the petitioning party has unreasonably
delayed in undertaking the procedure. [Citations.] The decisions likewise hold that
the 'bad faith' or 'wilful misconduct' of a party may constitute a waiver and
thus justify a refusal to compel arbitration. [Citation.]”  
(Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 980, 992
(Sobremonte).)  
 
In determining waiver, a court can
consider (1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate; (2) whether the litigation machinery has been “substantially invoked”
and whether the parties were “well into preparation of a lawsuit” before the
party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a
party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or
delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant
seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the
proceedings; (5) whether important intervening steps, such as taking advantage
of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration, had taken place;
and (6) whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party.  (Ibid.)  Where the FAA applies, there is no
requirement of prejudice and thus that factor does not apply.  (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 956, 966, citing Morgan v. Sundance, Inc. (2022)
142 S.Ct. 1708, 1714 [“the usual federal rule of waiver does not include a
prejudice requirement.”])
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant
has waived the right to arbitrate by taking an “inconsistent approach to
litigation,” adopting a “permissive posture[,]” as a result of which “Plaintiff
prepared and served voluminous informal discovery requests for class
information among other documents and information directly—and purely—relevant
to Plaintiff’s class and representative claims.”  As set forth above, it appears all this
discovery was conducted in preparation for mediation, and evidence thereof is
barred by the mediation privilege.  Even
if it were not, the only conduct of Defendant that Plaintiff identifies is
failing to file its motion sooner.  “Because
merely participating in litigation, by itself, does not result in a waiver,
courts will not find prejudice where the party opposing arbitration shows only
that it incurred court costs and legal expenses.”  (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of
California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1203.)  “Prejudice typically is found only where the
petitioning party's conduct has substantially undermined this important public
policy or substantially impaired the other side's ability to take advantage of
the benefits and efficiencies of arbitration.” 
(Id. at 1204.)  Plaintiff
identifies no such conduct.  
 
This Court should note the Court
of Appeal’s statement in Garcia v. Haralambos Beverage Co. (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
534 (Garcia), albeit in a footnote, that “engaging in mediation on a classwide
basis is inconsistent with the right to arbitrate individual
claims.”  (Id. at 544, fn. 5,
citing Bower, supra, 232 Cal.App.4th at 1045.)  However, Garcia did not turn on the
fact of a classwide mediation, and the defendant had engaged in other conduct
as well.  (Garcia, supra, 59
Cal.App.5th at 539 [defendant produced over 2000 documents and
negotiated a Belaire-West notice before changing course and moving to
compel arbitration.])  As noted above, conduct
inconsistent with the right to arbitrate is merely one factor among
several.  
 
The case of Gloster v. Sonic
Automotive, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 438 (Gloster) is
instructive.  There, the defendants
consistently asserted an intent to compel arbitration, but did not make a
motion until a year or so into the litigation. 
(Id. at 442-443.)  The
Trial Court held that the defendants had waived the right to compel
arbitration, but the Court of Appeal reversed, observing that the defendants
“consistently asserted their intention to arbitrate” and that “[t]hroughout the
period of delay, there was no question the Melody defendants wanted to
arbitrate; the only question was when they would get around to enforcing their
right.”  (Id. at 449.)  “Answering a complaint and participating in
litigation, on their own, do not waive the right to arbitrate.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Here, Defendant did not
participate in litigation.  Rather, it participated
in a mediation in an attempt to reach a classwide settlement at the
outset.  While this is conduct
inconsistent with an intent to enforce the right to arbitrate individual claims
(Garcia, supra, 59 Cal.App.5th at 544, fn. 5), there is no
evidence of any of the other factors (that is, substantial invocation of the
“litigation machinery,” proximity of the trial date, a counterclaim by the
moving party without a request for stay, or “important intervening steps” such
as judicial discovery proceedings). Defendant’s counsel informed Plaintiff’s
counsel of the existence of the arbitration agreement at the outset of the
litigation, making it a “question of when [Defendant] would get around to
enforcing [its] right” to compel arbitration. 
(See Gloster, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at 449.)     Taking into consideration all the factors
bearing upon waiver, the Court finds that Defendants did not waive the right to
compel arbitration.  
 
 
IV.            
Disposition of Class Claims
 
Plaintiff does not dispute that if
the Agreement is enforceable, the Class Action Waiver forecloses him from
pursuing this case as a class action. 
Because the Agreement is enforceable, the Class Action Waiver renders
the class allegations in his First Amended Complaint (FAC) irrelevant.  The Court therefore strikes the following, as
set forth in Defendant’s notice of motion:
 
1. “This is a Class Action,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 382 against KING’S HAWAIIAN BAKERY
WEST, INC. (“KING’S WEST”); KING’S HAWAIIAN LLC (“KING’S); and any of their
respective subsidiaries or affiliated companies within the State of California
(with DOES 1 through 100, as further defined below, “Defendants”) on behalf of
Plaintiff and all other current and former non-exempt California employees
employed by or formerly employed by Defendants (“Class Members”). (FAC 2:7-12.)

2. “and Class Members” (FAC 4:27.)
3. “, and because Defendants
employee Class Members in Los Angeles County.” (FAC 4:27-28.)
4. “and Class Members, or some of
them,” (FAC 6:7-8.)
5. “and Class Members” (FAC 6:9.)
6. “and Class Members” (FAC 6:14.)
7. “and Class Members, or some of
them” (FAC 6:17.)
8. “and Class Members” (FAC
6:20-21.)
9. “and Class Members, or some of
them,” (FAC 6:24-25.)
10. “and Class Members, or some of
them,” (FAC 7:3-4.)
11. “and Class Members, or some of
them,” (FAC 7:9.)
12. “and Class Members, or some of
them,” (FAC 7:14.)
13. “Class Members, or some of
them” (FAC 7:23.)
14. “and on behalf of Class
Members” (FAC 8:1.)
15. “and on behalf of Class
Members” (FAC 8:8.)
16. “CLASS ACTION ALLEGATIONS”
(FAC 9:3.)
17. Paragraph 32 in its entirety.
18. Paragraph 33 in its entirety.
19. Paragraph 34 in its entirety.
20. Paragraph 35 in its entirety.
21. Paragraph 36 in its entirety.
22. Paragraph 37 in its entirety.
23. Paragraph 38 in its entirety.
24. Paragraph 39 in its entirety.
25. Paragraph 40 in its entirety.
26. Paragraph 41 in its entirety.
27. “and Class Members” (FAC
11:27.)
28. “and Class Members” (FAC
12:13.)
29. “and Class Members” (FAC
12:18.)
30. “and Class Members” (FAC
12:19.)
31. “and Class Members” (FAC
12:24.)
32. “and Class Members” (FAC
13:5.)
33. “and Class Members” (FAC
13:9.)
34. “and Class Members” (FAC
13:13-14.)
35. “and Class Members” (FAC
13:15.)
36. “and Class Members” (FAC
13:19.)
37. “and Class Members” (FAC
13:26.)
38. ““and Class Members” (FAC
14:11.)
39. “and Class Members” (FAC
14:16.)
40. “and Class Members” (FAC
14:20.)
41. “and Class Members” (FAC
14:23.)
42. “and Class Members” (FAC
15:5.)
43. “and Class Members” (FAC
15:19.)
44. “Moreover, at times,
Defendants failed to provide one(1) additional hour of pay at the Class
Member’s regular rate of compensation on the occasions that Class Members were
not authorized or permitted to take compliant rest periods.” (FAC 15:21-23.)
45. “and Class Members” (FAC
15:24.)
46. “and Class Members” (FAC
16:1.)
47. “and Class Members” (FAC
16:4.)
48. “and Class Members” (FAC
16:12.)
49. “and Class Members” (FAC
16:15.)
50. “Discharged Class Members were
entitled to payment of all wages earned and unpaid prior to discharge
immediately upon termination. Class Members who resigned were entitled to
payment of all wages earned and unpaid prior to resignation within 72 hours
after giving notice of resignation or, if they gave 72 hours previous notice,
they were entitled to payment of all wages earned and unpaid at the time of
resignation.” (FAC 16:17-21.)
51. “and Class Members” (FAC
16:24-25.)
52. “and Class Members” (FAC
16:27-28.)
53. “and Class Members” (FAC 17:6.)
54. “and Class Members” (FAC
17:9.)
55. “and Class Members” (FAC
17:13.)
56. “and Class Members” (FAC
17:19.)
57. “and Class Members” (FAC
17:21.)
58. “and Class Members” (FAC
18:1.)
59. “and Class Members” (FAC
18:6.)
60. “and Class Members” (FAC
18:8.)
61. “and Class Members” (FAC
18:10.)
62. “and Class Members”
(FAC18:11.)
63. “and Class Members” (FAC
18:17.)
64. “and Class Members”
(FAC18:22.)
65. “and Class Members” (FAC
19:1.)
66. “and Class Members” (FAC 19:7)
67. “and Class Members” (FAC
19:13.)
68. “and Class Members” (FAC
19:14.)
69. “and Class Members” (FAC
19:18.)
70. “and Class Members” (FAC
20:10.)
71. “and Class Members” (FAC
20:13.)
72. “and Class Members” (FAC
20:15.)
73. “and Class Members” (FAC
20:27-28.)
74. “and Class Members” (FAC
21:1-2.)
75. “and Class Members” (FAC
21:7.)
76. “and Class Members” (FAC
27:13.)
77. “A. An order certifying this
case as a Class Action;” (FAC 27:15.)
78. “An Order appointing Plaintiff
as Class representative and appointing Plaintiff’s counsel as class counsel;”
(FAC 27:16-17.)
 
V.               
Disposition of PAGA Claims
 
Viking River
Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 “requires enforcement of
agreements to arbitrate a PAGA plaintiff's individual claims if the agreement
is covered by the FAA.”  (Adolph v.
Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1119.)  While the individual claims are being
arbitrated, the Court is empowered to stay the non-individual claims.  (Id. at 1123-1124; see also Code Civ.
Proc. § 128(a)(3) [“Every court shall have the power…[t]o provide for the
orderly conduct of proceedings before it, or its officers.”])  This Court will do so, as otherwise the
arbitration might result in a finding that Plaintiff is not aggrieved and has
no standing.  This would waste court
resources to no avail.  
 
Conclusion
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
motion is granted.  Plaintiff is
required to arbitrate his individual claims with Defendant pursuant to the
Agreement, including his individual PAGA claims.  His class allegations are stricken as
specifically detailed above.  His
non-individual PAGA claims remain stayed in this Court.  Defendant to give notice.  