  Case Number:  23TRCV0090    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  E 





Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JASON
  MOORE,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
23TRCV0090




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted
 




 
SOUTHERN
  CALIFORNIA EDISON; CITY OF TORRANCE AND DOES 1 THROUGH
50, INCLUSIVE,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 


Hearing
Date:              January
13, 2024 Moving Parties:          Plaintiff Jason Moore Responding Party:      Defendant and Cross Defendant Frontier
California HEARING: Motion To Compel the
Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable              The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. RULING             The Court grants the Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant’s PMK. BACKGROUND             On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiff Jason Moore filed the complaint alleging dangerous
conditions of public property, negligent or wrongful actor or omission of an
employee, and premises liability/negligence arising from a trip and fall
incident.             Plaintiff initially
noticed the Deposition of the person most knowledgeable (PMK) set to take place
on August 14, 2024.            On August 9, 2024, Defendant Frontier California
objected to the deposition as unilaterally set. Plaintiff responded by emailing
Defendant proposing other dates for the deposition. Defendant did not respond. On August 16, 2024, Plaintiff sent a follow-up to
Defendant. On August 27, 2024, Plaintiff sent another follow-up
stating that if Defendant did not respond, Plaintiff would set the deposition
for September 10, 2024.  On September 6, Defendant objected to the deposition
as unilaterally set. Plaintiff responded that the deposition would stay on the
calendar based on the early failures to meet and confer. On September 16, 2024, Plaintiff emailed Defendant
to meet and confer. On September 17, 2024, Plaintiff called Defendant to
meet and confer. On September 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion. On October 9, 2024, Defendant filed the opposition. On October 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Reply. Trial is set for March 5, 2024.  LEGAL STANDARD             If, after service of
a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . , without having served a
valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 subd. (a).)  “The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)  “Although the
statute appears to apply only if the deponent fails to both appear¿and¿produce
documents, it has been held to apply simply on a deponent's failure to appear.”
(Leko v. Cornerstone Building Inspection Service (2001) 86 Cal.App. 4th
1109, 1124.)    DISCUSSION  Plaintiff requests
the Court compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMK on or before October 28,
2024. Meet and Confer A motion to compel
deposition must be “accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450 subd. (b)(2).)
Here, Plaintiff made multiple attempts to email and call Defendant regarding
the deposition of Defendant’s PMK, which the Court finds satisfies the meet and
confer requirement. (Cruz Decl. ¶ 2-11.) Timeliness All opposition
papers must be served on the moving party and filed with the court at least
nine court days before the hearing. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1005 sudb. (b).) Here, Defendant’s opposition was filed one day late.
Based on the one-day late filing, Plaintiff asks the court not to consider
Defendant’s Opposition. The Court rejects this request and exercises its
discretion to review all submitted papers. (Iverson v. Superior Court
(1985) 167 Cal. App. 3d 544, 546.)  Separate Statement Defendant argues
that any motion to compel depositions involving document requests must be
accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal.
Rules of Court, 3.1345(a).) They also assert that failing to provide an adequate separate
statement is sufficient grounds to deny a motion to compel. (Mills v. U.S.
Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.) In the separate statement,
the moving party must specify each document request, the responses, and the
reasons why the responses are insufficient. Since Plaintiff did not submit this
required separate statement with their motion to compel, Defendant contends
that the motion should be denied. However, while Rule
3.1345(a) states that any motion involving the contents of discovery requires a
separate statement, it also lists the motions that require a separate
statement, a list that omits motions to compel deposition of PMKs. (Cal. Rules of Court, 3.1345(a).)
Furthermore, Rule 3.1345(b) states that a separate statement is not required
when no response has been provided to the request for discovery. (Cal.
Rules of Court, 3.1345(b).) Therefore, since the instant motion is only seeking to compel
the deposition of the PMK and not the production of documents, the Court finds
that a separate statement is not required. Good Cause A motion to compel
deposition must “set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2025.450 subd. (b)(1).) Defendant argues
that Plaintiff failed to establish good cause for the production of documents
requested in the deposition notice. To show good cause, the moving part must make
a “fact-specific showing of relevance.” (Glenfed Development Corp. v.
Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) Defendant notes that
relevance in discovery is determined by whether the evidence could reasonably
assist in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.
However, Plaintiff did not present any facts or references in their motion to
justify the document requests. Plaintiff’s omission, along with the 52
categories of document requests, highlights that the deposition notice was
overly broad and harassing in nature. In reply, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant's assertion about failing to demonstrate good cause for
document requests under Code Civ. Proc. section 2025.450 is irrelevant, as Plaintiff is not seeking to compel
document production but rather the attendance of Defendant’s PMK at the
deposition to provide testimony. (Code Civ. Proc § 2025.450.) Plaintiff states that the PMK’s testimony
is crucial for proceeding to trial. This testimony is especially important in
relation to issues raised in Defendant City of Torrance’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, scheduled for a hearing on December 12, 2024. The Court finds
that Plaintiff has shown good cause for the deposition of Defendant’s PMK.
While Defendant argues that Plaintiff has not shown good cause for the
production of documents, the instant motion is not requesting the production of
documents but instead seeking deposition of Defendant’s PMK. Objections Defendant asserts
that Plaintiff’s deposition notice, served on August 27, 2024, for a deposition
scheduled on September 10, 2024, was defective because it failed to account for
the schedules of the witnesses and counsel, and a valid objection was served on
September 6, 2024. However, whether or
not Defendant's objections were valid is not at issue. Defendant has failed to
provide any alternative dates or respond to any of Plaintiff's requests to
schedule the deposition of Defendant’s PMK.  Therefore, the
Court grants the Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s PMK. SANCTIONS Code of Civil
Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that
the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of
the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s
fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery
process includes failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).) In addition, a court shall
impose monetary sanctions if the motion to compel a deposition is granted
unless the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial justification or
other circumstances would make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code.
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)              Plaintiff requests sanctions be imposed in the amount of
$2,578.05.              Defendant argues that any sanction request must identify
all parties against whom sanctions are sought, specify the type of sanctions,
and be supported by a memorandum and declaration justifying the amount of any
monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040) Defendant contends that they
are actively working to locate and identify the appropriate PMKs for the twelve
categories requested by Plaintiff. These categories span multiple departments,
including service, engineering, construction, and customer service, making the
process challenging. The asset in question has been in place for many years and
has been owned by several entities. While Defendant has acknowledged ownership
of the pole, they have not yet been able to identify the proper individuals for
each category.             In reply, Plaintiff argues that they have repeatedly
tried to schedule the deposition and offered Defendant several chances to
suggest alternative dates. Despite these efforts, Defendant has refused to
cooperate and has not provided any valid reason for the delay. Plaintiff
asserts that this lack of cooperation violates the Discovery Act, which
requires parties to resolve discovery disputes informally.             Here, given the difficulty in procuring a PMK who can
fulfill all categories demanded by Plaintiff, the Court will not impose
sanctions on Defendant.
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JASON
  MOORE,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
23TRCV0090




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Denied




 
SOUTHERN
  CALIFORNIA EDISON; CITY OF TORRANCE AND DOES 1 THROUGH
50, INCLUSIVE,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              January
13, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Defendant City of Torrance
 
Responding Party:      Plaintiff Jason Moore
 
HEARING: Motion for Sanctions
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The Court denies the Motion for Sanctions.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiff Jason Moore filed the Complaint against Defendants
Southern California Edison and the City of Torrance alleging dangerous
conditions of public property, negligent or wrongful actor or omission of an
employee, and premises liability/negligence arising from a trip and fall
incident arising from a downed utility pole.
 
            On July 17, 2024,
Defendant City of Torrance, filed the instant Motion for Sanctions.
 
            On November 27, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Opposition.
 
            On December 5, 2024,
Defendant filed the Reply.
            
Trial is set for March 5, 2025.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
An attorney or unrepresented party who
presents a motion to the court makes an implied certification as to its legal
and factual merit, which is subject to sanctions for violation of this
certification under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7. (Murphy v. Yale
Materials Handling Corp. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 619, 623.) The Court may
impose sanctions for conduct that violates any one of the requirements set
forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (b). (Eichenbaum
v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 967, 976.)   
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7,
subdivision (b) provides:  
 
(b)¿By presenting to the court, whether by
signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written
notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is
certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief,
formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the
following conditions are met: 
 
(1)¿It is not being presented primarily for an
improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increase in the cost of litigation. 
 
(2)¿The claims, defenses, and other legal
contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a non-frivolous
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the
establishment of new law. 
 
(3)¿The allegations and other factual
contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are
likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further
investigation or discovery. 
 
(4)¿The denials of factual contentions are
warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably
based on a lack of information or belief. 
 
Only “an attorney or unrepresented party may
be sanctioned” under the statute. (In re Marriage of Reese & Guy (1999)
73 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1221.)  
 
“Under section 128.7, a court may impose
sanctions if it concludes a pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was
indisputably without merit, either legally or factually. [Citation.]” (Bucur
v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189.) “A claim is factually frivolous
if it is ‘not well grounded in fact’ and is legally frivolous if it is ‘not
warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension,
modification, or reversal of existing law.’ [Citation.] In either case, to
obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party's conduct in asserting
the claim was objectively unreasonable. [Citation.] A claim is objectively
unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney would agree that [it] is totally and
completely without merit.’ [Citations.]” (Id.) No showing of bad faith
is required. (In re Marriage of Reese & Guy, supra, 73 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1221.)  
 
“The California Legislature essentially sought
to replicate rule 11 [of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure] when it enacted
section 128.7.” (Musaelian v. Adams (2009) 45 Cal.4th 512, 518, fn. 2.)
As a result, federal case law construing rule 11 is persuasive authority on the
meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7. (Guillemin v. Stein (2002)
104 Cal.App.4th 156, 167.) Under rule 11, even though an action may not be
frivolous when it is filed, it may become so if later-acquired evidence refutes
the findings of a prefiling investigation and the attorney continues to file
papers supporting the client's claims. (See Childs v. State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company (5th Cir. 1994) 29 F.3d 1018,
1024-1026.) As a result, a plaintiff's attorney cannot “just cling tenaciously
to the investigation he had done at the outset of the litigation and bury his
head in the sand.”  (Id. at 1025.)  
 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7 “contains a safe harbor provision. It requires the party seeking
sanctions to serve on the opposing party, without filing or presenting it to
the court, a notice of motion specifically describing the sanctionable conduct.
Service of the motion initiates a 21-day ‘hold’ or ‘safe harbor’ period.
[Citations.] During this time, the offending document may be corrected or
withdrawn without penalty. If that occurs, the motion for sanctions ‘‘shall
not’’ be filed. [Citations.] By mandating a 21-day safe harbor period to
allow correction or withdrawal of an offending document, section 128.7 is
designed to be remedial, not punitive. [Citation.]” (Li v. Majestic
Industry Hills, LLC (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 585, 590-591.) (Emphasis
added.)  
 
 
            
DISCUSSION 
 
On January 11, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a complaint in Los Angeles Superior Court alleging Dangerous
Condition of Public Property and Negligent or Wrongful Act of an Employee
against Defendant, and Negligence/Premises Liability against Southern
California Edison. Edison was dismissed as an improper defendant, and on April
12, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include Frontier as a defendant
under a negligence/premises liability theory. Defendant also amended its
cross-complaint to name Frontier as a Cross-Defendant.
 
The incident
occurred on May 24, 2022, when Plaintiff tripped and fell over a utility pole
that had fallen across the sidewalk during an early morning run near 4559
Sepulveda Blvd. Defendant admitted it owned and maintained the sidewalk but
denied ownership or control over the pole. Frontier admitted the pole was its
property and under its exclusive control at the time of the incident.
 
During Plaintiff’s
June 19, 2024, deposition, he testified that the fallen pole caused his fall
and that no hazardous condition of the sidewalk contributed to the accident. He
confirmed that, upon revisiting the site to take pictures, he observed nothing
hazardous about the sidewalk. Plaintiff also stated he had never fallen there
before, nor had he heard of anyone else falling, despite running past the
location regularly for five years.
 
On June 24, 2024,
Defendant emailed Plaintiff’s counsel, asserting that the deposition confirmed
only the pole caused the injury, and no dangerous condition of public property
existed. Defendant requested Plaintiff dismiss his claims against it and warned
that failure to do so would result in a motion for summary judgment and
sanctions under CCP Section 128.7. Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond by the
requested July 1, 2024, deadline.
 
 
            Defendant requests the Court impose sanctions on
Plaintiff in the amount of $8000.
 
            Government Code sections 835 
 
            Defendant argues that under California Government Code
sections 835 a public entity can only be held liable for injuries caused by a
dangerous condition of its property if the condition of the property itself
increased the risk of harm.  Courts have
held that a dangerous condition may arise from the design, location, or latent
hazards of public property, but the physical condition of the property must
contribute to the harm. (See, Pekarek v. City of San Diego (1994), 30
Cal. App 4th 909, 916.; Hayes v. State of California (1974), 11 Cal. 3d
469, 472.) Mere third-party negligence unrelated to the public property does
not establish liability. (Hacala v. Bird Rides, Inc. (2023), 90 Cal.
App. 5th 292, 307.)
 
Here, the fallen
pole, which caused Plaintiff’s injury, was admitted to be the property of
Frontier, under its exclusive ownership and control. (Bean Decl. ¶¶9, 10;
Exhibit E.) Defendant does not own, control, or maintain the pole. Plaintiff’s
sworn testimony confirms that the pole alone caused his fall, not any feature
or condition of the sidewalk. (Bean Decl. ¶¶ 5, 11; Exhibit C, 62:5-6, 63:6-9.)
Plaintiff further admitted that the sidewalk did not appear hazardous, he had
never previously fallen there, and no one else had reported issues despite his
frequent runs in the area over five years. (Bean Decl. ¶¶ 5, 11; Exhibit C,
62:10-13, 67:24-68:5.)
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff cannot show that any condition of Defendant’s property increased
the risk of harm. The negligence of Frontier regarding the pole does not render
Defendant liable simply because the pole fell onto the sidewalk. Plaintiff’s
claims lack merit and violate California Government Code Section 128.7(b), as
there is no evidentiary support for a dangerous condition of public property or
Defendant’s involvement in maintaining the pole.
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the City’s motion
for sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure § 128.7 is without merit because
Plaintiff’s claim for Dangerous Condition of Public Property under Government
Code § 835 is legally supported. Plaintiff asserts that Defendant had actual
notice of a downed utility pole, owned by Frontier, blocking the sidewalk near
4559 Sepulveda Blvd. in Torrance as of May 24, 2022. (See Ex. 1, Plaintiff
Decl. ¶¶ 2-5 and Ex. 2 and Ex. 3, Photographs of Sidewalk and Utility Pole in
Day and After Dark.) Despite this knowledge, Defendant failed to take adequate
safety measures, such as erecting A-frame barricades or signage, to warn
pedestrians of the hazard. (See, Ducey v. Argo Sales Co. (1979) 25
Cal.3d 707, 716-717.)  Two days later, on
May 26, 2022, Plaintiff, while jogging early in the morning, tripped over the
pole and sustained injuries. Plaintiff emphasizes that Defendant’s liability
arise not from ownership of the pole but from its failure to maintain its
property in a safe condition and protect pedestrians after receiving notice of
the hazard.
 
            In Hacala, the Court found that the defendant’s
failure to remove improperly parked electric scooters, which led to the
plaintiff's trip and fall incident, did not create a dangerous condition on
public property because the plaintiff did not establish the existence of some
physical characteristic of the property that exposed the plaintiff to danger. (Hacala,
supra, 90 Cal. App. 5th 292, 307-308.) The Court in Hacala did note
that “A public entity may be liable under Government Code section 835 for
failing to take protective measures to safeguard the public from a dangerous
condition of the property itself; however, when the danger at issue is
third-party conduct, liability attaches only if the alleged physical condition
of the property “increased or intensified” the risk of misconduct.” (Id.) However,
“courts have consistently refused to characterize harmful conduct on the part
of a third party as a dangerous condition in the absence of some concurrent
contributing defect in the property itself.” (Hacala, supra, 90
Cal. App. 5th 292, 307-308; see Moncur v. City of Los Angeles
(1977) 68 Cal.App.3d 118, 123.) 
 
            “A claim is factually frivolous if it is ‘not
well grounded in fact’ and is legally frivolous if it is ‘not warranted by
existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law.’ (Bucur, supra, 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189.) In
either case, to obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the party's
conduct in asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable. (Id.)
 
            Here, Plaintiff has provided enough factual evidence and supportive
existing law to show that the claim was not frivolous. The Court has found that
a public entity may be found liable for third-party conduct if the physical
characteristics of the property increased or intensified the risk of injury. (Hacala,
supra, 90 Cal. App. 5th 292, 307-308.) While the pole was not a physical
characteristic of the property, Plaintiff argued that Defendant still had a
duty to protect the public from the dangerous conditions under Brazel and
Ducey. (Ducey, supra, 25 Cal.3d 707, 716-717; Branzel v.
Concord (1966), 257 Cal. App. 2d 68, 75.) While these cases are
distinguishable, Defendant’s arguments show that there was a reasonable factual
and legal basis for asserting this claim. (Ducey, supra, 25 Cal.3d 707,
716-717; Branzel v. Concord (1966), 257 Cal. App. 2d 68, 75.) (Ducey is
distinguishable as the defect was a physical characteristic of the property,
and Branzel is distinguishable because Plaintiff created an affirmative
duty by designating the park as a location to fly model airplanes.)
 
            Therefore, the Court denies the Motion for Sanctions.
 
 
           


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest District
Torrance Dept. E




 
JASON
  MOORE,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:


 
23TRCV0090




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  Granted in part/denied in part




 
SOUTHERN
  CALIFORNIA EDISON; CITY OF TORRANCE AND DOES 1 THROUGH
50,
  INCLUSIVE,


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:              January
13, 2024
 
Moving Parties:          Cross Complainant City of Torrence
 
Responding Party:      Cross Defendant Frontier California
 
HEARING: Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production, Set One
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
 
            The Court grants the Motion to Compel Further
Responses as to RPD’s 7-52 and denies the Motion to Compel Further Responses
as to the Special Interrogatories.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
January 11, 2023, Plaintiff Jason Moore filed the Complaint against Defendants
Southern California Edison and the City of Torrance alleging dangerous
conditions of public property, negligent or wrongful actor or omission of an
employee, and premises liability/negligence arising from a trip and fall
incident arising from a downed utility pole.
 
            On April 12, 2023,
Plaintiff amended the Complaint, adding Frontier Communications as a Defendant.

 
            On April 23, 2024, Cross
Complainant City of Torrance filed the Cross-Complaint against Cross
Defendants Southern California Edison and Frontier Communications, alleging
causes of action for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory
relief.
 
            On June 27, 2023, Cross
Complainant propounded its Form Interrogatories, Special
Interrogatories, Requests for Production of Documents, and Requests for
Admission, Set
One on Cross Defendant Frontier Communications.
 
On August 6, 2023, Cross Complainant was served with
Cross Defendant's responses to all of Cross Complainant’s written discovery.
 
On August 22, 2024, Cross Complainant emailed Cross Defendant,
stating that Cross Defendant’s responses were inadequate.
 
On September 3, 2024, Cross Complainant emailed and
mailed Cross Defendant a letter identifying the deficient Interrogatory Responses
and RPD Responses.
 
On September 19, 2024, Cross Complainant attempted
to call Cross Defendant regarding the discovery responses.
 
On September 24, 2024, Cross Complainant filed the
instant Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories and
Requests for Production, Set One.
 
On October 17, 2024, Cross Defendant filed the
Opposition.
 
On October 23, 2024, Cross Complainant filed the
Reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.300, subdivision (a), a court may order a party to serve
a further response to an interrogatory when the court finds that: “(1) An
answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete[;] (2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate[;
or] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  The burden is
on the responding party to justify any objection or failure to fully answer the
interrogatories.  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22
Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Next, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)  A court has discretion to fix
the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions.  (Cornerstone Realty
Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.310, subdivision (a), a court may order a party to serve a further
response to a demand for inspection when the court finds that: “(1) A statement
of compliance with the demand is incomplete[;] (2) A representation of
inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[; or] (3) An
objection in the response is without merit or too general.” 
 
The burden is on the moving party to “set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the
demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific
showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002)
96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Cross Complainant
requests that the Court order Cross Defendant to provide further response to Cross
Complainant’s Special Interrogatories Set One, and Requests for Production of
Documents Set One.
 
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel
must be “accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450.)
 
Here, Cross Complainant made multiple attempts
to meet and confer with Cross Defendant regarding Cross Defendant’s objections
which the Court finds satisfies the meet and confer requirement. (Bean Decl. ¶
15-19.)
 
Separate Motion
 
Cross Defendant argues that separate motions
to compel are necessary for different types of discovery tools, such as Special
Interrogatories and Requests for Production of Documents, because each is
governed by distinct sections of the California Code of Civil Procedure with
potentially differing requirements. In this case, since Cross Complainant seeks
to compel further responses to both discovery devices in a single motion, Cross
Defendant contends that the motion is procedurally defective and should be denied.
 
Cross Defendant provides no authority to prove
this assertion. Therefore, the Court finds Cross Defendant’s argument unpersuasive.
 
Informal Discovery Conference
 
Cross Defendants argue that the Los Angeles
Superior Court encourages, and sometimes requires, an Informal Discovery
Conference before filing any motion to compel further responses. They claim
that if an Informal Discovery Conference had been held in this case, the motion
would have been unnecessary. Supplemental responses were provided to the
Special Interrogatories, and supplemental responses to the Requests for
Production were served, although no additional documents were produced.
Furthermore, Cross Defendants admit ownership of the pole in question and
acknowledge that there is no proactive inspection or maintenance system for it.
 
While the Court encourages Informal Discovery
Conferences before the filing of a discovery motion, they are not required
under the Code of Civil Procedure. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.080.) Therefore,
the Court finds Cross Defendant’s argument unpersuasive.
 
Interrogatories
 
Cross Complainant
requests the court order further responses to Interrogatories Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, and 22.
 
On October 14,
2023, Cross Defendant filed an amended response to Cross Complainant’s Special Interrogatories,
Set One. Therefore, the Court denies the Motion to Compel Further as to the Special
Interrogatories, Set One.
 
RPD’s
 
            Cross Complainant argues that Cross Defendant's responses
to Requests for Production (RPDs) 7-52 are deficient. While Cross Defendant
complied with RPDs 1-6 by producing documents, it gave identical responses to
RPDs 7-52, stating that after a diligent search, no responsive documents
existed or ever had. Cross Complainant finds this hard to believe, particularly
regarding ownership, inspection, repair, and maintenance of the utility pole.
They question how Cross Defendant can claim ownership of the pole without
documentation. Given this inconsistency, Cross Complainant argues that Cross
Defendant’s responses should be amended to ensure proper disclosure of
responsive documents.
 
            Cross Defendant provided no argument defending their
responses. 
 
            RPDS
7-16, 30-42, 45-52: Requesting
documents regarding ownership, control, and maintenance of the subject
property.
            RPDS
17-23: Requesting documents regarding
inspection of the subject property and other utility poles.
            RPDS
24-29: Requesting documents regarding
the response to the incident.
            RPDS:
43-44: Requesting documents
regarding reports of the incident.
 
            While the Court finds that it is possible some of these
requests had no responsive documents, the Court agrees with Cross Complainant
that it seems impossible for Cross Defendant to claim ownership of the subject
property without documentation that would be responsive to this request. Thus,
the Court finds that Cross Defendants discovery requests were inadequate. (Code
Civ. Proc., 2031.310 subd. (a-c).) 
 
            Therefore, the Court
grants The Motion to Compel Further Responses as to RPD’s 7-52.
            
SANCTIONS
 
California Code of
Civil Procedure §§ 2030.300(d) and 2031.310(h) state that the court shall
impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories or demands
for production unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300 subd. (d);
Code Civ. Proc., 2031.310 subd. (h).)
 
Cross Complainant requests the imposition
of sanctions in the amount of $2,880. Counsel for Cross Complainant states that
they spent 12 hours preparing the meet and confer letter, this motion, the accompanying
declaration, separate statements, and exhibits at a rate of $240 an hour. (Bean
Decl. ¶ 15.)
 
Cross Defendant argues that sanctions should
not be imposed as Cross Complainant failed to engage in an Informal Discovery
Conference.
 
The Court finds that sanctions are appropriate
because Cross Defendant failed in opposing the instant motion. However, the
Court also finds that Cross Complainant's request for $2,880 is a excessive.
 
Therefore, exercising its discretion and
considering the complexity of the instant motion the Court grants sanction in
the amount of $1440.
 
            
 