  Case Number:  23SMCV01747    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  O Case
Name:  Weiss v. Horowitz, et al.



Case No.:


23SMCV05467


Complaint Filed:


11-17-23         




Hearing Date:


6-6-24


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


11


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


Ok


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER W/O MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Venable LLP
(Defendant Horowitz was dismissed on in motion to quash)
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff Marvin Weiss 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
            Defendant
Venable LLP’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Marvin Weiss’s Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend as to the 1st and 3rd causes of action. Defendant’s
alleged defamatory statement is non-actionable opinion and cannot be the basis
of the defamation claim, or negligence claim based on the alleged defamatory
statement. Additionally, the litigation privilege bars the claims.
 
            Defendant
Venable LLPs Demurrer to Plaintiff Marvin Weiss’s Complaint is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the 2nd cause of action. Plaintiff
agreed to dismiss the cause of action in a meet and confer, the litigation
privilege bars the action, and there was no actual breach plead in the
complaint 
 
            Defendant
Venable LLP’s RJN 1–6 is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant
Venable’s RJN 7 is GRANTED.  Plaintiff
does not dispute the accuracy of the email chain within Ex. 7 in Plaintiff’s
opposition, and Plaintiff incorporates an email within the email chain as part
of the Complaint. (See Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 743, 760–761, as modified on denial of reh'g (Apr. 16, 2013)
[“judicial notice can be taken of matters not reasonably subject to dispute”]; see
also Ingram v. Flippo, (1999) 74 Cal. App. 4th, 1285 fn.3 [taking
judicial notice under Evidence Code Section 452(h) of two documents summarized
and quoted in the complaint and that “form[ed] the basis of the allegations in
the complaint”].) The full email chain and attachments are vital for the Court
to understand the context in which the alleged defamatory statement was made. (See
Complaint, Ex. 5; see Balzaga v. Fox News
Network, LLC (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1325, 1338 [“[A] defamatory meaning must be found, if at all, in a
reading of the publication as a whole.”].) However, the truth of the
facts asserted in the email chain will not be judicially noticed. 
 
 
I.               
Demurrer to 1st cause of action for
Libel and 3rd cause of action for Negligence  - SUSTAINED without leave to amend
            “The elements of a defamation claim
are (1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and
(5) has a natural tendency to injure or causes special damage. ‘In general, … a
written communication that is false, that is not protected by any privilege,
and that exposes a person to contempt or ridicule or certain other reputational
injuries, constitutes libel.’ The defamatory statement must specifically refer
to, or be ‘ “of [or] concerning,” ’ the plaintiff.” (Jackson v. Mayweather
(2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1240, 1259, internal citations omitted.) “A statement is
defamatory when it tends directly to injure [a person] in respect to [that
person's] office, profession, trade or business, either by imputing to [the
person] general disqualification in those respects which the office or other
occupation peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with reference to [the
person's] office, profession, trade, or business that has a natural tendency to
lessen its profits.” (Issa v. Applegate (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 689, 702,
internal citation omitted.) “[Name of plaintiff] may also recover
damages to punish [name of defendant] if [he/she/nonbinary pronoun]
proves by clear and convincing evidence that [name of defendant] acted
with malice, oppression, or fraud.” (CACI 1704.)
 
            “The critical determination of whether an allegedly
defamatory statement constitutes fact or opinion is a question of law for the
court [citations] and therefore suitable for resolution by demurrer. [Citation.]
If the court concludes the statement could reasonably be construed as either
fact or opinion, the issue should be resolved by a jury. (Ferlauto v.
Hamsher (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1394, 1401.) “In drawing the distinction
between opinion and fact, California courts apply the totality of the
circumstances test to determine whether an allegedly defamatory statement is
actionable,” and “editorial context is regarded by the courts as a powerful
element in construing as opinion what might otherwise be deemed fact. (Ibid; Balzaga v. Fox News
Network, LLC (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 1325, 1338 [“[A] defamatory meaning must be found, if at all, in a
reading of the publication as a whole.”].)
 
“Part of the totality of the
circumstances used in evaluating the language in question is whether the
statements were made by participants in an adversarial setting. ‘[W]here
potentially defamatory statements are published in a ... setting in which the audience
may anticipate efforts by the parties to persuade others to their positions by
use of epithets, fiery rhetoric or hyperbole, language which generally might be
considered as statements of fact may well assume the character of statements of
opinion.’ [Citation.]” (Dickinson v. Cosby (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 655,
686–687.)
 
“Deprecatory statements regarding
the merits of litigation are “nothing more than ‘the predictable opinion’ of
one side to the lawsuit” and cannot be the basis for a defamation claim.” (GetFugu,
Inc. v. Patton Boggs LLP (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 141, 156; see Ferlauto,
supra, 74 Cal.App.4th at p. 1403 [the numerous descriptions of the
lawsuit and the motion as “stupid,” “laughed at,” “a joke,” “spurious,” and
“frivolous,” are common characterizations which are nothing more than “the
predictable opinion” of one side to the lawsuit . . . .  Use of such descriptive terms does not
improperly attack appellant's competence or ethics and cannot be the basis for
a defamation claim.”)
 
A demurrer will be sustained
without leave to amend when there is no reasonable possibility that the defect
can be cured. (See Blank v. Kirwan (1985)39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.)
 
Defendant Venable LLP (“Venable”) shows
that the basis for the libel and negligence causes of action is a non-actionable
deprecatory statement from an attorney regarding the merits of litigation, and
thus is predictable opinion. (See GetFugu, Inc., supra, 220
Cal.App.4th at p. 156.) Plaintiff Marvin Weiss’s (“Weiss”) defamation and
negligence causes of action are based on the allegedly defamatory statement:
“I’ve attached a copy of Stewart Webb’s letter to Marvin Weiss on May 24, 2022,
which addresses Mr. Weiss’ groundless assertions.” (Compl. ¶¶ 24, 33, 38.) The context
of the email exchange shows the statement was made in response to the merits of
a fee dispute related to prior litigation. 
 
The statement “groundless
assertions” is similar to statements such as “stupid, laughed at, a joke,
spurious, and frivolous,” made in a similar context in Ferlauto.  (Ferlauto, supra, 74 Cal. App.
4th at p. 1403.) The Court in Ferlauto held these similar statements
were “predictable opinion” that “cannot be the basis for the defamation claim.”
(Ibid [“Use of such descriptive terms does not improperly attack
appellant's competence or ethics and cannot be the basis for a defamation
claim.”].)  Thus, the statement
“groundless assertion” written in the context of a fee dispute between
attorneys is predictable opinion. 
 
Weiss argues the alleged defamatory
statement was made by an attorney to laypersons which thus “carries the force
of a factual assertion,” citing to Franklin v. Dynamic Details, Inc.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 375, for support. However, Franklin does not
support this argument, and Weiss does not include any other supportive authority.
The Court in Franklin does not suggest that a statement is factual
because it is made by an attorney to a layperson, but that one aspect of the
totality of circumstances test is noting whether the speaker purported to be an
attorney or not. (See Franklin, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at pp.
386–389.)
 
Thus, there is no reasonable
possibility that the 1st and 3rd causes of action can be
cured on amendment. The demurrer to the 1st and 3rd
causes of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.


II.            
Demurrer to 2nd cause of action for Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations – SUSTAINED without leave to amend
 
Intentional interference requires
“(1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and a third party;
(2) the defendant’s knowledge of that contract; (3) the defendant’s intentional
acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5)
resulting damage.” (Reeves v. Hanlon, 33 Cal. 4th 1140, 1148 (2004).
 
Weiss does not plead facts to show
an actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship between Weiss
and his clients other than conclusory language stating Weiss was damaged by the
alleged defamatory statement. (Compl., ¶ 34.) 
 
Additionally, Venable declares that
Weiss agreed to dismiss this cause of action during the meet and confer process.
(McLaughlin Decl., ¶ 5.) Weiss does not dispute this claim, and in fact states
in the opposition that he indeed agreed to dismiss the claim. (See Oppo, p. 4,
fn. 2 [“However, in a good faith effort to meet and confer regarding the
demurrer, Plaintiff agreed to dismiss [the Intentional Interference with
Contractual Relations] COA.”]
 
Further, the litigation privilege
bars this action as discussed below. (See infra, Section III.)
 
Thus, the Demurrer to the 2nd
cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
III.          
Defendant’s Affirmative Defense – Litigation Privilege
 
Venable demurs to the complaint
based on the litigation privilege affirmative defense. “The litigation
privilege, codified at Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), provides that a
‘publication or broadcast’ made as part of a ‘judicial proceeding’ is
privileged. This privilege is absolute in nature, applying ‘to all
publications, irrespective of their maliciousness.’” (Action Apartment
Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal. 4th 1232, 1241 (quoting Silberg
v. Anderson (1990), 50 Cal. 3d 205, 216 as modified (Mar. 12, 1990).) “[D]emand
letters and like communications between litigants or their attorneys which are
directed toward settlement of a pending or anticipated lawsuit” are within the
litigation privilege. (Rothman v. Jackson (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1134,
1148.) Courts give the litigation privilege a “broad interpretation” in order
to further its principle purpose of protecting “ ‘access to the courts without
fear of ... derivative tort actions.’ ” (Action Apartment, supra,
41 Cal.4th at p. 1241.)
 
            Venable
shows that the email with the alleged defamatory statement was made with “some
relation to an anticipated lawsuit,” since the email was related to a fee
dispute. (Rubin v. Green (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1187, 1194.) Venable shows
that the statement was made by a litigant since Horowitz was speaking on behalf
of Venable in the email chain. Venable shows that the communication is related
to litigation under serious and good faith consideration because the email
chain involved a fee dispute whereby former Venable clients represented by
Weiss failed to meet an agreed up on payment plan and refused to make future
payments based on separate accusations. (RJN, Ex. 7.) Within the email chain,
Venable reminds the former clients that the payment obligation is joint and
several, and “hope[d] to avoid the need to escalate [Venable’s] collection
efforts.” (Ibid.) The Court finds that the statements within this email
chain fall squarely within the broad interpretation of the litigation privilege.

 
            Weiss
argues that the litigation privilege does not apply because the alleged
defamatory statement was not made in reasonable and actual anticipation of
litigation because, but that litigation was merely a possibility. (See Diamond
Resorts U.S. Collection Development, LLC v. Pandora Marketing, LLC (C.D.
Cal. 2021) 541 F.Supp.3d 1020, 1026 [“the court held that statements were not
privileged because the defendants had failed to establish “anything more than
the mere possibility that appellants might consider litigation.” And in Dickinson
v. Cosby . . . the court held that a demand letter written by an attorney
did not fall within the litigation privilege because, by the time of the
court's decision, the demand letter had not resulted in litigation.”].)  This argument is not persuasive because whether
a lawsuit is brought is “relevant to the determination of whether one
contemplat4ed in good faith at the time of demand letter,” but is “not
dispositive.” (Dickinson, supra, 17 Cal. App. 5th at p. 683.)
Further, the litigation privilege has been upheld when actual litigation has
not occurred. (Action Apartment Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica, 41 Cal.
4th 1232, 1242-45, 1247 [“we decline to recognize a broad exception to the
litigation privilege for any party who did not participate in the
underlying litigation.”]; see also Knoell v. Petrovich (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 164, 171 [litigation privilege barred action arising from demand
letter to city attorney regarding easement dispute because they were in “contemplation
of litigation,” although litigation was not ultimately required).) 
 
            The alleged
defamatory statement within the context of the email chain shows that the
statement was made in the midst of a fee dispute between attorneys. Venable’s
statement regarding avoiding escalation of the collection efforts clearly shows
the anticipation of litigation within the email exchange. Thus, the litigation
privilege applies.  All three claims in
Weiss’s Complaint are based on the alleged defamatory statement barred by the
litigation privilege, and thus all three claims are barred by the privilege. 