  Case Number:  22STCV10330    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


May
  17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV10330




MOTION


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Stewart Title of
  California, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Ginger Drinkwater (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Stewart
Title of California (“Stewart Title”); Sound Equity, Inc.; Palms Blvd Venice
Beach, LLC; Gold Constructors; Wiltchik Appraisers; Andre Wegner; Douglas
Sanchez; Dee Brothers; and Jed Wiltchik; alleging elder financial abuse in
connection with the sale of her residential home in January 2020.  
 
Stewart Title brought a cross-complaint for declaratory relief
regarding implied indemnity/contribution against Cross-Defendants Jafiel D.
Drinkwater, also known as Jafiel Drinkwater; Andre Nevin Wegner also known as
(aka) Andre Wegner, aka Andre Falcon, aka Andre Nevil, aka Austin Taylor
Wegner, aka Austin Wegner; Douglas Sanchez; Dee Ann Brothers aka Dee Brothers;
Palms Blvd Venice Beach, LLC; Gold Constructors, Inc.; and Top Flight
Investments, LLC.
 
Stewart Title now moves to compel the deposition of Cross-Defendant
Jafiel Drinkwater (“Jafiel”).  Stewart
Title also seeks monetary sanctions against Jafiel.  The motion is unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “The purpose of the discovery rules
is to enhance the truth-seeking function of the litigation process and
eliminate trial strategies that focus on gamesmanship and surprise.  In other words, the discovery process is
designed to make a trial less a game of blindman's bluff and more a fair
contest with the basic issues and facts disclosed to the fullest practicable
extent.”  (Juarez v. Boy Scouts of Am., Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 389
[cleaned up].)   
 
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, if a party to the action fails to appear for deposition after service
of a deposition notice and the party has not served a valid objection to that
deposition notice, the party that noticed the deposition may move for an order
to compel the deponent’s attendance and testimony. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the
following: ¶(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. ¶(2) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (b).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     SERVICE
OF THE MOTION
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 subdivision (b) requires that all
moving and supporting papers be filed and served at least 16 court days prior
to the hearing.  Here, the proof of
service indicates Stewart Title served the instant motion to compel on Jafiel
via his former counsel, Thomas Sands (“Counsel”) on March 21, 2024.  
 
The Court granted Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel on March
19, 2024.  (See Minute Order, Mar. 19,
2024.)  However, California Rules of
Court, Rule 3.13662(e) provides:
 
The proposed order relieving counsel must be
prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving
papers. The order must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or
proceeding, including the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is
presently scheduled, the court may set one and specify the date in the order.
After the order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the
client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. The court may
delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service
of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
 
(Emphasis
added.)  
 
Here, the March 19, 2024 Minute Order indeed indicates, “Counsel will
remain the attorney of record for Cross-Defendant Jafiel Drinkwater until
Counsel files the requisite proof of service. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)”
 
            Counsel filed the proof of service,
indicating service of the Order Granting Counsel’s Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel on March 28, 2024.  As such,
Counsel was not relieved as Jafiel’s counsel until March 28.  Therefore, service of the Motion to Compel on
Counsel on March 21 was proper.
 
2.     MOTION
TO COMPEL
 
On July 18, 2023, Stewart Title served its notice of deposition, which
was noticed for August 2, 2023. 
(Williams Decl. ¶ 3, and Ex. A.)  Stewart
Title’s counsel also sent correspondence requesting that Jafiel’s counsel
confirm that the deposition would go forward on August 2 or else provide
alternative dates.  (Id. at ¶ 4
and Ex. E.)  Jafiel failed to appear at
the deposition or provide alternative dates. 
(Id. at ¶ 5.)  
 
On August 15, 2023, Stewart Title served a first amended notice of
taking deposition, which was noticed for August 31.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 6 and Ex. B.)  On August 22, Jafiel’s Counsel emailed
Stewart Title, advising that the deposition would not move forward on August 31.  (Id. at ¶ 7 and Ex. F.)  The parties met and conferred regarding Jafiel’s
availability to sit for a deposition, and determined that the deposition would
proceed in person on October 10, 2023.) 
(Id. at ¶ 9 and Ex. F.) 
Stewart Title then served a second amended notice of taking deposition
on September 15, 2023, with deposition scheduled for October 10.  (Id. at ¶ 10 and Ex. C.)
 
On October 2, Jafiel’s Counsel advised he did not have the authority
to represent Jafiel at the deposition. 
(Williams Decl. ¶ 11 and Ex. F.) 
Stewart Title’s counsel followed up, asking whether the October 10
deposition would still go forward as scheduled, but did not receive a
response.  (Id. at ¶¶ 12-13 and
Ex. F.)  Jafiel did not appear for his
deposition on October 10 as scheduled.  (Ibid.)  
 
On February 14, 2024, Stewart Title served its third amended notice of
deposition, with deposition noticed for March 1.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 14 and Ex. D.)  On February 26, Stewart Title’s counsel
contacted Jafiel’s Counsel to confirm Jafiel would appear for his deposition,
to which Jafiel’s Counsel responded that Jafiel was no longer available, but
was looking into dates in March.  (Ex. G
to Williams Decl.)  On February 29,
Stewart Title’s counsel followed up requesting the alternative dates in March,
and indicated that if alternative dates were not received prior to the
deposition start time the following day, they would take a certificate of
non-appearance.  (Ibid.)  Jafiel’s counsel did not respond. On March 1,
as indicated, Stewart Title took Jafiel’s non-appearance.  (Williams Decl. ¶ 19 and Ex. H.)  
 
On March 7, Stewart Title’s counsel followed up again, requesting
alternative deposition dates.  (Exhibit G
to Williams Decl.)  Jafiel’s counsel did
not respond.  (Williams Decl. ¶¶ 20-21
and Ex. G.)  On March 13, Stewart Title’s
counsel sent an additional request for Jafiel’s availability to sit for a
deposition, but Jafiel’s Counsel never responded.  (Id. at ¶¶ 22-23 and Ex. G.)    
 
Thus, Stewart Title has demonstrated that a notice of deposition was
properly served on Jafiel via Counsel, and Jafiel did not serve objections or
appear for the deposition.  Therefore,
Stewart Title’s Motion to Compel is granted.
 
3.     SANCTIONS
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor
of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party
with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)
 
Here, Stewart Title requests sanctions in the amount of $1,360,
representing 5.2 hours to prepare the motion at a rate of $250 per hour, plus
$60 for the filing fee.
 
Having granted Stewart Title’s motion to compel, the Court similarly
grants Stewart Title’s request for sanctions against Jafiel in the requested
amount of $1,360.
 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDERS
 
Therefore, the Court grants Stewart
Title’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Cross-Defendant Jafiel Drinkwater per
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, and orders Cross-Defendant Jafiel
Drinkwater to appear for deposition within 5 days of notice of the Court’s
orders, unless Stewart Title stipulates otherwise.
 
Further, the Court orders Cross-Defendant
Jafiel Drinkwater to
pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,360 to Stewart Title, by and through
counsel for Stewart Title, within 5 days of notice of the Court’s orders.
 
Stewart Title shall provide
notice of the Court’s orders and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
DATED:
 May 17, 2024                                             ___________________________
                                                                                    Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court