 Case Number:  24STLC03546    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  26   
McGaughey
v. Caine & Weiner Co., Inc., et alDEMURRER
(CCP §§ 430.31,
et seq., 430.20, 430.50)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff
Jennifer McGaughey’s Demurrer to the Answer of Defendant Sunrun, Inc. is
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST THROUGH 24TH AFFIRMATIVE
DEFENSES.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Jennifer McGaughey (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant
action for (1)
Violation of the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, Cal. Civ. Code §
1788, et seq.; (2) Violation of the California Consumer Credit Reporting
Agencies Act, Cal. Civ. Code § 1785.25(a); (3) Breach of Contract; and (4)
Violation of California Unfair Competition Act. The Complaint is alleged
against Defendants Caine & Weiner Company, Inc.; Sunrun
Inc. (“Defendant Sunrun”); Costco Wholesale Corporation; Troy Roofing, and KB Electric.

 
Defendant Sunrun filed its Answer
to the Complaint on June 20, 2024. On July 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant
Demurrer to Defendant Sunrun’s Answer. Defendant Sunrun filed an
opposition to the Demurrer on July 18, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
The Demurrer is supported by a meet and confer declaration. (Demurrer, Robenzadeh
Decl., ¶¶5-8 and Exh. B.) This satisfies the meet and confer requirement of
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. 
 
The Demurrer is brought against all 24 affirmative defenses
of the Answer for failure to allege sufficient facts and uncertainty. (Citing
Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20, subds. (a) and (b).) Special demurrers, however, are
not permitted in the limited jurisdiction court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd.
(c).) Therefore, the Court will not consider the demurrer for uncertainty. 
 
Plaintiff contends that because none of Defendant Sunrun’s
affirmative defenses contain any facts, Plaintiff cannot be appraised of the
defense or the ultimate facts upon which they are based. In opposition,
Defendant Sunrun argues that it is the Demurrer that is conclusory and Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.20 does not require it to allege new facts for each
affirmative defense. Defendant Sunrun’s analysis, however, is contradictory. It
argues that “an answer must contain ‘[t]he general or specific denial of the
material allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant’ and ‘[a]
statement of any new matter constituting a defense.’” (Citing Quantification
Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201 Cal. App. 4th 758, 812–13.) The same
case holds that “ ‘new matter’ is also known as ‘an affirmative defense’” and
must be pled “as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which
constitute the cause of action and are alleged in the complaint.” (Ibid.)
As affirmative defenses are known as “new matter” and are not responsive to
essential allegations of the complaint, they must include a statement of
additional factual allegations. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant Sunrun, however, argues that its affirmative
defenses are not new matters because they rely upon facts put in issue by the
Complaint. This contradicts the definition of an affirmative defense, as set
forth by the case law cited in the opposition. If the affirmative defenses rely
on facts put in issue by the Complaint, they are general or specific denials
and must be stated with reference to specific paragraphs or parts of the
Complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subds. (a), (f).)  Therefore, the answer must either include
general or specific denials stated with reference to specific parts of the
Complaint, or affirmative defenses that include a statement of additional
factual allegations. 
 
None of the so-called affirmative defenses in Defendant
Sunrun’s Answer include a statement of additional factual allegations with the
same specificity as the Complaint, as required by law. (Answer, filed 06/20/24,
pp. 2-5.) Instead, as the Demurrer points out, the affirmative defenses are simply
legal conclusions. Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Defendant Sunrun’s Answer is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Jennifer McGaughey’s Demurrer to the Answer of
Defendant Sunrun, Inc. is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST
THROUGH 24TH AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES. 
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 