 Case Number:  22TRCV01028    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JORGE
  CHILEL, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01028




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ATLEE
  GEORGE POLLOCK, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September 29,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Attorney Armen Zadourian,
Esq. for plaintiffs Jorge Chilel and Everlido Chilel
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The court orders that the attorney is relieved
as counsel of record for plaintiffs Jorge Chilel and Everlido Chilel, effective
upon the filing of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting
Attorney’s Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form
MC-053) upon the clients.
BACKGROUND
On October 24, 2022, plaintiffs
Jorge Chilel and Everlido Chilel filed a complaint against Atlee George
Pollock, Mary Pollock, and Paul Carpenter for motor vehicle negligence and
negligence based on an incident that occurred October 30, 2020 in Rancho Palos
Verdes. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs’ attorney of record, Armen
Zadourian, Esq., seeks to be relieved as counsel.
Counsel states in his declaration that
there has been an irreconcilable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship
between counsel and his clients that prevents the attorney from effectively
representing the clients.  He states that
numerous attempts have been made via telephone, email, social media, and US
mail to communicate with plaintiffs, but there has been a  breakdown in communication between the clients
and the attorney, making it unreasonably difficult to carry out the
attorney-client relationship effectively.
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  Counsel states that he has been unable to
confirm that the address is current or to locate a more current address for the
clients after making the following efforts: 
calling the client’s last known telephone number, contacting a person
familiar with the client, and conducting a Lexis Nexis search.  He states that he made numerous attempts to contact
plaintiffs and that there has not been any communication since January 2023.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
The motion is GRANTED.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 