  Case Number:  22TRCV00251    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
WILLIAM
  P. GLAVIN,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00251




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
MICHAEL
  EDWARD BUCHANAN,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September
29, 2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff William P. Glavin
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion for Assignment
Order and Charging Order
 
            The court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion for assignment order and
charging order is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is
to submit proposed order.
BACKGROUND
            On April 1, 2022, William P. Glavin,
ind. and dba Law Offices of William P. Glavin APC and Law Offices of William P.
Glavin APC filed a complaint against Michael Edward Buchanan for breach of
contract and common counts based on defendant’s failure to pay invoices to plaintiff
attorney in a marital dissolution action.
            On June 24, 2022, a clerk’s judgment
was entered in the amount of $149,506.54.
            On August 7, 2023, a writ of
execution was issued.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Assignment
order
CCP §708.510 states:  “(a) Except as otherwise provided by law,
upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may
order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor all or part of a
right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is conditioned
on future developments, including but not limited to the following types of
payments:  (1) wages due from the federal
government, (2) rents, (3) commissions, (4) royalties, (5) payments due from a patent
or copyright, (6) insurance policy loan value.
            (b) The notice of the motion shall
be served on the judgment debtor. 
Service shall be made personally or by mail.
            (c) Subject to subdivisions (d),
(e), and (f), in determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an
assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration
all relevant factors, including the following:
                        (1) The reasonable
requirements of a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons
supported in whole or in part by the judgment debtor.
                        (2) Payments the
judgment debtor is required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of
other judgments and wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for
support.
                        (3) The amount remaining
due on the money judgment.
                        (4) The amount being or
to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned.
            (d) A right to payment may be
assigned pursuant to this article only to the extent necessary to satisfy the
money judgment. . . .”
            CCP §708.520 states:  “(a) 
When an application is made pursuant to Section 708.510 or thereafter,
the judgment creditor may apply to the court for an order restraining the
judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise disposing of the right to payment
that is sought to be assigned. . . . (b) The court may issue an order pursuant
to this section upon a showing of need for the order. . . . (d) The order shall
be personally served upon the judgment debtor and shall contain a notice to the
judgment debtor that failure to comply with the order may subject the judgment
debtor to being held in contempt of court.”
            Charging order
            CCP §708.310 states:  “If a money judgment is rendered against a
partner or member but not against the partnership or limited liability company,
the judgment debtor’s interest in the partnership or limited liability company
may be applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment by an order charging the
judgment debtor’s interest pursuant to Section 15907.3, 16504, and 17705.3 of
the Corporations Code.”
            Corps. Code §17705.2 states:  “(a) On application by a judgment creditor of
a member or transferee, a court may enter a charging order against the
transferable interest of the judgment debtor for the unsatisfied amount of the
judgment.  A charging order constitutes a
lien on a judgment debtor’s transferable interest and requires the limited
liability company to pay over to the person to which the charging order was
issued any distribution that would otherwise be paid to the judgment debtor.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff/judgment creditor William
P. Glavin, individually and dba Law Offices of William P. Glavin APC requests a
charging order charging defendant/judgment debtor Michael Edward Buchanan’s
interest in Hermosa Restaurant Group I, LLC (“HRG1”) and Hermosa Restaurant
Group II, LLC (“HRG2”) and an assignment order of any money Buchanan receives,
or will receive, from HRG1, HRG2, and ROK Sushi Kitchen.
            Plaintiff asserts that none of the
judgment has been paid.  As of August 4,
2023 pursuant to the application for writ of execution, there is now due
$165,808.90.  Plaintiff contends that
Buchanan owns 43% interest in HRG1 and possibly owns an interest in HRG2.  
            The court has considered the factors
in CCP §708.510(c) in determining whether to order an assignment.
            The motion is GRANTED.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling.
            
 