 Case Number:  22TRCV01015    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
JONATHAN
  CRUZ,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01015




 
vs.


 


 
[TENTATIVE]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF HERMOSA BEACH, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         September
29, 2023
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant City of Hermosa Beach
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Compel Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to Set No. 1 of Defendant’s
Form Interrogatories (General and Employment Law)
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff Jonathan Cruz is ordered to respond
further without objections to defendant City of Hermosa Beach’s Form
Interrogatories – General (Set No. 1), Nos. 6.1-6.3, 8.2-8.8, 11.1-11.2, 17.1
(as to RFA Nos. 1, 9, 11) and Form Interrogatories – Employment Law (Set No.1),
Nos. 202.1, 202.2, 207.2, 210.4, 212.1-212.7, 213.1, 213.2, and 217.2 within 20
days, in compliance with CCP §2030.220.
The court orders plaintiff and
plaintiff’s attorney of record Corey Glave to pay sanctions in the amount of $1260
to defendant within 30 days.
BACKGROUND
On October 21, 2022, Jonathan Cruz filed
a complaint against City of Hermosa Beach and Hermosa Beach Police Department
for (1) violation of Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of Rights Act, (2)
declaratory relief, and (3) Labor Code §1102.5.
On March 29, 2023, the court
sustained defendants’ demurrer to the 2nd cause of action with leave
to amend.
On April 13, 2023, plaintiff filed
a FAC.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
45-Day Rule: 
This motion must be served within 45 days after service of the response
in question (extended if served by mail, overnight delivery, or fax; see CCP
§1013); otherwise, the demanding party waives the right to compel any further
response to the CCP §2031.010 demand. 
CCP §§2031.310(c), 2016.050; see Sperber
v. Robinson (1994) 26 Cal. App. 4th 736, 745.  The 45-day time limit is mandatory and
jurisdictional.  Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1410.  The parties, however, can also agree in
writing on a specific later date by which to file the motion to compel.  CCP §2031.310(c). 
Meet-and-Confer Requirement: 
The motion to compel further responses must be accompanied by a
declaration showing “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to resolve the issues
outside of court (so-called “meet and confer”). 
CCP §§2016.040, 2031.310(b)(2).
Separate Statement: 
Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses
to such a request shall be accompanied by a separate statement.  This includes a motion to compel further
responses to demand for inspection of documents or tangible things.  CRC Rule 3.1020(a)(3).  
Interrogatories
CCP §2030.300 states:  “(a) On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply:   (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (c) Unless notice of this motion is
given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories. . . .”
CCP §2030.220 states:  “(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.  (b) If an interrogatory cannot be answered
completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.  (c) If the responding party does not have
personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party
shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.”
DISCUSSION
            Defendant
City of Hermosa Beach requests that the court compel plaintiff Jonathan Cruz to
respond further to its first set of form interrogatories-general and form
interrogatories-employment.
            The
FAC alleges that City Manager Suja Lowenthal, who also serves as the City
Manager and Personnel Officer for the City of Hermosa Beach, implemented a
mandatory vaccination policy for Covid-19 and denied all sworn officers’,
including plaintiff’s, request for accommodations under the policy.  FAC, ¶4. 
It is believed that the City of Hermosa Beach was the only city in the
South Bay to institute a mandatory Covid-19 vaccination policy; therefore,
officers from other agencies that routinely worked in Hermosa Beach and/or
worked with Hermosa Beach police officers to provide aid to various cities did
not have to be vaccinated.  Id., ¶5.  While plaintiff was employed, after
implementation of the vaccination policy, he was routinely tested to determine
if he had the Covid virus whereas other vaccinated employees that were
vaccinated were not tested and appeared at work in an infected and/or
contagious status.  It is believed that
there was no good cause for the mandatory vaccination policy.  Id., ¶6. 
City Manager Lowenthal dismissed plaintiff, terminating his employment
with the City of Hermosa Beach and the Hermosa Beach Police Department.  It is believed that Lowenthal acted in excess
of her authority when she terminated plaintiff’s employment.  Id., ¶7.
            The
FAC further alleges that pursuant to Gov. Code §3304, and his due process
rights, plaintiff requested an administrative appeal of his dismissal.  Id., ¶8. 
Plaintiff believed that he was discriminated against because of his
deeply held beliefs that prevented him from getting vaccinated.  Id., ¶9. 
Because plaintiff filed complaint with the DFEH and/or EEOC, defendants
refused and continue to refuse to afford him an administrative appeal hearing
from his dismissal in violation of his due process rights and his rights under
Gov. Code §3304.  Id., ¶10.
            Defendant
asserts that it served its form interrogatories on plaintiff by email on May 8,
2023 and responses were due by June 9, 2023. 
Plaintiff’s counsel requested, and defense counsel granted, a two week
extension for discovery responses until July 3, 2023.  Defense counsel received responses by mail on
July 7, 2023. Verifications were provided on July 14, 2023.  After reviewing the responses and finding
them to be deficient, defense counsel sent a meet and confer letter on July 20,
2023, requesting that plaintiff provide amended responses.  On July 27, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel
responded declining to amend plaintiff’s responses.  On August 16, 2023, defense counsel sent
another meet and confer letter “explaining that Plaintiff’s objections lacked
merit and that the responses provided were evasive and incomplete.”  In an email August 25, 2023, plaintiff’s
counsel maintained that plaintiff had properly and fully responded to all
questions as posed.  
            Defendant
argues that plaintiff waived his objections because the responses were served
after July 3, 2023.  Further, defendant
argues, in any event, plaintiff’s objections lack merit.  Plaintiff objected that the interrogatories
were compound, vague, and ambiguous and that the interrogatories purportedly
call for information subject to Pitchess protections and procedures.  Defendant contends that it utilized the
standard Judicial Council approved definition of “incident” and that plaintiff
and his counsel are presumed to understand the factual basis for their legal
contentions.  As to whether Pitchess
procedure applies, defendant contends that Pitchess does not apply to
plaintiff, as an individual party, because the “general personnel file” that is
privileged from disclosure under Pitchess is “the file maintained by the agency
containing the primary records specific to each peace or custodial officer’s
employment, including evaluations, assignments, status changes, and imposed
discipline.”  Penal Code §832.5(d)(1).  Defendant argues that plaintiff is “taking
the absurd position that the City must go through the process of effectively
noticing a motion against itself requesting information it does not possess,
for a hearing it can waive, as a prerequisite to engaging in defensive
discovery in this matter.”  
            Defendant
further argues that plaintiff’s substantive responses are evasive and
incomplete.
                        Form
Interrogatories - General
            Nos.
6.1 (do you attribute any physical, mental, or emotional injuries to the
incident?), 6.2 (identify each injury you attribute to the incident and the
area of your body affected), 6.3 (do you still have complaints that you
attribute to the incident? If so, for each complaint state description, whether
it is subsiding, same, or worse, and frequency/duration) – Plaintiff
objected to the definition of “incident” and responded that he has suffered
“general emotional distress” and that it is “subsiding, regularly for short
durations.”  Defendant points out that
the FAC alleges that he sustained “physical, mental, and emotional injuries,
pain, distress, suffering, anguish, fright, nervousness, grief, anxiety, worry,
shame, mortification, injured feelings, shock, humiliation and indignity, as
well as other unpleasant physical, mental, and emotional reactions, damages to
reputation, and other non-economic damages.”
            Plaintiff’s
objections lack merit, and his responses are incomplete and evasive.  
 
            Nos.
8.2-8.8 – request information re nature of work, job title, date employment
began, compensation, lost income. 
Plaintiff responded, “confidential peace officer information; that
propounding party is in possession of.”
            The
court finds that plaintiff’s responses are deficient and such information
(titles, dates of employment, salary information, loss of income) is not
subject to Pitchess. 
 
            Nos.
11.1, 11.2 – request information as to whether plaintiff filed an action or
made a written claim or demand for compensation for his personal injuries.  Plaintiff responded that he has filed workers
compensation claims but declined to respond further claiming “confidential
peace officer personnel information.”
            The
court finds that plaintiff’s response is deficient and that such information is
not subject to Pitchess because it does not relate to the manner in which
plaintiff performed his duties.  See
Penal Code §§832.7 and 832.8.
 
No. 17.1 – requests
information as to any response that is not an unqualified admission. 
As to RFA
No. 1 (admit you do not have any sincerely held religious beliefs that prevent
you from receiving a Covid-19 vaccination), plaintiff did not provide facts as
to the subparts of 17.1.  Also,
plaintiff’s objections lack merit.
As to RFA
No. 9 (admit that during the March 1, 2022 conference you were afforded an
opportunity to contest the City’s decision to separate you from employment as
referenced in the February 22, 2022 notice of forfeiture of employment),
plaintiff responded that “Suja Lowenthal was going through the motions, and did
not provide plaintiff with a fair and real opportunity to contest the City’s
stated intention to separate plaintiff’s employment.  Plaintiff’s response is evasive and does not
provide facts to support the subparts of 17.1. 

As to RFA
No. 11 (admit you did not communicate to the City that you believed it had
engaged in any unlawful activity prior to it issuing its February 22, 2022
notice of forfeiture of employment). 
Plaintiff responded that he “raised issues regarding the violations of
law throughout his career, and challenged the City Manager’s Covid-19 policy on
multiple occasions prior to the notice of intent to separate.”  As defendant argues, plaintiff’s response is
evasive and incomplete.
                        Form
Interrogatories – Employment Law
            No.
202.1 – asks if plaintiff contends that an adverse employment actions
against him were discriminatory. 
Plaintiff responds that this lawsuit does not involve disciplinary or
punitive action, and that the Form Interrogatory is inapplicable but then
responds that to the extent it is applicable, “termination and denial of
administrative appeal.  Gender, race,
religious beliefs . . . .” and reiterates his allegations.
            As
argued by defendant, plaintiff does not state all facts upon which he bases his
claim of discrimination of gender, race, and religious discrimination.
 
            No.
202.2 – requests all facts upon which plaintiff bases his contention that
he was qualified to perform any job which he contends was denied on account of
unlawful discrimination.  He responded
that he was discriminated due to his religious beliefs.  As defendant argues, plaintiff’s response
should explain the factual basis for his claim that he had a valid and
sincerely-held religious belief, the limitations and obligations imposed by that
belief, and explain how he could nonetheless perform the functions of his job.  Thus, plaintiff’s response is evasive and
incomplete.
 
            No.
207.2 – asks if the employee complained to the employer about any of the
unlawful conduct alleged in the pleading. 
Plaintiff responded that he wrote a letter to the mayor twice and a
letter to the chief of police, but is not certain of the exact dates.  The court notes that there are ten subparts
to this request and that plaintiff failed to respond to each one.
 
            No.
210.4 – asks if plaintiff has attempted to minimize the amount of his lost
income.  If so, describe how; if not,
explain why not.  Plaintiff responded
that he should not be responsible for minimizing his potential earning from a
“career where I was illegally terminated from” and that “yes, have looked for
other work as a police officer.”  As
argued by defendant, plaintiff’s response is incomplete and evasive.
 
            Nos.
212.1 (do you attribute any physical, mental, or emotional injuries to the
adverse employment action), and 212.2 (identify each physical, mental, or
emotional injury that you attribute to the adverse employment action), 212.3
(do you still have complaints that you attribute to the adverse employment
action), 212.4 (receive any consultation or examination or treatment from a
health care provider for any injury you attribute to the adverse employment
action), 212.5 (have you taken any medication, prescribed or not, as a result
of injuries that you attribute to the adverse employment action, 212.6 (are
there any other medical services not previously listed in response to No.
212.5), 212.7 (has any health care provider advised that you may require future
or additional treatment for any injuries that you attribute to the adverse
employment action) – Plaintiff objected based on “asked and answered.”  The court finds that plaintiff’s objection
lacks merit.
 
            Nos.
213.1 (any other damages that you attribute to the adverse employment action),
213.2 (do any documents support the existence or amount of any item of damages
claimed in 213.1) – Plaintiff responded, “I’m not sure.”  The court finds that this response is
deficient and not responsive and ambiguous and is not complete and
straightforward.  CCP §2030.220.
 
            No.
217.2 – same as No. 17.1.  Plaintiff
improperly objected with “asked and answered.” 

 
            The
court finds that plaintiff’s objections lack merit, and his substantive
responses are deficient as outlined in defendant’s separate statement.
            Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED.
            Sanctions
            Defendant
requests sanctions in the amount of $2205 against plaintiff and plaintiff’s
counsel.  The court finds that sanctions
are warranted in the amount of $1260 ($315/hr. x 4 hrs.) against plaintiff and plaintiff’s
attorney of record.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.