 Case Number:  24STCV08508    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  49 Jenny Garcia v. General Motors, LLC(1) DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; (2)  MOTION TO STRIKE REQUEST FOR PUNITIVE DAMAGES FROM FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant General Motors, LLCRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Jenny GarciaSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Jenny Garcia purchased a new 2020 Chevrolet Silverado manufactured by Defendant General Motors that allegedly displayed engine defects.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant was aware of engine defects in 2020 Silverados and attempted to conceal the defects. Plaintiff asserts causes of action for (1) breach of implied warranty, (2) breach of express warranty, (3) fraudulent concealment, and (4) violation of the CLRA. Defendant GM now demurrers to the third and fourth causes of action in the First Amended Complaint and moves to strike portions of the FAC related to punitive damages. Plaintiff opposed both motions.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the FAC is OVERRULED in its entirety. Defendant’s Motion to Strike punitive damages is DENIED. Defendant is ordered to file an answer to the FAC within 21 days of this ruling.Plaintiff is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerA. Meet and ConferThe Declaration of Attorney Alexandria Pappas states that defense counsel called but “was not able to get ahold of” counsel for Plaintiff. (Pappas Decl. ¶ 2.) David N. Barry, counsel for Plaintiff, disputes that he received any communication from Defendant. (Barry Decl. ¶ 5.) The court exercises its discretion to consider the demurrer and motion to strike absent any meet and confer. The parties are admonished to comply with any future meet and confer obligations going forward in good faith.B. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  C. AnalysisDefendant General Motors demurrers to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of Action for fraudulent concealment and Fourth Cause of Action for violation of Civil Code section 1750 et seq.1. Plaintiff has Adequately Pled Delayed DiscoveryFirst, Defendant argues the Third and Fourth causes of action are barred by the three-year statute of limitations. Defendant contends that the statute of limitations began running on June 23, 2020, when Plaintiff purchased the vehicle.“The statute of limitations usually commences when a cause of action ‘accrues,’ and it is generally said that ‘an action accrues on the date of injury.’ [Citation.]  Alternatively, it is often stated that the statute commences ‘upon the occurrence of the last element essential to the cause of action.’”  (Bernson v. Browning-Ferris Indus. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th 926, 931.)  As the California Supreme Court has explained: “In a long line of cases we have held that a cause of action for fraud or mistake accrues, and the limitations period commences to run, when the aggrieved party could have discovered the fraud or mistake through the exercise of reasonable diligence.” (Sun’n Sand, Inc. v. United Cal. Bank (1978) 21 Cal. 3d 671, 701.) “An important exception to the general rule of accrual is the ‘discovery rule,’ which postpones accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of action.” [Citation.] ‘The discovery rule only delays accrual until the plaintiff has, or should have, inquiry notice of the cause of action.’” (WA Sw. 2, LLC v. First Am. Title Ins. Co. (2015) 240 Cal. App. 4th 148, 156–57.)Plaintiff purchased a new 2020 Chevrolet Silverado on June 23, 2020. (FAC ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant had “longstanding knowledge” since “at least early 2019” that certain 2020 Silverados are predisposed to engine defects. (Id. ¶¶ 15, 18.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has actively concealed the engine defects, despite knowledge of the defects from “numerous complaints it has received directly from consumers, information provided to authorized dealers via Technical Service Bulletins, information received directly from Defendants' authorized dealers, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration ("NHTSA") complaints, and its own internal records (including durability testing and failure rates), requests from Defendants' authorized dealerships for technical assistance regarding the Defective Engine and warranty costs outlaid due to the Defective Engine.” (Id. ¶¶ 17, 19.) “Instead of providing an adequate repair for the Defective Engine,” Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants have simply attempted to mask the Defective Engine without providing a solution that addresses the defect.” (Id. ¶ 20.) “At no time was Plaintiff told or made aware, either publicly or privately, that the Vehicle was equipped with the Defective Engine or the problems associated therewith.” (Id. ¶ 33.) Plaintiff alleges she presented the vehicle to authorized repair facilities on May 27, 2020; June 21, 2021; August 14, 2021; January 31, 2022; July 5, 2022; May 23, 2023; and June 20, 2023, in relation to the engine defect. (Id. ¶ 35-41.) “Notwithstanding Defendants' numerous attempts to repair the Vehicle, Plaintiff to this day continue[s] to experience many of the issues caused by the Defective Engine.” (Id. ¶ 42.)Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants and their authorized dealer sales staff and other personnel never publicly or privately disclosed to Plaintiff any information about the persistent and dangerous concerns that plagued the Defective Engine.” (Id. ¶ 70.) Plaintiff also alleges that “neither Defendants nor any of its agents, dealers, or representatives informed Plaintiff of the Defective Engine during any of the multiple presentations of the Vehicle for repair.” (Id. ¶ 43.) Plaintiff alleges she “had no way of knowing this information relating to the Defective Engine and Defendants and their authorized retailers and distributors of vehicles (including the Vehicle) intentionally failed to disclose this information to Plaintiff.” (Id. ¶ 73.) Based on this alleged concealment, Plaintiff believed the engine problems were specific to her vehicle “rather than part of a widespread inherent product defect.” (Id. ¶ 116.) Thus, Plaintiff alleges she “could not have reasonably discovered the true, latent defective nature of the Defective Engine until shortly before this litigation was commenced.” (Id. ¶ 89.) For pleadings purposes, Plaintiff has adequately pled delayed discovery.  This court cannot determinate, as a matter of law, vis-à-vis the instant demurrer, that Plaintiff would or should have discovered the alleged fraud prior to April 4, 2021—e.g., three years prior to the filing of the Complaint.  Therefore, the action is not barred by the statute of limitations based merely upon the face of the Complaint.. 2. Plaintiff has Pled All Elements of Fraud with Specificity Next, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s fraudulent concealment cause of action fails because Plaintiff has not pled the claim with the requisite specificity. In particular, Defendant contends that “Plaintiff fails to identify the salesperson with whom she spoke; what advertisements or marketing brochuress he reviewed or relied upon in purchasing the Subject Vehicle (see FAC ¶¶ 31-33), how long ‘[p]rior to purchasing the Vehicle’ she viewed them, and which representation therein she relied upon; and whether those materials, if any, were prepared by GM or someone else (such as a dealership).” (Mtn. 9: 1-9.)  “As with all fraud claims, the necessary elements of a concealment/suppression claim consist of ‘ “(1) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (2) knowledge of falsity (scienter); (3) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.” ’ ” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1185–1186.) Suppression of a material fact is actionable when there is a duty of disclosure, which may arise from a relationship between the parties, such as a buyer-seller relationship. (Id. at pp. 1186–1187.) Fraud, including concealment, must be pleaded with specificity. (Linear Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115, 132.)As discussed, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants concealed the engine defects despite knowledge of same since as early as 2019. (FAC ¶¶ 17, 19, 20.) Plaintiff was unaware that her vehicle was equipped with the Defective Engine or the problems associated therewith. (Id. ¶ 33.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants' acts were done to gain commercial advantage over competitors, and to drive consumers away from consideration of competitor's vehicles.” (Id. ¶ 21.) Plaintiff relied on the intentional concealment of the engine defects in purchasing the vehicle. (Id. ¶ 119.) Had Defendant disclosed the engine defects, Plaintiff would not have purchased the vehicle. (Id. ¶¶ 72, 120.) As a result, the value of the Vehicle has diminished. (Id. ¶ 75.) Plaintiff has therefore alleged all elements of her fraud claim with the requisite specificity. It is also worth noting that the facts of the alleged engine defects are likely within the knowledge of the moving parties.  (Comm. On Children's Television, Inc. v. Gen. Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal. 3d 197, 217 [“Less specificity is required when ‘it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy.’”].)3. Plaintiff has Adequately Alleged a Duty to DiscloseDefendant next argues that the fraudulent concealment claim fails because Plaintiff has not alleged a transactional relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant giving rise to a duty to disclose. “Because the FAC does not allege that Plaintiff purchased the Subject Vehicle directly from GM or otherwise entered into a transaction with GM, Plaintiff has not alleged facts demonstrating that GM was under a duty to disclose.” (Dem. 9: 18-20.) Under the LiMandri factors, a duty to disclose arises when a Defendant “actively conceals a material fact” or “makes partial representations that are misleading because some other material fact has not been disclosed.” (Collins v. eMachines, Inc. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 249, 255.) Here, Plaintiff has alleged the active concealment of the engine defects by Defendant. Plaintiff also alleges she bought the car from a GM dealership, that GM backed the car with an express warranty, and that GM’s authorized dealerships are its agents for purposes of the sale of GM vehicles to consumers. (FAC ¶¶ 7, 31, 70, 73, 80-83; Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 828, 844  [finding allegations of a sale of vehicle to plaintiff from third-party dealer sufficient to allege “buyer-seller relationship” between consumer and manufacturer].)  [FN 1]4. Plaintiff Has Complied with the CLRA Notice RequirementsNext, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action fails because Plaintiff failed to provide adequate notice under the CLRA. In the FAC, Plaintiffs alleges she “complied with the notice provisions of Civ. Code § 1782 by notifying Defendants on April 4, 2024, of the particular alleged violations of Civ. Code § 1770 and demanding that it correct, repair, replace, or otherwise rectify the goods or services alleged to be in violation of Civ. Code § 1 770. The notice was given in writing and was sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to Defendants. Defendants have failed, within thirty (30) days of receipt, to respond to Plaintiff's demand and/or provide Plaintiff with an appropriate correction, repair, replacement, relief, cure or any other remedy.” (FAC ¶ 132.) The notice here came after the filing of the Complaint but more than 30-days before the filing of the FAC. In Morgan v. AT&T Wireless Servs., Inc. (2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1235, 1260, the Court of Appeal held that section 1782 notice need not come “before commencement of the lawsuit.” Instead, the filing of an amended complaint seeking damages, filed more than 30-days after notice was given, was deemed sufficient. (Id.) Because this was the case here, the court concludes that Plaintiff’s notice was proper.Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED in its entirety. Motion to StrikeA. Legal StandardA motion to strike lies either (1) to strike any irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) to strike any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.) B. AnalysisDefendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s demand for punitive damages. Defendant contends that the punitive damages should be stricken for the same reasons the Third and Fourth causes of action fail, as identified in the accompanying demurrer.Civil Code § 3294 provides that “[i]n an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” Plaintiff is not entitled to punitive damages under the First and Second causes of action brought under the Song-Beverly Act. (See Troensegaard v. Silvercrest Industries, Inc. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 218 [holding punitive damages award was improper where the judgment also included a § 1794 civil penalty]; see also Gomez v. Volkswagen of America, Inc. (1985) 169 Cal. App.3d 921, 928 [“There is nothing before the court to indicate that the remedy afforded by Civil Code section 1794 is inadequate either in the amount of damages that a meritorious plaintiff may recover or as a deterrent to the proscribed conduct.”]). However, the Third and Fourth causes of action could permit an award of punitive damages. As discussed in the corresponding demurrer, Plaintiff has alleged facts, that if true and proven at trial, could support an award of punitive damages.  (See Camenisch v. Superior Court (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1689, 1699 [courts are given “broad discretion” when ruling on a motion to strike].)Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   September 12, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - The case is under review by the California Supreme Court, but the Court of Appeal opinion has not been de-published. (See Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., 523 P.3d 392 (Cal. 2023).) It is worth noting that Dhital also addressed the “economic loss rule” in the Song-Beverly context. (See Dhital v. Nissan N. Am., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal. App. 5th 828.) Briefing in the case was deferred pending a decision in Rattagan v. Uber Techs., Inc., No. S272113, 2024 WL 3894629 (Cal. Aug. 22, 2024). In Rattagan, the Court very recently held that a plaintiff "may assert a cause of action for fraudulent concealment based on conduct occurring in the course of a contractual relationship, if [1] the elements of the claim can be established independently of the parties' contractual rights and obligations and [2] the tortious conduct exposes the plaintiff to a risk of harm beyond the reasonable contemplation of the parties when they entered into the contract." Rattagan was not a Song-Beverly case. What effect the new Rattagan decision will have on Dhital (or how its rule might apply in Song-Beverly cases) remains to be seen. Right now, the Dhital docket still states that briefing is deferred pending a decision in Rattagan. Be that as it may, because the demurring party did not raise the economic loss rule as a ground for the instant demurrer, the court need not address the issue now. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.