  Case Number:  23STCV31516    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



KEVIN HART, an
  individual; and K. HART
ENTERPRISES, INC., a California
  corporation, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
MIESHA SHAKES, an individual; LATASHA
TRANSRINA KEBE, an individual; KEBE
STUDIOS, LLC, a Georgia limited
  liability
company; and DOES 1 through 20,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.           
                    


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV31516
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’
  FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT PURSUANT TO C.C.P. §
425.16
 
Date: November 14, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Miesha Shakes (“Shakes”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Kevin Hart (“Hart”) and K. Hart Enterprises, Inc. (“KHE”) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On January 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the
operative First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”) alleging five causes of action
for: (1) Civil Extortion, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations, (4) Invasion of Privacy (Public Disclosure of
Private Facts), and (5) Defamation.  The
second cause of action for breach of contract is asserted only against Shakes,
and the third cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations is asserted only against Latasha Transrina Kebe (“Kebe”), Kebe Studios,
LLC (“Kebe Studios”) and Yelen Entertainment LLC (“Yelen”).
 
Hart
is a well-known comedian and actor.  Shakes
worked as Hart’s personal assistant for a number of years.  This case arises out of Shakes’ participation
in a broadcast interview (the “Interview”) about her experience working for
him.  The Interview, which was conducted
by Kebe and broadcast by Yelen, discusses alleged scandals involving Hart,
including the 2017 release of a sex tape with a woman other than his wife, and
lawsuits arising out of that incident.
 
On
March 4, 2024, Yelen and Kebe filed an Anti-SLAPP motion to strike the first, third,
fourth and fifth causes of action alleged against them in the FAC pursuant to
Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16 (“Kebe Anti-SLAPP Motion”).  In its Order dated April 25, 2024, the Court granted
the Kebe Anti-SLAPP Motion as to (1) Hart and KHE’s first cause of action for
civil extortion, (2) KHE’s fourth cause of action for invasion of privacy, and
(3) KHE’s fifth cause of action for defamation, and denied it as to (1) the
FAC’s second cause of action for intentional interference with contract; (2)
Hart’s fourth cause of action for invasion of privacy; and (3) Hart’s fifth
cause of action for defamation.
 
On
May 30, 2024, Shakes concurrently filed a motion for leave to file an amended
answer and a motion for leave to file an anti-SLAPP motion.  The Court granted both motions on July 2,
2024.  On the same day, Shakes filed an
Amended Answer to the FAC as well as the instant Special Motion to Strike
Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint Pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.16 (the “Motion”).  Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the Motion
on October 31, 2024, and Shakes filed a reply to the opposition on November 6,
2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Shakes request judicial notice of certain court
records/documents in the present action as well as in a case filed in the
Superior Court of California – Los Angeles entitled Sabbag v. Hart, et al.,
Case No. 20STCV16533 (the “Sabbag case”). 
The Court grants the request as to court documents that are already part
of the record of this case.  As to
records pertaining to the Sabbag case, the Court
takes judicial notice of the records’ existence but not of the truth of
assertions within.  (Evid. Code, §
452(c), (d); Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice of certain
documents filed in the present action and  therefore already part of the record of this
case is similarly granted.  Evid. Code section
452, however, does not provide a basis for judicial notice of the three web
pages corresponding to Exhibits 3, 4 and 5 of Plaintiffs’ request.  Accordingly, the Court denies judicial notice
of the webpages.
 
DISCUSSION
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 sets forth
the procedure governing anti-SLAPP motions. 
In pertinent part, the statute states, “A cause of action against a
person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right
of petition or free speech under the United States Constitution or the
California Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a
special motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has
established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
425.16(b)(1).)  The purpose of the
statute is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid
exercise of a litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(a); Sylmar Air Conditioning
v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1049,
1055-1056.)  
 
Courts employ a
two-step process to evaluate anti-SLAPP motions.  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause,
Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61.)  To
invoke the protections of the statute, the defendant must first show that the
challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity, such as an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.  (Ibid.)  From this fact, courts “‘presume the purpose
of the action was to chill the defendant’s exercise of First Amendment rights.  It is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the
presumption by showing a reasonable probability of success on the merits.’”  (Ibid.)  In determining whether the plaintiff has
carried this burden, the trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting
and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense
is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
425.16(b)(2); Soukup v. Law Offices 
of Herbert Hafif (2006)
39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)


The Motion
Similar
to the Kebe Anti-SLAPP Motion, Shakes brings this Motion seeking to strike the
first, second, fourth and fifth causes of action on the ground that each of
those causes of action arises from activity protected by Section 425.16 and
Plaintiffs cannot establish a probability of prevailing on those causes of
action.  
 
Although
brought by different parties, since the bases for the present Motion are
similar to the already ruled-upon Kebe Anti-SLAPP Motion, the Court will not repeat
the points already discussed in the Court’s prior ruling in the Kebe Anti-SLAPP
Motion.  As in the Kebe Anti-SLAPP
Motion, it is undisputed that Plaintiffs’ claims arise from protected activity
under CCP § 425.16, and thus the first prong is met.  
 
On
the second prong regarding reasonable probability of prevailing on Plaintiffs’
claims, the Court finds, as in its April 24, 2024 Order, that Plaintiffs have
shown minimal merit as to Hart’s invasion of privacy claim and defamation claim,
but not as to KHE’s corresponding claims. 

 
Plaintiffs
present a new argument pertaining to the Court’s April 24, 2024 ruling on the civil
extortion cause of action, citing Tran v. Nguyen (2023) 97 Cal. App.5th
523.  Plaintiffs’ objection, however, is
unavailing and does not change the Court’s finding that Plaintiffs have not met
their burden of showing a reasonable probability of success on the merits.  Parenthetically, the Court notes that the Tran
case does not hold that civil extortion is a cause of action, but rather opines
that a cause of action for “rescission based on menace” could exist where a
plaintiff is seeking the return of money paid. 
(Id., at 529.) 
Accordingly, the civil extortion claim fails as a matter of law. 
 
Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract
The
Court will proceed to address the second cause of action for breach of
contract, which is asserted only against Shakes.  To prevail on a cause of action for breach of
contract, Plaintiffs must prove (1) the existence of a valid contract, (2)
Plaintiffs’ performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach and (4) the resulting damage to the Plaintiffs.  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.
4th 1182, 1186.)
 
Here,
Shakes does not deny that she executed the Non-Disclosure Agreement (“NDA”),
and even acknowledged the NDA’s existence during the Interview.  Instead, she now disputes that Hart performed
his obligations under the NDA, alleging that Hart failed to provide the full
consideration, including three years’ worth of health insurance coverage
promised to Shakes under the NDA. 
(Declaration of Shakes, ¶¶ 5-6.)  In
opposition, Hart’s declaration confirms that he “paid, and Shakes accepted, all
such amounts.”  (Declaration of Hart, ¶
6.)  Given the conflicting factual
statements, Shakes’ contention that Hart did not perform creates a disputed
issue of fact.  In deciding anti-SLAPP
motions, courts employ a “summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true
the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence
only to determine whether the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence
as a matter of law.”  (Gerbosi v.
Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein, LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.)  In other words, the Court does not assess
credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the
evidence standard.  The Court accepts as
true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff, who need only establish that his
or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.  (Soukup, supra, 39 Cal.4th at p. 291.)
 
Plaintiffs
alleged that Shakes had breached the NDA by disclosing information and/or
making allegations that would necessarily entail disclosure of information
defined as Confidential Information under the NDA, including statements
regarding personnel and employment matters at Hart-affiliated companies, and
statements regarding Hart’s interactions with his family members.  (FAC, ¶ 44.) 
Paragraph 54 of the FAC also alleges: “Some of the matters Shakes
purported to disclose would necessarily have been based on her purported
knowledge of private facts, including but not limited to statements regarding
personal relationships affecting the employment status of personnel at
Hart-affiliated companies, and interactions among Hart and his family members.”
 (FAC, ¶ 54.)  As such, Plaintiffs have sufficiently identified
statements by Shakes that constitute a breach of the NDA, under which
“Confidential Information” is defined to include any “Private and confidential
information which is not generally known to the public or readily ascertainable
by proper means by others” regarding Hart and his family members and
associates.  (Hart Decl., Exh. A, ¶
1.1.1.)  The NDA further provided that
“Shakes shall not directly or indirectly disclose, exploit or disseminate
Confidential Information to any […] journalists, tabloids, television or radio
programs, websites, or internet social media.” 
(Hart Decl., Exh. A, ¶ 1.2.)
 
Thus,
the Court finds that Plaintiffs have shown minimal merit as to the second cause
of action for breach of contract. 
Accordingly, Shakes’ Motion as to this cause of action is DENIED.
            
RULING
            Based on the foregoing, the Motion
is GRANTED as to: (1) Hart and KHE’s first cause of action for civil extortion;
(2) KHE’s fourth cause of action for invasion of privacy; and (3) KHE’s fifth
cause of action for defamation.
 
            The motion is DENIED as to: (1) the
FAC’s second cause of action for breach of contract; (2) Hart’s fourth cause of
action for invasion of privacy; and (3) Hart’s fifth cause of action for defamation.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 14th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



