  Case Number:  22STCV18068    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 11, 2024                TRIAL DATE: March
25, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Stephen Suh v. American Honda Motor Co.,
Inc.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV18068            
 
MOTION
FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS, OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, ISSUE AND/OR EVIDENTIARY
SANCTIONS
 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Stephen Suh.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action that was filed June 1, 2022. Plaintiff alleges
he purchased a 2019 Honda Odyssey which manifested electrical, transmission,
and engine defects.
 
Plaintiff moves for terminating
sanctions, or, in the alternative, issue and/or evidentiary sanctions for
Defendant’s repeated failure to produce documents pursuant to Court orders. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions
is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint
is hereby stricken and default entered this date.
 
            The Court sets a hearing on an Order
to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default Judgment for February 7, 2025 at 8:30 AM.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for terminating
sanctions, or, in the alternative, issue and/or evidentiary sanctions for
Defendant’s repeated failure to produce documents pursuant to Court orders. 
Legal Standard
for Terminating Sanctions
 
The Court has the
authority to impose sanctions against a party that engages in any misuse of the
discovery process (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030), including “[f]ailing to respond
or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2023.010(d).) A party engaging in this conduct may be subject to sanctions
including monetary sanctions (Code Civ Proc. § 2023.030(a)), evidence sanctions
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(c)) or terminating sanctions. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2023.030(d).)  “[T]rial courts should select sanctions
tailored to the harm caused by the misuse of the discovery process and should
not exceed what is required to protect the party harmed by the misuse of the
discovery process.” (Dept. of Forestry & Fire Protection v. Howell
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 191, disapproved of on other grounds in Presbyterian
Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th
493.) Sanctions are generally imposed in an incremental approach. (Id.)
Generally, the appropriate sanctions when a party repeatedly and willfully
fails to provide evidence to the opposing party as required by the discovery
rules is preclusion of that evidence from the trial. (Juarez v. Boy Scouts
of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 390, disapproved of on other
grounds by Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204.)
 
In considering a motion for terminating
sanctions, the Court should try to “tailor the sanction to the harm caused by
the withheld discovery.” (Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1618-1619.)  
 
[T]he question before this court is not
whether the trial court should have imposed a lesser sanction; rather, the
question is whether the trial court abused its discretion by imposing the
sanction it chose. [Citation.] Moreover, imposition of a lesser sanction would
have permitted [defendants] to benefit from their stalling tactics. [Citation.]
The trial court did not abuse its discretion by tailoring the sanction to the
particular abuse.
 
(Id. at 1620.), and 
 
            Moreover, in deciding whether to
impose a terminating sanction, the trial court is to consider the totality of
the circumstances: the “conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.” (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.)
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court
take judicial notice of a series of Court orders in an unrelated action. These
documents are irrelevant, and Plaintiff’s request is therefore DENIED. (Gbur v. Cohen (1979) 93 Cal.App.3d 296, 301
(“[J]udicial notice . . . is always confined to those matters which are
relevant to the issue at hand.”].) 
 
Procedural History
 
            On February
27, 2023, the parties came before the Court on a Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production propounded by Plaintiff to Defendant. (See
generally February 27, 2023 Minute Order.) The requests at issue in that motion
sought (1) documents related to the subject vehicle (Request No. 1); (2)
pre-sale documents related to the same electrical system as the one present in
the vehicle (No. 17); (3) documents concerning investigations, reports, and
other data relating to defects in vehicles with the same transmission system as
the subject vehicle (Nos. 20, 24-27, 32, 37, 40, 85, 86, 139); (4) similar
documents concerning the electrical system of similar vehicles (Nos. 44, 48-51,
56, 61, 64, 100); (5) Defendant’s materials concerning repurchase requests and
lemon law generally (Nos. 110, 120); and (6) documents concerning
communications with government agencies and suppliers relating to the class of
vehicles. (Nos. 125-128). (Declaration of Mani Arabi ISO Mot. Exh. 1; see also
February 27, 2023 Minute Order pp. 4-5.) The Court found Defendant’s responses
to these requests were inadequate because Defendant asserted meritless
objections and provided evasive answers that improperly narrowed the scope of
the requests, and, therefore, the Court ordered Defendant to provide verified,
code-compliant responses without objections, including ESI and email searches,
within 60 days. (February 27, 2023 Minute order pp. 6-8.) 
 
            Over a year
later, Plaintiff moved to compel compliance with the February 27, 2023 order,
contending that Defendant had not served responses in the manner specified by
the Court’s order. The record before the Court established that Defendant had,
on April 28, 2023, served unverified responses limiting the scope of the
production to those documents not subject to objections. (May 23, 2024 Minute
Order p. 3.) Defendant subsequently served verifications on January 11, 2024
and responsive documents on January 11 and 12. (Id.) Defendant justified
its failure to produce responses by claiming it was “inundated” because it was
attempting to redact personally identifying information and discussing the
scope of ESI searches with Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id.) The Court found
Defendant’s justifications inadequate, specifically noting that it had ordered verified
responses without objections, including the production of ESI and email
searches, and stating that “redaction of confidential information is not a
valid justification where the parties have stipulated to a protective order
regarding the handling of that information, as they did here on October 10,
2022.” (Id.) The Court therefore granted the Motion to Compel Compliance
with respect to Requests Nos. 1, 20, 24-27, 32, 37, 40, 85, 86, 110, 120,
125-128, and 139, but not as to Requests Nos. 17, 44, 48-51, 56, 61, 64, and
100, as Plaintiff stated, following the January 2024 production, that further
responses were no longer sought. (Id.) As part of that order, the Court
specifically ordered production of electronically stored information and emails
using search terms specified by Plaintiff in the reply to the Motion to Compel
Compliance. (Id. p. 4.) 
 
            The Court
issued its original tentative ruling on this matter ahead of the scheduled
November 6, 2024 hearing. However, Defendant had filed a supplemental
declaration by its counsel, Stephen J. Kelley, on November 5, 2024, which was
not considered in that tentative. The Court accepted the supplemental filing,
over Plaintiff’s objection, and permitted Plaintiff to file and serve a
supplemental reply by November 14, 2024 and continued the hearing to November
22. (November 6, 2024 Minute Order.) The parties thereafter stipulated to
continue this matter to December 11 and Plaintiff’s deadline to respond to
December 4, 2024. (November 18, 2024 Minute Order.) While supplemental reply
papers were filed on December 4, 2024, the Court has not considered them
because they lack any proof of service on Defendant.
 
Defendant’s Failure to Comply With Court Orders
 
            Plaintiff
moves for terminating sanctions on the basis that Defendant has not complied
with the Court’s May 23, 2024 Order. At the time the motion was filed,
Defendant had made no supplemental production whatsoever following the May 23,
2024 Order. (Arabi Decl. ¶ 21.) 
 
            In
response, Defendant contends that it produced responsive emails on July 1, 2024
following a “review process to determine responsiveness and to redact any
non-responsive information directed to vehicles beyond the 2019 Honda Odyssey
and concerns that are at issue in this litigation, as well as any confidential
personally identifiable information . . . contained within them.” (Declaration
of Ricardo Azcarraga ISO Opp. ¶ 29.) This production on its face is not
compliant with the Court’s order, and Defendant fails to address this
deficiency in its opposition. As Plaintiff argues in his reply brief, the Court
has repeatedly castigated Defendant for unilaterally narrowing the scope of its
production and specifically stated that redactions were inappropriate in light
of the October 10, 2022 stipulation for a protective order. 
 
            As to the
remainder of the responses, Defendant admits that it did not provide supplemental
responses as originally ordered because that obligation was “lost in the
shuffle,” and the oversight was only recognized upon receipt of the instant
motion. (Azcarraga Decl. ¶ 30.) Supplemental responses were served on October
23, 2024. (Id. Exh. T.) Taken on its own, the conclusory assertion of Defendant’s
counsel regarding Defendant’s discovery obligations being “lost in the shuffle”
would be of little persuasive force. Even so, Plaintiff identifies numerous
deficiencies in the production and the responses which raise greater concerns. 
 
            According
to Plaintiff, Defendant’s supplemental responses identify the search terms run
and documents in the existing production which are responsive to each
request, but do not identify or produce any new documents. While this, in and
of itself, is not necessarily a failure to comply with the Court’s order,
Plaintiff also states that Defendant’s supplemental responses employed search
terms which did not match the terms specified by Plaintiff on the Motion to
Compel Compliance. Plaintiff specifically points to several parentheses in the
requested search terms which are absent or moved in the search terms that were
used, thereby altering the searches actually done. (Reply p.4:6-28.) Defendant’s
counsel explains in his supplemental filing that this variance was the result
of inadvertently including a prior iteration of the search terms and served
corrected responses on November 5, 2024. (Supplemental Declaration of Stephen
J. Kelley ISO Opp. ¶¶ 3-9; Exh. A.) However, Attorney Kelley does not explain
the basis for his conclusion that the deviation from the proper search terms
was inadvertent error, nor does he establish how he has personal knowledge of
which searches were actually run.
 
Plaintiff also objects to
Defendant’s production as improperly narrowed, based on Defendant’s admission
that it conducted an additional, undisclosed “review process” and redaction of
documents. Defendant admits to having redacted documents both in its prior
responses and in its most recent responses, asserting that the redactions are
directed to personally identifying information and to vehicles of other years,
makes, and models that are outside the scope of this action, asserting that the
Court’s May 23, 2024 order “did not preclude redaction of information unrelated
to the issues in this matter.” (Kelley Supp. Decl. ¶¶ 17-18.) To the contrary,
the Court’s prior ruling expressly stated that “redaction of confidential
information is not a valid justification where the parties have stipulated to a
protective order regarding the handling of that information, as they did here
on October 10, 2022.” (May 23, 2024 Minute Order.) Although counsel for
Defendant offers to produce a privilege log describing the redactions (Kelley
Supp. Decl. ¶ 19), that offer presumes that Defendant is entitled to redact
these documents. It is not. Moreover, the Kelley Declaration expressly admits
that Defendant further limited the search results via the definitions of “Honda
Vehicles” and “Transmission Defect(s)” employed in the underlying requests.
(Kelley Decl. ¶ 9.) These definitions were amply accounted for by the search
terms which were ordered by the Court, and it was not within Defendant’s
purview to narrow the results further.
 
 Further, Plaintiff contends that Defendant did
not produce documents which logically should exist and be produced, including records
from Defendant’s “eVRM” repair and servicing database, NHTSA documents, and
materials such as emails and customer complaints which may have been affected
by the improper search terms. With respect to the NHTSA documents, Plaintiff
states that Defendant’s production has identified only a series of revisions to
a single Technical Service Bulletin, but has not identified or produced any
communications, reports, or other documents regarding that TSB. (See
Supplemental Declaration of Mani Arabi ISO Reply Exh. 3. No. 25.) In response,
Defendant identifies specific documents with bates numbers reflecting internal
investigations into that TSB, in addition to the revisions of the TSB which
purportedly comprise the sole communications with NHTSA, and the supplemental
responses, while identifying no new documents, provide greater specificity
regarding the existing production. (Kelley Decl. ¶¶ 14-15; Exh. A. No. 25.) Although
this elaboration addresses some deficiencies, Defendant has failed to grapple
with the thrust of the Court’s conclusion, both in prior orders and here, that
Defendant has improperly narrowed the scope of its responses. Indeed, the fact
that Defendant produced no new documents, in the context of Defendant’s inappropriate
arguments asserted above, supports the inference that Defendant has withheld
responsive documents. 
 
As to the eVRM reports, as sought
in Request No. 1, Defendant asserts that no responsive documents are available
because the eVRM “is not a document and is not able to be printed.” (See
Opposition p.11:25-26.) This argument smacks of deliberate evasiveness, as the
thrust of Plaintiff’s demand was for reports from a database. Moreover, Plaintiff,
in response, has provided eVRM reports from a separate action involving this
Defendant, thereby conclusively establishing that the materials sought by
Plaintiff are, in fact, documents which can be printed and produced. (Arabi
Supp. Decl. Exh. 5.) Defendant attempts to evade this deficiency in its
supplemental filing by pointing to other documents which were previously
produced (Kelley Decl. ¶ 11) but fails to engage with the thrust of Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendant has failed to produce records which logically must
exist, while misrepresenting both to Plaintiff and to the Court that responsive
documents cannot be produced. 
 
            In its
opposition to this motion, Defendant argues that it has continuously acted in
good faith to comply with this Court’s orders. The record belies that
contention. Defendant has persisted, over Plaintiff’s objection and in direct
violation of the Court’s instruction, in unilaterally restricting and redacting
its production of documents, and it has failed to produce responsive materials
which both logic and evidence indicate should exist and be produced. While
Defendant’s November 4, 2024 production cures relatively minor deficiencies by
correcting erroneous search terms and identifying the existing production with
greater specificity, Defendant offers no new documents to supplement
substantive deficiencies in the production. Moreover, Defendant has twice disobeyed
Court orders to produce responses within a specified time, choosing instead to
make an initial, inadequate production and then waiting until Plaintiff brings
a further motion and threatens sanctions to supplement its production—without
actually curing the deficiencies that gave rise to the motion. This is not the
behavior of a party who is engaging in the discovery process in good faith.
Instead, Defendant’s conduct reflects a contempt for the Court’s authority and for
Plaintiff’s right to pursue discovery in this action. The Court is under no
obligation to permit Defendant to continue to engage in these stalling tactics.
 
Considering the totality of the
circumstances, including Defendant’s repeatedly evasive responses and
contemptuous resistance to Court orders, the lengthy delays in discovery of
plainly relevant evidence, and the substantial enforcement burdens shouldered
by Plaintiff, the Court concludes that the ultimate sanction of termination is
warranted in this action.  Thus, the
Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions, striking Defendant’s
Answer and entering default against it.  
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions
is GRANTED.
 
            Defendant’s Answer to the Complaint
is hereby stricken and default entered this date.
 
            The Court sets a hearing on an Order
to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default Judgment for February 7, 2025 at 8:30 AM. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: December 11, 2024                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 