 Case Number:  24SMCP00119    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April
  4, 2024 – CONTINUED TO April 11, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCP00119




MOTION


Petition
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  WIB Holdings LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Kristi Pinocchio



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiff WIB Holdings LLC (“Petitioner”) petitions to compel its
tenant, Defendant Kristi Pinocchio (“Respondent”) to arbitrate the dispute
arising from the parties’ rental agreement. 
Respondent opposes the petition and Petitioner replies.[1]  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
2.    
ENFORCEABLE ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS
 
Petitioner contends the parties entered two agreements: (1) rental
agreement and (2)  arbitration
agreement.  Paragraph 47 of the rental
agreement provides:
 
47. MEDIATION.  The following matters are excluded from
mediation hereunder: Any lawsuit which is filed as a Limited Civil case (i.e.
as set forth in Code of Civil Procedure Section 86).  The parties agree to mediate all disputes
they have with each other (including all factual, legal, and equitable issues)
which arise between them: (i) under this Agreement, or (ii) based on TENANT’s
tenancy at the Premises and/or Property, or (iii) out of their landlord-tenant
relationship.  […]  No party can be required to attend a
mediation however, the loss of costs and fees is the sole remedy available for
this paragraph’s breach.
 
(Bills
Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. A.)
 
The arbitration agreement provides that matters subject to arbitration
include “any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of or relating in any
way to Tenant’s occupancy of the Premises or to any breach of the Rental
Agreement between the parties concerning the Premises, or […] enforcement,
interpretation or validity of the Rental Agreement[.]”  (Bills Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. B.)
 
Every page of the arbitration agreement is initialed by
Respondent.  (Ibid.)  Although the Bills declaration indicates “I
also signed an arbitration agreement with the tenant” the arbitration agreement
attached as Exhibit B is signed by Respondent, but not by Petitioner.  (Ibid.)  Because Petitioner has not presented an
agreement that was signed by both parties, Petitioner has not demonstrated that
there exists a valid, binding arbitration agreement between the parties.
 
After the Court posted its tentative ruling, the hearing was
continued, and Plaintiff subsequently filed the Supplemental Declaration of
Barbara Bills, with a copy of the arbitration agreement Plaintiff has now
signed.
 
First, as discussed in footnote 1 above, the Court does not generally
consider evidence offered in connection with the reply (or after the reply is
filed, as is the case with the Supplemental Bills declaration), because it
deprives the opposing party of notice and a fair opportunity to respond, in
violation of their due process rights.  
 
Second, “[a] contract must be so interpreted as to give effect to the mutual
intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting,
so far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1636, emphases added.)  Plaintiff’s belated decision to sign the
arbitration agreement approximately six years later, after a dispute has
arisen, does not demonstrate that a mutual intent to arbitrate existed at the
time Defendant signed the agreement.  
 
Moreover, because Plaintiff did not previously sign the agreement, Defendant
would have been unable to compel Plaintiff to arbitration.  As such, the purported agreement lacks mutuality.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Because the evidence does not
demonstrate Petitioner entered into an arbitration agreement with Respondent,
the Court denies Petitioner’s petition to compel arbitration.  
 
            Further, because the petition is
denied, the Court vacates the Case Management Conference set for June 27, 2024
and dismisses the action with prejudice. 

 
            Petitioner shall provide notice and
file a proof of service of such.
 
 
 
DATED:  April 11, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


