  Case Number:  23STCV22794    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ SIMON CHOE, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. ANNA KIM, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV22794 Hearing Date: January 6, 2025   [TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Simon Choe (“Simon”) and Soon Choe (“Soon”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) initiated this action against defendants Anna Kim AKA Annabelle Arce aka Jiyun Kim (“Kim”), Hyeok Sam Gweon AKA Bill Gweon (“Gweon”), Youn-Kyung Jeong, Edison Antonio Castro, Donald Iwuchukwu (“Iwuchukwu”), Metu Ogike (“Ogike”), and Does 1-10 alleging defendants defrauded Plaintiffs of their entire life savings. The Complaint sets forth six causes of action against all defendants for (1) Fraud, (2) RICO/Hobbs Act Violation, (3) Conspiracy, (4) Gross Negligence, (5) Breach of Contract, and (6) Quasi Contract – Conversion Restitution/Unjust Enrichment. On March 22, 2024, defendant Edison Antonio Castro (“Castro”) filed a demurrer to the first, second, third, fifth, and sixth causes of action of the Complaint. The demurrer was initially set to be heard on July 15, 2024. On July 10, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition, which was untimely at the time based on the original hearing date. On July 15, 2024, the Hon. Stephanie M. Bowick noted there was no declaration by Castro’s counsel in compliance with Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a). The parties were ordered to meet and confer in person, telephone, or by video conference, and to file a stipulation regarding Plaintiff amending the Complaint should the issues be resolved. The demurrer was then continued to August 15, 2024, and Castro’s counsel was ordered to file proof of service of the required meet and confer declaration. (Min. Order, July 15, 2024.) On July 16, 2024, Judge Bowick recused herself; all future dates pending in Dept. 19 were advanced and vacated. (Min. Order, July 16, 2024.) The matter was reassigned to Dept. 78. (Min. Order, Aug. 2, 2024.) On August 1, 2024, Castro’s counsel filed a Declaration of Demurring or Moving Party Regarding Meet and Confer (CIV-140), declaring that Plaintiffs filed to respond to the request to meet and confer or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. At the Case Management Conference, the Court and counsel conferred regarding the status of the case, and the hearing on the demurrer was scheduled for January 6, 2025. (Min. Order, Oct. 9, 2024.) Plaintiffs’ reply was due on or before December 27, 2024; none has been filed to date.  II. PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENT Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a).) Based on the history of this matter, the Court finds the meet and confer requirement met.  III. LEGAL STANDARD A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿¿¿ “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).)¿  IV. DISCUSSION Allegations of the Complaint The Complaint’s alleges, in pertinent part, the following. In May 2018, Plaintiff Simon was introduced to defendant Kim, a fellow Korean, who sought financial assistance. (Compl. ¶¶ 22-23.) Based on the commonalities between Plaintiffs and Kim as Korean Americans and location in Temecula, Plaintiffs and Kim developed a close and familial friendship over the course of three to four years. (Compl. ¶ 27.) The fraud began in mid-September 2018, during a dinner, in which Kim, Kim’s mother, and Kim’s boyfriend (defendant Gweon) stated they were working at the Law Offices of Donald Iwuchukwu. (Compl. ¶¶ 30.) They gained the trust of Plaintiffs by informing them of the work they did for the Korean Community through their “Korean Days,” in which the law firm held an event where all Korean-speaking clients would gather at the office to receive advice on their cases. (Compl. ¶¶ 30, 47)  Kim stated that she borrowed money from the law firm through one of the attorneys, Castro, to provide Kim’s aunt (Jung Ja Kim) financial assistance related to a bankruptcy filing. (Compl. ¶¶ 31, 33.) Kim sought Plaintiffs’ assistance, and on October 17, 2018, Kim prepared loan documents on behalf of Castro and Jung Ja Kim. (Compl. ¶ 33.) Plaintiff Soon entered into a Secured Promissory Note (“the Note”), whereby Kim’s aunt borrowed $160,000 in principal with interest from Plaintiffs, and the law firm was to prepare the Deed of Trust securing the loan. (Compl. ¶ 33.) After signing the Note, Plaintiffs provided a cashier’s check in the amount of $70,000 directly to the law firm through Castro. (Compl. ¶ 34.) The remaining $90,000 was paid by Plaintiffs in cash to Castro. (Compl. ¶ 34.) Kim told Plaintiffs that the law firm would place the lien on the property on Plaintiffs’ behalf, which was false. (Compl. ¶ 34.) Jung Ja Kim passed away in May 2020 without paying, and her estate was probated. (Compl. ¶ 35.) As a way to continue Kim’s fraud, Kim instructed Plaintiffs that the only way to collect on the loan was to hire a probate attorney. (Compl. ¶ 36.) The legal fees related to this involved legal fees paid to Iwuchuku and Ogike, and Iwuchuku transferring the case to the Law Offices of Anthony O. Egbase. (Compl. ¶ 37.) Meanwhile, Castro was unjustly enriched by receiving payment for his loan to Kim’s aunt with the funds Kim’s aunt had borrowed from Plaintiffs. (Compl. ¶ 39.) The lien was never lifted on the home and Castro received another $130,000 from escrow when the property was sold. (Compl. ¶ 39.) Castro knowingly collected on his loan twice, depleting the underlying security and converting Plaintiffs’ interests. (Compl. ¶ 40.) Castro misrepresented to his clients that he was a licensed bankruptcy attorney, posted misleading Instagram posts that he had passed the bar exam, and  “responded to the call of Attorney Edison.” (Compl. ¶ 31.) Plaintiffs were fraudulently informed that Castro had access to distressed properties under bankruptcy. (Compl. ¶ 63.) The law firm had a bankruptcy division under Castro, and Plaintiffs gave $200,000 to Kim for the purchase of distressed property that did not exist. (Compl. ¶ 62.) Plaintiffs discovered in mid-November 2021 that the law firm never filed a probate case regarding Kim’s aunt, and Plaintiffs suspected Kim and the attorneys she worked with were all a fraud. (Compl. ¶ 85.) The money given to the law firm was spent at Pechanga Resort Casino for gambling and lavish spending, in which Metu, Iwuchukwu, and Castro would meet clients to have dinner and gamble. (Compl. ¶ 88.) Castro was one of the people that allowed Kim and the Law Offices of Donald Iwuchukwu to launder money. (Compl. ¶ 89.)  First C/A - Fraud Castro contends the allegations primarily revolve around the Law Offices of Donald Iwuchukwu and defendant Kim, with minimal reference to Castro’s purported involvement. Castro argues the complaint fails lacks specificity of any misrepresentations, timing, and manner involving Castro, and relies on conclusory allegations. Here, the first cause of action recites the elements for intentional misrepresentation. A claim for fraud must plead all the following elements: (1) misrepresentation; (2)¿knowledge of falsity; (3) intent to induce reliance; (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.¿(Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School Dist. (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 123, 128; Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1332.)¿ Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)¿ Particularity requires facts that show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.¿ (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12¿Cal.4th 631, 645.)  Here, the only specific allegations pertaining to Castro are that he worked as an "attorney" for the Law Offices of Donald Iwuchukwu when he is not in fact an attorney, was involved in "Korean Day" in which clients would pay only in cash, that he never lifted the lien on Kim's aunt's home, that he was unjustly enriched by receiving more money than what was owed by Kim's aunt since he had already been paid in full by the funds Kim's aunt borrowed from Plaintiffs, and that he participated in the misspending of money at a casino. While Plaintiffs allege that Castro falsely represented that he was an attorney on social media, there are no allegations that Plaintiffs saw and relied on these social media posts at any given time. There are no allegations that Castro himself made any misrepresentations to Plaintiffs with the intent to induce their reliance, or that Plaintiffs justifiably relied on those misrepresentations. Rather, the allegations provide that it was defendant Kim who provided false statements to Plaintiffs, such as Kim telling Plaintiffs the firm would place a lien on the property, or Kim stating to Plaintiffs that Castro had access to distressed properties under bankruptcy as part of a scheme to collect money from Plaintiffs. The Court finds that Plaintiffs have not pled with particularity sufficient facts to maintain a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation against Castro. (Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 [Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity in pleading.]; see also Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184 [Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather than with general and conclusory allegations.].) Plaintiffs, in their opposition, acknowledge that the misrepresentations came directly from Kim, but argue that Castro’s complicit involvement in the fraud scheme supports imputing liability against him. California law generally recognizes four forms of deceit: intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, concealment, and failure to perform a promise. (Finch Aerospace Corp. v. City of San Diego (2017) 8 Cal. App. 5th 1248, 1252.)¿Regardless of which form of deceit Plaintiffs intended, the Complaint as it stands falls short of satisfying the elements of any of the subspecies of fraud and deceit against Castro. The demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED. Second C/A – RICO/Hobbs Act Violation The Complaint alleges generally that all defendants violated the Federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization ("RICO") under 18 U.S.C. §§ 1964(a), (b), (c) et seq.; 18 U.S.C. § 1961(3), (4), (5); 18 U.S.C. § 1343; 18 U.S.C. § 1951(b)(2), and 18 U.S.C. § 1962(a). (Compl. ¶¶ 110-130.) “The elements of a civil RICO cause of action have been variously stated and in fact differ according to the type of prohibited activity alleged.¿In general, however, the plaintiff must prove that the defendant caused injury to the plaintiff's business or property by engaging in a pattern of racketeering activity in connection with an enterprise which affects interstate commerce.” (Gervase v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1218, 1232.) RICO prohibits the use of income derived from a “pattern of racketeering activity” to acquire an interest in or establish an enterprise engaged in or affecting interstate commerce, the acquisition or maintenance of any interest in an enterprise “through” a pattern of racketeering activity, conducting or participating in the conduct of an enterprise through a pattern of racketeering activity, and conspiring to violate any of the Act’s provisions. (18 U.S.C. § 1962; Sedima, S.P.R.L. v. Imrex, Co., Inc. (1985) 473 U.S. 479, 491, 482 – 483.) RICO provides a private civil action to recover treble damages for injury by reason of a violation of its substantive provisions. (18 U.S.C.S. § 1964(c); Sedima, supra, 473 U.S. at 481.) To state a RICO civil action, there are distinct elements a plaintiff must allege: (1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a pattern (4) of racketeering activity. (18 USC § 1962(c); Sedima, supra, 473 U.S. at¿491, 493, 496.) RICO defines “racketeering activity” as any act “chargeable” under several generically described state criminal laws, any act “indictable” under numerous specific federal criminal provisions, including mail and wire fraud, and any “offense” involving bankruptcy or securities fraud or drug-related activities that is “punishable” under federal law. (18 U.S.C.S. § 1961(1); Sedima, supra, 473 U.S. at 483, fn. 3.) Castro argues that under RICO, Plaintiffs have failed to allege any criminal conduct and crimes committed by Castro as enumerated in 18 U.S.C.§ 1961. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the complaint alleges a classic scheme of intentional misrepresentation through wires and mails to fraudulently obtain money, such as arranging meetings at an Indian casino and transferring funds between accounts. Plaintiffs are required to “specifically plead the time, place or nature of the alleged communications constituting racketeering activity.” (McMartin v. Children’s Institute, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at p. 1407.)¿The Court finds that the Complaint alleges, in a conclusory manner, that defendants engaged in illegal money laundering. At most, Plaintiffs have alleged their belief that money given to the firm was spent at Pechanga Resort Casino to gamble, buy fancy dinners, and meet clients, which hardly “details inter-state money transfers”, nor do the allegations surrounding “Korean Day” and the specific misrepresentations made to Plaintiffs by certain defendants support any mail and wire fraud against Castro as argued. There are no allegations that Castro engaged in racketeering activity that harmed Plaintiffs and that affected interstate commerce. This action, at its core, is a tort action for recovery of money Plaintiffs gave to a law firm based on representations by those associated with the firm, and that the money was not used for its intended purposes. There is no indication that this matter involves racketeering activity in connection with an enterprise affecting interstate commerce. The demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED. Third C/A - Conspiracy Castro argues he cannot be held liable for conspiracy because the Complaint does not assert that Castro owed any duties. Castro contends there is no indication that Castro played a significant role in the management of the law firm or had a duty to disclose material facts or conflicts of interest detrimental to Plaintiffs. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Castro cites cases involving aiding and abetting a breach of fiduciary duty, which is a distinct theory from civil conspiracy. Plaintiffs contend the underlying tort is for fraud and breach of contract, which does not require a preexisting duty, and that the Complaint has plausibly alleged Castro’s active participation through misrepresentations and money laundering. Conspiracy liability is a theory of co-equal liability under which certain defendants may be held liable for an independent civil wrong committed by others. (Navarette v. Meyer (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1277.) To the extent that it is its own cause of action, the elements of an action for civil conspiracy are (1) formation and operation of the conspiracy and (2) damage resulting to plaintiff (3) from an act done in furtherance of the common design. (Thompson v. California Fair Plain Association (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 760, 767.) “ ‘[T]he major significance of the conspiracy lies in the fact that it renders each participant in the wrongful act responsible as a joint tortfeasor for all damages ensuing from the wrong, irrespective of whether or not he was a direct actor and regardless of the degree of his activity.’ ” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 511, internal citations omitted.) “Furthermore, the requisite concurrence and knowledge ‘may be inferred from the nature of the acts done, the relation of the parties, the interests of the alleged conspirators, and other circumstances.’ Tacit consent as well as express approval will suffice to hold a person liable as a coconspirator.” (Wyatt v. Union Mortgage Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 773, 785, internal citations omitted.) A cause of action for civil conspiracy may not arise, however, if the alleged conspirator, though a participant in the agreement underlying the injury, was not personally bound by the duty violated by the wrongdoing and was acting only as the agent or employee of the party who did have that duty. (Doctors' Co. v. Superior Ct. (1989) 49 Cal. 3d 39, 44.) Therefore, it is essential that a plaintiff clearly and properly allege the act or acts done in furtherance of the conspiracy, and it must be clear that those acts harmed the plaintiff. Plaintiffs argue the complaint has alleged Castro misrepresented himself as a bankruptcy attorney, attended meetings at Pechanga Resort Casino, and made misrepresentations that the firm could purchase distressed properties, which all constitute “aid or encouragement” of the conspiracy. However, as the Court has stated above above, Plaintiffs have not yet sufficiently pled fraud allegations against Castro with the requisite particularity. The demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED. Fifth C/A – Breach of Contract Castro argues Plaintiffs have failed to state a cause of action for breach of contract, because the terms of the contract were not presented in the Complaint nor a copy of the written instrument incorporated in the alternative. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Plaintiffs were induced to enter into a series of loan agreements by which they provided over $1 million to the firm based on promises of legal services, and that the existence of those contracts is evidenced by Plaintiffs receiving promissory notes for the loan transactions. Plaintiffs acknowledge no contract was attached, and argue they are not required to plead the terms of a written contract. The elements of a cause of action for breach of contract are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.” (Coles v. Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 384, 391, internal quotations omitted.)¿In pleading the existence of a contractual relationship, “the complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (Code Civ.Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g).).” (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-59.) For a written contract, the plaintiff may plead it “by its terms – set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489 abrogated on other grounds in Freeman v. Quicken Loans Inc. (2012) 566 U.S. 624.) To plead a contract’s legal effect the plaintiff’s pleading must include “the substance of its relevant terms. This is more difficult, for it requires a careful analysis of the instrument, comprehensiveness in statement, and avoidance of legal conclusions.” (Ibid.) Here, the Complaint does not state whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. The Complaint merely alleges that the law firm “never filed a probate case for our contract with [Kim’s] late aunt, Jung Ja Kim,” (Compl. ¶85) and that defendants generally breached contracts by neglecting to reimburse funds that were provided to defendants. (Compl. ¶153.) The cause of action therefore fails to state a cause of action for breach of contract against Castro. The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED. Sixth C/A – Quasi Contract (Conversion/Restitution/Unjust Enrichment) Castro makes the same argument that Plaintiffs have neither pled the terms of a contract nor incorporated a contract by reference. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue only unjust enrichment, contending that the Complaint has stated a claim for unjust enrichment against Castro. Here, the Complaint merges together causes of action for conversion and unjust enrichment/restitution. Plaintiffs need not plead any specific terms of a contract under a quasi-contractual claim, because the right to restitution or quasi-contractual recovery is based upon unjust enrichment. (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb and Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1132, as modified on denial of reh’g (Feb. 27, 2014) (quoting Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 460.).) A claim for unjust enrichment lies where there is receipt of a benefit and the unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another. (Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.) While unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, courts have stated that unjust enrichment is synonymous with restitution and allowed recovery where the plaintiff asserts a proper basis for recovering restitution. (See¿Durrell v. Sharp Healthcare¿(2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1370;¿McBride v.¿Boughton¿(2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387-88.) Under the law of restitution, an individual may be required to make restitution if he is unjustly enriched at the expense of another. (Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1996) 14 Cal.4th 39, 51.) A person is enriched if he receives a benefit at another's expense.¿(Ibid.)¿ The term “benefit” denotes any form of advantage; thus, a benefit is conferred not only when one adds to the property of another, but also when one saves the other from expense or loss.¿(Ibid.)¿Yet, even when a person has received a benefit from another, he is required to make restitution only if the circumstances of its receipt or retention are such that, as between the two persons, it is unjust for him to retain it.¿(Ibid.) Here, the Complaint has adequately pled unjust enrichment against Castro. The Complaint alleges Castro received payment for his loan to Kim’s aunt with the funds Kim’s aunt had borrowed from Plaintiffs. (Compl. ¶ 39.) The lien was never lifted on the home and Castro received another $130,000 from escrow when the property was sold. (Compl. ¶ 39.) Castro knowingly collected on his loan twice, depleting the underlying security and converting Plaintiffs’ interests. (Compl. ¶ 40.) Plaintiffs have thus sufficiently alleged Castro was unjustly enriched at Plaintiffs’ expense. This is already sufficient to overrule the demurrer to the sixth cause of action, because a demurrer cannot lie to only a portion of the complaint. (See (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Ct. (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1680, 1682.) The Court therefore need not reach the sufficiency of the conversion allegations.  The demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.  V. CONCLUSION Castro’s demurrer to the first, third, and fifth causes of action are SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend. Castro’s demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Castro’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action is OVERRULED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: January 3, 2025 __________________________ Hon. Tiana J. Murillo Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 