  Case Number:  20STCV34041    Hearing Date:   December 24, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is the motion for summary judgment,
or, in the alternative, summary adjudication of Defendant Patricia Gucci on the
claims that her daughter Plaintiff Alexandra Zarini has asserted against Gucci in
Zarini’s complaint in this action.
 As a threshold matter, the Court is denying the request that
Zarini made for a continuance of the hearing on the motion so that she can take
the deposition of Defendant Joseph Ruffalo, Gucci’s former husband and Zarini’s
step-father.   This marks the second time that Zarini has
requested a continuance of the hearing on the motion so that she can take Ruffalo’s
deposition.  The request was made the
first time through an ex parte application that was heard earlier this
month.  The Court denied the request on
the ground that the declaration supporting the application did not satisfy the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure Section 437c(h) for obtaining a
continuance of a hearing on motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication.   The declaration of Taylor Dordick, one of Zarini’s
lawyers, that was submitted in support of the second continuance request contained
in Zarini’s opposition to the motion does not satisfy those requirements
either.  Ms. Dordick’s declaration lists
Zarini’s efforts to notice the deposition of Ruffalo over the past several
months.  But the declaration fails to
touch the four necessary bases under Section 437c(h).  Specifically, it does set forth in a
narrative fashion (1) the facts that are sought to be obtained are essential
for the opposition; (2) there is reason to believe that those facts may exist;
(3) the reason why the nonmoving party needs additional time to obtain the
facts in question; and (4) the reason why, through the exercise of reasonable
diligence, the nonmoving party could not have completed the discovery necessary
to obtain the facts prior to filing the opposition brief.  (Braganza
v. Albertson’s LLC  (2022) 67 Cal.App.5th 144, 153, 156; Rodriguez
v. Oto (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1038; Cooksey v. Alexakis (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 246, 254-257.)   It
should not have been difficult for Zarini’s lawyers to have prepared a
declaration that touches these four bases. 
After all, it is Ruffalo’s alleged sexual abuse of Zarini and Gucci’s
alleged knowledge of that abuse that gives rise to this action in the first
place.  Thus, Ruffalo’s deposition would
appear to be essential to Zarini’s opposition to Gucci’s motion.  And it would appear that facts within Ruffalo’s
knowledge do exist.  The problem is that
Ms. Dordick’s declaration does not say this. 
Nor does the declaration state why Zarini was unable through the
exercise of reasonable diligence to depose Ruffalo earlier.   The declaration simply recites a chronology indicating
that Zarini did not notice Ruffalo’s deposition until July 2024, more than four
years after she filed the action.  And
there is no explanation as to why Zarini never moved to compel Ruffalo’s deposition
thereafter.
 Because the Court is declining to continue the hearing on
the motion, the Court will decide it today.  
The Court’s tentative ruling is as follows.
 The motion is denied as to Zarini’s claims against Gucci for
negligence and sexual battery arising from Ruffalo’s alleged sexual abuse of Zarini.  In the Court’s view, Zarini presented
admissible evidence in opposition to Gucci’s motion that Gucci was aware of
Ruffalo’s abuse and did not take steps to stop it – evidence that is essential to
the negligence and sexual battery claims.   (Gucci’s knowledge would make her vicarious
liable for sexual battery.)  This
evidence is set forth in Zarini’s response to Gucci’s statement of material
fact # 41 and in Zarini’s additional material facts ##s 96-108.  All told, the evidence that Zarini has
presented creates disputed issues of material as to Gucci’s knowledge of
Ruffalo’s abuse of Zarni, thereby precluding the entry of summary adjudication
on the negligence and sexual battery claims.
 The Court is, however, granting summary adjudication for
Gucci on Zarini’s claims against her for intentional infliction of emotional
distress and gender violence.  The Court
agrees with Gucci’s argument in her reply brief in support of the motion that,
in her opposition brief, Zarini shifted her position as to the factual bases for
these claims.  In her complaint, Zarini rested
the intentional infliction of emotional distress claim and gender violence on Gucci’s
alleged/nonresponse to Ruffalo’s sexual abuse of Zarini.   In her opposition brief, however, Zarini
contends that the claims rest on an incident when Zarini was a minor in which Gucci
herself allegedly pulled up Zarini’s shirt and exposed Zarini’s breasts to
Ruffalo.  This allegation was not made in
Zarini’s complaint.  Motions for summary
judgment/adjudication are framed by the parties’ pleadings because it is the
allegations in the pleadings to which summary judgments motion are
directed.  (Meda v. Autozone, Inc.
(2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 366, 373-374; Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 635, 641.)   The party moving
for summary judgment/summary adjudication  need not refute a theory that exceeds the
boundaries of the allegations contained in the nonmoving party’s
pleadings.  (Hutton v. Fidelity Nat.
Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493.)  Gucci’s evidence in support of her motion for
summary adjudication on the intentional infliction of emotional distress and
gender violence claims targeted the allegations in the complaint on which those
claims were based.  Because Zarini’s
opposition brief did not refute that evidence with citations to the factual
record, Gucci’s evidence stands uncontroverted.   Accordingly, Gucci is entitled to summary adjudication
on the intentional infliction of emotional distress and gender violence claims.
 Evidentiary Objections
 In ruling on Zarini’s motion, the Court considered the parties’
respective evidentiary objections. 
 Zarini’s objections to the evidence that Gucci submitted in
support of the motion are overruled, except for objection numbers 16-19, which are
sustained based on Great American Insurance Co. v. Gordon Trucking, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 446, 450.
 The following objections of Gucci to the evidence that Zarini
submitted in support of her opposition to the motion are sustained: Objections
     1-16.  These objections target the Declaration
     of Taylor Dordick.  The Court is
     sustaining these objections the ground that it was improper for Ms.
     Dordick, who, as indicated above, ins one of Zarini’s lawyers,  to summarize the deposition testimony of
     Victoria Losio.Objection
     22.   This objection is to testimony of Zarini
     in her deposition as to something that her grandmother and former
     defendant in this case Bruna Palomobo said to her.  The objection is sustained on the ground
     that Palomobo’s statement to Zarini is inadmissible hearsay.Objection
     23.   This objection is to testimony
     of Zarini in her deposition as to something that a third-party witness,
     Melissa Bailey told her.  This
     objection is sustained on the ground that Bailey’s statement to Zarini is
     inadmissible hearsay.Objection
     32.  This objection is to testimony
     of Victoria Losio in her deposition as to something that Isabella
     Gucci-Ruffalo said to her.  This
     objection is sustained on the ground that Gucci-Ruffalo’s statement to
     Losio is inadmissible hearsayObjection
     33. This objection is to testimony of Victoria Losio in her deposition as to
     another statement that Isabella Gucci-Ruffalo made to her.  This objection is sustained on the
     ground that Gucci-Ruffalo’s statement to Losio is inadmissible hearsay.
 The  remainder of Gucci’s objections to the
evidence that Zarini submitted in support of her opposition to the motion are overruled.