..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCV07031
Plaintiff's Name: Emanni Ellis
Defendant's Name: Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar, aka Cardi B
People-Named: Emanni Ellis, Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar
Company-Named: None
Places: Los Angeles Superior Court, 19STCV01729, BC539712
Dates: February 21, 2020, February 24, 2018, January 5, 2024
Events: Assault, False Imprisonment, Violation of the Bane Act
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Grant judgment on the pleadings as to 5th and 6th causes of action
Facts: Plaintiff alleges false imprisonment and violation of the Bane Act; Defendant claims the complaint fails to state sufficient facts
Disputes: Whether the complaint states a cause of action for false imprisonment and violation of the Bane Act
Acts: Defendant's alleged assault and intimidation of Plaintiff
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code, United States Constitution
Case Citations: Brown v. Ralphs Grocery Co., Stoops v. Abbassi, Stevens v. Superior Court, Duval v. Board of Tr., Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court, Tiffany v. Sierra Sands Unified School Dist., Gami v. Mullikin Medical Ctr., Code Civ. Proc., Civ. Code, City of Simi Valley v. Superior Court, Jones v. Kmart Corp., Simmons v. Superior Court, Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist., Shoyoye v. County of Los Angeles, Green v. Grimes-Stassforth Stationery Co., Stewart v. San Mateo County
Statutes: Code Civ. Proc., Civ. Code, Code Civ. Proc. § 438 subd. (c)(1)(B), Code Civ. Proc. § 452, Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(2), Code Civ. Proc. § 430.80(a), Code Civ. Proc. § 340(c), Civ. Code § 52.1(a), (b)
Roles: Plaintiff - Emanni Ellis, Defendant - Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar, aka Cardi B
Significant Statements:
* The complaint fails to state a cause of action for false imprisonment and violation of the Bane Act
* The statute of limitations for false imprisonment is one year
* The Bane Act can be brought by an individual against a private person who interferes with the plaintiff's legal rights by threat, intimidation, or coercion
* The complaint does not contain allegations that Defendant assaulted and battered Plaintiff to stop her from returning to work as a security guard
* Leave to amend is granted as to the sixth cause of action
```

English-text summary:

The judge's tentative ruling grants Defendant Cardi B's motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the 5th and 6th causes of action for false imprisonment and violation of the Bane Act. The judge finds that the complaint fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for false imprisonment, as the statute of limitations has expired. The judge also finds that the complaint fails to allege what constitutional right or law Defendant violated, as the allegations are insufficient to state a cause of action under the Bane Act. However, the judge grants leave to amend as to the 6th cause of action, allowing Plaintiff to cure the defect by alleging specific constitutional rights or laws that Defendant violated.
