  Case Number:  20STCV07031    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  30 EMANI ELLIS vs BELCALIS MARLENIS ALMANZAR, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant Belcalis Marlenis Almanzar pka Cardi B’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED at to the fifth cause of action for false imprisonment and sixth cause of action for Violation of the Bane Act. As to the fifth cause of action, leave to amend is denied. As to the sixth cause of action, leave to amend within 30 days is granted. Moving party to give notice.Legal StandardA defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438 subd. (c)(1)(B).) A non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made any time before or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) “Such motion may be made on the same ground as those supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Ibid.)“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452; see also Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “When a court evaluates a complaint, the plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.” (Duval v. Board of Tr. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) “In deciding or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) The grounds for a motion for judgment on the pleadings must appear on the face of the challenged complaint or be based on facts which the court may judicially notice. (§ 438(d); Tiffany v. Sierra Sands Unified School Dist. (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 218, 225.) A motion for judgment on the pleadings normally does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action. (Ibid.) “In the case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Ctr. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant requests judicial notice of the Court dockets for: (1) Newell v. Nectar Apples, LLC, Los Angeles Superior Court, 19STCV01729; and (2) Olivera v. Icon LA Ultra Lounge, LLC, Los Angeles Superior Court, BC539712.The request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d).Meet and ConferThe motion is not accompanied by the declaration of defense counsel, which fails to satisfy the meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(2).) However, this is not grounds to deny the motion, and thus, the Court will turn to the merits. (Id., § 439(a)(4).) Nevertheless, defense counsel is admonished that in the future, counsel must meet and confer before filing a motion for judgment on the pleadings.DiscussionDefendant moves for judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s fifth and sixth causes of action for false imprisonment and violation of the Bane Act, respectively, arguing the complaint fails to state sufficient facts to constitute these causes of action.Plaintiff first argues that by failing to raise the statute of limitations defense before an answer was filed, Defendant has waived the defense. However, a defendant does not waive a limitations defense unless she “fail[s] to plead it in an answer or raise it as a ground of a general demurrer.” (Brown v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 824, 842-843 (emphasis added). Further, the grounds for a demurrer are never waived. (Code Civ. Proc. §430.80(a).) Thus, this argument has no merit.Fifth Cause of Action for False ImprisonmentFirst, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s false imprisonment claim is untimely, as it was filed nearly one year after the statute of limitations expired.The statute of limitations for false imprisonment is one year, which accrues upon release from confinement. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 340(c); Scannell v. County of Riverside (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 596, 606.)Plaintiff filed the Complaint on February 21, 2020, alleging that on February 24, 2018, she was assaulted by Defendant. Thus, as the complaint was filed almost two years after the incident occurred, the statute of limitations bars the complaint and Plaintiff has offered no argument that any exception would apply. As such, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted as to the fifth cause of action without leave to amend.Sixth Cause of Action for Violation of the Bane ActDefendant argues that this claim fails because Plaintiff fails to identify what right secured by the Constitution or law has been violated.A claim for violation of the Bane Act can be brought by an individual against a private person, where that person interferes with the Plaintiff’s legal rights by threat, intimidation, or coercion. (Civ. Code § 52.1(a), (b).) To allege a cause of action under Civil Code section 52.1, the plaintiff must allege that “the defendant interfered with or attempted to interfere with the plaintiff’s legal right by threatening or committing violent acts.” (Doe v. State (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 832, 842. Bane Act liability occurs when a defendant’s threats, intimidation or coercion interferes or attempts to interfere “with the exercise or enjoyment by any individual of rights secured by the Constitution or laws of the United States, or of the rights secured by the Constitution or laws of this state.” (Civil Code § 52.1(a); see City of Simi Valley v. Superior Court (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1077, 1082, 1085-86 [plaintiff must allege and prove that defendant interfered with plaintiff’s rights under federal or state law].) The Bane Act was enacted “to stem a tide of hate crimes” in the state. (Jones v. Kmart Corp. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 329, 338.) “Although initially enacted ‘to stem a tide of hate crimes’ [Citation], ‘a plaintiff need not allege the defendant acted with discriminatory animus or intent; a defendant is liable if he or she interfered with the plaintiff's constitutional rights by the requisite threats, intimidation, or coercion’ [Citation.]” (Simmons v. Superior Court (2016) 7 Cal.App.5th 1113, 1125.)The essence of a Bane Act claim is that the defendant, by the specified improper means (i.e., “threats, intimidation or coercion”), tried to or did prevent the plaintiff from doing something he or she had the right to do under the law or to force the plaintiff to do something that he or she was not required to do under the law. (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School Dist. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 882-883; see also Shoyoye v. County of Los Angeles (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th 947, 959 [Bane Act was intended to address only egregious interferences with constitutional rights, where the act of interference with a constitutional right must itself be deliberate or spiteful, beyond just any tort, such as negligence].)“[T]he rule is that where an action is founded on a statutory right or a right deducible wholly from statute, the plaintiff must, by his complaint, bring himself squarely and clearly within the terms or provisions of the statute upon which he relies or must rely to state a cause of action.” (Green v. Grimes-Stassforth Stationery Co. (1940) 39 Cal.App.2d 52, 56.)Here, the complaint alleges that Defendant verbally and physically struck, threatened and intimidated Plaintiff with deprivation of her rights to bodily integrity, to be free from attack and to be free from assault and battery. (Compl. ¶ 53.) Defendant then used her celebrity status to get Plaintiff fired from her job as a security guard. (Id.)In opposition, Plaintiff asserts Defendant assaulted and battered Plaintiff to stop her from returning to work as a security guard while employed therein, and to prevent Plaintiff from returning to work to keep the building safe and secure for visitors, which Plaintiff avers she had a right to do. (See Stewart v. San Mateo County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 273, 284-285 ["[I]t is firmly established that the right of every person to engage in a legitimate employment, business or vocation is an individual freedom secured by the due process provision of the Federal and State Constitutions."].)However, the complaint does not contain the allegations Plaintiff makes in opposition. As a result, the Court finds that the complaint fails to allege what constitutional right or law Defendant violated. “The statute requires a showing of threatening conduct independent from the alleged interference or violation of a civil right.” (Doe, supra, 8 Cal.App.5th 832, 842-43.) Here, the violation of law alleged in the complaint is the right to be free from bodily restraint or harm, which is not independent of the violence alleged. As such, the motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the cause of action for violation of the Bane Act is granted.Leave to AmendAs to the sixth cause of action, there is a reasonable possibility of curing the defect, as Plaintiff may allege that Defendant assaulted and battered Plaintiff to stop her from returning to work as a security guard while employed therein, and to prevent Plaintiff from returning to work to keep the building safe and secure for visitors, which Plaintiff avers she had a right to do. It is firmly established that the right of every person to engage in a legitimate employment, business or vocation is an individual freedom secured by the due process provision of the Federal and State Constitutions. (See Stewart v. San Mateo County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 273, 284-85.)In response to this argument, Defendant argues that where the claim brought against the private individual is based on interference with constitutional rights, the plaintiff must demonstrate that a state actor engaged in unconstitutional conduct. (Jones v. Kmart Corp., supra, 17 Cal.4th 329, 334-335.) However, the Court in Jones did not make such a sweeping statement. Rather, in Jones, the Court was analyzing the constitutional right at issue there, which was the right to be free from unreasonable search and seizure. (Id. at 333.) The Court therein stated that that specific right applies only to the acts of government officers or their agents. (Id.) The Court in Jones contrasted a situation where state action is not required. The Court stated: to the extent that the right to vote is guaranteed by the federal Constitution, or by other "laws" (§ 52.1), a private actor's coercive attempted or completed interference with it might be actionable under section 52.1. (Id. at 334.) Therefore, it is not always the case that a state actor must be the one depriving the plaintiff of a constitutional right. In any event, this issue has not been briefed at this time and Defendant may elect to file another motion directed at any amended pleadings if she sees fit. But at this point, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated a reasonably possibility of amending the complaint to cure the defect.