 Case Number:  22STCV30628    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  30 PEDRO SERRANO-TRUJILLO, et al. vs SYSTEMS SOURCE, INC., et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend is DENIED. However, the motion is denied without prejudice to Plaintiffs' filing another motion for leave to amend if Plaintiffs discover more facts that would support a claim for punitive damages.Legal StandardCalifornia Code of Civil Procedure section¿473, subdivision¿(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party¿to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.¿ The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”¿“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”¿¿(Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court¿(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)¿ Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.¿ The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.¿¿(See¿California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281¿(overruled on other grounds by¿Kransco¿v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co.¿(2000) 23 Cal.4th 390).)¿Under¿California Rules of Court¿Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any,¿and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.¿Under¿California Rule of Court¿Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)¿the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿DiscussionAs an initial matter, Defendant’s opposition is one day late.“A trial court has broad discretion to overlook late-served papers and to resolve the matter on the merits.” (Gonzalez v. Santa Clara County Dept. of Social Services (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 162, 168 [“(E)ven if the service had been untimely, the trial court was vested with discretion to overlook the defect”]; see also Bozzi v. Nordstrom, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765 [“A trial court has broad discretion under rule 3.1300(d) of the Rules of Court to refuse to consider papers served and filed beyond the deadline without a prior court order finding good cause for late submission.”].) The court exercises its discretion and considers the merits of the opposition.Plaintiff seeks leave to file an amended complaint to add allegations for punitive damages, arguing the facts giving rise to Plaintiffs’ allegations in support of Plaintiffs’ claims for punitive and exemplary damages against Defendant Cadena did not arise until Defendant Cadena’s deposition on May 18, 2023. The depositions for the Persons Most Knowledgeable for Defendant Systems Source, Inc. concluded on November 29, 2023.In opposition, Defendant argues the proposed amended complaint fails to state a claim for punitive damages.To state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.)To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)The California Supreme Court has held that punitive damages may be imposed for driving while intoxicated under certain circumstances, but has not held that punitive damages are always appropriate in cases involving driving while intoxicated. (Taylor v. Superior Court(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892.) In Taylor, the defendant had previously caused a serious automobile accident while driving under the influence, had been arrested and convicted for drunken driving on numerous prior occasions, had recently completed a period of probation following a drunk driving conviction and one of his probation conditions was that he refrain from driving for at least six hours after consuming any alcoholic beverage, and was presently facing an additional pending criminal drunk driving charge at the time of the accident. (Id. 893.) Further, despite the above, the defendant accepted employment which required him both to call on various commercial establishments where alcoholic beverages were sold, and to deliver or transport such beverages in his car. (Ibid.) Finally, the complaint alleged that at the time of the accident, defendant was transporting alcoholic beverages and simultaneously driving while consuming an alcoholic beverage. (Ibid.) The California Supreme Court found these circumstances to be circumstances of aggravation or outrage and there was “no valid reason whatever for immunizing the driver himself from the exposure to punitive damages given the demonstrable and almost inevitable risk visited upon the innocent public by his voluntary conduct as alleged in the complaint.” (Id. at p. 898.)Subsequently, the appellate court in Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, clarified that “[t]he risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable,” and punitive damages may be warranted where the circumstances surrounding the defendant’s decision to drive while intoxicated made the risk of harm to others probable. (Dawes, supra, 111 Cal.App.3d at p. 89.) In Dawes, the circumstances constituted more than the “ordinary driving while intoxicated,” where there was a probable risk of injury to others due to the defendant’s driving while intoxicated, at a high rate of speed, zigzagging through traffic, in the middle of the afternoon on a Sunday in summer, and in a crowded beach recreation area. (Id. pp. 88-89.)Here, the proposed amended complaint alleges that Defendant decided to get behind the wheel while grossly intoxicated, just as he had done on previous occasions, on a curved portion of Sante Fe, which he knew was dangerous and badly lit, and veered to the wrong side of the street into opposing traffic at a dangerously high speed. (TAC, ¶¶ 13, 21.)Upon careful review of the proposed pleading, the Court finds insufficient facts have been alleged to state a claim for punitive damages. The facts of this case are similar to Dawes, in that there are some aggravating circumstances, but what is absent here is the probable risk of harm to others. The difference between Dawes and this case is that there are no facts pled to show that Defendant drove the way he did in the middle of the afternoon in a location with heavy pedestrian and vehicle traffic. This fact in Dawes made it quite probable that injury to others could occur. But here, it appears the incident occurred at night. While the proposed amended pleading alleges that Defendant knew the area was dangerous, there are no facts to show that the dangerousness of the curved road would have added to the probable risk of injury to others if the area is not crowded or there is no traffic.Plaintiffs make much of the fact that Defendant admitted to drinking and driving in the past. However, that “history” of drinking and driving is nowhere close to the defendant’s history in Taylor, where the defendant had (1) previously caused a serious automobile accident while driving under the influence, (2) been arrested and convicted for drunken driving on numerous prior occasions, (3) recently completed a period of probation following a drunk driving conviction, (4) where one of his probation conditions was that he refrain from driving for at least six hours after consuming any alcoholic beverage, and (5) was presently facing an additional pending criminal drunk driving charge at the time of the accident. (Id. 893.) Moreover, while Defendant drove drunk in the past, that alone would not show he was aware of the probable consequences of his conduct, as no accident and/or conviction had occurred, and thus, it cannot be said that he was aware of the probable risk of harm to others, the way the defendant in Taylor was.