 Case Number:  21VECV00817    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Ethan Michael,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
True Bullion LLC, et al.
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
21VECV00817        
  107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Motion to Compel
  Further Responses  
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

 
(1) Grant in part and deny in part Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses; 
(2) Grant monetary sanctions against Defendants in the reduced
amount of $1,560.00.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff
Ethan (“Plaintiff”) brings this action against his former employers, Defendants
True Bullion LLC, Subculture Services LLC, Anthony Allen Anderson, and Agnes
Viacrucis (“Defendants”). On June 23, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Defendants and Does 1 to 100, alleging thirteen causes of action.
On
August 6, 2021, Plaintiff served discovery requests on Defendants. (Vardapour
Motion Declaration ¶ 2.) Defendants served responses
with only objections on October 8, 2021. (Vardapour Motion Declaration ¶ 3.) 
On December 14, 2021, the court issued a stay on discovery to rule
on Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. (Vardapour Motion Declaration ¶
8.) The court denied Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration and Defendants
appealed. (Vardapour Motion Declaration ¶ 9.) On March 13, 2024, the Appellate
Court issued a remittitur returning the case to the trial court. (Vardapour
Motion Declaration ¶ 9.) Defendants did not provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests. (Vardapour Motion Declaration ¶ 11.) 
On July 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further
discovery responses (the “Motion”). Defendants filed an opposition on September
24, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on October 1, 2024.
On October 3, 2024, this court held an Informal Discovery
Conference (“IDC”). The court continued the hearing on the motion to compel
further discovery responses to October 18, 2024. 
 
II.            
 PROCEDURE
 
a.    
Timeliness 
All
motions to compel further responses to written discovery must be brought within
45 days of receiving the challenged responses, or as otherwise agreed upon in
writing.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300(c), 2031.310(b)(1), 2033.290(c).)¿
This deadline is jurisdictional, and courts are without authority to grant
untimely motions.¿ (Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147
Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) When verifications
are provided electronically, the deadline is extended by two court days. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1010.6(a)(3)(B).)
Here,
the parties agreed to extend Plaintiff’s deadline to compel further responses.
(Vardapour Motion Declaration ¶ 10; Ex. 4.) With the extension, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses was
due on July 26, 2024. (Ex. 4.) 
This
court finds that Plaintiff timely filed its motion.
b.    
Meet and Confer
Motions
to compel further responses must always be accompanied by a “meet and confer”
declaration evidencing a “reasonable and good faith attempt an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2016.040, 2030.300(b), 2031.310(b)(2), 2033.290(b).)
The
parties dispute whether Plaintiff made a reasonable and good faith attempt to
resolve the issues before filing the Motion. Plaintiff’s counsel states he sent
Defendants a meet and confer letter on October 22, 2021. (Ex. 1, Vardapour
Motion Declaration ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel also states he met and conferred with
Defendants on September 24 and 25, 2024. (Vardapour Reply Declaration ¶ 2.)
Defendants’ counsel states “the parties did not meet and confer as to the
specific issues Plaintiff is raising in the instant Motion.” (Kanno Opposition
Declaration ¶ 2.) 
Plaintiff is seeking Defendants’ further responses to his Form
Interrogatories, General, Special Interrogatories, Requests for Production, and
Requests for Admission. (Motion.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s October 22, 2021,
letter to Defendants raised
the issues Plaintiff now raises in this Motion. (Ex. 1.) Accordingly, this
court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
III.          
LEGAL STANDARD
“Unless otherwise limited by
order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion
made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of
the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2017.010.) 
Under, Evidence Code section
210, “’Relevant evidence’ means evidence . . . having any tendency to prove or
disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the
action.” “The test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically,
naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts. The trial
court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence, but lacks
discretion to admit irrelevant evidence.” (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148, internal quotations and citations omitted.)
A court “retains the discretion to weigh
the burden of compliance against the likelihood of producing helpful
information, to avoid duplicative production, and to narrow demands if
appropriate to balance the reasonable concerns of both parties.” (Volkswagen
of America, Inc. v. Superior Court (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497.)
 
Where
responses to requests for admissions have been timely served but are deemed
deficient by the requesting party, the requesting party may move for an order
compelling the responding party’s further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290(a).)
 
Where
a demanding party determines that a responding party’s responses to
interrogatories are evasive or incomplete, or that said responses state
objections that are too general or without merit, the demanding party may file
a motion to compel the responding party’s further response. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300(a).)
 
“On
receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response
to the demand if the demanding party deems that … [a] statement of compliance
with the demand is incomplete[;] … [a] representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive[; or] … [a]n objection in the response is
without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)
 
Unless it would be unjust to do
so under the circumstances, the Court imposes monetary sanctions against
parties and/or attorneys that unsuccessfully make or oppose motions to compel
further responses without substantial justification.¿ (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300(d), 2031.310(h), 2033.290(d).)
 
IV.          
DISCUSSION
 
a.     The
Motion, Opposition, and Reply
 
Plaintiff
requests this court order Defendants to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, General, Set One, Nos. 1.1 through 50.6,
Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1 through 35, Requests for Admission
(“RFAs”), Set One, Nos. 1 through 12, and Requests for Production (“RFP”) Nos.
1 through 62. Plaintiff argues Defendants’ “answers are evasive or incomplete,
the objections are without merit or too general, and Defendants’ failure to
provide a substantive response constitutes a misuse of the discovery process.”
(Notice of Motion p. 2.)
 
In
their opposition, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s discovery requests are
duplicative, unduly burdensome, and harassing. (Opposition p. 16.) Defendants
note that the case was stayed pending an appeal from August 2022 to July 12,
2024. (Opposition pp. 7-8.) Defendants further argue that Plaintiff’s Motion is
a waste of judicial resources because “Defendants have proposed to provide
responses in each related case in two-week intervals, with the first set of
responses due in the R. Menjivar matter on October 4, 2024.”  (Opposition p. 12.) 
 
In
the reply, Plaintiff states he had good cause for the requests because the
information is needed for mediation scheduled for December 12, 2024. (Reply pp.
3-4.) Plaintiff further argues that Defendants’ other excuses for withholding
discovery responses are invalid because Defendants’ responses in the Menjivar
cases were due on April 30, 2024, but Defendants did not provide
substantive responses. (Reply pp. 5-6.) Plaintiff also argues states
Defendants’ claims they were working on the Abrams responses is meritless
because Defendants did not serve further responses in the Abrams case.
(Reply p. 6.) Finally, Plaintiff states that the notice of appeal was filed on
November 14, 2022, and Defendants could have served the discovery responses
during the three months before the appeal. (Reply p. 7.)
 
b.     Form
Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff
requests this court order Defendants to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, General, Set One, Nos. 1.1 through 50.6.
(Notice of Motion p. 2.)
 
Form
Interrogatories, General, Set One, seek background information about the
identity of the persons providing the responses, insurance information at the
time of the incident, information about witnesses to the incident, photographs,
films, or video tapes depicting any place, object or individual concerning the
incident or Plaintiff’s injuries, diagrams, reproductions, or models concerning
the incident, reports about the incident, inspections of the incident scene,
surveillance of individuals involved in the incident, whether Defendants or
anyone acting on their behalf contend a person involved in the incident
violated any statute, ordinance, or regulation and that violation was the legal
cause of the incident, Defendants’ denials or special or affirmative defenses,
and information related to agreements alleged in the pleadings. (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement pp. 110-163.)
 
Defendants
objected to each Form Interrogatory, stating: “The foregoing Preliminary
Statement and General Objections are incorporated herein by this reference.
This Interrogatory is improperly made because these claims are subject to
binding and enforceable arbitration agreements between Plaintiff and Defendant.
Defendant further objects to this Interrogatory on the following grounds: (1)
it is vague, ambiguous and unintelligible for, among other reasons, its use of
the phrases “YOU,” “YOUR,” and “relating to;” (2) it seeks information that is
neither relevant to the subject matter of this action nor reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; (3) it is overly broad,
burdensome and oppressive by, among other reasons, seeking information that has
no applicability in this lawsuit; (4) it fails to state with reasonable
particularity the information requested; (5) it is overbroad and uncertain as
to time and scope; (6) it seeks electronically stored information from sources
that are not reasonably accessible because of undue burden and expense,
including but not limited to, duplicative back-up data used for disaster
recovery purposes; therefore, Defendant will not search such sources or produce
such documents in the absence of an agreement with Plaintiff that reasonably
limits the scope of the Interrogatory as it pertains to such electronically
stored information; and (7) it seeks information protected from disclosure by
the attorney-client privilege, attorney work product doctrine and/or other
applicable privileges.” (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement pp.
110-163.)
 
Each
of Defendants’ objections is without merit. The Form Interrogatories are not
vague, ambiguous, or unintelligible, they do not fail to state with reasonable
particularity what is being sought, and they are not overbroad or uncertain. 
 
As
to Defendants’ asserted privileges based on an attorney-client relationship,
the attorney work product doctrine, rights to privacy and confidentiality,
and/or propriety information/trade secrets, Defendants presented no privilege
log stating what specific information is covered by which privilege.
 
Further,
Defendants have not shown which of Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories seek
electronically stored information that is not reasonably accessible. 
 
This
court further finds that Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories are relevant to this
action because they either seek information directly relevant to the incident
or background information about the persons answering the Form Interrogatories.
 
Accordingly,
this court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants’ further responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1.1 through 50.6.
 
c.      Special
Interrogatories, Set One
 
Plaintiff
requests this court order Defendants to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1 through 35. (Notice of
Motion p. 2.)
 
Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 1 through 10 seek information about Plaintiff’s
employment with Defendants.  No. 11
through 14 seek information about Plaintiff’s termination. Nos. 15 through 23
seek information about Plaintiff’s meal and rest breaks. Nos. 24 through 26
seek information relating to Plaintiff Norman Menjivar allegedly stealing. Nos.
27 through 29 seek information about Plaintiff Ricardo Menjivar allegedly being
a “shirt talker.” Nos. 30 through 32 seek information about Plaintiff Ricardo
Menjivar allegedly being a “larcenist.” No. 33 asks Defendants to identify
their employees from 1/1/2017 to date. No. 34 asks Defendants to identify their
independent contractors from 1/1/2017 to date. No 35. asks Defendants to
identify persons who provided services on Defendants’ behalf, but who were
categorized as employees or agents of third-parties with whom Defendants
contracted, from 1/1/2017 to date. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement pp.
164-206.)
 
Defendants
objected to each Special Interrogatory, stating: The foregoing
Preliminary Statement and General Objections are incorporated herein by this
reference. This Request is improperly made because these claims are subject to
binding and enforceable arbitration agreements between Plaintiff and Defendant.
Responding Party further objects to this Interrogatory on the following
grounds: (1) it is overbroad; (2) it is unduly burdensome, harassing and
oppressive; (3) it is vague, ambiguous and unintelligible for, among other
reasons, its use of the phrases “YOU,” “YOUR,” and “relating to;” (4) it seeks
information, the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion
of the affected individuals’ constitutional, statutory and/or common law rights
to privacy and confidentiality; (5) it calls for a legal conclusions; (6) it
seeks information protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege
and/or work product doctrine; (7) it is duplicative of other discovery
requests; (8) pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.230,
it necessitates the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract,
audit, or summary of or from the documents to be produced by Defendant, and the
burden and/or expense of preparing or making such compilation, abstract, audit,
or summary would be substantially the same for Plaintiff as for Defendant; (9)
it seeks information that is neither relevant to the subject matter or claims
of this action nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; (10) it seeks information protected as sensitive, confidential and/or
proprietary information or as trade secrets; and (11) it is argumentative, and
assumes facts not in evidence[.]” (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement pp.
164-206.)
 
Each
of Defendants’ objections is without merit. Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories
are not overbroad, unduly burdensome, harassing, oppressive, vague, ambiguous,
unintelligible, or duplicative. They do not call for legal conclusions. They
are also not argumentative, and they do not assume facts not in evidence.
 
As
to Defendants’ asserted privileges based on an attorney-client relationship,
the attorney work product doctrine, rights to privacy and confidentiality,
and/or propriety information/trade secrets, Defendants presented no privilege
log stating what specific information is covered by which privilege.
 
This
court finds that Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 through 23 and 33 through 35
are relevant to this employment action. However, Nos, 24 through 32 are not
relevant because they seek information about persons who are not parties to
this action. 
 
Accordingly,
this court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants’ further responses to
Special Interrogatories Nos. 1 through 23 and 33 through 35 but denies
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants’ further responses to Special
Interrogatories Nos. 24 through 32.
 
d.     Requests
for Admission, Set One
 
Plaintiff
requests this court order Defendants to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission (“RFAs”), Set One, Nos. 1 through 12.
(Notice of Motion p. 2.)
 
RFAs
Nos. 1 through 9 seek information relating to Plaintiff’s employment and wages.
Nos. 10 and 11 seek information relating to how Defendants described or
referred to Plaintiff Ricardo Menjivar. No. 12 seeks information relating to
how Defendants described or referred to Norman Menjivar. (Plaintiff’s Separate
Statement pp. 3-17.)
 
Defendants
objected to each RFA, stating: “The foregoing Preliminary Statement and General
Objections are incorporated herein by this reference. This Request is
improperly made because these claims are subject to binding and enforceable
arbitration agreements between Plaintiff and Defendant. Defendant further
objects to this Request on the following grounds: (1) it is overbroad; (2) it
is unduly burdensome, harassing and oppressive; (3) it is vague, ambiguous and
unintelligible for, among other things, its use of the terms and phrases “YOU,”
“YOUR,” or “relating to”; (4) it seeks information, the disclosure of which
would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the affected individuals’
constitutional, statutory and/or common law rights to privacy and
confidentiality; (5) it is duplicative of other discovery requests; (6) it
calls for a legal conclusion; (7) it seeks information that is neither relevant
to the subject matter or claims of this action nor reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence; (8) it seeks information
protected as sensitive, confidential and/or proprietary information or as trade
secrets; (9) it is argumentative, and assumes facts not in evidence.” (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement pp. 3-17.)
 
Each
of Defendants’ objections is without merit. Plaintiff’s requests are not
overbroad, unduly burdensome, harassing, oppressive, vague, ambiguous, or
unintelligible. They are also not duplicative of other discovery requests in
this case, do not call for a legal conclusion, and are not argumentative. 
 
As
to Defendants’ asserted privileges based on an attorney-client relationship,
the attorney work product doctrine, rights to privacy and confidentiality,
and/or propriety information/trade secrets, Defendants presented no privilege
log stating what specific information is covered by which privilege.
 
This
court finds that RFAs Nos. 1 through 9 are relevant to this cause of action.
However, this court finds that RFAs Nos. 10 through 12 are not relevant because
Plaintiffs Ricardo Menjivar and Norman Menjivar are not parties to this cause
of action.
 
Accordingly,
this court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to RFAs, Set
One, Nos. 1 through 9, but denies Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Nos. 10 through 12.
 
e.      Request
for Production
 
Plaintiff
requests this court order Defendants to provide further responses to
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production (“RFP”) Nos. 1 through 62. (Notice of
Motion p. 2.)
 
Nos.
1 through 6 seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories. Nos. 7
and 8 seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s personnel file. Nos. 9 through 28
seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s relationship with Defendants. Nos. 29
through 37 seek documents relating to Defendants’ policies. Nos. 38 through 52
seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s wages and Plaintiff’s communications.
Nos. 53 through 55 seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s business relationship
with Defendants, Plaintiff’s termination, and settlement. No. 56 seeks
documents published on the gsiexchange website. No. 57 seeks documents relating
to Defendant True Bullion LLC’s forfeited status with the California Franchise
Tax Board. No. 58 seeks documents relating to “Plaintiff Ricardo Menjivar
allegedly being a ‘shirt talker.’” No. 59 seeks documents relating to
“Plaintiff Ricardo Menjivar allegedly being a ‘larcenist.’” No. 60 seeks
documents relating to Norman Menjivar allegedly stealing. No. 61 seeks
documents relating to transmissions between Defendants and the Alabama
Securities Commission related an administrative order. No. 62 seeks documents
relating to transmissions between Defendants and the Texas State Securities
Board about an administrative order. (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement pp.
18-109.)
 
Defendants
objected to each RFP, stating: “The foregoing Preliminary Statement and
General Objections are incorporated herein by this reference. This Request is
improperly made because these claims are subject to binding and enforceable
arbitration agreements between Plaintiff and Defendant. Defendant further
objects to this Request on the following grounds: (1) it is overbroad; (2) it
is unduly burdensome, harassing and oppressive; (3) it is vague, ambiguous and
unintelligible for, among other things, its use of the terms and phrases “YOU,”
“YOUR,” or “relating to”; (4) it seeks information, the disclosure of which
would constitute an unwarranted invasion of the affected individuals’
constitutional, statutory and/or common law rights to privacy and confidentiality;
(5) it seeks information protected from disclosure by the attorney-client
privilege, work product doctrine, and/or other applicable privileges; (6) it is
duplicative of other discovery requests; (7) it calls for a legal conclusion;
(8) pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 2030.230, it
necessitates the preparation or the making of a compilation, abstract, audit,
or summary of or from the documents to be produced by Defendant, and the burden
and/or expense of preparing or making such compilation, abstract, audit, or
summary would be substantially the same for Plaintiff as for Defendant; (9) it
seeks information already in Plaintiff’s possession, custody, or control; (10)
it seeks information that is neither relevant to the subject matter or claims
of this action nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence; (11) it is overly broad, burdensome and oppressive by, among other
reasons, seeking information that has no applicability in this lawsuit; (12) it
seeks information protected as sensitive, confidential and/or proprietary
information or as trade secrets; (13) it is argumentative, and assumes facts
not in evidence; and (14) it seeks electronically stored information from
sources that are not reasonably accessible because of undue burden and expense,
including but not limited to, duplicative backup data used for disaster
recovery purposes; therefore, Defendant will not search such sources or produce
such documents in the absence of an agreement with Plaintiff that reasonably
limits the scope of the Request as it pertains to such electronically stored
information.” (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement pp. 18-109.)
 
Each
of Defendants’ objections is without merit. Plaintiff’s requests are not
overbroad, unduly burdensome, harassing, oppressive, vague, ambiguous, or
unintelligible. They do not call for a legal conclusion and are not
argumentative. To the extent they are duplicative of discovery requests in the
related cases, this court does not see how it unduly burdens Defendants to copy
its responses and send them to Plaintiff.
 
As
to Defendants’ asserted privileges based on an attorney-client relationship,
the attorney work product doctrine, rights to privacy and confidentiality,
and/or propriety information/trade secrets, Defendants presented no privilege
log stating what specific information is covered by which privilege.
 
Further,
Defendants have not shown which of Plaintiff’s requests for production seek
electronically stored information that is not reasonably accessible. 
 
This
court finds that RFPs Nos. 1 through 57 and 61 through 62 are relevant to this
action because Plaintiff is seeking information about the nature of Plaintiff’s
work, pay, breaks, and relationship with Defendants. This court further finds
that RFPs Nos. 58 through 60 are not relevant to this action because neither
Ricardo Menjivar nor Norman Menjivar are parties to this action. 
 
Accordingly,
this court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s
RFPs Nos. 1 through 57 and 61 through 62 but denies Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to RFPs Nos. 58 through 60.
 
f.     
Sanctions
Plaintiff
seeks $3,060 in monetary sanctions in the Motion and $4,500 in the reply.
(Motion p. 8; Reply p. 9.) This includes the $60.00 motion filing fee, five
hours drafting the motion, eleven hours reviewing the opposition and drafting a
reply, and one hour for the hearing. (Vardapour Motion Declaration ¶ 14; Vardapour Reply Declaration ¶ 7.)
Defendants argue sanctions are not warranted because Defendants’
current counsel are trying in good faith to meet and confer, “monetary
sanctions should not be imposed in situations where there is room for a
‘legitimate difference of opinion as to discoverability’”, and Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions against Defendants’ current counsel is mere gamesmanship.
(Opposition pp. 14-15.)
This court found that Plaintiff made a good faith effort to meet
and confer before filing this Motion. This court further finds that because
Defendants responded to Plaintiff’s relevant discovery requests with
boilerplate meritless objections, there is no legitimate difference of opinion
here as to discoverability.
This
court is required to impose monetary sanctions against a party that
unsuccessfully opposes a motion to compel further responses. This court finds
that Defendants did not act with substantial justification and no other
circumstances make imposing sanctions unjust. This court further finds that
five hours drafting this motion and eleven hours to review the opposition and
draft a reply is excessive, given the motions are nearly identical to those
submitted in the related cases. Moreover, this court granted Plaintiff
attorneys’ fees for the hearing in related Case No. 24VECV00814, and the cases
are set for hearing on the same day, so granting attorneys’ fees for the
hearing in this case would be duplicative.
Accordingly,
this court will grant sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,560.00, reflecting
the $60.00 motion filing fee, two hours for drafting the motion and two hours
for reviewing the opposition and drafting the reply, at $375 per hour.
 
 
V.             
CONCLUSION
For
the foregoing reasons, this court grants in part and denies in part Plaintiff’s
motions to compel Defendants’ further responses.
This
court also grants monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,560.00 against
Defendants. This amount is applied evenly among the four Defendants, so each
Defendant is sanctioned in the total amount of $390.00.
 
 
Dated:              October 18, 2024                                  
                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court