  Case Number:  23CHCV01029    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  1/6/25




Case
  Name:  K L Ventures Inc., v. L.A.
  Hardwood Flooring, Inc., and Does 1-20




Case No.
  23CHCV01029



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

JANUARY 6, 2025
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES AND PRODUCTION TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION, NO. 22, SET TWO

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV01029

 
Motion
filed: 2/29/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant L.A.
Hardwood Flooring, Inc. 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff K L Ventures Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s
Requests for Production, No. 22, Set Two. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED. Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
April 11, 2023, Plaintiff K L Ventures Inc.
(“Plaintiff”) filed its Complaint against Defendant/Cross-Complainant L.A.
Hardwood Flooring Inc. d/b/a Eternity Floors (“LAHF”
or “Defendant/Cross-Complainant”), and Does 1 through 20, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Express Warranty, (2) Breach of
Implied Warranty - Merchantability, (3) Breach of Implied Warranty – Fitness of
Purpose, and (4) Fraud. On May 16, 2023, LAHF filed its Answer to the Complaint.
Subsequently, on September 17, 2024, Plaintiff substituted Defendant Elliot
Goldstein for Doe 1. 
 
On May 16, 2023, Defendant/Cross-Complainant LAHF filed its
Cross-Complaint against Roes 1 through 100, alleging: (1) Implied Equitable
Indemnity, (2) Breach of Implied Warranties, (3) Contribution, and (4)
Declaratory Relief. 
 
On February 29, 2024, LAHF filed the instant Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production, No. 22, Set Two (the
“Motion”). Subsequently, on April 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed its Opposition. 
 
On April 24, 2024, the Court continued the hearing on the
Motion to allow the parties more time to meet and confer.
 
No Reply papers have been received by the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for
inspection or production of documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).)
 
A.   
Procedural
Requirements
 
1.      45-Day
Rule
 
“Unless notice of this motion [to compel
further responses to production of documents] is given within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding
party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel
a further response to the demand for productions.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (c).)
 
A court lacks jurisdiction to rule on untimely motions
to compel further responses. (See Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1408-1410 (Sexton); Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 683 [The statutory deadline for filing
motions to compel further responses is “mandatory and the court may not
entertain a belated motion to compel.”]
 
Here, Plaintiff’s responses to LAHF’s Requests for
Production, Set Two, were served via email on January 2, 2024 (Netzah Decl., ¶
3), thereby establishing the deadline for LAHF to file a motion to compel
further responses as February 20, 2024, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2031.310 subdivision (a) and applicable extension per Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6 subdivision (a). 
 
Furthermore, LAHF’s counsel attests that on February
1, 2024, “I wrote to Plaintiff’s attorney, requesting an extension to until and
including February 29, 2024, to file any necessary motions to compel relative
to the discovery responses served by Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s counsel granted the
extension.” (Netzah Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff does not dispute the time extension
asserted by Netzah. Accordingly, the instant Motion was timely, as it was filed
on February 29, meeting the extended deadline.
 
Consequently, the Court concludes that the instant
Motion was filed timely.  
 
2.      Separate
Statement
 
A motion to compel further responses to
a demand for production must be accompanied by a separate statement. (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(3).) “A separate statement is a separate document
filed and served with the discovery motion that provides all the information
necessary to understand each discovery request and all the responses to it that
are at issue.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(c).)
 
LAHF has met the above requirement by
filing a separate statement that elucidates the demand for production at issue,
details Plaintiff’s responses, and explains why further responses are
necessary.
 
3.      Meet
and Confer
 
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for
productions must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)
            
Here, LAHF’s counsel, Raviv Netzah (“Netzah”) acknowledges
that a meet and confer session did not occur prior to the filing of the instant
Motion. (Netzah Decl., ¶ 12.) Netzah explains that he sustained a second-degree
burn injury on February 16, 2024, which impeded his ability during the pre-filing
period. (Id., ¶¶ 6-10.) Additionally, Netzah attempted to request
another extension from Plaintiff on February 29, 2024; however, his request was
denied. (Id., ¶ 11.)
 
Based on the above records, the Court determines that
the requirement for in-person or telephonic meet and confer has not been
satisfied. (Opp’n., at pp. 4-6.)
 
i.                   
The Court’s Jurisdiction
 
Plaintiff contends that the Court has no jurisdiction
to decide the Motion due to LAHF’s failure to meet and confer before filing the
Motion, citing Sexton, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th, at p. 1410. 
 
The Sexton case addresses the statutory
requirement for a 45-day limitation and held that “although the 45-day
limitation is not ‘jurisdictional’ in the fundamental sense, it is
‘jurisdictional’ in the sense that it renders the trial court without authority
to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them.” (Id., at 1403.)
However, Sexton did not suggest that this determination extends to other
requirements, such as meet and confer. 
 
As the Court of Appeal noted in Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 411 (Sinaiko), “[a]lthough the ‘meet and confer’ requirement is an
express prerequisite to moving to compel further responses to interrogatories
[Citation], and inspection demands [Citation], no such requirement appears in
the statues permitting sanctions based on a party’s violation of a court order
compelling responses [Citations] or for misuse of discovery [Citation].”
 
In line with the observation by the Sinaiko court,
the Court finds that the ruling in Obregon v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 424 (Obregon) is directly relevant to the meet and confer
requirement. According to Obregon, an inadequate effort at
informal resolution does not require complete denial of the requested
discovery. (Id., at p. 433.) (Underlines added.) The Obregon
court stated, “[N]ot every finding that additional informal resolution efforts
are required can be categorized as a failure so egregious as to justify summary
denial of discovery. Such categorical rulings should be reserved for cases of
clear intent to burden or harass, cases of clear flaunting of statutory
responsibilities, cases of established track records of lack of good faith, and
the like. The range of a judge's discretion is broad, and litigants cannot
always predict exactly where on that broad range a particular judge might
alight in a particular case.” (Id., at p. 434.)
 
Based on the aforementioned records, the Court, in its
discretion, determines that LAHF’s failure to fulfill the pre-filing meet and
confer requirement was not motivated by any intent to burden or harass, nor was
it indicative of a lack of good faith. 
 
Consequently, in accordance with the Obregon
ruling, the Court concludes that a complete denial of the Motion based solely
on the insufficient meet and confer efforts is not warranted.
 
The Court now proceeds to examine the merits of the
Motion.
 
B.    
Moving
Party’s Showing of Good Cause
 
A motion to compel further responses to requests for
production shall “set forth specific facts showing good cause”. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) To establish “good cause,” the moving party must show
(1) the items demanded are relevant to the subject matter and (2) specific
facts justify discovery of the requested items (e.g., why such information is
necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial). (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); see Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving
party, the burden is then on the responding party to justify any objections
made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
 
            The
Request for Production, No. 22, Set Two, specifies:
 
“That Units. Please
note that this inspection demand includes not only the physical inspection of
the Units, but also destructive testing as may otherwise be required, to
establish whether the Product was properly installed at each Unit and whether
the Product was installed with a moisture barrier at each such Unit. It further
includes the complete photographing of the Units by still photos in addition to
videotape or other film recording and reproduction.
            
Pursuant to C.C.P.
§2031.030(c)(4) propounding party anticipates that the referenced activity will
involve a permanent removal of a single flooring plank at each Unit, to examine
the installation of the Product and to determine whether or not a moisture barrier
was installed at each Unit. Propounding party expressly reserves the right to
have the attendance at the inspection of any and all experts (designated or
otherwise) so chosen by propounding party.” 
 
(LAHF’s Separate
Statement, at pp. 1-2.)
 
Here,
LAHF argues that its Request No. 22 is highly relevant as the inspection may
lead to evidence establishing that Plaintiff’s own failure to install a
moisture barrier in any and all of the units of the project is the cause of the
flooring’s failure in 32 units. (Mot., at p. 3.) LAHF further asserts that
inspection of the units is essential for the preparation of a proper defense at
trial. (Id., at p. 4.)
 
Based on these arguments, the Court concludes that LAHF
has sufficiently met the threshold for demonstrating good cause. The burden now
shifts to Plaintiff to justify its objections.
 
C.   
Opposing
Party’s Justification of Objections
 
1)      No
longer in the Possession, Custody, or Control of Plaintiff
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition states, “Plaintiff will not
address other objections made in response to the production of the homes
because Defendant’s failure to meet and confer and the impossibility of
producing that which Plaintiff does not own, possess or have custody of, are
dispositive of this motion.” (Opp’n., fn. 3.) 
 
The Court considers Plaintiff’s objection that the
Motion should be denied because Plaintiff has no possession, custody, or
control of the homes where the floors were installed. (Opp’n., at p. 6.) Plaintiff
maintains that discovery of documents and other property that are in the
possession, custody or control of any other party to the action is not
permitted under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.010, subdivision (a). (Ibid.)
            
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.010 provides, in pertinent part, that “[a] party may demand that any other
party produce and permit the party making the demand, or someone acting on the
demanding party’s behalf, to inspect and to copy a document that is in the
possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made.”
 
Furthermore, a code-compliant response is detailed
under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230, which specifies, “A representation of
inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced,
or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party
to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.”
(Underlines added.)
 
Here, Plaintiff correctly states that the information sought
by Request No. 22 is no longer in its possession, custody, or control. However,
Plaintiff objects to producing the names and addresses of the homeowners based
on two grounds: (1) Request No. 22 does not demand Plaintiff to identify the
owners of each unit, and (2) the names of the homeowners are a matter of public
record that is available to LAHF once the addresses are revealed by Plaintiff.
(Opp’n., at p. 3.)
 
While the Court rejects Plaintiff’s first basis for
objection, as the requirement to provide names and addresses known to the
responding party is mandated by the Code, it notes that as to the second
ground, LAHF does not contest that such public records are available to it, nor
does it address whether Plaintiff has refused to provide the addresses of the
homes. 
 
Following established law, the Court agrees with Plaintiff’s
second basis for objection insofar as the names and addresses information are
equally available to Defendant. (See Pantzalas v. Superior Court (1969)
272 Cal.App.2d 499, 503, [“If the information which is sought is not in the
possession of the party served or of its agent, then it is a sufficient answer
to indicate that the information is unavailable or to refer to the person or
entity which can provide the information. Where the information sought is
equally available to the propounder of the interrogatory, the burden and
expense of any research which may be required should be borne by the party
seeking the information. [Citation.]”])
 
Consequently, the Court SUSTAINS Plaintiff’s objection on this
ground, finding that Plaintiff’s response sufficiently complies with Code
requirement.
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES the Motion.
 
D.   
Monetary
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff, in its Opposition, seeks monetary sanctions
against LAHF under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.320,
subdivision (b) and 2023.010, subdivision (i).
            
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.320, subdivision (b) outlines mandatory sanctions in case of a motion to
compel compliance, which differs from the instant Motion to Compel Further
Responses. Consequently, Plaintiff cites a code section that does not provide
applicable authority for sanctioning the instant Motion. 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.010 states, “Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not limited
to, the following: ... (i) Failing to confer in person, by telephone, or by
letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section
governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration
stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.”
Furthermore, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 authorizes the Court to
impose discretionary sanctions for misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
 
            The Court has reviewed the
declarations filed by both parties and finds that LAHF’s failure to sufficiently
meet and confer was not motivated by any bad faith. 
 
            Accordingly, the Court, in
exercising its discretion, DENIES Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Request for Production, No. 22, Set Two, filed by Defendant/Cross-Complainant L.A. Hardwood Flooring, Inc., is
DENIED.
 
Plaintiff
K L Ventures Inc.’s Request for Monetary Sanctions
is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 