 Case Number:  23CHCV03864    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  1/6/25




Case
  Name: Aron Flodung v. Chatsworth Health Fitness, LLC dba Crunch Fitness;
  Fitness Club Management LLC; Harman Fitness, LLC; and Does 1 to 20




Case No.
  23CHCV03864



 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

JANUARY 6,
2025
 

MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE SUCCESSOR-IN-INTEREST

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV03864

 
Motion
filed: 11/27/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Solana Forney
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order granting the substitution of the successor-in-interest, Solana Forney,
for deceased Plaintiff.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from personal injuries allegedly
sustained by Plaintiff Aron Flodung (“Flodung”) on premises controlled by
Defendants. Flodung alleges that she was locked inside the sauna room when the
lights were turned off without warning, causing her to trip and fall.
 
On December 20, 2023, Plaintiff Flodung filed a Complaint
against Defendants Chatsworth Health Fitness, LLC, d/b/a Crunch Fitness;
Fitness Club Management LLC; Harman Fitness, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”);
and Does 1 to 20, alleging (1) General Negligence, and (2) Premises Liability.
Subsequently, Defendants filed their Answer to the Complaint on February 5,
2024. 
 
On November 27, 2024, Solana Forney (“Forney”) filed the instant
Motion to Substitute Successor-in-Interest (the “Motion”).
 
            No
Opposition or Reply papers have been received by the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“On motion after the death
of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a
pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the
decedent's personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in
interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) The “successor in interest” essentially
steps into the decedent's position as to a particular action. (Exarhos v.
Exarhos (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 898, 905.) 
 
“A pending action or
proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action
survives.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.21.)  A cause of action survives a
party’s death unless “otherwise provided by statute.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.20.) Actions for personal injuries generally survive the plaintiff’s death.
(Herrero v. Atkinson (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 69, 76.) 
 
The decedent’s successor in
interest is defined as “the beneficiary of the decedent's estate . . . who
succeeds to a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11) The “beneficiary of
the decedent’s estate” is determined “subject to Chapter 1 . . . of Part 1 of
Division 7 of the Probate Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) This chapter of
the Probate Code regards the passage of a decedent’s property. In relevant
part, it states that “title to a decedent's property passes on the decedent's
death to the person to whom it is devised in the decedent's last will or, in
the absence of such a devise, to the decedent's heirs as prescribed in the laws
governing intestate succession.” (Prob. Code, § 7000.) When the decedent passes
without a surviving spouse, his entire intestate estate passes to his issue.
(Prob. Code, § 6402, subd. (a).) 
 
A.   
Procedural
Requirements for Substitution
 
To continue the pending
action of a deceased party, the successor in interest seeking to be substituted
as plaintiff in place of the decedent must file a certified copy of the
plaintiff’s death certificate, along with a declaration stating all of the following: 
 
(1) The decedent's name. 
(2) The date and place of the decedent's death. 
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent's estate.” 
(4) If the decedent's estate was administered, a copy of
the final order showing the distribution of the decedent's cause of action to
the successor in interest. 
(5) Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in
support thereof: 
(A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent's successor
in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in the action or
proceeding.” 
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on
behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of
the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent's interest
in the action or proceeding.” 
(6) “No other person has a superior right to commence the
action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending
action or proceeding.” 
(7) “The affiant or declarant affirms or declares under
penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
is true and correct.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32.) 
 
If correctly motioned and
submitted, the court must allow the action to be continued by the decedent's
personal representative or, if none, by the decedent's successor in interest.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.) 
 
            Here, the Motion has been filed with
a copy of State of Nevada Certificate of Death for Flodung and Forney’s
Declaration. (Forney Decl. ¶ 1, Ex. “A.”) Forney’s position as successor in
interest is substantiated by the fact that she is Flodung’s next of kin and the
proper and only successor in interest. (Bauman Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
            Forney further attests that no
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of decedent Flodung’s
estate, and that no other persons have a superior right to commence the action
or proceeding or to be substituted for Flodung in the pending action or
proceeding. (Forney Decl. ¶¶ 3, 5.)
 
            Furthermore, Forney declares under
penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
is true and correct.
 
            Based on the above records, the Court
determines that all requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32
have been satisfied.
 
            Therefore, the Court GRANTS the
Motion. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
The
Motion to Substitute Successor-in-Interest filed by Solana Forney is GRANTED.
 
Moving party
to give notice.