  Case Number:  22STCV11579    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  34 Plaintiffs Joe Maez, Hunter Maez and Maez Restaurant
Group LLC’s Motion to Enforce Settlement is GRANTED. 
Background   
Plaintiffs Joe Maez, Hunter Maez and Maez Restaurant Group
LLC entered into a series of contracts with Heriberto Camacho and Restaurant
Design Studio Corp. (“Defendants”) to design and build out a commercial space
for a restaurant. Plaintiffs alleged Defendants breached the contracts.
On November 7, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against Defendants and Does 1-20 for:
1.              
Breach of Contract 
2.              
Accounting 
3.              
Money Had and Received 
4.              
Unjust Enrichment 
5.              
Violation of Business and Professions Code § 7031 
6.              
Conversion 
7.              
Violation of Penal Code § 496 
8.              
Negligence 
9.              
Statutory and Common Law Fraud
On November 23, 2023, the parties settled the case and filed
a Stipulation providing the court with jurisdiction under Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6.
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Enforce the
Settlement Agreement. Defendants did not file a response.
Legal Standard
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 664.6:
If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over
the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of
the settlement. 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 664.6, subd. (a).)
Discussion
Plaintiffs move the court for an order, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 664.6, to enter judgment in accordance with the terms of the
parties’ settlement agreement.
On November 30, 2023, Plaintiffs and Defendants executed a “Joint
Stipulation for Continued Jurisdiction Pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 664.6 Persuant (sic) to Settlement Agreement[]”
(“Stipulation”). The court retained jurisdiction pursuant to the Stipulation.  Pursuant to the terms of the Stipulation,
Defendants agreed to pay Plaintiffs $225,000.00 in twenty-four equal installments
of $9,375.00 beginning on July 1, 2024 and continuing on the 1st of each month
thereafter, until paid in full.
Paragraph 4 of the Stipulation provides as follows:
In the event of any non-payment of any monthly
payment required, Plaintiffs will provide written notice to defendants via
email from Plaintiffs or their attorney Jason Riddick to Defendants at tito@restaurantdesignstudio.net.
Defendants will then have seven (7) calendar days from the transmission of said
notice to cure any or all defaults by providing payment due to Plaintiffs as
required herein. Should any legal action be undertaken by any party to this
Agreement to enforce or interpret the provisions of this Agreement, the prevailing
party shall be entitled to its attorneys’ fees and costs. Should a motion to
enforcement (sic) this settlement  be
made, and judgment entered, such judgment shall include daily interest at the
rate of 10% simple interest per annum on unpaid amount form the notice of
breach until the date of judgment, as well as an award of attorneys’ fees and
costs.
Since the settlement was reached, Defendants have not paid Plaintiffs.
(Maez Decl., ¶ 2). On July 2, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel Jason Riddick sent a
letter to Defendants and emailed Defendant Camacho at tito@restaurantdesignstudio.net,
notifying Defendants of the default and notice to cure. (Riddick Decl., ¶ 3,
Exh. A.)
Defendants have not cured the default. The motion, moreover,
is unopposed. The Settlement Agreement also calls for prejudgment interest from
the date of default (July 2, 2024) to the date of judgment (August 8, 2024).
Further, Plaintiffs seek attorneys fees in the amount of
$1,777.50 [$395.00/hr. for 4.5 hours]. The court finds the amount requested
reasonable. 
The court
grants Plaintiffs’ motion.