  Case Number:  20STCV02532    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  29  
TENTATIVE
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to Requests Nos. 53, 54, and 61. 
 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendants’ motion
to compel Plaintiff to provide a further response to Request No. 58.  
 
The Court DENIES each
party’s request for sanctions.
 
Background 
 
This case
arises out of alleged motor vehicle accident on July 16, 2018, on Eastbound
Village Loop Road in Diamond Bar, California.
 
On January
21, 2020, Plaintiff Lawrence Stewart (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants DM Pest Control, Inc., David Kim (“Defendants”), and Does 1 through
25 alleging one cause of action for motor vehicle negligence.  Defendants filed their answer on February 24,
2020.
 
Currently before
the Court is Defendants’ motion, filed on August 16, 2023, to compel further
responses to Requests for Production Nos. 53, 54, 58, and 61, and for monetary
sanctions.  Plaintiff filed his
opposition and request for sanctions on September 15, and Defendants filed
their reply on September 21.
 
Counsel
participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (“IDC”) on July 28, 2023. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“On receipt of a response to
a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with
the demand is incomplete.  (2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive.  (3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).)
Notice of a motion to compel
further responses must be given “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed
in writing.” (Id., subd. (c).)
A motion to compel further
responses must set forth specific facts showing good cause for the discovery
and must be accompanied by a meet-and-confer declaration and a separate
statement or, in the discretion of the Court, a “concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Id., subd. (b)(1)-(3);
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345.)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (h).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court
may impose a monetary sanction ordering that any person “engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.” A “misuse of the discovery process” includes (among
other things) failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery; making an evasive response to a discovery request; and
making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(f), (h).)
Discussion
 
Requests
Nos. 53 and 54
 
In
Requests for Production Nos. 53 and 54, Defendants ask Plaintiff to produce his
federal and state tax returns from 2017 to the present.  Plaintiff objects, citing the tax return
privilege.  (E.g., Schnabel v. Super.
Ct. (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704; Webb v. Standard Oil Co. (1957) 49 Cal.2d
509; Brown v. Super. Ct. (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 141; see also 2 Weil &
Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter
Group 2023) ¶¶ 8:112-119.)
 
The motion
to compel is DENIED as to Requests Nos. 53 and 54.  The requests seek information that is plainly
covered by the tax return privilege. 
There has been no showing of waiver (whether intentionally or impliedly),
and the cases cited by Defendants do not support the requested relief.
 
Request
No. 58
 
In Request
for Production No. 58, Defendants ask Plaintiff to produce his “Bank statements
from 2017 to the present, showing any and all deposits.”  Defendants argue that there is good cause for
this production as Plaintiff is asserting a claim for lost earnings and lost
earning capacity.  Plaintiff primary
objection is on the ground of privacy.
 
California’s
Constitutional right to privacy protects against the unwarranted, compelled
disclosure of various private or sensitive information regarding one’s personal
life.¿ (Britt v. Superior Court (1978)20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This
includes bank statements and other banking records.¿¿(See Valley Bank v.
Super. Ct. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656.)
 
In Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, Hill v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th 1, and other cases, the California Supreme Court
has established “a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy” in
the context of discovery and other litigation related disclosures.  (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.)
First, a party asserting a privacy right must establish “a legally protected
privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.”  (Id., citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at
35-37.)  In response, the party seeking
the information may raise “whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves,” and “the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy.” 
(Id., citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at 37-40.)  The court must then “balance these competing
considerations.”  (Id.)  The party seeking the information need not,
however, establish a “compelling interest” unless the disclosure would be “an
obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy.”  (Id. at 556.)
 
Under the Williams
and Hill framework, a party seeking to quash or limit a subpoena is
required first to establish a legally protected privacy interest and a
reasonable expectation of privacy.  Here,
Plaintiff has done so.  Plaintiff’s banking
records are protected by the right to privacy, and he has an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy in these records.  
 
Next, the document
appears on its face to be a serious intrusion into Plaintiff’s right to
privacy.  Banking records can in many
situations reveal private, personal, and sensitive information.
 
At this point,
under Williams and Hill, Defendants must identify the
“legitimate and important countervailing interests” that disclosure would
serve.  Here, Defendants have done
so.  Because Plaintiff has put information
regarding her income in issue by seeking to recover a significant amount for
lost earnings and lost earning capacity, Defendants have a legitimate and
important interest in pursuing records and other information relating to Plaintiff’s
income.  
 
Plaintiff has not identified any
feasible alternatives that would serve the same interests and diminish the loss
of privacy.  The only alternative
suggested by Plaintiff is to limit the discovery on this issue to the wage
statements that Plaintiff has received from Uber Technologies, Inc., and the
testimony of Plaintiff and his wife. 
(Opp. at 10.)  But that
alternative is far from adequate.  The issue
in dispute is not what Plaintiff earned from one source (Uber); what is in
dispute is whether Plaintiff suffered a substantial loss of total
earnings.  Although Plaintiff states that
he had no earnings from any source other than Uber, Defendants have a legitimate
interest in testing the veracity of Plaintiff’s statement. 
 
Finally, under
the framework set out in Hill and reaffirmed in Williams, the
Court must balance the “competing considerations” of the serious intrusion into
Plaintiff’s privacy and Defendant’s legitimate need for the information.  This balancing of competing considerations is
necessarily a difficult and delicate task, and it is made more difficult as the
Court does not know what personal information the banking records might reveal.

 
On balance,
because Plaintiff is seeking damages specifically related to his loss of
earnings and earning capacity, the Court finds that Defendants’ legitimate
interest in obtaining the information regarding his income outweighs
Plaintiff’s substantial privacy interest. 
On these facts, Plaintiff may not seek to recover for lost earnings and
earning capacity while at the same time asserting his privacy rights in a
manner that would preclude Defendants from obtaining legitimate discovery that
is properly and narrowly focused on determining the merits of the claim for
lost earnings and lost earning capacity.
 
That does not
mean, however, that Plaintiff must produce complete and unredacted bank
statements going back to 2017.  What is at
issue is Plaintiff’s earnings, not his expenditures.
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
motion as to Request No. 58 in part. 
Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and Plaintiff must produce the
requested documents, but Plaintiff may redact all information on the bank
statements relating to withdrawals, debits, expenditures, and subtractions from
the account.  Plaintiff may not redact
information relating to deposits, credits, or additions to the account.
 
Request No. 61
 
In Request
for Production No. 61, Defendants ask Plaintiff to product “all writings by any
medical professional that show you were to be off work.”  Plaintiff apparently produced all responsive
documents to Defendants, but Defendants now seek the production of additional
records created or provided to Plaintiff after the date of the initial
production.
 
The Court DENIES
the motion to compel a further response to this Request.  Plaintiff has produced all responsive
documents as of the date of production. 
If Defendants seek additional documents created or provided to Plaintiff
after that date, then the appropriate way for Defendants to proceed is through
a a supplemental request, not a motion to compel.
 
Sanctions
 
Both
parties’ requests for sanctions are DENIED. 
The Court is granting in part and denying in part the motion to
compel.  On those matters as to which
each party has been unsuccessful, the Court finds that each party acted with
substantial justification.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to Requests Nos. 53, 54, and 61. 
 
The Court GRANTS in part Defendants’ motion
to compel Plaintiff to provide a further response to Request No. 58.  Plaintiff’s objections are overruled, and
Plaintiff must produce all requested documents within 30 days of notice of this
order – but Plaintiff may, as set forth above, redact information relating to withdrawals, debits, expenditures, and subtractions.
 
The Court DENIES each
party’s request for sanctions.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
 