 Case Number:  23STCV04360    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff Birch
Wellington Pender’s Motion for Discovery of Personnel Records and Other
Materials is GRANTED. 
 
The custodian
of records of County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Palmdale Sheriff’s
Station is directed to bring to court, on a convenient date within 30 days, all
records identified in Plaintiffs’ Notice of Motion for inspection by the Court.
 
Legal Standard
 
A motion to discover a law enforcement officer’s personnel file or other
police agency record that contains relevant information is called a Pitchess motion. (Pitchess
v. Superior Court (1974) 11 Cal.3d 531, 536-540.) The Pitchess motion
has been partly codified in Evidence Code § 1043, which makes law enforcement
personnel records privileged and subject to disclosure only by noticed
motion. (Evid. Code, § 1043; Pen. Code, § 832.7(a).) The statutory
scheme governing Pitchess motions is set forth in Evidence
Code §§ 1043-1047 and Penal Code §§ 832.5, 832.7, 832.8. (People
v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226.) These statutes
provide the exclusive means of discovery of such records in both criminal and
civil proceedings. (County of Los Angeles v. Sup. Ct. (1990)
219 Cal.App.3d 1605, 1609-1610.)  
 
“Under the statutory scheme, a party seeking discovery of a peace
officer’s personnel records must follow a two-step process. First, the
party must file a written motion describing the type of records sought,
supported by affidavits showing good cause for the discovery…, setting
forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending
litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the governmental agency
identified has the records or information from the records. This
initial burden is a ‘relatively relaxed standard.’  Information
is material if it will facilitate the ascertainment of the facts and
a fair trial. A declaration by counsel on information and belief is
sufficient to state facts to satisfy the ‘materiality’ component of that
section.” (Haggerty v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th
1079, 1085-1086 (Haggerty), internal citations and quotations
omitted.) The motion must provide a “specific factual scenario” that
establishes the materiality of the discovery sought. (City of Santa Cruz
v. Municipal Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 74, 85-86 (Santa Cruz).) The
documents must be requested “with adequate specificity” to preclude the
possibility that the moving party is engaged in a “fishing expedition.” (People
v. Memro (1985) 38 Cal.3d 658, 678 (Memro), overruled on
unrelated grounds in People v. Gaines (2009) 46 Cal.4th 172,
181, n. 2.) Information consisting of complaints concerning conduct
occurring more than five years before the event or transaction that is the
subject of the litigation in aid of which discovery is sought must be excluded
from disclosure. (Evid. Code, § 1045(b).)   
 
“Second, if the trial court concludes [a party] has
fulfilled these prerequisites and made a showing of good cause, the custodian
of records should bring to court all documents ‘potentially relevant’ to the
[requesting party’s] motion…. The trial court ‘shall examine the
information in chambers, out of the presence and hearing of all
persons except the person authorized to possess the records and such other
persons the custodian of records is willing to have present…. Subject
to statutory exceptions and limitations ...the trial court should then
disclose to the defendant such information that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending litigation.” (Haggerty, supra,
117 Cal.App.4th at p. 1086, internal quotation marks and citations omitted).
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
Birch Wellington Pender (“Plaintiff”) moves for an order to obtain the
following materials: 
 
(1)  All documents in
Deputy Derderian’s personnel file including, but not limited to, applications
for employment, background investigation reports, training and certification
records, employment offer letters, oaths of office, performance evaluations,
use of force reports, disciplinary records, internal affairs investigations,
patrol and incident reports, body-worn camera footage during the week of the
subject incident, commendations or awards, promotion and assignment history,
resignation, retirement, or termination documents;
(2)  All documents in
Master Field Training Officer Gallagher’s personnel file including, but not
limited to, employment applications, resumes, offer letters, employment
contracts, job descriptions, performance reviews, disciplinary records,
employment offer letters, oaths of office, performance evaluations, use of
force reports, internal affairs investigations, patrol and incident reports,
body-worn camera footage during the week of the incident, commendations or
awards, promotion and assignment history, resignation, retirement, or
termination documents;
(3)  All investigative
reports and memoranda concerning the subject incident;
(4)  All videos,
photographs, audio, and records relating to the subject incident;
(5)  All documents
relating to any procedure regarding live fire training exercises and the 40mm
launcher utilized at the time of the subject incident;
(6)  All documents
reflecting disciplinary actions imposed or considered against Deputy Derderian;
(7)  All documents
reflecting disciplinary actions imposed or considered against Master Field
Training Officer Gallagher;
(8)  All documents
concerning the discharge of firearms during live fire training exercises
supervised by Deputy Gallagher; and
(9)  All documents
reflecting investigations of prior incidents concerning the discharge of
firearms by Deputy Derderian.
 
Plaintiff argues that good cause exists to obtain documents in both
Deputy Aram Derderian and Master Field Training Officer John
J. Gallagher’s personnel files because
(1) Deputy Derderian fired the 40mm round that struck Plaintiff and (2) Master
Field Training Officer Gallagher supervised and conducted the training exercise
where Deputy Derderian fired the 40mm round subject of this present case.
(Park Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Furthermore, Plaintiff argues that these documents
are needed to pursue his claims of negligence, negligent training, hiring, and
supervision, battery, and violation of the Tom Bane Act against Defendant
County of Los Angeles (“CLA”). Plaintiff also asserts that the documents sought
may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Id. at ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff asserts that statements and facts obtained through CLA’s
investigation may provide fresher accounts of witnesses than what can be
obtained through depositions of events that occurred about a year ago. (Id.
at ¶ 14.) Moreover, Plaintiff states that CLA has evidence to support a
conclusion regarding any disciplinary action taken on Deputy Derderian and/or
Master Field Training Officer Gallagher. (Id. at ¶ 15.)
 
Plaintiff
further contends that he reasonably believes that the documents requested are
in the possession of CLA Palmdale Sheriff’s station. (Id. at ¶ 7.)
Specifically, Plaintiff states that he reasonably believes that CLA Palmdale
Sheriff’s station (1) keeps and retains written records of complaints made by
citizens that are kept in the personnel files or other files; (2) keeps and
maintains records of internal investigations any time their officers are
disciplined or reprimanded for actions and omission in the course and scope of
their employment; and (3) assigns investigators or personnel to investigate the
complaints and/or acts of negligence. (Id. at ¶¶ 8-9, 11.) Plaintiff
states that these complaints that CLA is in possession of concern allegations
that the officers acted negligently or with malice while under the scope of
their employment, performed improper tactics, performed acts characterized as
conduct unbecoming an officer, and acts of dishonesty. (Id. at ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff also asserts that the investigators assigned by CLA interview people
regarding the complaints of negligence by making notes, memoranda, recordings
conversations, and preparing reports that are included in the personnel files.
(Id. at ¶ 11.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s avers that he spoke with CLA’s
counsel and was told that they would produce certain documents without a Court
order after a Pitchess motion hearing. (Id. at ¶ 13.)
 
In response, the
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department argues that Plaintiff’s motion fails to
show good cause for discovery of the requested personnel files. The Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department asserts that the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel
does not articulate any facts to support the personnel files of Deputy
Derderian and Master Field Training Officer Gallagher are material to the
lawsuit against CLA. Further, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department
contends that there are no facts to support the alleged incident was an
intentional use of excessive force, there no facts to support dishonesty, or
any intentional misconduct. Similarly, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s
Department contends that Plaintiff’s motion does not articulate how the
conclusions and analyses of internal affairs investigations or information
would benefit litigation or likely to lead to relevant or admissible evidence.
In addition, the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department argues that Plaintiff
is not entitled to any portion of the personnel files containing a
communication between the Department and its attorneys concerning this case,
which are privileged. 
 
Plaintiff
argues that he is entitled to discover information that would provide insight
into whether CLA knew or had reason to know that Master Field Training Officer
Gallagher was not qualified to conduct and oversee “live-fire” training
exercises or whether Deputy Derderian was unfit qualified to handle firearms.
Plaintiff also contends that the disciplinary actions, investigations into the
subject incident, and complaints against the officers may show whether their
actions were purposeful, performed with malice, had occurred before, or whether
their training conformed with reasonable policies and procedures. As such,
Plaintiff asserts that the materiality of the documents requested are set forth
in his counsel’s declaration. 
 
Furthermore,
Plaintiff argues that CLA claimed in response to his request for production of
documents that the documents were protected by the Pitchess procedure,
but now asserts that those documents are not located in the officers personnel
files. Plaintiff contends that CLA cannot now make such argument regarding
these documents. Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the is no merit to the Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department’s argument that the requested documents are
overbroad or will result in the production of wholly irrelevant information.
 
The Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently demonstrated the materiality of all the
requested records. CLA is charged with battery; negligence; negligent hiring,
training, and supervision; and violation of Tom Bane Civil Rights Act – Civ.
Code § 52.1. Plaintiff submitted a supporting declaration from his counsel that
asserts Deputy Derderian was the officer who shot the 40mm round that injured
Plaintiff and Master Field Training Officer Gallagher was the officer
supervising the “live-fire” training Deputy Derderian was participating in when
the incident occurred. Counsel states that Plaintiff seeks discovery of Deputy
Derderian and Master Field Training Officer Gallagher’s personnel files
relating to prior complaints to show that Deputy Derderian and Master Field
Training Officer Gallagher acted negligently or with malice while under the
scope of their employment, performed improper tactics, performed acts
characterized as conduct unbecoming an officer, and acts of dishonesty.
Counsel’s declaration establishes a specific factual basis for the assertion
that CLA negligently hired Deputy Derderian and Master Field Training Officer
Gallagher, that Gallagher negligently trained and/or supervised Derderian, that
CLA failed to take disciplinary action, and that their negligent actions led to
Plaintiff’s injuries in this instant action.
 
Counsel also states
that CLA assigns investigators to investigate these types of complaints
regarding negligence who produce reports, recordings, memoranda, and notes
containing contact information for parties interviewed. As addressed above,
Counsel asserts that information from these investigations could provide more
accurate, fresh accounts of witness statements and facts. 
 
The Los
Angeles County Sheriff’s Department argues that Plaintiff is not entitled to privileged communications between CLA
and its attorneys regarding this case, but the requested records do not appear
to include communications between CLA and its attorneys. 
 
Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff Birch
Wellington Pender’s Motion for Discovery of Personnel Records and Other
Materials is GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff Birch Wellington Pender’s
Motion for Discovery of Personnel Records and Other Materials is GRANTED. 
 
The custodian
of records of County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Palmdale Sheriff’s
Station is directed to bring to court, on a convenient date within 30 days, all
records identified in Plaintiffs’ Notice of Motion for inspection by the Court.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 