 Case Number:  20STCV39647    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Defendant
Julia McDonough’s motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED.  
 
Defendant’s
motion for a further monetary sanction is GRANTED.
 
Background
 
On October 15, 2020, Plaintiff Ana Zuniga (“Plaintiff”) filed
a complaint against Defendant Julia McDonough (“Defendant”), asserting two
causes of action for negligence and premises liability. Defendant’s pet allegedly
attacked Plaintiff on November 16, 2022, when she was on Defendant’s property. 
 
On January 12, 2023, the Court
granted Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff to provide verified responses
to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and requests for production
of documents and awarded sanctions in the amount of $530.00.
 
On June 20, 2023, Defendant filed
a motion for terminating sanctions. No opposition was filed. On August 8, 2023, this Court denied
Defendant’s motion for terminating sanctions without prejudice based on the
Court’s concern regarding service.
 
On August 10, 2023, Defendant filed a new motion
for terminating sanctions. Defendant also requests monetary sanctions.  The service issue previously identified by
the Court appears to have been addressed. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 provides that, "[t]o the extent
authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method..., the
court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after
opportunity for hearing, may impose... [monetary, evidence, and terminating]
sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery
process...." Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010 provides that "[m]issues of
the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following:... (d) Failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.... (g) Disobeying
a court order to provide discovery...." 
 
"The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery
abuse 'after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of
the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.'" (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
377, 390 (quoting Lang v. Hachman (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246).)
"Generally, '[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate
sanction.'" (Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390
(citation omitted).) 
 
"Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery
orders." (Id. (citing Lang, supra, 77 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 1244- 1246); see, e.g., Collisson X Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 (terminating sanctions imposed after defendants
failed to comply with one court order to produce discovery); Laguna Auto
Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231 Cal App 3d 481, 491 (disapproved
on other grounds in Garcia v. McCucchen (1997) 16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n.
4) (terminating sanctions imposed against plaintiff for failing to comply with
a discovery order and for violating various discovery statutes).) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant Julia McDonough moves for terminating sanctions against
Plaintiff Ana Zuniga for failing to comply with the Court’s January 12, 2023
order to provide verified
responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request
for Production of Documents. Defendant
also requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $395.00. 
 
On January 12, 2023, this
Court granted Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff to provide verified
responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for
Production of Documents. (Min. Order 1/12/23.) The Court ordered Plaintiff
provide verified responses to the request for discovery without objections
within 30 days of the order. (Id.) The Court additionally ordered
sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $530.00 to be paid within 30 days
of the order. (Id.) Plaintiff has not provided the verified responses as
ordered. (Chidi Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
On or about April 24, 2023, Defendant’s counsel spoke with Plaintiff’s
counsel regarding the requested verified responses. (Id., Exh. B.)
Furthermore, Defendant’s counsel sent a meet and confer email on June 5, 2023
to Plaintiff’s counsel indicating that a motion for terminating sanctions and
seeking monetary sanctions would be filed. (Id.)
 
The evidence before the Court shows that
Plaintiff has disobeyed a clear court order to provide responses to form
interrogatories, special interrogatories, and document requests. Substantial
sanctions against Plaintiff are appropriate for her violation of the Court’s
order. The Court’s issuance of monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in January has
not been sufficient to bring Plaintiff into compliance with her obligations
under the Civil Discovery Act.
 
The Court has carefully considered
Defendant’s request for terminating sanctions. On this record, the Court finds
that it is not appropriate to grant that request at this time. 
 
First, Plaintiff’s compliance or noncompliance with the
Court’s order to pay monetary sanctions¿is not relevant to the Court’s
determination as to whether terminating sanctions¿should be imposed.  (See
Newland v. Superior Court¿(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 610, 615 (finding a
court may not issue a terminating sanction for failure to pay a monetary
discovery sanction).) A monetary sanction order is enforceable as a money
judgment under the Enforcement of Judgments Law, Code of Civil Procedure
sections 680.010, et seq.  (Id.¿at p. 615.) 
 
Second, a terminating sanction is a drastic
remedy that is appropriate only in the extreme case. Discovery sanctions are
meant to enforce the obligations of the Civil Discovery Act, not to punish or
to place the propounding party in a better position that she would be in if she
had received timely responses. Although Plaintiff’s conduct merits substantial
sanctions, Defendant has not yet demonstrated that a terminating sanction is
justified in this matter.
 
Defendant does not request issue or evidentiary sanctions.
 
The Court does grant Defendant’s request for an additional monetary
sanction in light of Plaintiff’s ongoing violation of the Court’s previous
order and Plaintiff’s obligations under the Civil Discovery Act. An additional
monetary sanction of $395 is awarded, calculated as two hours of attorney time,
multiplied by counsel’s billing rate of $165 per hour, plus a filing fee of
$65. (Chidi Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Julia McDonough’s motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED. The
denial is without prejudice to Defendant seeking issue or evidentiary sanctions,
or to Defendant seeking terminating sanctions if there are further violations
of Court Orders and/or the Civil Discovery Act.
 
Defendant’s
motion for a further monetary sanction is GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to pay an additional monetary sanction of $395 to Defendant within 30
days of notice of this order.
 
Moving party
to give notice. 