  Case Number:  22SMCV00584    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Hernandez-Venegas, et al. v.
Coastal Health Care, Inc, et al.  



Case No.:


22SMCV00584


Complaint Filed:


8-18-23           




Hearing Date:


2-8-24


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


17


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Manuel Eskildsen
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Rita
Hernandez-Venegas, Individually And As Successor-In-Interest To Anna Valarie
Casillas Flores (Deceased), Jaime Hernandez, Jr., Anita Hernandez-Barba, and
John Anthony Hernandez
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendant Manuel
Eskildsen’s Demurrer is OVERRULED as to the 1st and 3rd
causes of action in Plaintiffs Rita Hernandez-Venegas, et al.’s complaint. Plaintiffs
have successfully plead all the elements of 1st cause of action for
elder abuse and neglect, and the 3rd cause of action for wrongful
death – elder abuse and neglect. 
 
            Defendant
Manuel Eskildsen’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Plaintiffs’ Complaint is
DENIED as to striking the prayer for punitive and treble damages under the
first cause of action for elder abuse (Compl., Prayer, p. 34:23–25.), and attorney’s
fees. Plaintiffs have successfully plead enough facts for punitive damages
under CC § 3294, treble damages under CC § 3345, and attorney’s fees under Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15657.
 
            The parties
have stipulated, and the Court has signed an order, to strike attorney’s fees,
punitive damages, and treble damages from the fourth cause of action for
violation of patient’s bill of rights (health & safety code § 1430(b).)
(See 11-2-23 Stipulation and Order Striking Portions of the Plaintiffs’
Complaint.) Defendant’s Motion to Strike the Plaintiffs Prayer, pg. 35:11–13 is
MOOT. 
 
            Defendant
is to answer the Complaint within 10 days. 
 
I.               
Demurrer to 1st COA for Elder Abuse –
Neglect  - OVERRULED
 
            The elements
for the Elder Abuse – Neglect cause of action are as follows:
 
“[Name of
plaintiff] claims that [he/she/nonbinary pronoun/[name of
decedent]] was neglected by [[name of individual defendant]/ [and] [name
of employer defendant]] in violation of the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult
Civil Protection Act. To establish this claim, [name of plaintiff] must
prove all of the following:
1. That [[name of
individual defendant]/[name of employer defendant]’s employee] had a
substantial caretaking or custodial relationship with [name of
plaintiff/decedent], involving ongoing responsibility for [his/her/nonbinary
pronoun] basic needs, which an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance;
2. That [name of
plaintiff/decedent] was [65 years of age or older/a dependent adult] while
[he/she/nonbinary pronoun] was in [[name of individual defendant]'s/[name
of employer defendant]'s employee's] care or custody;
3. That [[name of
individual defendant]/[name of employer defendant]’s employee]
failed to use the degree of care that a reasonable person in the same situation
would have used in providing for [name of plaintiff/decedent]’s basic
needs, including [insert one or more of the following:]
[assisting in
personal hygiene or in the provision of food, clothing, or shelter;]
[providing medical
care for physical and mental health needs;]
[protecting [name
of plaintiff/decedent] from health and safety hazards;]
[preventing
malnutrition or dehydration;]
[insert other
grounds for neglect;]
4. That [name of
plaintiff/decedent] was harmed; and
5. That [[name of
individual defendant]'s/[name of employer defendant]'s employee's]
conduct was a substantial factor in causing [name of plaintiff/decedent]'s
harm.”
 
            (See CACI, 3103;
see Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.5.)
 
            Under the
Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, “[a]buse of an elder or a
dependent adult means any of the following: (1) physical abuse, neglect,
abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment resulting in physical
harm or pain or mental suffering; (2) the deprivation by a care custodian of
goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental
suffering.” (Welf. & Inst. C. § 15610.07(a)(1)-(3).) 
            
            “Neglect”
is defined as: “(1) The negligent failure of any person having the care or
custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise; (2) The negligent failure
of an elder or dependent adult to exercise that degree of self-care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise.” (Welf. & Inst. C.
§15610.57(a).)  “‘Neglect includes, but
is not limited to, the following: (1) Failure to assist in personal hygiene, or
in the provision of food, clothing, or shelter; (2) Failure to provide medical
care for physical and mental health needs... (3) failure to protect from health
and safety hazards; and (4) failure to prevent malnutrition or dehydration...”
(Welf. & Inst. C. §15610.57(b)(1)-(4).) 
            
            “Thus,
neglect within the meaning of former section 15610.57 appears to cover an area
of misconduct distinct from ‘professional negligence’ in section 15657.2:
‘neglect’ as defined in former section 15610.57 and used in section 15657 does
not refer to the performance of medical services in a manner inferior to the
knowledge, skill and care ordinarily possessed and employed by members of the
profession in good standing, but rather to the failure of those responsible for
attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults,
regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their custodial
obligations.” (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 34.)
            
            “As used in
the Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical services
but, rather, to the failure of those responsible for attending to the basic
needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their
professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations. Thus, the
statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not of the undertaking of medical
services, but of the failure to provide medical care.” (Covenant Care, Inc.
v. Supr. Ct. (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783 [“statutory elder abuse may include
the egregious withholding of medical care for physical and mental health
needs.”].) 
            
            “The
difficulty in distinguishing between ‘neglect’ and ‘professional negligence’
lies in the fact that some health care institutions, such as nursing homes,
perform custodial functions and provide professional medical care.” (Delaney,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at 34.) “Section 15657 provides the way out of this
ambiguity: if the neglect is ‘reckless,’ or done with ‘oppression, fraud or
malice,’ then the action falls within the scope of section 15657 and as such
cannot be considered simply based on professional negligence within the meaning
of section 15657.2.” (Id. at 35; Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley
LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405 [recovery of enhanced remedies under
Elder Abuse Act requires plaintiff to prove “by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or
malice in the commission of the neglect.”[.)
            
            “‘Recklessness’
refers to a subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence,
which has been described as a ‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of
probability’ that an injury will occur. Recklessness, unlike negligence,
involves more than ‘inadvertence, incompetence, unskillfulness, or a failure to
take precautions’ but rather rises to the level of a ‘conscious choice of a
course of action ... with knowledge of the serious danger to others involved in
it.’” (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at 31–32.)
 
            Plaintiffs
plead Defendant Manuel Eskildsen (“Eskildsen”) had a substantial caretaking or
custodial relationship with Decedent Plaintiff Anna Valarie Casillas Flores
(“Decedent”) involving an ongoing responsibility for Decedent’s basic needs,
which an able-bodied and fully competent adult would ordinarily be capable of
managing without assistance. (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs plead Decedent was over
the age of 65 while in care custody. (Compl., ¶¶ 2, 57.) Plaintiffs plead
Eskildsen failed to exercise the degree of care that a reasonable person in a
like position would have used in providing for Decedent’s basic needs in
providing medical care amounting to reckless and neglectful behavior. (Compl.,
¶¶ 11, 13, 17, 37–39, 53, 58, 107.) Plaintiffs plead Decedent was harmed and
Eskildsen’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm. (Compl, ¶¶
73, 84, 85, 95, 98.). Furthermore, Plaintiffs plead Eskildsen’s ratification,
authorization, and direct participation in the alleged events. (Compl.,
¶¶ 16, 17, 20, 62, 74–103.)  Based
on these allegations, the Court cannot find as a matter of law at this stage that
Eskildsen (along with the remaining defendants employed by Brentwood) did not
have a “robust” caretaking relationship wherein they each assumed a significant
measure of ongoing  responsibility for
one or more (if not all) of the Decedent’s basic needs required under Winn
v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148 at 152, 158. 
  
            Thus, all
the elements of a cause of action for Elder Abuse – Neglect are property plead
within the complaint. Eskildsen’s Demurrer to the 1st cause of
action for Elder Abuse – Neglect is OVERRULED.
            
II.            
Demurrer to 3rd COA for Wrongful
Death (elder abuse and neglect) - OVERRULED
 
            To state a
claim for wrongful death, plaintiffs must plead “(1) a wrongful act or neglect
on the part of one or more persons [(that is, negligence)] that (2) cause[s]
(3) the death of [another] person.  A
person may be liable either for (1) his own negligence, in which case he
is directly liable for the resulting death, or (2) someone else's
negligence, in which case he is vicariously liable because—in the eyes
of the law—the other person's negligence is deemed to be his own. A person acts
negligently only if he had a duty to use due care and breached that duty.”
(Musgrove v. Silver (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 694, 705,
citations omitted.)
 
            Eskildsen does
not provide any separate arguments to sustain the demurrer as to the 3rd
cause of action for Wrongful Death – Elder abuse and neglect. Plaintiffs argue the
3rd cause of action is predicated on the theory that the wrongful
death was caused by elder abuse and neglect, while the  4th cause of action for Wrongful
Death is under a professional negligence theory. (Oppo., p. 21.) 
 
            Plaintiffs
have properly plead a claim for elder abuse and neglect (see supra, Section
I.) Plaintiffs plead that as result of the elder abuse and neglect the Decedent
died. (Compl., ¶¶ 115.) Thus, the Court finds Plaintiffs have plead a claim for
Wrongful Death – elder abuse and neglect. Eskildsen’s Demurrer to the 3rd
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
III.          
Motion To Strike 
 
a.    
Punitive Damages
 
            CC
§3294(a) provides, “In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising
from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” (Cal Civ. Code § 3294, subdiv., (a).) 
 
            “Malice is
‘conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.’ (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is ‘despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.’
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Despicable conduct is conduct that is so
vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be
looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been
described as having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.”
(Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)
 
            Whether
Defendants’ conduct is “despicable conduct” is a question of fact for the jury
that a court should not decide in ruling on a motion to strike. (Robinson v.
Managed Accounts Receivable Corp., (2009) 654 F. Supp. 2d 1051, 1065; see Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228–1229 [“A jury should
decide whether [Defendant’s] alleged sexual relations with [Plaintiff] were
despicable enough to warrant the imposition of punitive damages.”]
 
            “In
order to obtain the [Elder Abuse] Act's heightened remedies, a plaintiff must
allege conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of
punitive damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 771, 789.) “[M]aking it more difficult for Elder Abuse Act plaintiffs
to plead punitive damages would, as a general matter, likely diminish the
willingness of attorneys to undertake such cases on a contingency basis. (See
Welf. & Inst.Code, § 15600, subd. (h) [reciting Legislature's observation
when enacting Elder Abuse Act that “few civil cases are brought in connection
with this abuse due to ... the lack of incentives to prosecute such suits”].).”
(Id., at p. 787.)
 
            Plaintiffs
successfully state enough facts to plead punitive damages under the first cause
of action for elder abuse. Plaintiff pleads facts to allege both malice and
oppression within the “Recklessness, Ratification, Authorization and Direct
Participation” section of the Complaint (See Compl., ¶¶ 69, 70, 71,72, 74–104.)
In sum, Plaintiffs plead specific facts alleging Eskildsen authorized,
ratified, and directly participated in the wrongful conduct of not
administering the specified amount of insulin to Decedent causing Decedent’s
eventual death. (Id.) The Court finds a reasonable jury could find the
Plaintiffs pleaded facts to be despicable conduct, and thus a motion to strike
punitives is not appropriate at this stage. 
 
            Thus, Eskildsen’s
Motion to Strike Punitive Damages from the first cause of action for elder
abuse is DENIED. 
 
b.    
Attorney’s Fees
 
            Eskildsen
moves to strike Plaintiffs prayer for attorney’s fees as improper arguing there
is no legal authority provided by Plaintiffs to entitle attorneys fees. (MTS, ¶
8.) Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657 provides for the awarding of reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs under a claim for elder abuse. (See Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15657 [“The court shall award to the plaintiff reasonable attorney's
fees and costs. The term “costs” includes, but is not limited to, reasonable
fees for the services of a conservator, if any, devoted to the litigation of a
claim brought under this article.”].) 
 
            Thus,
Eskildsen’s Motion to Strike attorney’s fees is DENIED. 
 
 
c.     
Treble Damages
 
            Civ Code §
3345 applies to “actions brought by, on behalf of, or for the benefit of"
senior citizens and disabled persons “to redress unfair or deceptive acts”
(Civ. Code, § 3345.) Whenever the trier of fact makes an affirmative
finding in regard to one or more of the factors set forth in paragraphs (1) to
(3), inclusive, it may impose a fine, civil penalty or other penalty, or other
remedy in an amount up to three times greater than authorized by the statute,
or, where the statute does not authorize a specific amount, up to three times
greater than the amount the trier of fact would impose in the absence of that
affirmative finding.
 
(1)            
Whether the defendant knew or should have known that
his or her conduct was directed to one or more senior citizens or disabled
persons. 
            .
. . .
            (3)
      Whether one or more senior citizens,
disabled persons, or veterans are     substantially
more vulnerable than other members of the public to the defendant's        conduct because of age, poor health or
infirmity, impaired understanding,         restricted
        mobility, or disability, and
actually suffered substantial physical,            emotional,
or economic             damage resulting
from the defendant's conduct.
 
            (Civ.
Code, § 3345.)
 
            Plaintiffs
satisfy the pleading requirements of Civ. Code § 3345 by alleging Eskildsen
knew his conduct was directed towards senior citizens or disabled persons,
that  that Eskildsen operate a nursing
facility, that Eskildsen knew their nursing facility was understaffed for the
purpose of cutting costs therefore creating a high risk of patient injury, that
Eskildsen knew Decedent needed insulin and other care to prevent major health
issues, and that upon Decedent’s admittance to the facility the Eskildsen knew
they could not provide the care Decedent needed. (Compl., ¶¶ 72, 74, 77, 78,
81, 82, 83, 103.)  The Court finds that
Plaintiffs alleged facts which place the complaint within the purview of Civ
Code 3345 by pleading unfair or deceptive acts against the Decedent, a senior
citizen and disabled person.  
 
            Thus, Eskildsen’s
Motion to Strike Treble Damages is DENIED.