  Case Number:  BC648246    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 



JOY SLAGEL
  
         vs.
 
LIBERTY MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, ET AL.


 Case
  No.:   BC648246
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  March 28, 2024




 
            Plaintiff’s Motion
to Assign to Long Cause is DENIED.  
 
            On January 26, 2017, Plaintiff Joy
Slagel (Plaintiff) filed suit against Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, Ariam
Alemseghed, and Leann Lo, alleging: (1) age discrimination; (2) age harassment;
(3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (3) discrimination on the basis of taking
disability leave in violation of FEHA; (5) retaliation for taking disability
leave in violation of FEHA; (6) failure to provide reasonable accommodation in
violation of FEHA; (7) failure to engage in the interactive process in
violation of FEHA; (8) breach of express oral contract not to terminate
employment without good cause; (9) breach of implied in fact contract not to
terminate employment without good cause; (1)) wrongful termination of
employment in violation of public policy; 
(11) violation of Labor Code section 1102.5; and (12) intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED). 
 
            On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff Joy Slagel filed this
instant Motion to Assign Case to Long Cause for Trial.  On March 15, 2024, Defendants Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company, Airam Alemseghed and Leann Lo filed an opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion.  On March 21, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a reply.  
 
Legal Standard
 
            “Subject to the authority of the Presiding Judge to
apportion the work of the court, the following actions, proceedings, and
procedures are assigned in the CENTRAL DISTRICT (Stanley Mosk Courthouse) as
follows.  These assignments do not apply
to matters heard in other districts or in the Complex Litigation
Departments…(e) Long cause trial (20 or more days of testimony)…Department
where case is assigned, but may be transferred to the Supervising Judge of the
Civil Division for assignment to a long cause department.”  (LASC Rule 2.8(e).)  
 
Discussion 
 
            Based on LASC Rule 2.8(e), Department 1 makes the final determination
of whether trial of a case should be designated a long cause trial.  Plaintiff must file a Long Cause Trial Package
with Department 1 to obtain a determination regarding whether the case should
be assigned to a Long-Cause Trial Judge. 
(See Forms LACIV 216, 217 and 218.)  Per the instructions set forth in Form LACIV
217, “Submissions to Department 1 for Long Cause Trial Determination must have
the following documwents electronically filed with the court.  Do not submit binders to Dept. 1.  [¶] Once the case is approved for Long-Cause
Trial, parties must submit copies of these documents in 3-ring binders to the
assigned Long-Cause Trial judge.”  
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion to Assign to Long Cause is
denied.  
 
Dated:  March 28, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517. 
 