  Case Number:  21CHCV00339    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  F43 Laysion, LLC
vs. Guillermo Macias, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ENTRY OF JUDGMENT PURSUANT TO SETTLEMENT
AGREEMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Laysion, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants Guillermo Macias and Colt International Clothing, Inc. dba
Colt LED
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
For the Court
to enforce the settlement between the parties and enter judgment.
 
RULING: Motion
to enter judgment pursuant to settlement agreement is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiff
Laysion, LLC (Plaintiff) filed this motion to enforce settlement pursuant to
CCP § 664.6. Plaintiff filed this motion because Defendants Guillermo Macias
and Colt International Clothing, Inc. (Defendants) have not complied with the
terms of a written settlement agreement made between the parties that was
entered into on March 6, 2024.
 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants have breached the settlement agreement because they
have paid only about one-third of the agreed-to sum of $350,000 and are in
default. Plaintiff also seeks interests and attorney fees and costs for having
to enforce the settlement agreement.
 
Defendants
argue in their opposition that Plaintiff’s motion should be denied because
Plaintiff failed to attach the settlement agreement to its motion or to the
declaration from Plaintiff’s attorney. Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
failed to meet its prima facie burden to obtain entry of judgment because
Plaintiff has not provided evidence of the terms of the settlement agreement.
Defendants also indicate that they have paid $35,000 towards the judgment since
Plaintiff filed its motion.
 
With its reply,
Plaintiff filed a copy of the settlement agreement. The terms of the settlement
agreement match the terms set forth in Plaintiff’s initial motion. The
declaration from Plaintiff’s attorney filed with the reply acknowledges the
$35,000 paid by Defendants and indicates that there still remains the principal
amount of $210,000 of the settlement that remains unpaid. (Mann Reply Decl., ¶
3.)
 
ANALYSIS
CCP § 664.6
provides that “If parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed
by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the court,
for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties,
the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement
until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”
 
When
considering a CCP § 664.6 motion, “the trial court must determine whether the
parties entered into a valid and binding settlement of all or part of the case.
In making this determination, trial judges, in the sound exercise of their
discretion, may receive oral testimony or may determine the motion upon
declarations alone.” (Corkland v. Boscoe (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 989, 994;
Fiore v. Alvord (1985) 182 Cal.App.3d 561, 565.)
 
Plaintiffs have
made this motion pursuant to CCP § 664.6. The parties stipulated to the settlement
of this case. The Court, by virtue of Plaintiffs filing this motion, may enter
judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement. Additionally, the
agreement between the parties allowed the Court to retain jurisdiction over the
parties in order to enforce the settlement. 
 
Plaintiff
provided a declaration with its reply from its attorney with the settlement
agreement attached as an exhibit. The declaration also indicates that $210,000
remains to be paid toward the settlement agreement.
 
Plaintiff has
also requested attorney fees and costs for having to enforce the settlement
agreement and interest for the uncured default pursuant to the settlement
agreement. (Mann Reply Decl., Ex. A.) Plaintiff is ordered to submit a proposed
judgment with the final interest and attorney fess amounts after the hearing on
this motion, as well as a memorandum of costs.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to enforce settlement is granted. Judgment will be entered in the amount
of $210,000, plus interest and attorney fees and costs.
 
Moving party to
give notice.