  Case Number:  22STCV13448    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  55 
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Leave to Amend
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion
for Leave to Amend is granted.
                                                                                 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Alfonso Cardenas and Sandra Cardenas (Plaintiffs) filed this action against their
neighbors John Yadegar and Stephanie Louise Samuel-Yadegar (Defendants), alleging Defendants are improperly
maintaining multiple fences, walls, hedges, and other vegetation along the
property line Defendants share with Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs additionally allege that
Defendants have installed video cameras that improperly record Plaintiffs and
their property. 
The current causes of action are: (1) Nuisance; (2) Spite
Fence Abatement (Civil Code § 841.4); (3) Spite Fence Abatement (Los Angeles
Municipal Code § 41.31); (4) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code §
12.22.C.20; (5) Violation of Los Angeles Municipal Code § 1207.01.C; (6)
Violation of Mulholland Scenic Parkway Specific Plan; and (7) Invasion of
Privacy. 
The trial is currently set to begin July 7, 2025.
Plaintiffs filed a Motion for
Leave to file a First Amended and Supplemental Complaint. Defendants
filed an opposition. 
 
 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part, “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as
may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or
striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the
time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after
notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment
to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms
allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit.” Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047. Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of
the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for
a demurrer or motion to strike are premature. The court, however, does have
discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a
valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by
further amendment. See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco
v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
A motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional
allegations are located. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a). 
A separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
Additionally, if the party seeking the amendment has been
dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has
discretion to deny leave to amend. Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490. Prejudice exists where the amendment would require
delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation such as an increased burden of discovery. Magpali v. Farmers
Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs seek leave to add further factual allegations and
claims for Trespass and Elder Abuse. The new factual allegations include recent
changes Defendants have made on their property. The proposed amendment alleges
that Defendants have increased the size of the alleged hedge/spite fence.
Additionally, the proposed amendment alleges Defendants have installed
additional security cameras pointed at Plaintiffs’ property. The trespass claim
includes allegations that Defendants entered Plaintiffs’ property to cut down
portions of Plaintiffs’ vegetation and are maintaining a pillar in the front
yard of Defendant’s property, encroaching on Plaintiffs’ property. Plaintiffs further
allege that Defendants’ vegetation, security cameras, and making false police
reports regarding Plaintiffs constitutes elder abuse.
Contents of Motion
Plaintiffs have included, with their motion, a copy of the
proposed First Amended and Supplemental Complaint (FASC). Declaration of Justin
Escano ¶ 6, Ex B. Plaintiffs include the changes to be made to the Complaint.
Motion at p. 1:21-9:1. The motion, therefore, complies with the requirements of
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).
Supporting Declaration 
In support of their motion, Plaintiffs also filed the
Declaration of Alfonso Cardenas, specifying the effect of the amendment; why
the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier. California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b). Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).
Defendants’ Opposition
Defendants argue that the FASC contains claims known to Plaintiffs
at the time of the original Complaint. These include the trespass claim based
on the pillar, which Defendants argue was in the same location at the time of
the original complaint, and the elder abuse claim, which incorporates the same
factual allegations supporting the other causes of action. FASC ¶ 104. However,
in the absence of prejudice, it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to
amend based only on delay. See Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d
558, 565. Here, Defendants do not demonstrate any prejudice they will suffer
but merely assert that the delay prejudices them. Such assertation is
insufficient, as delay alone is not grounds to deny leave to amend. Ibid.
Additionally, Defendants argue that the new causes of action
in the proposed FASC are uncertain and fail to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against Defendants. However, the Court declines to
consider these arguments here, and will instead consider them if raised in a
demurrer to the FASC. See Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
739, 760 (noting “the better course of action would have been to allow
[plaintiff] to amend the complaint and then let the parties test its legal
sufficiency in other appropriate proceedings.”). Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend the Complaint is granted.
 
 
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to Amend is granted.  Plaintiffs shall file and serve the FASC that is attached to the motion within 10 days of this order. 

