 Case Number:  24STCV17821    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: Hearing on Defendants' Demurrer
with Motion to Strike
Defendants' Demurrer is sustained in part and overruled in part. Defendants’
Motion to Strike is denied in part and granted in part. 
                                                                                 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Jonathan Mough
filed this action against Biomat USA, Inc.,
Grifols USA, LLC, and Grifols Worldwide Operations USA, Inc. (“Defendants”), alleging that when Plaintiff donated his
blood plasma, Defendants’ HBV or HIV test resulted in a false positive. Plaintiff
further alleges that Defendants' failure to correct this mistake prevents him
from donating plasma.
The causes of action are: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent
Misrepresentation; (3) Defamation; (4) Tortious Interference (Breach of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing, Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations, Negligent and Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations);
(5) Breach of Contract; (6) Violations of Privacy Rights; (7) Declaratory
Judgment; (8) Violations of Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 et
seq. 
 
Defendants filed a Demurrer with Motion to Strike. Plaintiff filed
an Opposition. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context. Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento
(1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must
be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994. “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not on the evidence or facts alleged.” E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315. As such, courts
assume the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. Ibid. However, it does not accept as true deductions,
contentions, or conclusions of law or fact. Stonehouse Homes LLC v. City of
Sierra Madre (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 531, 538. 
Further, the court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a). The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
Id., § 436(b). The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading
has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. Id. § 436. The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. Id. §
437. 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not "sustain a demurrer without
leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be
cured by amendment"); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment
Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 ("A demurrer should not be
sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can
state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable
possibility the defect can be cured by amendment."). The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.
 
 
 
ANALYSIS
I. Demurrer 
A. Negligence
The elements of negligence are well settled. To state a
claim for negligence, Plaintiff must allege (1) the existence of a legal duty
of care, (2) breach of that duty, and (3) proximate cause resulting in an
injury. McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664,
671. “The elements of breach of duty and causation are ordinarily questions of
fact for the jury's determination.” Hernandez v. Jensen (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 1056, 1064 (citing (Vasquez v. Residential Investments, Inc. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 269, 278. In contrast, “‘[t]he determination of duty is
primarily a question of law’” Sakai v. Massco Investments, LLC (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 1178, 1183 (quoting Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15
Cal.3d 40, 46 fn. omitted). 
There is no binding authority addressing “[w]hether
laboratory facilities owe a duty to the individuals whose specimens they test
at the request of others…” but a local federal District Court has held that a
drug testing company owed a duty of care to an employee who lost a job over a
positive test result. See Quisenberry v. Compass Vision, Inc. (S.D.Cal.
2007) 618 F.Supp.2d 1223, 1228 (Quisenberry) (noting “extensive review
of the myriad of cases in other jurisdictions makes it clear that the overall
trend is for the courts to recognize that a laboratory owes a duty to its test
subject, regardless of whether a contractual relationship exists between
them.”) The Court finds Quisenberry persuasive and concludes that
Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty of reasonable care in testing his blood. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants pool the donations of
plasma donors such that if any donor is HBV and/or HIV positive, all other
donors receive false positive results. FAC ¶ 20. Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendants knew that a percentage of their testing results were false positives
yet refused to correct the record or remove falsely stigmatized donors from
their national registry. Id. ¶ 21. Whether this violated Defendants’
duty of care or caused Plaintiff’s injury are questions of fact to be
determined by the jury. Moreover, because the pleaded facts of negligence (negligently
performing a blood test) and injury (false positive) naturally give rise to an
inference of causation, Plaintiff does not need to plead specific facts. See
Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 528.
Defendants argue that the economic loss rule precludes
Plaintiff’s negligence claim. “The economic loss rule requires a [contractual
party] to recover in contract for purely economic loss due to disappointed
expectations, unless [the party] can demonstrate harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.” Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979, 988. However, “injury to reputation and humiliation” are non-economic
damages. Audish v. Macias (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 740, 752 (citations
omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). Therefore, the economic loss rule
does not bar Plaintiff’s negligence claim to the extent that he is not seeking
to recover for purely economic losses. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is
overruled as to the first cause of action.
B. Negligent Misrepresentation
“The elements of negligent misrepresentation are (1) the
defendant made a false representation as to a past or existing material fact;
(2) the defendant made the representation without reasonable ground for
believing it to be true; (3) in making the representation, the defendant
intended to deceive the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff justifiably relied on the
representation; and (5) the plaintiff suffered resulting damages.” Majd v.
Bank of America, N.A. (2015) 243 Cal. App. 4th 1293, 1307.
“The tort of negligent misrepresentation is similar to
fraud, except that it does not require scienter or an intent to defraud.” Tenet
Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of California (2016) 245
Cal.App.4th 821, 845. Like fraud claims, negligent misrepresentations claims
are subject to heightened pleading standards. See Small v. Fritz Companies,
Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184 (holding “a complaint for negligent
misrepresentation in a holder’s action should be pled with the same specificity
required in a holder’s action for fraud” and noting “such a requirement is
implied in the reasoning of two decisions … and was asserted expressly in
Justice Mosk's dissenting opinion in Garcia v. Superior Court (1990) 50
Cal.3d 728, 748.”). “‘This particularity requirement necessitates pleading
facts which "show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered.’” Ibid (quoting Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645). The facts constituting the
alleged misrepresentation must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will
not ordinarily be invoked. 
To prevail on a cause of action for fraud or
misrepresentation, the representation must be a statement of fact, not merely
opinion. See Hauter v. Zogarts, 14 Cal. 3d 104, 111 (“If defendants'
assertion of safety is merely a statement of opinion -- mere ‘puffing’ -- they
cannot be held liable for its falsity.”) Moreover, “[i]t is hornbook law that
an actionable misrepresentation must be made about past or existing facts;
statements regarding future events are merely deemed opinions.” San
Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman Companies, 41 Cal. App. 4th
29, 43-44.
Here, Plaintiff fails to meet the particularity requirement
because he fails to plead how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were tendered. Plaintiff argues the FAC “alleges that
Defendants negligently misrepresented that they were a professional medical company
that would collect, test, and process his blood in a professional manner that
would both protect future recipients of the blood products and would not cause
false HBV results.” Opp. at p. 8:20-23. However, exactly what representations
were made and whether they were factual representations or statements of
opinion is unclear. FAC ¶ 27. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the second
amended complaint is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
C. Tortious Interference with Contract
“Intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage has five elements: (1) the
existence, between the plaintiff and some third party, of an economic
relationship that contains the probability of future economic benefit to the
plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentionally
wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of
the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the defendant's
action.” Roy Allan Slurry Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc.
(2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512 (citing Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.
(2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1164–1165 [Korea]).
“To prevail
on a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual relations, a
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of a valid contract between
the plaintiff and a third party; (2) the defendant's knowledge of that
contract; (3) the defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” Reeves v. Hanlon
(2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1148.
Despite some
overlapping elements, the California Supreme Court has emphasized that these
are separate torts. Korea, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 1157 (“We caution
that although we find the intent requirement to be the same for the torts of
intentional interference with contract and intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, these torts remain distinct”). 
“[T]he tort
of interference with prospective economic advantage ‘is considerably more
inclusive than actions based on contract or interference with contract, and is
thus is not dependent on the existence of a valid contract.’” Ibid (quoting
Buckaloo v. Johnson (1975) 14 Cal.3d 815, 827). “[H]owever, a plaintiff
that chooses to bring a claim for interference with prospective economic
advantage has a more rigorous pleading burden since it must show that the
defendant's conduct was independently wrongful.” 
Because
Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action conflates these two different types of
tortious interference, and potentially breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, it is uncertain insofar as it attempts to plead
multiple different causes of action in one count. “In the interests of justice
to both sides and in the interests of the orderly administration of justice,
plaintiff should set forth [his] separate theories in separate counts to
facilitate the adjudication of their validity.” Zumbrun v. University of
Southern California (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1, 9. Accordingly, the demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
D. Breach of Contract
To properly plead breach of
contract, “[i]f the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract,
the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of
the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference." Otworth
v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal. App. 3d 452, 459.
Alternatively, "in an action based on a written contract, a plaintiff may
plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language." Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal. 4th 189,
198-199.
“[T]he complaint must indicate on
its face whether the contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct.” Otworth
v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458-459
(citing Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, which provides in pertinent part, “The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by
demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or
more of the following grounds: … (g) In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, or
whether it is oral, or whether it is implied by conduct.”). 
The FAC is unclear whether the
contract was written, oral, or implied by conduct. Accordingly, the demurrer to
the fifth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
E. Violation of Privacy Rights
“Article I, section 1 of the California Constitution is an
enumeration of the ‘inalienable rights’ of all Californians. ‘Privacy’ is
declared to be among those rights.” Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 16 (Hill). 
Plaintiff does not provide any authority for his privacy
claim in the FAC but cites Hill in his opposition to Defendants’
demurrer. Opp. at p. 7-10. However, Plaintiff is a Harris County, Texas
resident, not a Californian. FAC ¶ 1. Moreover, the events in question occurred
in Houston, Texas. Plaintiff’s opposition ignores Defendants’ argument that the
California Constitution’s privacy protections do not apply. Accordingly, the
demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
F. Declaratory Relief
“[I]njunctive and declaratory relief are equitable remedies,
not causes of action. Thus, [a] trial court properly sustain[s] the demurrer as
to these claims [where] they [a]re ‘wholly derivative of’ other nonviable
causes of action.” Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 173
(citations omitted). Because the Court overruled the demurrer as to the
negligence claim and Defendants do demurrer to the defamation claim, the request
for declaratory and injunctive relief is not wholly derivative of nonviable
causes of action. 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to state a cause of
action for declaratory relief where it asserts fully accrued causes of action
on the same facts.
“Declaratory relief operates prospectively, serving to set
controversies at rest. If there is a controversy that calls for a declaration
of rights, it is no objection that past wrongs are also to be redressed; but
there is no basis for declaratory relief where only past wrongs are involved.
Hence, where there is an accrued cause of action for an actual breach of
contract or other wrongful act, declaratory relief may be denied.” Osseous
Technologies of America, Inc. v. DiscoveryOrtho Partners LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th
357, 366 (citation omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). However, “where
‘there is a reasonable expectation that the wrong [if any] will be repeated,’
the controversy does not present mere academic questions resulting from
mootness or other considerations and declaratory relief should not be denied. Southern
Counties Gas Co. v. Ventura Pipeline Constr., Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d
372, 381 (citation omitted). 
Here, Plaintiff seeks both to address past wrongs allegedly
inflicted by Defendants, as well as clarify their respective rights and
responsibilities regarding Plaintiff’s test results. Therefore, while it is
true that Plaintiff has also alleged fully accrued causes of action, he also
seeks a declaration that he does not have HBV and an injunction requiring
Defendants to update their records and national databases to reflect that fact.
Because this relief is not merely an attempt to rectify past harm, it is an
appropriate subject of declaratory and injunctive relief. Accordingly, the
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled. 
G. Violation of Business and Professions Code Section
17200 et. seq.
“Unfair competition under the UCL includes ‘any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.’” Jackson v. Lara (2024)
100 Cal.App.5th 337, 346 (quoting Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200. “[A]
plaintiff alleging an unfair business practice must show the defendant's
conduct is tethered to an[] underlying constitutional, statutory or regulatory
provision, or that it threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law, or
violates the policy or spirit of an antitrust law.” Id. at p. 347
(citations omitted) (internal quotation marks omitted). “An ‘unlawful’ business
activity includes ‘anything that can properly be called a business practice and
that at the same time is forbidden by law.’” Smith v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co., 93 Cal.App.4th 700, 717-718 (2001). Section 17200 “borrows” from
violations of other laws and “treats them as ‘unlawful’ practices independently
actionable under the unfair competition law.” Id. at 718.
“A plaintiff alleging unfair business practice under these
statutes must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the
statutory elements of the violation.” Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619 (1993).
To establish standing under the UCL, a plaintiff must (1)
establish a loss or deprivation of money sufficient to qualify as injury in
fact, i.e., economic injury, and (2) show that the economic injury was the
result of, i.e., caused by, the unfair business practice that is the gravamen
of the claim. See Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court (Benson) (2011) 51
Cal. 4th 310, 337.
Here, the FAC is unclear as to what conduct constitutes the unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice. In his opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the anti-competitive business practice was requiring Plaintiff to sign
paperwork that he would only donate blood with Defendants’ facilities and not
engage in donations at any other facilities, then banning him from donating
anywhere in the country based on incorrect HBV test results. Opp. at p. 13: 5-8.
However, Plaintiff does not point to any predicate legal violation, and the FAC
is unclear concerning the scope or duration of the purported ban on donating blood
to other companies. Therefore, the Court cannot determine if the practice threatens
an incipient violation of an antitrust law or violates the policy or spirit of
an antitrust law. Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is sustained with leave to
amend. 
II. Motion to Strike
A. Punitive Damages
To state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage
statute, Civil Code Section 3294. College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721. These statutory elements include allegations that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (a). “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(1). “‘Oppression’” means despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights.” Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (c)(2). 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of
punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must
be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion
to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike
as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a
motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255. (citations omitted). “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
159, 166 (fn. omitted) (citations omitted). 
Plaintiff pleaded sufficient facts to support their prayer
for punitive damages. He alleges that Defendants knew that their test would
generate some false positives. When faced with evidence that they had reported
a false positive to national databases and other companies, Defendants refused
to take any steps to correct that report. FAC ¶¶ 12, 15, 21. The effect of
Defendants’ ongoing refusal to correct the false positive is to allegedly prevent
Plaintiff from donating blood or organs, receiving an organ transplant in the
future, and impair his ability to obtain health insurance, life insurance,
medical treatment, and employment. FAC ¶ 12. A reasonable factfinder could
conclude that Defendants’ failure to correct the false-positive constitutes
malice or oppression. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike the request for
punitive damages is denied. 
 
 
B. Injury and Sever Mental Anguish and Emotional Distress
Plaintiff’s references to bodily and personal injuries in
paragraph 17, line 9 of the FAC are without factual support. Accordingly, they
are stricken with leave to amend. Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as to
the allegations of mental anguish and emotional distress.
C. Plaintiff's allegations in the Plural or Referring to
the Donors
Plaintiff’s use of plural plaintiffs is false or irrelevant
insofar as only a single Plaintiff is party to this case. Accordingly, Defendants’
motion to strike is granted with leave to amend as to the following phrases:
“to each Plaintiff” (Paragraph 42, line 20), “they were infected,” and “they
were not” (Paragraph 17, line 15), “they were legally entitled” (Paragraph 33, lines
18-19), “each Plaintiff” (Paragraph 11, line 26, Paragraph 27, line 5,
Paragraph 42, line 20), “their reasonable and necessary attorney’s fees”
(Paragraph 34, line 20), “their damages”(Paragraph 36, line 10), “nor did they
ever” (Paragraph 36, line 11), “they have given” (Paragraph 38, line 26,
Paragraph 53, line 22), “they are not” (Paragraph 63, line 6), “they recover”
(Prayer, line 2), and “they may be” (Prayer, line 7).
D. Plaintiff’s allegations referring to the Public
Likewise, references to the public are irrelevant, as this
case is brought only on behalf of an individual Plaintiff. Accordingly, the
following references to “the public” are stricken: Paragraph 59, line 10, Paragraph
68, line 13, Paragraph 69, line 16, Paragraph 70, line 23.
E. Plaintiff’s reference to Res Ipsa Loquitor
The Court grants Defendants’ motion to strike paragraph 23,
lines 19-20, because res ipsa loquitor is a rule of evidence and does not need
to be pleaded. Gicking v. Kimberlin (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 73, 78 (“Res
ipsa loquitur is a rule concerning the presentation of evidence; it is not an
independent ground of liability.”). 
Based on the Court’s sustaining of Defendants’ demurrer in
part, the remainder of Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as moot.
CONCLUSION
Defendants' Demurrer is sustained as to counts two, four, five, six,
and eight and overruled as to count one. Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted in part and denied in part. Plaintiff has twenty days leave to amend. 
 