  Case Number:  23STCV06032    Hearing Date:   October 6, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
CHRISTOPHER
  D. CORNELIUS, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV06032




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HEALTHCARE
  INVESTMENTS INC. DBA ROSECRANS CARE CENTER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October 6,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Interface Rehab,
Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Christopher D. Cornelius, et al.
Demurrer to FAC
 
            The court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.  The court declines to
consider the second filed opposition.
RULING
            The demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
1st and 2nd causes of action in the FAC.  Moving defendant is ordered to file an answer
with 10 days.
BACKGROUND
            On March 20, 2023, plaintiffs
Christopher D. Cornelius, Jonathan L. Cornelius, Carlos E. Cornelius, Lamont
Cornelius, and Dwayne Cornelius, individually and as successors in interest to
Earl Cornelius Jr, filed a complaint against Healthcare Investments, Inc. dba Rosecrans
Care Center and Interface Rehab, Inc. for (1) wrongful death, (2) elder
abuse/dependent adult civil protection act, and (3) violation of Patient’s Bill
of Rights.
            On April 11, 2023, plaintiffs filed
a FAC.
            On June 30, 2023, the case was
transferred from the PI Hub to Dept. M.
            On August 4, 2023, plaintiffs filed
an amendment designating LivingRight Healthcare Management & Consultation
as Doe 1.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Interface Rehab, Inc. demurs
to the 1st cause of action for wrongful death and 2nd
cause of action for elder abuse in the FAC on the grounds that they fail to
state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and are uncertain.
The FAC alleges that defendant
Interface Rehab is engaged in the business of owning, operating, and/or
managing nursing homes, including defendant Rosecrans.  FAC, ¶6. 
Interface Rehab accepted the responsibility to provide caretaking and
custodial services to decedent and had custody of decedent.  Id., ¶8. 
Earl Cornelius was an elderly, dependent adult who, during his
admissions and residencies at Rosecrans, was dependent on its staff for all
activities of daily living, including daily hygiene, bathing, turning and
repositioning, pressure relief, eating, nutrition, hydration, care planning,
pressure relieving devices, medication administration, wound care, pain relief,
monitoring for significant changes in condition, assistance with ambulation,
assistance with toileting, supervision, and protection from health and safety
hazards.  Id., ¶40.
The FAC further alleges that on
February 27, 2011, Cornelius was admitted to Rosecrans.  Prior to his admission, Cornelius was a
70-year elder adult, who had a past medical history significant for dementia.  Cornelius did not have any pressure ulcers on
his skin at the time of his admission to Rosecrans.  As a result of his co-morbidities, however,
Cornelius was dependent on staff for assistance with his ADLs and entirely
dependent on Rosecrans’ staff for pressure relief and re-positioning.  Id., ¶41. 
Due to his comorbidities, at the time of Cornelius’ Rosecrans admission,
Cornelius was assessed by Rosecrans’ staff as being at high risk for skin
breakdown and deterioration.  As such,
Rosecrans’ staff had a duty to implement an adequate and proactive care plan to
protect him from avoidable skin breakdown and injuries.  Id., ¶42. 
Rosecrans failed to do any of the aforementioned interventions and
throughout Cornelius’ residency at Rosecrans, he suffered otherwise avoidable
infections and skin breakdown to his sacrum. 
Id., ¶44.  Despite Rosecrans’
staff’s acknowledgement that Cornelius required more assistance to prevent
avoidable injury, Rosecrans’ staff failed to institute any effective
interventions after Cornelius’ skin continued to avoidably deteriorate during
his residency at Rosecrans.  Id., ¶45.  Rosecrans’ staff repeatedly and deliberately
neglected Cornelius and deprived him of necessary medical treatment and
services, including timely monitoring, timely pressure relief, timely turning
and repositioning, provision of pressure relieving/reducing medical devices,
care planning and property handling. 
Id., ¶47.  Rosecrans failed to
inform Cornelius’ family or physician that he was suffering severe skin
breakdown.  Once Cornelius’ family became
aware of the skin breakdown, his family still believed Rosecrans could have
managed the rehabilitation as they were aware of the pressure ulcers at least
since 2015.  Id., ¶48.
The FAC further alleges that on
October 31, 2022, Cornelius was transferred to Kindred Hospital South Bay in
Gardena after finding Cornelius unresponsive and altered suffering from
Covid-19 pneumonia.  Upon admission, he
was found to have several unstageable pressure injuries including one that was
around five inches in length and width with 95% of necrotic tissue
infection.  Id., ¶49.  None of Cornelius’ pressure ulcers
healed.  He was discharged from Kindred
Hospital South Bay on November 7, 2022, and readmitted into Rosecrans that same
day.  On November 11, 2022, four days
after being readmitted to Rosecrans, Cornelius suffered an untimely death as a
proximate result of the injuries that he sustained while a resident of
Rosecrans.  Id., ¶50.  During his Rosecrans residency, Cornelius was
also often left unattended because there was insufficient staff to provide his
timely assistance with his daily hygiene. 
As a result, Cornelius suffered poor hygiene throughout his admission at
Rosecrans and was left laying in bodily waste for prolonged periods of time,
thereby exacerbating his bedsore and increasing the risk of infection.  On multiple occasions, Cornelius was found by
his family with soiled sheets or briefs. 
Id., ¶51.  Due to grossly
inadequate staffing, staff training, staff management, inadequate supervision,
and facility management, Cornelius suffered otherwise avoidable skin breakdown,
infections, and poor hygiene.  Id., ¶53.
 
1st cause of action for wrongful
death
The elements of a cause of action
for wrongful death are a tort, resulting death, and damages of the heirs.  Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006)
140 Cal. App. 4th 1256, 1263.  In any
action for wrongful death resulting from negligence, the complaint must contain
allegations as to all the elements of actionable negligence.  Jacoves v. United Merchandising Corp.
(1992) 9 Cal. App. 4th 88, 105.  To state a claim
for negligence, plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a
legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause
resulting in an injury.”  McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal. App. 4th 664, 671. Wrongful
death damages include value of society, comfort, protection, and personal
services expected to be received from the decedent, but not emotional distress,
grief, and sorrow. Bouley v. Long Beach Memorial Medical Center (2005)
127 Cal. App. 4th 601, 610. 
The FAC alleges that defendants
owed a duty to residents, including Cornelius, to (1) provide adequate and
appropriate custodial care and supervision, which a reasonably careful person
would provide under similar circumstances; (2) exercise reasonable care in
providing care and services in a safe and beneficial manner; (3) hire, train,
and supervise employees to deliver care and services in a safe and beneficial
manner; (4) use reasonable care in treating plaintiff with the degree of skill
and learning ordinarily possessed and used by nursing facilities or physicians
in the same or similar locality; and (5) assist in attaining and maintaining
the highest level of physical, mental, and psychosocial well-being.  FAC, ¶¶ 60-64.  Defendants breached these duties by failing
to exercise reasonable care and by failing to prevent the mistreatment, abuse,
and neglect of Cornelius.  Id., ¶65(a)-(i).  Defendants’
violations and breaches of the standards of care, federal and state statutes,
and federal and state regulations that govern skilled nursing facilities were
substantial factors in causing Cornelius’ injuries and death.  Id., ¶69.  As a result, plaintiffs have suffered loss of
love, companionship, society, comfort, and support due to the death of their
father.  Id., ¶70. 
Defendant asserts that it provided
therapy services to certain residents of Rosecrans Care Center under an
“independent contractor” written agreement with Rosecrans, and that such
agreement ended in 2019, at which time defendant ceased providing any therapy
services to residents of Rosecrans, including decedent Cornelius who died three
years later in 2022.  Thus, defendant
argues, there are no factual allegations of anything defendant did with regard
to decedent that may have caused any damages to Cornelius or his death.  Defendant further argues that plaintiffs have
not alleged with specificity, which defendant contends is required under the
statutory claim.  
            As
stated above, a demurrer tests the pleadings alone.  Defendant’s assertion and argument are
outside the pleadings and as defendant acknowledges, the court cannot take
judicial notice of the purported agreement.  In any event, the allegations are sufficient
to meet the elements.
            The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
2nd cause of action for elder
abuse
To establish a claim for elder abuse and neglect under the
statute, plaintiff must allege  (1)
defendant had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder adult,
such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene, or medical care; (2) defendant knew of
conditions that made the elder adult unable to provide for his or her own basic
needs; (3) defendant denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the
elder adult’s basic needs, either (a) with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder adult or (b) with conscious disregard
of the high probability of such injury recklessness; and (4) the neglect caused
the elder adult to suffer physical harm, pain, or mental suffering. Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th 396, 407;
Welfare & Institutions Code § 15610.07.  
A statutory cause of action
such as elder/dependent adult abuse/neglect must be pleaded with
particularity.  Covenant Care, Inc. v. Super. Ct. (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771, 790; Intrieri v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal. App.4th 72,
82.  A plaintiff that can prove by clear and convincing evidence that (1)
the defendant is liable for physical abuse as defined in Welfare &
Institutions Code §15610.63, neglect as defined in Welfare & Institutions
Code §15610.57, or abandonment as defined in Welfare & Institutions Code
§15610.05 and that (2) the defendant acted with “recklessness, oppression,
fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse” can recover heightened
remedies under the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (the
Act).  See Welfare & Institutions Code §15657; Winn v.
Pioneer Medical Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 152. 
The Act defines “neglect” as
“the negligent failure of any person having the care or custody of an elder or
a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a
like position would exercise.”  Welfare & Institutions Code
§15610.57(a).  “[N]eglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical
services but, rather, to the ‘failure of those responsible for attending
to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of
their professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.’”  Covenant
Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.  
The FAC alleges that defendants owed a duty to use
ordinary care in the treatment and care of Cornelius.  In particular, defendants were required to
(a) follow, implement, and adhere to all physicians’ orders and read the
physicians’ progress notes and act upon those notes; (b) provide custodial
care; (c) monitor Cornelius’ condition frequently and assess him, accurately
record his condition, and report any meaningful change in condition to his
family and his attending physician; (d) establish and implement an
individualized resident service plan; (e) maintain care attendant and other
staffing at levels required by laws; (f) follow proper bedside personal care
procedures; (g) provide enough custodial and caregiving staff; (h) respond
promptly to reasonable family inquiries; and (i) monitor Cornelius status as it
related to his nutrition, hydration, elimination, and pain and to implement
policies and procedures to prevent the types of injuries Cornelius
sustained.  FAC, ¶74.  Defendants consciously failed to protect
Cornelius from health and safety hazards and abused him by failing to act as
reasonable care custodians.  Defendants
failed to meet any of the above requirements. 
Id., ¶75.  See breaches at para.
76.  Additionally, during Cornelius’
residency at Rosecrans, defendants deprived him of food and water for an
extended period of time and therefore engaged in “physical abuse.”  Id., ¶77. 
Defendants failed to hire, train, and supervise sufficient numbers of
caregiving staff to ensure that residents at Rosecrans, including Cornelius,
were protected from health and safety hazards. 
Id., ¶78.  Throughout Cornelius’
residence, defendants failed to exercise such skill, prudence, and diligence in
the assessment, care and treatment of Cornelius.  As a result of defendants’ neglectful
failures and inability to provide proper care and treatment to Cornelius,
Cornelius suffered multiple infections, including sepsis secondary to
pneumonia; suffered avoidable skin breakdown and pressure ulcers; suffered
avoidable malnutrition and dehydration; and suffered an untimely death on
November 11, 2022.  Id., ¶82.
Defendant makes the same assertion as
under the 1st cause of action that it was an independent contractor
providing therapy services which ended in 2019. 
Defendant also argues that the allegations lack specificity.    
As stated above, defendant’s
argument is outside the allegations of the FAC, and the court cannot take
judicial notice of the purported independent contractor agreement.  Further, the court finds that the allegations
meet the elements for elder abuse under the heightened pleading requirements.
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
Plaintiffs are ordered to give
notice of ruling. 