  Case Number:  23STCV15535    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



PRIME
  PAN-PACIFIC CO. 
                           
         vs.
 
RUFINO
  SANTANA, et al. 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15535
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 13, 2025



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for determination of good faith settlement is
GRANTED.
 
            On 7/5/2023, Plaintiff Prime
Pan-Pacific Co. (Plaintiff) filed suit against Rufino Santana, Santana & P
Trucking, Kap Dong Kim & Bridget Kim as trustees of Kim Dong Kim and
Bridget Kim revocable trust, Bridget Kim, Kap Dong Kim, Dynamic Controls, LTD,
and the City of Gardena, alleging: (1) express indemnification; (2) implied
indemnity/equitable indemnification; (3) equitable contribution; (4)
declaratory relief; and (5) declaratory relief.
 
            On 12/24/2024, Plaintiff moved for a
determination of good faith settlement. 
 
            The motion is unopposed. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
In an action where it is alleged that two or
more parties are joint tortfeasors, “a settling party may give notice of
settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an application for determination
of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application shall indicate
the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the settlement. . .
. Within 25 days of the mailing of the notice, application, and proposed
order, or within 20 days of personal service, a nonsettling party may
file a notice of motion to contest the good faith of the settlement. If none of
the nonsettling parties files a motion within 25 days of mailing of
the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal
service, the court may approve the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
877.6, subd. (a)(2).) 
 
“The issue of the good faith of a settlement
may be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served with the
notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or
the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing,”
and the party asserting lack of good faith has the burden of proof on that
issue. (Id., subd. (b), (d).) “A determination by the court that
the settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Id., subd.
(c).) 
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff moves the Court to
determine that the settlement entered into between it and Defendants Kap Dong
Kim, Bridget Kim, and Dalton Medical Corporation (collectively, Settling
Defendants) was entered in good faith. 
 
To determine whether a settlement was
entered in good faith, Courts apply the standards set forth by the California
Supreme Court in Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde &
Associates (1985) 37 Cal.3d 448. Under that case, courts are to
consider (1) the settling defendant’s alleged proportion of liability and a
rough approximation of the plaintiff’s total recovery; (2) the amount being
paid by the settling defendant; (3) the recognition that a settling party
should pay less in settlement than it would if found liable at trial; (4)
the settling defendant’s financial condition and insurance coverage
available; and (5) whether there was any collusion, fraud, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure the interest of any non-settling party. (37 Cal.3d
at p. 499.) The party asserting lack of good faith has the burden of proof
on this issue. (CCP § 877.6, subd. (d).) 
 
Here, the Settlement provides: 
 
$275,000 will be paid by insurance on behalf of Kap Dong Kim and
Bridget Kim, $125,000 will be paid by Prime Pan-Pacific Co. in five
installments, and $25,000 will be paid by insurance on behalf of Dalton Medical
Corporation. In exchange, Plaintiffs here will release all claims against the
settling Defendants, and Defendants will resolve any potential cross-claims for
indemnity or contribution among themselves.
 
            (Motion, 4: 5-9.)
 
To show good faith, Plaintiff submitted evidence that the parties
engaged in extensive arms-length negotiations. (See Park Decl.) Indeed,
no oppositions to the settlement were filed, and thus no argument has been
advanced that the settlement is the result of fraud or collusion. 
 
After review, and considering the lack of opposition to Plaintiff’s
motion, the Court finds that the Settlement meets the Tech-Bilt factors,
and that it was entered into in good faith. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for determination of
good faith settlement is granted. 
 
It is so
ordered. 
 
Dated: 
January    , 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
  
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please
contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
 