 Case Number:  24STCV24978    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MONICA E. REYES, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO. INC. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV24978      
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 13, 2025




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is MOOT. 
 
            On
9/26/2024, Plaintiffs Monica E. Reyes and Gloria A. Cadavid (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against American Honda Motor Co. (Defendant), alleging
violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
            On
12/2/2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s Complaint. Defendant also moved to
strike portions of Defendant’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s Complaint is barred by
the statute of limitations, and fails to state a claim because Plaintiff’s
allegations violate the economic loss doctrine. 
 
            Plaintiffs’ claims are each brought under the
Song-Beverly Act and carry a four-year statute of limitations. (Cal. Com. Code
§ 2725(2).) A cause of action under Song-Beverly “accrues when the breach
occurs, regardless of the aggrieved party’s lack of knowledge of the breach.” (Id.)
The “breach” occurs “when tender of delivery” is made. (Id.)
 
Thus,
absent sufficient facts in the Complaint supportive of an alternative accrual
date or tolling doctrine, Plaintiffs’ claims all began to run when AHM’s
alleged breach occurred - on the date the subject vehicle was delivered to
Plaintiffs on January 7, 2020. See Czajkowski v. Haskell & White, LLP
(2012) 208 Cal. App. 4th 166, 174-175, citing E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1319, (finding that a complaint
reflecting that a claim is barred absent application of the discovery rule must
plead facts to show the time and manner of discovery, plaintiff’s reasonable
diligence, and plaintiff’s inability to have discovered the relevant facts
earlier).
 
Plaintiff
will be afforded leave to amend in order to show that she can allege facts
which could show that the statute of limitations has not run. 
            
As for the
concealment claim, Defendant additionally argues that it is barred by the
economic loss rule because Plaintiff’s damages are limited to economic loss.
“As our Supreme Court has explained, although that fraudulent intent is often
established by circumstantial evidence, “ ‘something more than nonperformance
is required to prove the defendant’s intent not to perform his promise.’
[Citations.]”) (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 979, 988, 993.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff’s claim is not based solely on a failure to perform. Rather,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew that the specific transmission installed
in the vehicle was defective and did not disclose this fact. The California
Supreme Court in Robinson expressly permitted fraud claims to proceed in
contract actions to “a defendant’s affirmative misrepresentations on which a
plaintiffs rely, and which expose a defendant to liability for personal damages
independent of the Plaintiffs’ economic loss.” (Id. at p. 993.) While
Plaintiff’s claim is here is based on concealment, rather than
misrepresentation, there is no reason to believe that an individual can be held
liable for fraud if they vocalize their deception, but not if they withhold
material information as part of that deception. 
 
            While
Defendant may dispute whether or not Plaintiff can actually show that Defendant
knowingly concealed a defective transmission, and while this may be Plaintiff
transforming a run-of-the-mill Song Beverly claim into a fraud claim, this will
require factual determinations not properly made at this stage.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained, with 20 days leave to
amend, so that Plaintiffs can allege facts which could show that this action is
not time-barred. As a result, Defendant’s motion to strike is moot. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 