 Case Number:  22STCV09663    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  RICARDO RIVERA,Plaintiff;  vs. ANDREA IERVOLINO, Defendant.  Case No.:  22STCV09663  Hearing Date:  May 2, 2024    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:  MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT FILED BY PLAINTIFF RICARDO RIVERAThe motion to enforce settlement filed by Plaintiff Ricardo Rivera is GRANTED.The Court will enter the proposed judgment received on April 8, 2024. Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUND   This is an action for breach of contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, fraud, conversion, and unjust enrichment. Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff provided a business loan to Defendant in the amount of $1,395,600 in 2018. Defendant failed to pay the loan. In November 2021, the parties entered into a settlement agreement. Defendant acknowledged he was indebted to Plaintiff and agreed to repay Plaintiff in three payments. Defendant failed to make the last two payments.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On March 18, 2022, Plaintiff Ricardo Rivera filed his Complaint against Defendant Andrea Iervolino.On April 8, 2024, the parties filed a notice of settlement and proposed judgment.On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to enforce settlement.On April 19, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.On April 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves to enforce settlement. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, “if parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.  If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of the settlement.”  “Section 664.6 was enacted to provide a summary procedure for specifically enforcing a settlement contract without the need for a new lawsuit.”  (Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 809.)    To be enforceable under Code Civ Proc., section 664.6, any written settlement agreement outside of court must be signed by the parties and their counsel. Although the Court may adjudicate disputes over the terms of the settlement agreement, the Court may not modify terms from what was agreed to by the parties. (Machado v. Myers (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 779, 797.)Here, the parties signed a stipulation for settlement attached to the proposed order filed on April 8, 2024. The parties also signed a long form settlement agreement. (Consoli-Tiensvold Decl., ¶13, Exh. J.) After the parties signed these agreements, Defendant failed to make the required payment on March 31, 2024. (Id., ¶14.) In opposition, Defendant does not oppose entry of judgment in the amount of the parties’ settlement for $2,500,000. However, Defendant requests that the terms of the proposed judgment stating that Defendant Iervolino shall “[p]rovide Rivera with a security interest in Iervolino’s interest in Tatatu S.p.A” be changed to “Plaintiff shall have a lien upon Defendant’s shares of Tatatu S.p.A. registered in Defendant’s name as security for any sums due under this Judgment.”Plaintiff on reply represents that he opposes this change and requests that the Court enter the original proposed judgment.The parties’ original stipulated settlement states “Defendant agrees to provide plaintiff a security interest in defendant’s interest in Tatatu S.p.A. in a form to be agreed upon and reasonably acceptable to plaintiff.” (Proposed Judgment, Exh. 1, ¶8(f).) The proposed judgment states Defendant will “Provide Rivera with a security interest in Iervolino’s interest in Tatatu S.p.A.” (Proposed Judgment, ¶3(b).) However, no signed agreement states Plaintiff will have a lien on Defendant’s shares of Defendant’s shares in Tatatu S.p.A. The Court may not modify the settlement agreement under Code Civ. Proc., section 664.6. The Court may only enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement. Because Defendant failed to make payments under the current stipulated settlement, the Court may enforce the terms of the agreement by entering judgment pursuant to the original proposed judgment. DATED: May 2, 2024 ________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 