  Case Number:  23STCV26824    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DAVID SANCHEZ, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DOUGLAS EMMETT, INC., ET AL., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV26824 
 
RULING RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION OF
  INDIVIDUAL PAGA CLAIM AND STAY PROCEEDINGS 
 
Date: 
  July 31, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendants
Douglas Emmett Management, LLC; Douglas Emmett, Inc. 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff David Sanchez
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.  
 
BACKGROUND
             Plaintiff David Sanchez was employed by
Defendants as a Senior Service Manager from April 22, 2022 through July 28,
2023, when he was allegedly wrongfully terminated.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants committed
multiple Labor Code violations, including violating Plaintiff’s protected
parental leave, wrongful termination, misclassification of Plaintiff as
“exempt” when he was “non-exempt,” meal break violations, rest breach
violations, unreimbursed expenses, wage statements and failure to pay all wages
owed upon termination.  On November 1,
2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint under the Private Attorney’s General Act
(Labor Code §2698) (“PAGA”).       
 
DISCUSSION
            Legal Standard
Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
            “A written provision in any []
contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or the
refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement in writing to
submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract,
transaction, or refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
 
            “If any suit or proceeding be
brought in any of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to
arbitration under an agreement in writing for such arbitration, the court in
which such suit is pending, upon being satisfied that the issue involved in
such suit or proceeding is referable to arbitration under such an agreement,
shall on application of one of the parties stay the trial of the action until
such arbitration has been had in accordance with the terms of the agreement,
providing the applicant for the stay is not in default in proceeding with such
arbitration.”  (9 U.S.C. §3.)
            
            “[T]he United States Supreme Court
has identified three categories of activity that Congress may regulate under
the commerce power: (1) the channels of interstate commerce, (2) the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce and persons or things in interstate
commerce, and (3) those activities having a substantial relation to interstate
commerce. The party asserting FAA preemption bears the burden to present
evidence establishing a contract with the arbitration provision affects one of
these three categories of activity, and failure to do so renders the FAA
inapplicable.”  (Carbajal v. CWPSC,
Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 238.)
 
Burden on Motion
to Compel Arbitration
            “[T]he petitioner bears the burden
of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance
of the evidence . . . .”  (Giuliano v.
Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)  “In determining whether an arbitration
agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may examine only the
agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing arbitration
[citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties' intentions,
in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual language and the
circumstances under which the agreement was made.”  (Weeks v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d
350, 353.)  “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”  (California
Correctional Peace Officers Ass'n v. State (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)
 
            “[A] party opposing the petition
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to its defense. [Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial
court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and
other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.” 
(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284.)


 
Defendants establish the applicability of the FAA
            “The FAA applies to
contracts that involve interstate commerce (9 U.S.C. §§ 1, 2), but since
arbitration is a matter of contract, the FAA also applies if it is so stated in
the agreement.”  (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 956, 963.) 
The Dispute Resolution Agreement expressly states that it is governed by
the FAA.  (Hurtado Dec., Ex. A, ¶1.)  The FAA therefore applies by agreement.  
  
Defendants establish an applicable arbitration
agreement
            Plaintiff Sanchez
filed a separate complaint against Defendants alleging individual claims (Case
No. 23STCV23750) based on the exact same facts alleged in this action.  (RJN, Ex. C.) 
Plaintiff’s only claim in this action is for the PAGA civil penalties for
Labor Code violations committed against him and against the class of employees
of which he is the representative.  In
23STCV23750, Plaintiff Sanchez and Defendant Douglas Emmett Management, LLC
stipulated to arbitration pursuant to the parties’ Dispute Resolution
Agreement.  (RJN, Ex. D.)  
            
            Defendants asks that
the court compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim pursuant to
the same Dispute Resolution Agreement.  The
Dispute Resolution Agreement applies to “all disputes arising out of or related
to may employment with, or the termination of my employment from, Douglas
Emmett.”  (Hurtado Dec., Ex. A, ¶1.)  
 
            “Douglas Emmett” is
defined to include Defendant Douglas Emmett Management, LLC or “one of their
affiliates, subsidiaries or parent companies.” 
(Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Douglas Emmett Management, Inc. and Douglas Emmett Management, LLC
are agents and alter egos of one another and Plaintiff’s joint employer.  (Complaint, ¶¶6-10.)  Defendant Douglas Emmett Management, Inc. is
the parent company of Douglas Emmett Management, LLC.  (Hurtado Dec., ¶2.)  
 
            The arbitration
agreement therefore applies to Plaintiff’s claims, which arise from his
employment with and termination from Defendants’ employ.  In addition, although Douglas Emmett, Inc. is
not a signatory to the arbitration agreement, it is entitled to enforce the
arbitration agreement based on its status as the parent company of Douglas
Emmett Management, LLC.  (Hurtado Dec.,
Ex. A, ¶1.)  Because parent companies are
expressly included as entities who may enforce the arbitration agreement,
Douglas Emmett Management, Inc. may sue as a third party beneficiary of the
Dispute Resolution Agreement.  (Civil
Code §1559.)  
 
            In addition to the
doctrine of third party beneficiary, Plaintiff is also equitably estopped from
opposing arbitration of his claims against Douglas Emmett Management, Inc. on
grounds that it is not a signatory. 
Plaintiff cannot claim on the one hand that Douglas Emmett Management,
Inc. and Douglas Emmett Management, LLC are one entity, while on the other hand
argue that Douglas Emmett Management, Inc. cannot compel arbitration as a
nonsignatory to an agreement signed by its alleged alter ego.  (Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1288 (defendants sued as alter egos of
signatory to arbitration agreement could enforce the arbitration agreement;
plaintiff was equitably estopped from objecting on grounds that defendants were
nonsignatories).)
 
            Defendants therefore establish the
existence of an applicable arbitration agreement to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims.  In order to avoid arbitration,
Plaintiff must establish that the agreement is unenforceable, e.g.
unconscionability.  
 
 
Plaintiff fails to establish grounds to deny
enforcement of the arbitration agreement 
            Plaintiff filed an opposition
on May 28, 2024, the original hearing date of this motion.  Plaintiff argues there are no individual PAGA
claims asserted in this action.  Plaintiff
argues that by definition, there is no such thing as an individual PAGA claim,
because all PAGA claims are representative actions brought on behalf of the
state.  Plaintiff does not contest the
existence of an arbitration agreement but denies that it is applicable to this
action, which only asserts representative PAGA claims.
 
            Plaintiff’s complaint
indicates otherwise.  Plaintiff
specifically alleges in his first cause of action that he is seeking to recover
civil penalties for “numerous violations of the Labor Code against
Plaintiff.”  (Complaint, ¶42.)  Plaintiff alleges: “Pursuant to PAGA,
Plaintiff seeks civil penalties due to Plaintiff, other aggrieved employees and
the State of California…In addition, pursuant to PAGA, Plaintiff seeks to recover civil penalties…from
Defendant in a representative
action for the violations set forth above.”  (Complaint, ¶48.)  These allegations allege both individual
claims and representative PAGA claims.  In
addition, by its terms, PAGA allows an “aggrieved employee” to file a civil
action “on behalf of himself or herself and other current or former employees” to recover civil penalties under
PAGA.  (Labor Code §2699(a).)  The footer of Plaintiff’s complaint also
indicates it is a complaint for “damages.” 
At best, whether Plaintiff is alleging individual claims against Defendants
is unclear based on the allegations of the complaint.  The Court assume that Plaintiff’s allegations
of violations against him individually are solely made for purposes of standing
under PAGA as an “aggrieved employee.”
            
            Plaintiff relies on Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal.App.5th 533 for the proposition that an
individual plaintiff may bring a representative PAGA claim without having to
allege an individual PAGA claim.  The
court agrees that under Balderas, an individual plaintiff who is an “aggrieved employee” may file a
representative PAGA action without having to also allege an individual PAGA
claim.  (Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at 329-330 (plaintiff need not allege
individual claims against employer to establish standing to sue under PAGA;
plaintiff’s allegations establishing status as “aggrieved employee” was
sufficient.)  Balderas, however, is factually distinguishable.  The plaintiff in Balderas
clearly alleged that the only claims asserted in
the complaint were representative.  The Balderas complaint
alleged the following:  “Ms. Balderas is
not suing in her individual capacity; she is proceeding herein solely under the
PAGA, on behalf of the State of California for all aggrieved employees,
including herself and other aggrieved employees.”  (Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at 327.) 

 
            In addition, Balderas did not
involve a motion to compel arbitration, nor did it involve the issue of whether
PAGA claims based on violations of the Labor Code committed against an
individual plaintiff could be severed from violations of the Labor Code
committed against all other employees for purposes of arbitration.  Balderas is therefore procedurally distinguishable as well.
 
            Unlike the plaintiff
in Balderas,
Plaintiff’s complaint does not contain an unequivocal denial that the action is
brought in his individual capacity. 
Given Plaintiff’s failure to establish that he is not bringing any
individual PAGA claims, Defendant’s request to compel arbitration of
Plaintiff’s individual claims is granted. 

 
            Plaintiff’s argument that a PAGA
claim can never be an “individual claim” ignores Viking River Cruises, Inc.
v. Moriana (“Viking”) (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 645-646 and Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Adolph”) (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1124, both of
which analyzed whether PAGA claims could be split into “individual PAGA claims”
and “representative PAGA claims” for purposes of arbitration.  Both cases determined that a PAGA claim could
be split in such a way.  As explained in
Viking River Cruises, Inc., the phrase “representative PAGA claims” has two
meanings depending on the issue being discussed:  
 
“PAGA's unique
features have prompted the development of an entire vocabulary unique to the
statute, but the details, it seems, are still being worked out. An unfortunate
feature of this lexicon is that it tends to use the word ‘representative’ in
two distinct ways…In the first sense, PAGA actions are ‘representative’ in that
they are brought by employees acting as representatives—that is, as agents or
proxies—of the State. But PAGA claims are also called ‘representative’ when
they are predicated on code violations sustained by other employees. In the
first sense, ‘every PAGA action is ... representative’ and ‘[t]here is no
individual component to a PAGA action,’ (citations omitted), because every PAGA
claim is asserted in a representative capacity. 
But when the word ‘representative’ is used in the second way, it makes
sense to distinguish ‘individual’ PAGA claims, which are premised on Labor Code
violations actually sustained by the plaintiff, from ‘representative’ (or
perhaps quasi-representative) PAGA claims arising out of events involving  other employees.”  (Viking., supra, 596 U.S. at 648.)  
 
Thus, in determining whether a PAGA claim
can be split into individual (claims arising from the individual plaintiff’s
injuries) and “representative” (claims arising from injuries to persons other
than the individual plaintiff) components for purposes of arbitration, “representative”
is being used in the second sense discussed in Viking, not the first
sense as it was used in Kim v. Reins (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73,
88.)  
            Plaintiff’s argument that, by
definition, a PAGA claim cannot have individual components ignores the two
distinct uses of the word “representative” in connection with PAGA claims.  Plaintiff improperly uses the first
definition of representative (i.e. representative or proxy of the state) to
analyze whether a PAGA claim can be separated into individual and
“representative claims” (i.e. claims based on violations suffered by persons
other than the plaintiff) for purposes of arbitration.  
 
            In Viking, the Supreme Court
held that the individual claims could be separated from the representative claims
and a plaintiff could be forced to arbitrate his or her “individual PAGA
claims.”  (Viking, supra, 596 U.S.
at 649.)  “We hold that the FAA preempts
the rule of Iskanian insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions
into individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 662 (emphasis added).)  Viking went on to hold that PAGA
claims cannot be dismissed merely because they are representative.  (Id. at 663.)  However, Viking also found that once a
plaintiff’s individual claims were sent to arbitration pursuant to the parties’
agreement, the remaining representative claims (i.e. the claims based on
injuries suffered by others) had to be dismissed for lack of standing.  (Id. at 663.)  
 
            In Adolph, the California
Supreme Court reversed Viking River Cruises on the issue of standing.  “Where a plaintiff has brought a PAGA action
comprising individual and non-individual claims, an order compelling
arbitration of the individual claims does not strip the plaintiff of standing
as an aggrieved employee to litigate claims on behalf of other employees under
PAGA.”  (Adolph, supra, 14
Cal.5th at 1114.)
            
            Thus, based on Viking and Adolph,
PAGA claims can be split into individual PAGA claims and representative claims
and doing so does not violate the definition or inherent nature of PAGA.  Plaintiff’s argument ignores Viking and
Adolph and the two distinct uses of “representative” when discussing PAGA—(1)
when discussing a plaintiff’s status as a proxy plaintiff and (2) when discussing
severability of the underlying violations against the individual plaintiff from
violations against all other employees for purposes of arbitration.  .
 
            Plaintiff
fails to raise any valid grounds to deny Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration. Defendants’ Motion to Compel Arbitration is therefore
granted.  
 
Defendants’
request to dismiss the non-individual PAGA claims is denied
            In Viking River Cruises, Inc. v.
Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 662, the US Supreme Court held  that wholesale waivers of “representative”
PAGA claims are invalid.  The Supreme
Court also found the arbitration agreement therein valid and enforceable as to the
PAGA plaintiff’s individual claims based on a severability clause.  The invalid wholesale waiver of PAGA claims
could be severed from the arbitration agreement due to the severability clause.  (Viking River Cruises, Inc., supra,
596 U.S. at 662.)  
 
            Defendants argues that, pursuant to
Viking River Cruises, Plaintiff’s individual claims can be arbitrated
despite the unenforceable waiver of representative PAGA claims contained in the
Dispute Resolution Agreement.  The court
agrees and hence compels arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims for
the reasons stated above.
 
            Defendant, however, also argues that
Viking requires dismissal of Plaintiff’s remaining non-individual PAGA
claims for lack of standing.  (Motion,
19:20-22.)  As discussed above, in  Adolph, the California Supreme Court rejected
the analysis in Viking of an individual plaintiff’s standing to maintain
an action for representative PAGA claims once his or her individual PAGA claims
were sent to arbitration.  (Adolph,
supra, 14 Cal.5th at 1124.) 
 Instead, under Adolph, a court
may exercise its discretion to stay the representative claims pending
arbitration of the individual claims.  (Id.)  If the arbitrator ultimately determines that
Plaintiff is not an aggrieved employee, Defendants may then move for summary
judgment of the representative claims on grounds of lack of standing.  (Id.) 
Until then, Defendants cite no authority that would allow the Court to
dismiss the representative claims simply because the individual claims have
been sent to arbitration.  
 
Defendants'
request to stay litigation of the representative claims pending arbitration of
Plaintiff’s individual claims is granted
            The FAA provides for a stay of
proceedings if the issues therein are referrable to arbitration.  9 U.S.C. § 3. 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.4 states, in relevant part:
 
“If a court . . .
has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an
action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which
such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such
action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had
in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the
court specifies.”
 
            Defendants ask that litigation of
the representative claims be stayed pending arbitration of Plaintiff’s
individual claims.  Defendants’ request
to stay the representative claims pending arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual
claims is granted.  
 
 
 
Defendants’
request to stay this action pending resolution of Winters PAGA case is denied
            Defendants also ask that the court exercise
its inherent authority and stay this action pending resolution of an
earlier-filed PAGA case against them, Ernest Winters v. Douglas Emmett,
Inc., et al., Case No. 21STCV10680.  (RJN,
Ex. A.)  The court compelled arbitration
of Winters’ individual PAGA claims on September 6, 2022.  Defendants argue the overlap between this
case and the Winters case justifies staying this action until the
pending arbitration in Winters is completed.  
 
            Defendants’ request to stay this
entire action pending resolution of the arbitration of the individual PAGA
claims in Winters is denied.  The
pending arbitration in Winters only involves the individual claims
asserted by Winters.  Any overlap between
his individual claims and Plaintiff’s individual claims would not justify
staying Plaintiff’s action until the arbitration in Winters is
completed.  
 
            Defendants’ Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims.  Defendants’ request to stay litigation of the
representative PAGA claims pending arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual PAGA
claims is GRANTED.  Defendants’ request
to stay this entire litigation pending arbitration of the individual PAGA
claims in Winters is DENIED.  
 
Defendants’ request for a statement of decision is denied
pursuant to CCP §1291
            “In superior courts, upon the trial of a question of fact by the court,
written findings of fact and conclusions of law shall not be required. The
court shall issue a statement of decision explaining the factual and legal
basis for its decision as to each of the principal controverted issues at trial
upon the request of any party appearing at the trial. The request must be made
within 10 days after the court announces a tentative decision unless the trial
is concluded within one calendar day or in less than eight hours over more than
one day in which event the request must be made prior to the submission of the
matter for decision. The request for a statement of decision shall specify
those controverted issues as to which the party is requesting a statement of
decision. After a party has requested the statement, any party may make
proposals as to the content of the statement of decision.  [T]he statement of decision shall be in
writing, unless the parties appearing at trial agree otherwise; however, when
the trial is concluded within one calendar day or in less than 8 hours over
more than one day, the statement of decision may be made orally on the record
in the presence of the parties.”  (CCP
§632.)  
 
            “A
statement of decision shall be made by the court, if requested pursuant to
Section 632, whenever an order or judgment, except a special order after final
judgment, is made that is appealable under this title.”  (CCP §1291.) 
“An order compelling arbitration is not appealable but may be reviewed
by writ petition.  (Laymon v. J. Rockcliff, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 812, 825.)
Only an order denying arbitration is appealable. (CCP § 1294(a); Esparza v. Sand & Sea, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 781, 787.) 

 
            The Court is granting the motion to
compel arbitration.  As such, the order
is not appealable but may be reviewed by writ proceeding.  CCP §1291 only requires a statement of
decision whenever an order or judgment is made that is appealable under Title 9
of the Code of Civil Procedure.  CCP
§1294 does not identify an order granting a motion to compel arbitration as
being an appealable order, nor is an order granting the partial motion to
compel arbitration a judgment entered pursuant to Title 9.  
 
            At the time of the oral argument on
the original hearing date of June 12, 2024, the Court took this matter under
submission and granted Plaintiff leave to file a motion for leave to amend by
June 26, 2024.  As no such motion has
been filed, this is the Court’s final ruling on this matter.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
 
Dated this 31st day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



