  Case Number:  20STCV05874    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  14 Gould vs. BolourCase Background
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that the principal Defendants tricked him into putting $400,000 into a
trading account and giving them management privileges. Defendants then used his
money to engage in a series of highly-leveraged margin trades. Even though
Plaintiff figured out the scheme in a matter of days and closed the account,
Defendants had still managed to lose over $250,000 of his money. Plaintiff is now
suing everyone involved, including the trading platform which hosted his
account.
 
            On June 8,
2023, Plaintiff filed his Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Violation of Corp. Code
§§ 25000, 27000 and Code Civ. Proc. § 1029.8, (4) Trading Without
Authorization, (5) Negligent Misrepresentation, (6) Fraud, (7) Material
Misrepresentation in Securities Transaction, (8) Aiding and Abetting Fraud, (9)
Financial Elder Abuse, (10) Unfair Competition, (11) Conspiracy, (12) RICO, (13)
Accounting, (14) Negligence, (15) Negligent Supervision, and (16) Failure to
Supervise/Control against Defendants Ashkan Bolour (“Bolour”), USITM Trading,
Inc. (“USITM”), Anita Rodal (“Rodal”), South Bay Property Investors, Inc. dba
SBPI Services, Inc. and Practical Opinions (“SBPI”), Eric Colon (“Colon”),
Alternative Wealth Solutions, Inc. (“AWS”), Hulick Capital Management LLC
(“Hulick”), Oanda Corporation (“Oanda”), and DOES 1-50.
 
            On July 11,
2023, Defendants Colon and AWS filed their joint Answer.
 
            On August
24, 2023, the default of Defendant Hulick was entered.
 
            On July 28,
2020, Defendants Rodal and SBPI filed their joint Answer to a prior version of
the complaint. 
 
On September 28, 2020, this court
dismissed Defendant Oanda, without prejudice, based on contractual selection of
another forum. The subsequent amendment does not revive Oanda’s status in this
case.
 
No responsive pleading has been filed by Defendants Bolour and USITM,
nor has their default been entered.
 
            Jury Trial
is currently set for March 11, 2024.
 
(1)        OSC re:
Failure to Serve
 
            Plaintiff’s
original complaint was filed on February 14, 2020. Only Defendant Oanda was served
with the original complaint. 
 
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) was filed on May 6, 2020. The FAC was served on Defendants Hulick,
Colon, USITM, Rodal, SBPI, and AWS. Defendant Bolour was served by publication.
Defendants Hulick, Colon, Rodal, and SBPI filed responses. Defendants AWS and
Bolour were defaulted. Defendant USITM never responded, and its default was
never sought.
 
On June 8, 2023, this court granted
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file the SAC. In that motion, Plaintiff
stipulated that the answers already filed by Defendants Rodal and Colon in
response to the FAC could serve as their responses to the SAC. (Motion filed
April 6, 2023, p 4:18-20). Counsel for Defendants Colon and AWS were present at
the hearing; no other defense counsel appeared. Counsel for Defendants Colon
and AWS stipulated that the service date for the SAC would be the day of the
hearing. Since no other counsel appeared at the hearing and no written
stipulation was ever filed, the court can only conclude that no other counsel were
party to this stipulation.
 
            On February
26, 2024, this court issued the instant OSC, asking Plaintiff to explain why
(1) the filing of the SAC did not “re-open” the default of Defendant Bolour and
(2) why no proof of service was ever filed as to Defendant USITM. (Minute Order
of February 26, 2024).
 
            Plaintiff
has filed a response to the OSC on March 6, 2023. In that response, he
correctly notes that a default is only “re-opened” after amendment if there has
been a substantive change in the allegations against or remedies sought from
the defaulted party. See Paterra v. Hansen (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th
507, 529-530. The court has compared the First Amended Complaint to the Second
Amended Complaint, and determined that, as relates to Defendant Bolour, the
pleadings are materially identical. Therefore, the default remains in place and
has not been “re-opened.”
 
            Plaintiff’s
response also indicates that there is no such entity as Defendant USITM, and
Plaintiff will not be pursuing them.
 
            Therefore,
the complaint against Defendant USITM is DISMISSED, without prejudice. This OSC
is DISCHARGED.
 
(2)        OSC re:
Set Aside Default
 
            As noted
above, Defendant Hulick answered the FAC. (Answer filed August 18, 2020). Because
the SAC did materially alter the claims asserted against Defendant Hulick, they
were entitled to new service. However, no proof of service has been filed which
shows that anyone has ever been served with the SAC.
 
            There is a
proof of electronic service attached to the SAC which shows that counsel for
Colon, AWS, Rodal, SBPI, and Hulick were all served with a “Proposed” Second
Amended Complaint. But that is not the same as being served with an actual SAC,
bearing a file stamp.
 
            Likewise,
Plaintiff served a Notice of Ruling indicating that the motion to file the SAC
had been granted. But this also is not the same as being served with the actual
pleading.
 
            Despite the
defect in service, Plaintiff was able to obtain the entry of Defendant Hulick’s
default from the clerk on August 24, 2023. 
 
            Counsel for
Hulick attempted to file a motion to set the default aside, but was unable to complete
and serve the filing in time for the reserved hearing date. In the absence of
timely filing, the court removed the hearing from its calendar. Counsel for
Hulick then reserved a new hearing date of March 13, 2024, which is two days from
the instant hearing, but filed no new papers.
 
            On February
26, 2024, the court issued the instant OSC. Plaintiff filed a response on March
6, 2024.
 
            Plaintiff
argues that the Second Amended Complaint was “deemed served” by this court on
June 8, 2023. But as explained above, the minute order from that date makes
clear that this is not what happened. Counsel for two parties stipulated that there
was no need for additional service on their clients. Neither of those parties
was Defendant Hulick. 
 
The Declaration of Nicole Uhlmann,
filed January 26, 2024, indicates that Plaintiff’s counsel did not warn her
before seeking the default of her client. The Response to the OSC confirms that
account – Plaintiff’s counsel simply served Ms. Uhlmann with copies of his
requests for entry of default as he submitted them to the clerk. (Declaration
of Marc I. Zussman ¶¶ 8-9). 
 
            It has long
been acknowledged that where a plaintiff’s attorney is aware that a defendant
has counsel, that plaintiff’s attorney has an ethical obligation to warn defense
counsel before they attempt to enter default. See Lasalle v. Vogel
(2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 135. That ethical obligation has since
been turned into a legal obligation which would require this court to set aside
any default that was sought without advance warning. Id. at 135-141. The
mere fact that counsel failed to obtain entry of default on his first attempt
does not excuse the breach of this rule.
 
Furthermore, as just described, it
is not at all clear that counsel for Hulick was ever properly served with the
SAC, in which case this court would lack jurisdiction to enter any default judgment
against it.
 
For these two independent reasons,
the default of Defendant Hulick is VACATED. Defendant Hulick is to file an
Answer within 24 hours. 
 