  Case Number:  22TRCV01219    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  8   Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: January 7, 2025CASE NUMBER: 22TRCV01219CASE NAME: Jane Doe T.B. v. DOE #1, et al.MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff, Jane Doe T.B.RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant, Centinela Valley Union High School DistrictTRIAL DATE: August 11, 2025MOTION: (1) Motion to Quash SubpoenasTentative Rulings: (1) ARGUE. While the Court is inclined to quash the SDTs in part as to things like 40-year-old X-Rays and MRIs since Plaintiff disavows any physical injuries caused by Defendants, discovery of other potentially traumatic events from years ago are reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence bearing on the pre-existing condition defense and allocation of harm from different historical causes. The parties have a confidentiality stipulation that can be used to limit dissemination and use of sensitive medical and billing recordsI. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn December 27, 2022, Plaintiff, Jane Doe T.B. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Doe #1, a public entity. The Complaint alleges personal injuries and damages from Childhood Sexual Abuse. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s former employee, Doe #2, sexually assaulted and abused Plaintiff in Lawndale, California while employed at the school Jane Doe T.B. attended when Plaintiff was approximately 14 to 17 years old.On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff states that Defendant issued two subpoenas to H. Claude Hudson Comprehensive Health Center. The first subpoena seeks all of Plaintiff’s medical, office, and psychiatric records from 1/1/1980 to present. The second subpoena seeks all of Plaintiff’s billing records from 1/1/1980 to present. Plaintiff asserts that the subpoenas do not contain any restrictions or limitations on the types of records being sought from this facility, and that they have no bearing or relevance to this lawsuit. As such, Plaintiff has brought this Motion to Quash the subpoenas for Plaintiff’s medical history and medical-financial transactions because they are not directly relevant and essential to this sexual abuse action.B. ProceduralOn September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Quash Subpoenas. On December 23, 2024, Defendant and Cross-Complainant, Centinela Valley Union High School District filed an opposition. On December 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief.II. ANALYSISA. Legal StandardCode of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a subpoena when necessary. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”B. DiscussionAs noted by Plaintiff, the first subpoena served on H. Claude Hudson Comprehensive Health Center seeks:“Medical and Psychiatric Records. All documents, medical records, medical tests, charts, radiological reports, psychiatric, drug and/or alcohol treatment, counseling or rehabilitation records, office records and sign-in sheets. All of the above pertaining to the care, treatment or examination of [Plaintiff] from 1/1/1980 to, and including, the present. Specifically to include all of the aforementioned from Curtis R. Tucker Health Center.”The second subpoena served on H. Claude Hudson Comprehensive Health Center seeks:“Billing Records. All itemized statements of billing charges, invoices, records of adjustments and/or write-offs, payments and credits, explanation of benefits, balances due and insurance records. All of the above pertaining to the care, treatment or examination of [Plaintiff] from 1/1/1980 to, and including the present. Specifically to include all of the aforementioned from Curtis R. Tucker Health Center.”Plaintiff’s moving papers concede that issues related to Plaintiff’s mental, emotional, and psychological condition caused by the abuse are relevant. However, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has made no offer of proof as to why Plaintiff’s entire medical history and records of defendants’ financial transactions, without limitation, are essential to the case. The Court agrees. Although the nature of Plaintiff’s suit may be deemed as a waiver of privacy as to matters embraced by this action, the scope of the privacy waiver “must be narrowly rather than expansively construed.” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 859.)Defendant’s opposition brief argues that the records are relevant because they contain information pertaining to damages – plaintiff’s alleged injuries – that are pled in the complaint and may lead to the discovery of a pre-existing injury or condition, as well as subsequent injuries or conditions, that have impacted Plaintiff’s emotional well-being through the last forty years. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s complaint states that she has suffered “physical and mental pain and suffering, severe emotional distress, physical injuries, past and future costs of medical care and treatment.” (Complaint, ¶¶ 41, 46, 58, 77, and 84.) However, Plaintiff’s reply brief confirms that her claim for physical injuries has been since dropped, noting that her responses to Form Interrogatories 6.2 and 6.3 alleged damages arising from childhood sexual abuse are solely related to emotional and mental injuries. Thus, at minimum, the subpoenas are arguably overbroad as to the physical injuries portion.On the record before the Court, items such as, for example, treatment records, notes and/or other materials that would be limited in time to the period between 1980 and present would be a reasonable time limitation. However, with respect to scope of records, the language of the subpoenas encompasses things it is unlikely a mental health professional would have, i.e., x-rays,, MRIs and CT scans, but if H. Claude Hudson Comprehensive Health Center did obtain such materials from Plaintiff or another provider to assist in diagnosing and treating Plaintiff, those materials could be within the ambit of a reasonable scope given the nature of Plaintiff’s claims here.When a plaintiff puts her health and physical condition at issue, the privacy and privileges that normally attach to such sensitive information are “substantially lowered by the very nature of the action.” (Heller v. Norcal Mutual Ins. Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 30, 43.) This Court must “balance the public need against the weight of the privacy right” and only serious invasions of privacy will bar discovery. (Crab Addison, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958, 966.) There is not an egregious invasion of privacy every time there is a request for private information and courts must “place the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and seriousness of the prospective invasion.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) “[A]lthough in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have unquestionably waived their physician-patient . . . privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to information relating to the medical conditions in question and does not automatically open all of a plaintiff’s past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849.) The burden is on the party seeking the constitutionally protected information to establish direct relevance. (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017.) As such, Defendant’s burden was to show this Court how the subpoena request was directly relevant. This Court finds that Defendant has done so as to much of the records sought.The Court reminds the parties that they have stipulated to a confidentiality agreement as to documents produced in discovery, filed with the Court on April 17, 2024. The confidentiality stipulation provides a mechanism for either side to designate documents as confidential and to limit dissemination of protected documents to lessen the privacy concerns raised in the Plaintiff’s opposition.IV. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash is tentatively GRANTED in part to exclude the responding party from being required to produce items like Plaintiff’s MRIs, X-Rays, and CT scans over the last four decades, and is tentatively DENIED as to billing and treatment records which appear calculated to discovery potentially admissible evidence. To the extent that any of the subpoenaed records implicate sensitive, private, or embarrassing details of other incidents or other traumatic events (e.g., pregnancies out of wedlock, domestic violence circumstances, etc.) plaintiff may have experienced, such documents can be designed as “Confidential” under the parties’ stipulated confidentiality agreement to limit the dissemination and use of such documents.Plaintiff is ordered to serve and file notice of this ruling.