  Case Number:  19VECV01611    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  W almas &
son, llc v. nai capital, inc.
 
DEMURRER with
motion to strike the first amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        March
12, 2024                     Trial Date:       March 4, 2023 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        19VECV01611
 
Moving Party:             Defendant Patrick
Ortiz
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Almas & Son, LLC alleges
it entered into an agreement with Defendants Nai Capital, Inc. and Patrick
Ortiz where Defendants were to find Plaintiff a suitable tenant for their commercial
building. Plaintiff alleges Defendants represented to Plaintiff they found a
tenant who would run a legal smoke shop and ran a background check on the
tenant; however, these representations were false. Plaintiff alleges Defendants
did not run a background check and the tenant operated a cannabis shop in
violation of the agreement and as prohibited by the
Department of Cannabis Regulation.  Defendant previously demurred to the First
Amended complaint and that demurrer was sustained with leave to amend on
November 16, 2023.  Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint on December 18, 2023, for the first time appending the
lease agreement.  Defendants now demur to
the Second Amended Complaint on the ground that none of the causes of action
can survive given contrary provisions in the parties’ lease agreement.   Plaintiff did not file an opposition to the
demurrer.   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff’s failure to file an
opposition to the demurrer established its “acquiescence ... the demurrer [wa]s
meritorious.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.54(c) [“A failure to oppose a motion
may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion.”].)
 
But even if plaintiff had opposed the
demurrer, the court agrees with the moving party that the language of the lease
agreement is fatal to its claims against defendants.  Each of Plaintiff’s alleged causes of action is
based on allegations that are directly contradicted by the Lease signed by
Plaintiff, which has now been attached to the complaint.   There can be no breach of contract, fraud,
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud or unfair business practice or negligence given
that Plaintiff’s own representations in the Lease establish not only that no
such “representations” were made by the Broker, but, further, that Plaintiff
conceded its own investigations were the source of its decision to Lease to the
tenant, that Broker has no liability for the fitness, suitability and/or
performance of the tenant under the Lease, the use clause in the Lease
expressly forbade the tenant’s wrongful conduct and Plaintiff agreed that the
Lease was the final agreement of the parties, superseding all others. As a
matter of law, Plaintiff cannot allege any representations (false or otherwise
by Broker) and cannot establish reliance or causation for any claims when
Plaintiff expressly stated that it was relying on Plaintiff’s own
investigations and advisors and not upon Broker whom Plaintiff agreed was not
liable/responsible for the tenant.  The
earlier letter attached as Exhibit 1, which is not legible and is not signed as
far as the court can determine by the parties to be bound, is superseded as a
matter of law by the later lease.   
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend.  
 