 Case Number:  22VECV01112    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  W BLACKCOMB GROUP, INC., V. JPMORGAN CHASE
BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
 
DEFENDANT JP MORGAN CHASE BANK n.a.’S MOTION TO
STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF BLACKCOMB GROUP, INC.’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        March
12, 2024                                 Trial
Date:       None set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01112
 
Moving Party:            Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Blackcomb Group, Inc.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 4, 2022, Plaintiff Blackcomb Group, Inc. filed a
complaint against Defendant JP Morgan Chase Bank National Association for
breach of contract, accounting, and conversion. Plaintiff opened an account
with Chase in November 2020, ending in 3103. Plaintiff alleges it made an
initial deposit of $3,784.29 and a second deposit of $23,000.00 for a total
amount of $26,784.29. Plaintiff further alleges Chase closed the account ending
in 3103 without prior notice to Plaintiff (when the account balance was $26,784.29)
and sent Plaintiff a check reimbursing them for the $3,784.29 but failed to
reimburse Plaintiff for the $23,000.00 deposit. 
 
Defendant moved for judgment on the pleadings. On December 26,
2023, this court granted the motion, in part, with leave to amend and on
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s
Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND
 
discussion
 
Defendant JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. moves to strike Paragraph 20
and Plaintiff’s prayer for relief with respect to its cause of action for
breach of contract, paragraph 2 on the grounds that Plaintiff’s request for
attorneys’ fees is based on an indemnification provision, not a provision for
attorneys’ fees, which is not subject to Civil Code Section 1717, and is
therefore an irrelevant, false, and improper matter inserted in any pleading
and should therefore be stricken.
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion,
and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP §436(a).) The court may also strike all
or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §436(b).) The grounds
for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP §436.) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (CCP §437.)
 
Chase Bank argues the Deposit Account Agreement (“DAA”) does not
contain an attorneys’ fees provision subject to Civil Code Section 1717.
Specifically, the pertinent portion of the DAA states:
 
If we receive any legal process
relating to you or your account, you authorize us to comply with it. “Legal
process” means any document that appears to have the force of law that requires
us to hold or pay out funds from your account, including a garnishment,
attachment, execution, levy or similar order.
…
If any action, including
administrative proceedings, garnishment, tax levies, restraining orders or
another action is brought against you or your account, you will be liable to us
for any loss, cost or expense (including attorneys’ fees) resulting from our
compliance with any legal process. …
 
Chase Bank argues this provision is an indemnity provision, not an
attorneys’ fees provision, and it is therefore not subject to Civil Code
Section 1717. Accordingly, there is no basis for Plaintiff’s claim to attorneys’
fees and Plaintiff’s allegations regarding attorneys’ fees should be stricken.
Chase Bank contends although Section IX, subsection K includes attorneys’ fees
in the enumerated items recoverable, “[a] provision including attorney fees as an
item of loss in an indemnity clause is not a provision for attorney fees in an
action to enforce the contract.” (Myers Bldg. Ind., Ltd. v. Interface
Technology, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th 949, 971.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues the prayer for attorney fees
should not be stricken because the plain language of the clause does not
indicate it is part of an indemnity agreement. Plaintiff contends in the event
that Defendant here is the prevailing party, the clause could arguably be used
by Defendant for a fees award and since Section 1717(a) makes that reciprocal,
Plaintiff is also entitled to its fees if he is the prevailing party. 
 
The court finds the request for attorney fees improper. “Under
Civil Code section 1717, a reciprocal right to attorney fees in all parties to
a contract arises where the contract accords a right to such fees to one party
but not the other.  However, the
inclusion of attorney fees as an item of loss in a third party claim indemnity
provision does not constitute a provision for the award of attorney fees in an
action on contract as is required to trigger operation of Civil Code section
1717.” (Campbell v. Scripps Bank (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 1328, 1336-1337
(internal citations omitted).) One exception is when the indemnity provision
calls for enforcing the indemnity agreement. (See Baldwin Builders v.
Coast Plastering Corp. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1339, 1345 holding the
express language of the attorney fee clauses authorizes the recovery of
attorney fees where one of the parties to the agreement brings an action to
enforce the indemnity.) Here, the attorney's fees clause at issue is included
in an indemnity provision but does not allow for attorney fees in enforcing the
agreement. As such, attorney fees are not available. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A.’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 