  Case Number:  23VECV00538    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  W WESLEY SU v.
AVANTGARDE SENIOR LIVING
 
Demurrer with motion to strike to
complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        October
23, 2023                              Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV00538
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
AvantGarde Senior Living dba AvantGarde Senior Living of Tarzana 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Wesley Su  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Dayal Decl. ¶¶2-3.)   
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff Wesley
Su filed a complaint against Defendant AvantGarde Senior Living dba AvantGarde
Senior Living of Tarzana for (1) Negligence; (2) Violations of The Elder and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act [Welf. & Instit. Code §15600 Et Seq.];
(3) Violations of Resident Rights [Health & Safety Code §1430(B)]; and (4)
Wrongful Death. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on July 14, 2023, removing
the third cause of action for Violations of Resident Rights. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant AvantGarde Senior Living dba AvantGarde Senior Living of
Tarzana’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND; Defendant’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED, in PART. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for Elder Abuse on the grounds Plaintiff’s
claim fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
Defendant also moves to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint for punitive
damages, attorney fees, and treble damages as well as Plaintiff’s reference to
the health and human services agency. 
 
Second Cause
of Action
 
Defendants
demur to the second cause of action for Elder Abuse on the grounds Plaintiff’s
allegations do not provide a sufficient factual basis to support Plaintiff’s
conclusory allegations of reckless neglect or corporate authorization or
ratification. 
 
To plead
elder abuse, the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that the defendant:
(1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent
adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care [citations]; (2)
knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for
his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or withheld goods or
services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s basic needs, either
with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall the elder or
dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with
conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if the plaintiff
alleges recklessness) [citations].”¿¿(Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise
Valley LLC¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407.)¿ There must be an allegation of authorization or
ratification on the part of a managing agent in order to recover damages for
dependent adult abuse against corporate defendants.¿¿(Civ. Code, § 3294; Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15657(c).) 
 
Defendants
first assert Plaintiffs have not set forth facts amounting to a conscious or
willful act of egregious neglect, much less abuse. The FAC alleges in April
2018, Ching Wang was admitted as a resident to Defendant’s facility due to his
advanced age and need for assistance with his activities of daily living. (FAC
¶24.) At the time Mr. WANG was admitted to AvantGarde, he had been diagnosed
with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, Dysphagia; Benign Prostatic
Hyperplasia; Diabetes Mellitus; and Constipation. Mr. Wang also head a medical
history of unsteady gait and a history of falls and required supervision while transferring
and ambulating. (FAC ¶24.) An Individual Service Plan (“ISP”) confirmed that
Mr. Wang was a high fall risk due to his diminished endurance and possible
orthostatic hypotension caused by side effects of medication. (FAC ¶25.) As a
result, Defendant was to implement fall prevention protocols related to Mr. Wang’s
high fall risk. (FAC ¶25.) Another ISP reaffirmed Mr. Wang was a high fall
risk. (FAC ¶26.) Mr. Wang was further dependent on AvantGarde for daily
activities including bathing, toileting, personal hygiene, and dressing due to
his shortness of breath and high risk for falling. (FAC ¶28.) However, on June
30, 2022, Mr. Wang suffered a fall at AvantGarde. (FAC ¶30.) Specifically, the
staff witnessed and chose to allow Mr. Wang to get up from a chair and ambulate
on his own, despite AvantGarde staff knowing that Mr. Wang’s ISP specifically
required that staff did not leave him unattended while performing his
activities. (FAC ¶30.) 
 
The court
finds this is not sufficient to support an elder abuse cause of action. Both
parties cite to Sababin to support their contention. In Sababin,
the court held that a health care facility’s significant pattern of withholding
portions of care may support an award of heightened remedies where the care
facility knows it must provide a certain type of care on a daily basis but
provides it sporadically, or is supposed to provide multiple types of care, but
only provides some of those types of care. (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 81, 90.) However, this one time incident is
insufficient to show Defendant acted with a significant pattern of denying
care. The complaint at most alleges the Defendant was made aware several times
of Mr. Wang’s heightened fall risk and on the day of the incident, staff of
Defendant chose to let Mr. Wang get up from the chair unattended.  
 
Next,
Defendants argue Plaintiff failed to allege an officer, director or managing
agent authorized or ratified the abuse or neglect. (See Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657(c) [“The
standards set forth in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code
regarding the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts
of an employee shall be satisfied before any damages or attorney's fees
permitted under this section may be imposed against an
employer.”].)  
 
In the
complaint, Plaintiff alleges AvantGarde’s Executive Director and Administrator knew
of and implemented policies within the facility regarding potential risk for
falls and AvantGarde’s Executive Director and Administrator knew or should have
known these policies were not being followed by AvantGarde’s staff with respect
to Mr. Wang yet failed to take reasonable corrective action resulting in Mr.
Wang’s injuries. (FAC ¶36.) The court finds that this is sufficient to plead corporate
ratification. Although the complaint does not provide the specific identity
of particular employees, officers and agents of AvantGarde in Paragraph 36,
it is established that this particular identification is not a strict
requirement under Civ. Code §3294 (b).  
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the Second Cause of Action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND. 
 
Motion to
Strike 
 
Defendant
also moves to strike portions of Plaintiff’s complaint for punitive damages,
attorney fees, treble damages, and references to the health and human services
agency. 
 
Because the
court has sustained Defendant’s demurrer, Defendant’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s claims for punitive damages is attorney fees is MOOT. The court
notes concerning treble damages under CC § 3345, that statute – by its own
language – applies only in actions brought by, on behalf of, or for the benefit
of senior citizens or disabled persons to redress unfair or deceptive acts or
practices or unfair methods of competition. The express inclusion of certain
things in a statute is necessarily the exclusion of other things not expressed
(Dyna-Med, Inc. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (1987) 43 Cal.3d
1379, 1391, fn. 13]. Thus, the statute has a non-health care focus, and is
primarily directed at economic loss rather than physical harm. CC § 3345(b)(2).
The statute, consequently, does not provide the FAC a basis for treble damages.
 
As for
Plaintiff’s references to and inclusion of alleged involvement and findings by
the California Health and Human Services Agency, the court finds the
allegations are irrelevant and do not sufficiently establish advance knowledge
of the purported reckless and malicious behavior. Accordingly, the court GRANTS
Defendant’s Motion to Strike, in part. 