  Case Number:  21PSCV00721    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  G Cross-Defendants Carlota
G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint
Respondent: Cross-Complainants
Esteban Cruz and Ruth Cruz
TENTATIVE RULING
Cross-Defendants Carlota
G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint is CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
Cross-Defendants’
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Cross-Complainants’ counsel
regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such
meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled
hearing on the Demurrer.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action arising from a dispute over a family trust. In September 1998,
Carlota G. Cruz and Carlota’s husband, Antonio V. Cruz, formed The
Antonio V. Cruz and Carlota G. Revocable Trust (Cruz Trust) and are trustees of
the Cruz Trust. In December 2012, Carlota and Antonio Cruz amended the Cruz
Trust. All of Carlota and Antonio Cruz’s assets and real property were
allegedly placed under the Cruz Trust. Due to their advanced age and medical
conditions, Carlota and Antonio Cruz became more dependent on their family
members and currently live in Pomona with Dora Cruz, their daughter. Carlota
and Antonio Cruz also have a son named Esteban Cruz who is married to Ruth
Cruz. Through Esteban and Ruth Cruz, Carlota and Antonio Cruz also have a
granddaughter named Wendy Cruz.
Esteban
and Ruth Cruz allegedly reside in residential property owned by Carlota and
Antonio Cruz and have allegedly failed to (1) pay for property insurance on the
residence and (2) pay property taxes. In March 2021, Carlota Cruz learned
Antonio Cruz had made changes to Antonio Cruz’s health plan, allegedly at the
behest of Esteban and Ruth Cruz. Carlota Cruz also learned Antonio Cruz had
closed bank accounts and changed his mailing address to Esteban and Ruth Cruz’s
address. Previously in February 2021, Carlota and Antonio Cruz had agreed that
Esteban Cruz would assist in collecting rent from rental homes belonging to the
Cruz Trust. However, Esteban, Ruth, and Wendy Cruz allegedly began managing the
properties and intimidating tenants to force tenants to move out or pay rent.
On
September 1, 2021, Carlota Cruz, as an individual and trustee of the Cruz
Trust, filed a complaint against Esteban and Ruth Cruz, Wendy Cruz, and Does
1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) elder abuse, (2) conversion,
(3) accounting, (4) restitution, and (5) declaratory relief.
On
July 21, 2022, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a cross-complaint against Carlota
and Dora Cruz as trustees of the Cruz Trust, alleging the following causes of
action: (1) defamation, (2) elder abuse, and (3) intentional interference with
right of inheritance.
On
August 29, 2022, Carlota and Dora Cruz filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On
September 13, 2022, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint
(FACC) against the Carlota and Dora Cruz and Roes 1-10, alleging the same
causes of action. On October 23, 2023, the court sustained Carlota and Dora
Cruz’s demurrer to the FACC in part with leave to amend.
On
November 13, 2023, Esteban and Ruth Cruz filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint
(SACC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On
December 15, 2023, Carlota and Dora Cruz filed the present demurrer. A hearing on their demurrer is set
for April 25, 2024, along with a case management conference. Hearings on
motions to expunge lis pendens are also set for May 21, 22, and 23.
ANALYSIS
Carlota
and Dora Cruz demur to the entire SACC. For the following reasons, the court
finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
Legal
Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), prior to filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” This section further provides
that “the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action
that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the
basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
While
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4) makes clear failing
to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer, courts “are not
required to ignore defects in the meet and confer process” and if the court
determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or concludes further
conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains discretion
to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye toward
reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer, and to
continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn. 3.)
Discussion
In this case, Carlota and Dora Cruz’s counsel
filed a declaration stating counsel attempted to meet and confer by emailing
requests for a telephone conference to Esteban and Ruth Cruz’s counsel on
November 17, 2023, as well as November 29 and November 30. (Karr Decl., ¶ 4-6.)
Because Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41 places the burden to meet and confer telephonically or in-person on Carlota
and Dora Cruz’s counsel, the court finds this attempt insufficient as counsel
did not attempt to reach out to Esteban and Ruth Cruz’s counsel over the
telephone or in-person and an email is not a code-compliant form of meeting and
conferring. Thus, the court finds a continuance of the hearing on Carlota and
Dora Cruz’s demurrer is appropriate.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Carlota and Dora
Cruz’s demurrer is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the
hearing in Department G (Pomona).
Carlota and Dora Cruz’s counsel is also ordered to meet and
confer with Esteban and Ruth Cruz’s
counsel regarding the demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the
next scheduled hearing on the demurrer.