 Case Number:  23PSCV02788    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  G Petitioner City of Azusa’s Motion to Appoint a
Receiver
Respondent: Defendant
Flagstar Bank, N.A.
TENTATIVE RULING
Petitioner City of Azusa’s Motion to Appoint a
Receiver is CONTINUED to a date to be determined in Department G (Pomona).
Furthermore, Petitioner City of Azusa is ordered to
file a supplemental declaration establishing its compliance with the posting
requirement of Health and Safety Code section 17980.7, subdivision (c) within
nine (9) court days of the next hearing on the present motion.
BACKGROUND
This
is a nuisance action brought by the City of Azusa (the City) to appoint a
receiver. The subject of this action is a residential property in Azusa that
allegedly has a history of substandard conditions in violation of the Azusa
Municipal Code. Starting in October 2020, the City first issued a notice of violation
with regards to the Azusa property. After issuing multiple notices of violation
and five administrative citation fines, the City declared the Azusa property a
public nuisance at a hearing on March 24, 2022.
On September 11, 2023, the
City filed a complaint for nuisance and petition for the appointment of receiver
against Respondents Thomas Ybarra; Quicken Loans, Inc. (Quicken Loans); JPMorgan
Chase Bank, National Association (Chase Bank); and Does 1-25.
On October 3, 2023, the City
amended the petition to replace Doe 1 with Respondent Flagstar Bank, National
Association (Flagstar Bank).
On January 25, 2024, the City
amended the petition to replace Doe 2 with Respondent Cavalry SPV I, LLC
(Cavalry).
On February 13, 2024, the
City filed the present motion. On February 14, the City dismissed Quicken Loans
from the present action.
A hearing on the present
petition is set for April 25, 2024, along with a case management conference,
OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service, and OSC Re: Default.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
The City’s request for the
court to take judicial notice of provisions in the California Building Code and
Azusa Municipal Code are GRANTED. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (a), (b).)
ANALYSIS
The
City petitions the court for the appointment of GS Strategies, Inc. as receiver
for the Azusa property. For the following reasons, the court CONTINUES the City’s motion.
Pursuant
to Health and Safety Code section 17980.7, the City may petition the court for
the appointment of a receiver in the following manner:
“In its petition to the court, the enforcement
agency, tenant, or tenant association or organization shall include proof
that notice of the petition was posted in a prominent place on the
substandard building and mailed first-class mail to all persons with a
recorded interest in the real property upon which the substandard building
exists not less than three days prior to filing the petition. The
petition shall be served on the owner pursuant to Article 3 (commencing with
Section 415.10) of Chapter 4 of Title 5 of Part 2 of the Code of Civil
Procedure.” (Health & Safety Code, § 17980.7, subd. (c) (emphasis added).)
In
this case, while the City’s petition states the City “has served all parties
with a recorded interest in the Subject Property with a three-day notice,” the
City’s petition fails to include any proof that notice of the petition was
posted and properly served at least three days prior to the filing of the
petition. (Complaint, Prayer, ¶ 10.) In a declaration filed in support of the
present motion, the City’s counsel does state that the three-day notice of the
petition was sent to Ybarra, Flagstar Bank, and Chase Bank on August 31, 2023,
via certified mail. (Gunzel Decl., ¶ 7.) But while a copy of the notice itself
states “Via Certified U.S. Mail and Posting,” counsel’s declaration fails to
state when, where, and if the notice was actually posted. (Gunzel Decl., ¶ 7,
Ex. E.)
Accordingly,
the court CONTINUES the hearing on the present motion. 
The City is ordered to file a supplemental declaration establishing its
compliance with the posting requirement of Health and Safety Code section
17980.7, subdivision (c) within nine (9) court days of the next hearing on the
present motion.