  Case Number:  22TRCV01162    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  P Defendant’s Motion for Summary JudgmentMoving Party: Defendant Costco Wholesale CorporationResponding Party: NoneRULINGHaving considered the moving papers, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn November 11, 2022, Plaintiff Dunia Orbeli-Madrid (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-50, inclusive, alleging a single cause of action for premises liability.Defendant filed an answer on January 1, 2023.On July 11, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn August 31, 2022, Plaintiff slipped on cracked eggs while shopping at Defendant’s warehouse. (Complaint, ¶ 4.) The fall occurred sometime around 7:00-7:45 PM. (UMF, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant allowed the substance to remain on the floor for an unreasonable amount of time, creating a dangerous condition. (Complaint, ¶ 4.)Defendant provides evidence that the dairy cooler had been inspected shortly before Plaintiff’s fall and the substance was only on the floor for 10-20 minutes. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 6.)LEGAL STANDARDIn reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)“A party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no merit to a claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) A motion for summary adjudication shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.) It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence. (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Ibid.) The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentDefendant argues its motion should be granted because Plaintiff cannot prove Defendant had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition.Merits of the MotionA. Premises LiabilityThe elements of a premises liability and negligence cause of action are the same: duty, breach, causation and damages. (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “The owner of premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm. A failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.” (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619; Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.) While an owner of premises is not an insurer of the safety of its patrons, the owner still owes them a duty to exercise reasonable care in keeping the premises reasonably safe. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) “A store owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the portions of the premises open to customers, and the care required is commensurate with the risks involved.” (Ibid.)The plaintiff has the burden to prove the owner had actual or constructive notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct it. (Louie v. Hagstrom’s Food Stores (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 601, 606.) “There must be some evidence . . . to support the conclusion that the condition had existed long enough for the proprietor, in the exercise of reasonable care, to have discovered and remedied it.” (Girvetz v. Boys’ Market (1949) 91 Cal.App.2d 827, 829.) The plaintiff has the burden because “shifting the burden to defendant would, contrary to existing negligence law, permit an inference of negligence to be drawn against the owner based solely on the fact that the fall or accident occurred.” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1206.)However, the plaintiff need not show actual knowledge where evidence suggests the dangerous condition was present for a sufficient period of time to charge the owner with constructive knowledge of its existence, which may be shown by circumstantial evidence. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1206.) A plaintiff may prove a dangerous condition existed for an unreasonable time with circumstantial evidence that an inspection had not been made within a particular period of time prior to the accident, warranting the inference that the defective condition existed long enough that a person exercising reasonable care would have discovered it. (Id. at p. 1210.)“The exact time the condition must exist before it should, in the exercise of reasonable care, have been discovered and remedied, cannot be fixed, because, obviously, it varies according to the circumstances.” (Louie v. Hagstrom’s Food Stores (1947) 81 Cal.App.2d 601, 608.) Typically, the question of whether a condition existed so long as to be discoverable within a reasonable time is a question of fact to be decided by the jury. (Hatfield v. Levy Bros. (1941) 18 Cal.2d 798, 807; Tuttle v. Crawford (1936) 8 Cal.2d 126, 130; Rothschild v. Fourth & Market St. Realty Co. (1934) 139 Cal.App. 625, 627.) However, if there is no substantial evidence from which it can be reasonably inferred that the condition existed for a sufficient period of time to charge the defendant with constructive notice of its presence and to remedy the condition, a defendant may be entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Perez v. Ow (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 559, 562.)Here, Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot establish the notice element of a premises liability claim. Defendant provides Plaintiff’s deposition as evidence that Plaintiff does not have proof that Defendant had actual notice of the spill. (Compendium of Evidence, Exh. B., p. 34, lines 2-4.) Thus, because Plaintiff cannot allege actual knowledge, the discussion must turn to constructive knowledge.Defendant contends that an employee inspected the dairy cooler shortly before Plaintiff’s fall and did not see any spills. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant provides a “Daily Floor Walk/Inspection” (“Inspection Form”) form, which Defendant’s employees use as they walk along the entire store floor. (Ascencio Decl., Exh. E.) The Inspection Form indicates that from 7:02 PM to 7:35 PM, Carlos Ascencio (“Ascencio”) completed a walkthrough of the store floor and did not notice any issues. Ascencio also declares that he inspected the dairy section no more than twenty minutes before Plaintiff’s fall. (Ascencio Decl., ¶ 6.) Ascencio further declares that it is every Costco employee’s obligation to report any hazardous conditions on the floor and to either clean up or report such an issue. (Id. at ¶ 5.)In this case, Defendant has shown evidence that it both had a plan for the monitoring and management of spills and issues on the floor of the store in question. Defendant has also shown evidence that Defendant implemented that plan and that the area in question was inspected no more than 20 minutes prior to Plaintiff’s fall.The court, having considered the evidence presented by defendant and the reasonable inferences therefrom, finds that Defendant has met its burden to show a prima facie case that it was not negligent in the performance of its duty to its customers.Plaintiff failed to oppose Defendant’s motion and failed to provide any evidence to dispute the facts set forth by Plaintiff. Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiff has not overcome Defendant’s evidentiary showing on the merits.In addition, the court exercises its discretion under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(b)(3) to grant Defendant’s motion for Plaintiff’s failure to oppose it.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.Defendant to give notice.