 Case Number:  23TRCV03765    Hearing Date:   October 1, 2024    Dept:  P Motion to File a First Amended ComplaintMoving Parties: Plaintiff Arcelia FloresResponding Party: Defendants Mergen Construction and Steve MergenRULINGHaving considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, the court GRANTS plaintiff’s motion.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn November 13, 2023, Plaintiff Arcelia Flores (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Mergen Construction, Inc. (“Mergen Construction”); Steve Mergen (“Mergen”); and DOES 1-20, inclusive (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging causes of action for (1) Motor Vehicle; (2) Negligence; and (3) Negligence per se.On January 26, 2024, Defendants filed their answer. On February 16, 2024, Defendants filed an amended answer.On August 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. Defendants filed an opposition on September 17, 2024. Plaintiff replied three days later.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis case arises from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on March 19, 2022. (Motion, p.1, line 1.) Plaintiff alleges that Mergen, driving a vehicle owned by Mergen Construction and the DOE Defendants, attempted to overtake her vehicle on the highway, causing a collision. (Complaint, p. 5.)On August 20, 2024, Defendants produced medical records, showing that Mergen suffered a stroke less than a week before the collision. (Motion, p. 1, lines 5-8.) Plaintiff now seeks leave to amend her complaint to include a cause of action for exemplary damages based on this new information.LEGAL STANDARDUnder Code of Civ. Proc. section 473, subd. (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) “[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).) “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend . . .” (Morgan v. Sup. Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)A motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) The motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by page, paragraph, and line number. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Finally, a separate supporting declaration specifying the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reason the request for amendment was not made earlier must also accompany the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.134(b).)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff contends that amending her complaint will not prejudice Defendants, as trial is set for March 24, 2025. Moreover, Plaintiff has learned new facts that make amendment necessary.Opposing Party’s ArgumentPlaintiff’s motion is not timely and will prejudice Defendants. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff has failed to state sufficient facts to support a request for punitive damages. Further, Defendants argue that a court cannot permit amendment if it subjects Defendants to a wholly different legal liability.Rely ArgumentPlaintiff argues Defendants did not address the merits or legal standards of her request to amend her complaint. Rather, they raise arguments that are more properly brought up in a demurrer or motion to strike. Further, they are not prejudiced because trial is still over seven months away.Merits of Plaintiff’s MotionAs a preliminary matter, the court finds that Plaintiff has complied with the requirements of rule 3.1324(a) and 3.134(b) by identifying the changes to be made; providing an explanation for why the amendment was not made earlier; and attaching the proposed amended complaint and a supporting declaration.Defendants argue that the addition of exemplary damages would subject them to a wholly different liability. However, the request for punitive damages arises from the same incident which the original complaint is based on. Any prejudice the Defendants would face from defending against this cause of action is outweighed by the court’s liberal approach to allowing amendment.Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s claim for exemplary damages has no merit. However, the court does not consider the merits of the proposed amendment at this stage. “[T]he preferable practice would be to permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)Moreover, trial is about seven months away. Defendants have sufficient time to contest the amended complaint and conduct discovery. Thus, any prejudice they face is minimal and does not outweigh the above-mentioned policy of liberality.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended complaint is GRANTED.Plaintiff to give notice of ruling.