 Case Number:  22CHCV01194    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-25-24
Case #22CHCV01194,
Kai-Lin Chang vs. Brittany A. Doremus, et al.
Trial Date: 8-26-24
 
MOTION TO COMPEL AT&T TO COMPLY WITH SUBPOENA
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Kai-Lin Chang
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Brittany A. Doremus
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff
requests that the Court compel AT&T to release the text message records for
Defendant; or in the alternative, compel Defendant to consent to the release of
the records. Plaintiff also requests sanctions.
 
RULING: Motion
to compel Defendant to consent is granted.
 
MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
MOVING PARTY:
Defendant Brittany A. Doremus
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Kai-Lin Chang
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant
requests that the Court enter a protective order prohibiting Plaintiff from
subpoenaing Defendant’s phone records
 
RULING:
Motion for protective order is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
At around 8:45
a.m. on September 12, 2022, Defendant Brittany A. Doremus (Defendant) was
driving her motor vehicle when she struck Plaintiff Kai-Lin Chang’s (Plaintiff)
bicycle. Plaintiff alleges that he sustained serious injuries as a result of
the accident that required surgery and months of physical therapy. Plaintiff
alleges that he had the right of way at the time of the accident and has sued
Defendant for negligence. Plaintiff has also sued Defendant’s employer, Kaiser
Permanente, on the theory that Plaintiff was acting in the scope of her
employment at the time the accident occurred.
 
Defendant has
already produced call records for the time frame of the accident. Plaintiff
also seeks text message records in order to determine if Defendant was texting
at the time of the accident, which would mean that Defendant was in violation
of Vehicle Code 23123, which forbids using a mobile phone while driving.
 
After months of
meeting and conferring, it appeared that the parties had reached an agreement
for Plaintiff to consent to AT&T producing Defendant’s Text Detail Report
for text longs from 6:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on the date of the accident. The
Text Detail Report would only show the sender number, recipient number, and the
date and time of the text messages during the relevant time frame. It would not
show the content of the text messages. (Motion at p. 7.) 
 
After Defendant
told Plaintiff that she could not access the Text Detail Report herself, Plaintiff
subpoenaed AT&T directly. AT&T responded on January 2, 2024, that it
would not comply with the subpoena without a signed written consent pursuant to
Public Utilities Code § 2891 and CCP § 1985.3(f). Throughout the month of
January, the parties went back and forth on what the language of the consent
would say. Plaintiff believed that Defendant had the intention to sign the
consent once the parties agreed on the language. However, on February 5, 2024, Defendant
suddenly indicated that she would not sign the consent form and accused Plaintiff
of harassing and threatening her. 
 
Thereafter,
Plaintiff filed the motion to compel compliance on February 9, 2024. Plaintiff’s
motion is to compel AT&T’s compliance with the subpoena, or, alternatively,
compel Defendant to consent to the subpoena. In response, Defendant not only
filed an opposition, but also her own motion for protective order on February
16, 2024. In her motion, Defendant argues that there is good cause for a
protective order because the request for the Text Detail Report raises privacy
concerns. Additionally, she argues that Plaintiff already has all the information
he needs based on records she’s already produced and her statement that she was
not using her phone at the time of the incident.
 
In her
opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel compliance, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s motion is improper and not code-compliant because it does not
contain a signed consent form from her to obtain personal records from a public
utility. Defendant also argues that there is no good cause for compelling her
records, and it would invade her privacy. She also argues that Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions should be denied.
 
Plaintiff
argues in his reply that Defendant’s opposition does not comply with the
California Rules of Court because she did not include a table of contents and
cited to evidence with no basis. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant’s
argument regarding the lack of consent makes little sense, as Plaintiff filed
this motion precisely because Defendant would not sign the consent. Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant has no privacy right in the Text Detail Report, and
there is no third party privacy rights to a telephone number. Finally,
Plaintiff argues that there is a compelling need for the phone records, and
that Defendant should be sanctioned for her conduct.
 
Plaintiff’s
opposition to Defendant’s protective order motion contains similar arguments to
his reply, including that the Text Detail Report is relevant and that there is
no privacy right in the phone records. He also argues that Defendant’s motion
fails to state the elements required to grant a protective order, including
good cause and undue burden. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant’s motion was
not filed promptly and that Defendant failed to meet and confer on the
protective order. Plaintiff also argues for sanctions because of Defendant
bringing the motion.
 
In Defendant’s
reply, she argues that her motion was not untimely and that the parties did
meet and confer. She also argues that there is good cause for a protective
order and that Plaintiff is not entitled to sanctions.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Compel
Compliance with Subpoena
CCP § 1985.3
and Public Utilities Code § 2891 state that subpoenas of public utilities
companies are not enforceable where a party has not given their consent to the
release of their records. Defendant argues that because she has not given her
consent, then the subpoena on AT&T is not enforceable. The Court agrees.
However, the Court may order Defendant to give her consent if the Court finds
that the information is discoverable and good cause exists to obtain the text
logs.
 
Discovery rules
are applied liberally in favor of discovery. (Gonzales v. Superior Court
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) Further, all doubts about discovery are
resolved in favor of disclosure. (Glenfed Dev. Corp. v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1119.) “Discovery may be obtained … of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, tangible thing, or land or other property.” (CCP § 2017.010.) Any
information that “might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case,
preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement” falls within the definition of
permissible discovery. (Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
1599, 1611.) Parties to litigation are required upon proper demand to produce
documents in their possession, custody, or control. (CCP 2031.010(a).) 
 
First, because Defendant’s
consent is required to obtain the Text Detail Report, it is in her control for
purposes of application of the Discovery Act. 
 
Next, Plaintiff
argues that good cause exists to obtain the Text Detail Report because it may
show Defendant’s negligence and whether she was in violation of Vehicle Code §
23123 if she was texting and driving. Plaintiff argues it may also show whether
she was communicating with her work since she was running late for an 8:30 a.m.
meeting at work, which may have implications for Defendant Kaiser’s “coming and
going” rule defense. As Plaintiff already obtained Defendant’s call logs, the
Court finds that good cause exists for Plaintiff to obtain Defendant’s Text
Detail Report, as well.
 
That leaves the
argument of whether Defendant has legitimate privacy concerns. The right to
privacy protects against “the unwarranted, compelled disclosure of various
private or sensitive information regarding one’s personal life, including his
or her financial affairs, political affiliations, medical history, sexual
relationships, and confidential personnel information.” (27B Cal. Jur. 3d
Discovery and Depositions § 27.) Although discovery of private information requires
a balancing test, where “there is no serious invasion of privacy no balance of
opposing interests is required.” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1242, 1256.) “[T]he invasion of privacy must be ‘sufficiently
serious in [its] nature, scope, and actual or potential impact to constitute an
egregious breach of the social norms underlying the privacy right.’” (Alch
v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1427.)
 
In this case,
Plaintiff already produced her call logs for the relevant time period. It is
unclear to the Court why she is refusing to consent to the Text Detail Report
when it would contain no information besides phone numbers and time stamps.
None of the content of her messages would be in the report. It would simply demonstrate
whether she was sending or receiving text messages at the time of the incident.
This would not be a serious invasion of privacy. 
 
Because good
cause exists to obtain the records and because there would not be a serious
invasion of privacy, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant to
give her consent to release the records. However, the Court agrees with
Defendant on one point. If Plaintiff’s goal is simply to see if Defendant was
sending or receiving messages during the incident, the six hour timeframe of 6
a.m. to 12 p.m. is much too broad. The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
compel compliance, but with a shortened timeframe of 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. on
September 12, 2022. That should sufficiently cover the timeframe of the
incident without casting too wide of a net.
 
Protective
Order
For the reasons
discussed above and given that the Court has granted Plaintiff’s motion to
compel Defendant to consent, Defendant’s motion for a protective order is
denied. There are no serious privacy concerns implicated by the Text Detail
Report. There is also good cause to obtain the Report. Furthermore, the Text
Detail Report will confirm whether Plaintiff was using her phone at the time of
the incident. A protective order would also be unnecessary given the Court’s
adjusted timeframe for the Text Detail Report.
 
Sanctions
Plaintiff has
requested sanctions against Defendant and her attorneys of record for having to
bring his motion and for having to oppose Defendant’s motion. 
 
Plaintiff has
requested $6,435 for having to bring the motion, and an extra $250 for
Defendant’s alleged bad faith discovery tactics to delay production of the
records.
 
CCP § 2023.030
provides: “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging
in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct,
or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by
anyone as a result of that conduct.” “Misuse of the discovery process”
includes, but is not limited to failing to submit to an authorized method of
discovery; making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious
objection to discovery. (CCP § 2023.010.)
 
Plaintiff’s
request for $6,375 is based on 8.5 hours of attorney time at $750 an hour plus
the $60 filing fee. (Yong Decl., ¶ 35.) The additional $250 that Plaintiff is
requested is based on CCP § 2023.050(a), which allows for a $250 sanction when
a party does not meet and confer in good faith. 
 
Defendant
argues that she acted with substantial justification in opposing the subpoena
of the text records, and therefore should not be sanctioned. (See CCP
§2023.030(a).) The Court does not find that Defendant acted with substantial
justification in opposing the subpoena, as she had previously produced call
logs for the relevant time period, and there is little difference between those
and text logs. The Court will not, however, impose the extra $250 in sanctions.

 
Sanctions for
this motion are granted in the amount of $6,435 for attorney fees and costs
against Defendant and her attorneys of record.
 
Plaintiff also
requested $3,000 in sanctions for having to oppose Defendant’s protective order
motion (4 hours at $750 an hour). “The court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective
order, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2017.020(b).) 
 
As previously
noted, the Court does not find that Defendant acted with substantial
justification. However, there is substantial overlap between Plaintiff’s
arguments in his own motion and reply and the arguments in his opposition to
Defendant’s motion for protective order. Because of this overlap, the Court
will only impose sanctions for the motion to compel.
 
Sanctions are
granted in the total amount of $6,435.
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant to consent to the release of the records is granted
for the timeframe of 8:30 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. on September 12, 2022.
 
Defendant’s
motion for protective order is denied.
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is granted in the total amount of $6,435 against
Defendant and Defendant’s attorneys of record. Defendant and Defendant’s
attorneys of record are to pay the sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within
thirty (30) days. 
 
Moving party to
give notice.