  Case Number:  21CHCV00467    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 3-25-24
Case # 21CHCV00467, Vanessa Silvas vs. Central Valley
Occupational Medical Group, Inc., et al.
Trial Date: 6-3-24
 
DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Prohealth Profession Services,
LLC, Regency Surgery Center, Central Valley Occupational Medical Group, Inc.,
Pro-Health Valley Occupational Medical Group, Inc., and Sean Younai
(Defendants)
RESPONDING PARTIES: Plaintiff Vanessa Silvas
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint (FAC)
·        
Entire Complaint
·        
8th Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
9th Cause of Action for Racial
Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
10th Cause of Action for Sexual
Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
11th Cause of Action for Sexual
Harassment in Violation of the FEHA
·        
12th Cause of Action for Retaliation
in Violation of the FEHA
·        
13th Cause of Action for Failure to
Prevent Discrimination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
14th Cause of Action for Wrongful
Termination in Violation of the FEHA
·        
15th Cause of Action for Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy
 
Motion to Strike
·        
The FAC and Ms. Grau’s declaration in their
entirety
·        
Causes of Action Eight through Fifteen (barred
by the statute of limitations)
·        
Cause of Action Thirteen because the Court
already ruled that there is no private right of action for this claim
·        
Causes of Action Fourteen and Fifteen for
distinct reasons
·        
Paragraphs 133 through 142 for attorney fees
·        
Paragraph 9 of the FAC’s Prayer for Relief for
attorney fees
·        
References to Defendants Regency and CVOMG
·        
Paragraph 6.d.
·        
Paragraph 7
 
RULING: Continued to allow for supplemental
briefing
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
This is an employment law case arising from Plaintiff
Vanessa Silvas’s (Plaintiff) alleged wrongful termination. Plaintiff filed her
suit against Defendants on June 22, 2021. On October 13, 2023, this Court
ordered Plaintiff to do one of two things: substitute the trustee from her
bankruptcy case as the real party in interest, or secure proof of abandonment
of the claims.
 
On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) with a declaration from Plaintiff’s counsel. Attached to that
declaration was what is purported to be an email from Plaintiff’s bankruptcy
trustee, Diane Weil. Weil herself did not authenticate the email, and even if
it were authenticated, there is no way to tell from the email whether all
claims related to Plaintiff’s bankruptcy have been abandoned.
 
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s FAC on the basis that Plaintiff
failed to follow the Court’s order from October 13, 2023, that granted
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and ordered Plaintiff to file
a FAC substituting in the bankruptcy Trustee as the real party in interest or
secure proof of abandonment of the claims against her. Defendants argue that
Plaintiff therefore lacks standing. Defendant argues that the purported email
is insufficient to demonstrate that abandonment and also constitutes hearsay.
 
ANALYSIS
As further discussed below, the evidentiary objections and
request for judicial notice shall be addressed at such time that the rest of the
issues in these motions are heard.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Entire Complaint
The Court finds that the information presented regarding
Plaintiff’s bankruptcy status is insufficient for the Court to make a
determination as to whether Ms. Silvas may proceed as the Plaintiff in this
case. It is impossible to tell from the email exhibit that Plaintiff submitted
with her amended complaint whether her bankruptcy case has been abandoned in
its entirety. The Court will require supplemental briefing as to what
constitutes proof of abandonment of the bankruptcy case.
 
The Court will set a briefing schedule on this issue at the
hearing on this matter. The rest of issues from the demurrer and motion to
strike are continued until the Court determines whether Ms. Silvas is the
correct Plaintiff.
 
Moving party to give notice.
 