  Case Number:  19STCV24239    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78BRANDON DAVID,Plaintiff,          vs.DEFENDANT DOE 1, SUPERVISORY COMPANY, et al.,Defendants. Case No.: 19STCV24239 Hearing Date: November 8, 2023 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT DOE 3’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE SUMMARY ADJUDICATIONDefendant Doe 3 Local Church’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Summary Adjudication is DENIED in part and GRANTED in part.It is granted as to the cause of action for sexual battery and is granted as to the cause of action for sexual harassment as to the actions of Doe 5. The motion is otherwise denied.Moving party to provide notice.I. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for negligence, negligent hiring, negligent failure to warn, sexual battery, and sexual harassment. Plaintiff Brandon David alleges he suffered physical and sexual abuse committed by Doe 5, Brandon David’s father, between approximately 1987 and 1991 at their home in Anaheim, California, and later North Hills, California. (David Compl., ¶¶56-57.) Plaintiff was raised as a member of the Fellowship (“TLWF”), a church founded by John Robert Stevens in 1951. (Compl., ¶21.) Plaintiff’s family attended an affiliated church in Anaheim California until church leadership instructed the family to move to Doe 3 Local Church. (Compl., ¶53.) Doe 5’s marriage with Plaintiff’s mother was arranged by Stevens. (Compl., ¶52.) Plaintiff’s parents fought often and Doe 5 would regularly perpetrate domestic violence upon Plaintiff’s mother. (Compl., ¶54.) Doe 5 also sexually abused Plaintiff from when he was 3 years old until he was about 6 or 7. (Compl., ¶57.) Plaintiff is informed that pastors at both the Anaheim congregation and Doe 3 Local Church knew or had reason to know that Doe 5 was sexually abusing Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶59.) Doe 5 repeatedly informed pastors at Doe 3 Local Church that he had thoughts and impulses concerning sexually abusing Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶60.) The pastors then informed other affiliated churches and members of Doe Supervisory Organization. (Compl., ¶61.) When Plaintiff was five, Doe 5 confessed that he had been sexually abusing Plaintiff to pastors at Doe 3 Local Church who reported him to Doe 1 Supervisory Organization. (Compl., ¶¶62-63.) The pastors told Plaintiff and his mother to stay quiet and not to inform police. (Compl., ¶64.) Defendants failed to investigate Doe 5’s confession and instead promoted Doe 5 and allowed him to maintain a position of leadership at Doe 3 and another affiliated church. (Compl., ¶65.) Doe 5 was also made the head of the youth program. (Compl., ¶65.) Plaintiff’s mother informed other congregants of Doe 5’s conduct and Plaintiff’s school ultimately reported the abuse to law enforcement. (Compl., ¶66.) Plaintiff’s mother was kicked out of the church and divorced Doe 5. (Compl., ¶66.) Plaintiff was afraid to press charges against Doe 5 and continued to visit him after his parents’ divorce. (Compl., ¶68.) After Doe 5’s confession, he stopped sexually abusing Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶69.) Members of Doe 1 Supervisory Organization made inappropriate sexual comments about Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶70.) Plaintiff was also sexually abused by another member of Doe 3 Local Church on one occasion when the member fondled Plaintiff’s genitals and encouraged Plaintiff to engage in sexual conduct with other minors. (Compl., ¶71.) II. PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn July 10, 2019, Plaintiff Brandon David filed his Complaint against Defendants Doe 1 Supervisory Company, Doe 2 Family Ministry Corporation, Doe 3 Local Church, Doe 4 Religious Leader, and Doe 5.On June 22, 2023, Defendant Doe 3 Local Church filed this motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication.  III. LEGAL STANDARDThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established” or that there is a complete defense. (Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) Where, “a defendant moves for summary adjudication on a cause of action for which the plaintiff has the burden of proof at trial, the defendant ‘must present evidence that either “conclusively negate[s] an element of the plaintiff's cause of action” or “show[s] that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,” evidence necessary to establish at least one element of the cause of action. [Citation.] Only after the defendant carries that initial burden does the burden shift to the plaintiff “to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action ....” ’ ” (Doe v. The Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 657, 668) ; see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853-854..) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., section 437c(c).)IV. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSPlaintiff objects to Defendant’s evidence submitted in support of the motion for summary judgment. Plaintiff’s objections are to Defendant’s separate statement and not to any specific piece of evidence. Plaintiff’s objections are overruled.Defendant objects to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in opposition to the motion for summary judgment.The following objections are OVERRULED: 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 23, 25, 31, 32, 34, and 35.The following objections are SUSTAINED: 4, 18, 19, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, and 33. V. DISCUSSIONDoe 3 moves for summary judgment/summary adjudication on the grounds that there are no triable issues of material fact as to one of more essential elements of each of Plaintiff’s causes of action.1. Negligence Doe 3 moves for summary judgment as to this cause of action on the grounds that (1) it had no duty to protect Plaintiff while was at home with his parents and (2) Plaintiff’s claims with respect to the other alleged perpetrators fail because Doe 3 never had notice of Victor Owens or others engaging in such conduct.Duty to Protect Plaintiff from Abuse by Doe 5, Plaintiff’s FatherDefendant Doe 3 argues that it had no duty to protect Plaintiff from the sexual abuse of his father, Doe 5, which took place at the family home and which Defendant Doe 3 reported to social services when the abuse became known.This argument fails for a number of reasons.Generally, the existence of duty is a question of law. (Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083.)Generally, a person who has not created a peril does not have liability in tort for the failure to assist or protect another individual from that peril. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213.) However, there are exceptions to the general rule. In some circumstances a defendant may have an affirmative duty to protect a plaintiff from harm caused by a third party, even if that defendant did not create the risk of the harm suffered. (Id. at 215.)A recognized exception to this general rule is when a defendant has a special relationship with either the perpetrator of the harm or the victim who suffered the harm. (Id.)A special relationship exists where a plaintiff is particularly vulnerable and dependent upon a defendant and that defendant has some control over that plaintiff’s welfare. (Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, It is undisputed that Plaintiff was a congregant at Doe 3, the Church of the Living Word located in North Hills, California (“the Church”), along with his entire family including Doe 5, his father. It is also undisputed that Plaintiff was also a student at a school operated by Doe 3, known as Centers of Learning (“the School”), from approximately 1989 to 1993 and again from 1999 to 2000.It is well settled that a school has a special relationship with minor children who attend that school.  Defendant argues that School had no duty in this particular instance because the harm was caused by Plaintiff’s father, Doe 5, and Defendant had no knowledge that Doe 5 was sexually abusing Plaintiff prior to Plaintiff’s mother reporting it to Defendant and Defendant subsequently reporting the abuse to social services.Putting aside the issue of when Defendant had direct knowledge of Defendant’s abuse, the Court cannot say as a matter of law that that Doe 3 did not have a duty to Plaintiff given the special relationship with Plaintiff as a student and with Plaintiff and Doe 5 as congregants under the unique circumstances presented by this case.Plaintiff has produced evidence demonstrating the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether the School had notice that Plaintiff was likely the victim of sexual abuse.Plaintiff frequently engaged in mutual touching and oral sex with boys at school. On occasion, he was observed by teachers engaging in such activities. (Exh. 11, Plaintiff Depo. at pg. 183-184.)An elementary school classmate of Plaintiff’s testified that Plaintiff would touch girls and recalls one incident where Plaintiff stuck his foot between her legs under a table and pressed her genitals hard when Plaintiff was in second grade.(Exh. 12, Depo of R. Flagg at pg. 73.) She further testified that Plaintiffwould touch girls’ genitals and bottoms both inside and outside of class. (pg. 73.) She recalled that Plaintiff was “frequently in trouble” and disciplined for sexual behavior. (pg. 74.) She recalled Plaintiff exposing his genitals to students at school on more than one occasion. (77) She recalled Margo Walkoe and Debbie Grill discipling him for grabbing the genitalia of girls. (pg. 78) She stated that she observed sexualized behavior from Plaintiff continuously through her school years with plaintiff. (pg. 79)Another classmate at the School, Charlie Hajek, testified that during elementary school, Plaintiff was always trying to put his fingers up his bottom from the outside of his clothing. (Exh. 1, Hajek Declaration) When Plaintiff returned in middle school, Hajek recalls that Plaintiff would expose his genitals to classmates during class and would frequently rub his genitals with his hand over his clothing out in the open during class and on the field and play areas on campus.Another schoolmate testified that when Plaintiff was a kindergartner and she was in first grade at the School on at least four occasions they pulled their pants down and exposed their genitals to one another while at school. On one occasion, a teacher caught them and no disciplinary action was taken. (Exh. 2, Declaration of Anaiah Shehori.)Plaintiff reports that he had sexual interactions with most of his classmates at the School. (Plaintiff’s Depo.)  Plaintiff provides the declaration of expert Michelle Peterson to state that all the behaviors outlined above were red flags that Plaintiff was being sexually abused and should have been noticed by the School. (Exh. 3.) Putting aside the declaration of Peterson, this is common sense.The Court notes that the facts that Peterson relies upon with respect to the actual red flags is backed up by admissible evidence as outlined above. Hence, there is no Sanchez issue here.Putting aside the issue of ignored red flag, Plaintiff has produced an additional category of evidence relevant to the issue of duty, specifically evidence about: (1) the culture at the Church and the School which allowed for rampant sexual abuse of minors and others, as well as the cover up of such abuse, and (2) the tenets of the Church which emphasized complete submission to church authorities.Plaintiff’s mother testified that after she caught Doe 5 performing oral sex on Plaintiff, she called Margo Walkoe, an individual in a position of authority at both the Church and the School. Plaintiff’s mother testified that she did not report the incident to the police or other authority first because as a member of the Church she reported it to the Church, which “was the way to do things.” (Exh7., Jean Chadwick Depo., Page 104.)The next day, Doe 5 and  Plaintiff’s mother met with authorities in the Church and in the School, Ted and Sharon Shohfi and Matt and Margo Walkoe. (Exh. 7, Pg. 105.) The Church/School authorities stated at the meeting that Plaintiff’s mother had recently kissed another man, which was a sin, what Doe 5 had done with Plaintiff was a sin and that God would forgive him. (Id.)Plaintiff’s mother believed that Doe 5 was still chaperoning children at Church/School events. Therefore, Plaintiff’s mother informed School principal Debbie Grill that this was not acceptable given whet Doe 5 had done to Plaintiff. Plaintiff’s mother told anybody that would listen at Church that Doe 5 should be kept away from children. (Exh. 7, Page 113.) She was then told that she had to be silent about Plaintiff’s abuse and that if she could do so she was welcome to stay in the Church. She was also told that Doe 5 would remain a member in good standing of the Church. (Exh. 7, Page 114., Pages 176-177) An elder or apostolic member of the Church delivered this message. (Id. at 177.)Sarah Elizabeth Wurtz-Huesby testified to a number of incidents of sexual abuse of minors at the School. In 1996, while a student at the school, she witnessed a fellow student being sexually assaulted. Ms. Wurtz-Huesby reported the incident to School principal Debbie Grill who told her that she did not see the assault and to mind her own business. Ms. Wurtz-Huesby subsequently had a minor child at the School. When she believed that the child had been molested by another child at school, Ms. Wurtz-Huesby reported the incident to school administrator Margo Walkoe. Walkoe stated that it was wrong to raise any concerns and that what happened was not a big deal. (Exh. 5, Declaration of Wurtz-Huseby.)Plaintiff testified that after authorities were notified of the abuse, the pastors at the Church instructed Plaintiff not to press charges and that if he said anything else to the police, his dad would go to jail for a long time. (Exh. 10, Pages 112.) The pastors also indicated that Plaintiff should keep the information secret and that they were working with his father on his father’s impure thoughts.(Exh. 10, Pages 357-59.)Although Margo Walkoe testified that she did report the abuse to social services, she did not state that the abuse occurred on multiple occasions although Plaintiff’s mother testified that Walkoe had been so informed (PUMF Paragraph 37.)Plaintiff’s evidence also shows that the Church exercised significant control over their congregants’ relationships. For example, Plaintiff’s mother testified during her deposition that she was required to submit her romantic relationship with Doe 5 to her local church leaders for approval before they could be married. (Chadwick Depo., 77:10-14.) Another former leader of the Church testified in his declaration that members were required to submit everything to their pastors, including who to marry, where to live, whether to attend college, who to associate with, and all major and minor decisions. (Bobo Decl., ¶16.) Plaintiff’s evidence shows that Church exercised a degree of control over Plaintiff’s family that suggests a relationship that is more than simple membership in a church. The family lived on property owned by Ted Shofi, a member of church leadership, the incidents of sexual abuse took place on the property, and Doe 5 consulted Shofi and other Church authorities about his sexual abuse of Plaintiff. When Plaintiff’s mother discovered the abuse, she was expected to report the matter to church leaders first. Additionally, the evidence shows the Church exercises significant control over decisions about members’ personal lives, including where they should live and who they should marry. Plaintiff’s evidence further shows that Plaintiff attended Doe 3’s school.  During that time, Plaintiff engaged in overt sexualized behavior on a frequent basis. This behavior was a clear red flag that Plaintiff was being abused. This is just some of the disputed evidence that Plaintiff offers.Defendant asserts that no duty was owed in this instance. However, Defendant fails to analyze the Rowland factors and thus does not meet its moving burden. (Doe at Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 131.) Under these circumstances, the Court cannot find that as a matter of law no duty was owed and denies the motion for summary adjudication.Abuse by Victor Owens and OthersDefendant’s evidence does not adequately address the other allegations of sexual abuse allegedly carried out by other members of the Church on church grounds and an adult who worked at the School. (Compl., ¶¶69-71.) Matt Walkoe’s testimony alone that no one had ever reported the School’s caretaker, Victor Owens, for sexual abuse is insufficient to show that Doe 3 had no notice of abuse by Owens. Walkoe’s declaration does not indicate that he searched Church or School records or how he would know whether abuse had been reported to anybody. His testimony that he had not received other reports of sexual abuse does not show that the abuse did not take place or that Doe 3 was not aware of the abuse. If the abuse did take place on church grounds or in the church school, Doe 3 did have an affirmative duty to protect Plaintiff from sexual abuse from other Church  members and staff. Thus, Doe 3 fails to meet its burden. Summary adjudication is denied on this ground.2. Negligent hiring, retention, supervisionDoe 3 moves for summary judgment as to this cause of action on the grounds that (1) there is no evidence that the unidentified perpetrators were likely to engage in sexual abuse, (2) there is no evidence Doe 3 knew or should have known that Victor Owens was likely to engage in sexual abuse, (3) Doe 5 never engaged in abuse during his employment, and (6) Doe 5’s employment with Doe 3 did not result in damage to Plaintiff.“[A]n employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.”  (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.)  To establish a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a plaintiff must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs.  (See Z.V. v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; see also Doe, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at p. 1054.)  To be liable for negligent supervision and hiring, there must be a connection between the employment and injury.  (Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1341.)  “Liability for negligent hiring and supervision is based upon the reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.  (Id. at 1339.)  “The tort has development in California in factual settings where the plaintiff’s injury occurred in the workplace, or the contact between the plaintiff and the employee was generated by the employment relationship.”  (Id. at pp. 1339-1340.)  With respect to Doe 5 the motion for summary adjudication is granted. There is no evidence that Doe’s occasional HVAC work for the Church had anything to do with the harm suffered by Plaintiff here. (CACI 426.) This is important, because “[f]or summary adjudication purposes, separate wrongful acts may give rise to separate causes of action. Whether they are pleaded in the same or single counts is not determinative.” (The Rutter Group, Civil Procedure Before Trial, §10:39.2 (citing Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854; Blue Mountain Enterprises, LLC v. Owens (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 537, 549-550; and Cal. Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)Here, the alleged abuse consisted of separate and distinct acts by different individuals. As recognized by the Court of Appeal, “a party may present a motion for summary adjudication challenging a separate and distinct wrongful act even though combined with other wrongful acts alleged in the same cause of action.” (Lilienthal & Fowler v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1854-1855.)With respect to Victor Owens and other unidentified employees, Plaintiff contends that Defendant did not conduct background checks. However, Plaintiff produces no evidence that any background checks would have revealed a problem. Plaintiff also cites to failure to train regarding sex abuse, but that is relevant to another cause of action. (Plaintiff’s Opposition Pg. 15.) However, Doe 3’s evidence is insufficient to establish that Defendant did not have knowledge of Victor Owens’ propensity to commit sexual abuse. Matt Walkoe’s declaration stating he had no knowledge of Victor Owens’ propensity to commit sexual abuse does not show that Doe 3 had no knowledge of such a propensity. Although Owens testifies that no other members of church leadership have knowledge of such a propensity, Owens lacks personal knowledge to testify as to what other church leaders knew. Nor does Walkoe indicate that he searched through Church/School records in this regard.The motion for summary adjudication is granted with respect to Doe 5 and is denied with respect to Victor Owens.3. Negligent failure to warn, train, or educateDefendant argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligent failure to warn, train, or educate fails because the Church did not have a youth protection program which it failed to implement.Defendant cites Juarez v. Boy Scouts of America, Inc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 377, 409-410, disapproved in part by Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 222, which involved a former boy scout who alleged that the scouts owed him a duty to take reasonable measures to protect him from sexual assault committed by his scoutmaster. The court there, applying factors from Rowland v. Christian, 69 Cal.2d 108, determined that where there was a known risk of child molestation, a special relationship did exist between the scouts and the victim to protect him from harm caused by the third party criminal conduct committed by his scoutmaster, including warning the victim about how to handle the sexual abuse.Doe 3’s evidence, the declaration of Matt Walkoe, demonstrates that Matt Walkoe had never seen or heard anything that would lead him to believe that Doe 5 had any propensity to engage in sexual abuse. (Matt Walkoe Decl., ¶7.) Additionally, Plaintiff had never reported the abuse to him or any other church leaders he is aware of. (Id., ¶9.) Doe 3’s evidence at most shows that Matt Walkoe was not aware of any previous conduct or reports that would have shown Doe 5 was a known risk of child molestation. Although Walkoe testifies he is not aware that any report had been made to other church leaders, he lacks personal knowledge to testify on what other church leaders knew. The evidence does not show that Doe 3 was unaware of any risk that Doe 5 posed that would give rise to a duty to warn of sexual abuse and how to handle such situations. Doe 3 thus fails to meet its burden of showing that no triable issue of material fact remains over whether Doe 3 had a duty to warn of Doe 5’s sexual abuse. Summary adjudication is denied on this ground.4. Negligence per seDoe 3 next argues that the theory of liability under a theory of negligence per se fails because there is no admissible evidence that the church had any reason to suspect Doe 5’s sexual abuse before his confession.“The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute, ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action but creates an evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action for negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)Here, Doe 3 cites Doe v. Lawndale Elementary School District (2021) 72Cal.App.5th 113, 119 in support of its argument that the church did not have any reason to suspect the abuse before Doe 5’s confession. There, a court ruled that mandated reporting under Pen. Code, section 11166 requires mandated reporters to report abuse and reporters breach their duty to report only if a reasonable person in a like position would have discovered the abuse and those facts would have caused a reasonable person in a like position to suspect abuse. (Id at p.139.) However, as discussed above, Doe 3’s evidence is insufficient to show Doe 3 had no knowledge of Doe 5’s abuse because the evidence at most shows Matt Walkoe had no knowledge of the abuse. Additionally, as discussed above, Doe 3 fails to address the abuse that allegedly took place in the church school. Thus, a triable issue of material fact remains over whether Doe 3 and its employees complied with the mandatory reporting requirements of Pen. Code, section 11166. Moreover, there is the issue of teachers at school failing to investigate Plaintiff’s sexualized behavior as discussed above also precludes the granting of summary adjudication here. 5. Sexual Battery Doe 3 argues that the cause of action for sexual battery fails because Doe 3 cannot be held vicariously liable for Doe 5’s sexual abuse. Doe 5’s actions are the sole basis for this cause of action as  pled in the complaint.Civ. Code, section 1708.5 provides the following: (a) A person commits a sexual battery who does any of the following: (1) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with an intimate part of another, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. (2) Acts with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with another by use of his or her intimate part, and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. (3) Acts to cause an imminent apprehension of the conduct described in paragraph (1) or (2), and a sexually offensive contact with that person directly or indirectly results. (Civ. Code, § 1708.5(a).)  Section 1708.5 defines an intimate part as “the sexual organ, anus, groin, or buttocks of any person, or the breast of a female” and offensive contact as “contact that offends a reasonable sense of personal dignity.” (Id., § 1708.5(d), (f).)  “A cause of action for sexual battery under Civil Code section 1708.5 requires the batterer intend to cause a ‘harmful or offensive’ contact and the batteree suffer a ‘sexually offensive contact.’” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1225; see also Jacqueline R. v. Household of Faith Family Church, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 198, 208 (quoting Angie M.).)  “[R]espondeat superior liability attaches if the activities that cause[d] the employee to become an instrumentality of danger to others’ were undertaken with the employer’s permission and were of some benefit to the employer or, in the absence of proof of benefit, the activities constituted a customary incident of employment.” (Purton v. Marriott International., Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 499,509. Because it can be difficult to demonstrate “that a corporation is directly liable for the actions of its employees or agents,” respondeat superior “can allow a plaintiff to proceed against a corporation that could have been liable under a burdensome direct liability theory.” (Presbyterian Camp & Conference Centers, Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 12 Cal.5th 493, 515) “‘Employee[s]’ include most persons ‘in the service of an employer under any ... contract of hire’ ..., but do not include independent contractors.” (S. G. Borello & Sons, Inc. v. Dept. of Indus. Rel. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 341, 349, 256 (Borello).)Here, Doe 3 alleges that it cannot be vicariously liable for Doe 5’s sexual abuse because it did not take place in an employment context. There is no dispute about that fact.Plaintiff asserts that Doe 5 was an agent of Doe 3. However, Plaintiff does not cite any facts indicating that any agency relationship that may have existed led to the harm here. Plaintiff indicates that Doe 5 led children’s activities and provided HVAC maintenance to the Church and School.  However, these activities by Doe 5 had nothing to do with the harm suffered by Plaintiff.Summary adjudication is granted as to this cause of action. 6. Sexual HarassmentFinally, Doe 3 argues that the cause of action for sexual harassment fails because Doe 3 cannot be held vicariously liable for Doe 5’s sexual abuse, as well as the abuse of others, and because the matter is time barred.Plaintiff brings a cause of action for sexual harassment under Code Civ. Proc., section 340.1 (d), which provides that childhood sexual assault includes any act committed against the Plaintiff that occurred when the Plaintiff was a minor that would have been proscribed by Cal. Penal Code, section 647.6 (annoying or molesting a child). With respect to the argument that the cause of action is time-barred, Doe 3 cites Gatto v. County of Sonoma (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 744, 759 in support of its argument. Gatto involved a case for sexual harassment under Civ. Code, section 51.9.As Plaintiff points out, actions for childhood sexual assault, including conduct covered under Penal Code 647.6, was revived by Code Civ. Proc., section 340.1(d), which provides that actions for the recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault may be commenced within 22 years of the date a plaintiff attains the age of majority. Plaintiff also cites People v. Lopez, (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 282, 965 P.2d 713. The court in Lopez ruled that “no physical contact is required for child annoyance/molestation: child annoyance requires commission of an objectively offensive act of annoyance or molestation, an element not necessarily present in the offense of committing a subjectively lewd act.” “’Annoy’ and ‘molest’ ordinarily relate to offenses against children, with a connotation of abnormal sexual motivation. The forbidden annoyance or molestation is not concerned with the child's state of mind, but rather refers to the defendant's objectionable acts that constitute the offense.” (Id at p. 290.) The incidents that do not involve contact, such as the inappropriate comments by Scott McDonald, constitute actions that would annoy Plaintiff. Although Doe 3 argues that the conduct should not constitute assault as defined by Penal Code, section 340.1 because it would be absurd to classify a joke as assault, Doe 3 provides no legal authority to support this argument. Moreover, there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether such a comment would qualify as a “joke.” Though styled as a cause of action for sexual harassment, this is a cause of action for childhood sexual assault as defined above. Thus, the cause of action is not time barred.The analysis for vicarious liability is the same as the previous cause of action for sexual battery with respect to the actions of Doe 5. However, with respect to the actions of Victor Owens and Scott McDonald the analysis is different. Owens was an employee of the Church/School when he committed the alleged sexual assault on Plaintiff. McDonald was a church leader who, according to the evidence produced by Plaintiff, Plaintiff heard say about him to other Church members: “You should throw him in a dress and some high heels. I hear he can such a mean dick.”(Exh. 10, Pgs. 275-276, 451)For the reasons set forth above, the Court grants the motion for summary adjudication with respect to Doe 5 and denies it in all other respects. DATED: November 8,, 2023_________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court