 Case Number:  22STCV29023    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Intervene 
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
Plaintiff
Elahe Mokhtarzadeh (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint on September 6, 2022, against
Wade Hampton Link, Link Engineering Incorporated, and Does 1 to 50 for two
causes of action: (1) General Negligence and (2) Motor Vehicle Negligence,
based on an auto accident on September 9, 2020. 
 
On
February 14, 2023, Link Engineering filed an answer.
 
On
November 20, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name “Estate of Wade
Hampton Link” as Doe 1.
 
On
December 20, 2023, the motion to intervene filed by Progress Express Insurance
Company (on October 12, 2023), was scheduled for hearing.  No one appeared, and the matter was taken off
calendar.
 
On January
8, 2024, Progress Express Insurance Company filed this motion for leave to intervene.
No opposition has been filed.  On April
11, 2024, a non-substantive errata was filed correcting the name of the
proposed intervenor to Progressive Express Insurance Company (“Progressive”).
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure,
section 387, subdivision (d)(1) provides that the court shall, upon timely
application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if “a
provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene,” or “[t]he¿person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect
that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one
or more of the existing parties.” Additionally, upon timely application, a
court may “permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or proceeding if the
person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the success of either
of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387,¿subd.
(d)(2).) A court will determine the timeliness of a motion to intervene based
on the date when a nonparty “knew or should have known their interests in the
litigation were not being adequately represented.” (Ziani¿Homeowners Assn.
v. Brookfield¿Ziani¿LLC¿(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 274, 282.)¿ 
 
In terms of the form of the
petition, Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (c) provides that a
nonparty “shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
by ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.”¿ 
 
“Stated differently, to
establish mandatory intervention, a proposed intervener must show (1) “ ‘an
interest relating to the property [or] transaction which is the subject of the
action’ ”; (2) the party is “ ‘so situated that the disposition of the action
may as a practical matter impair or impede that person's ability to protect
that interest’ ”; and (3) the party is not adequately represented by existing
parties.” (Edwards v. Heartland Payment Sys., Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th
725, 732.)
 
“A provision that whenever
judgment is secured against the insured or the executor or administrator of a
deceased insured in an action based upon bodily injury, death, or property
damage, then an action may be brought against the insurer on the policy and
subject to its terms and limitations, by such judgment creditor to recover on
the judgment.” (Insurance Code section 11580(b)(2).)
 
Judicial Notice
 
Progressive
requests judicial notice for the Minute Order in 202100559933CUPA -
Natalie
Wilt vs. Link Engineering Inc., where Progressive was granted leave to
intervene in a matter on behalf of Defendant Wade Hampton Link. 
 
The
Court GRANTS judicial notice for this exhibit.
 
Discussion
 
In order
to intervene in an action, the proposed intervenor must timely file a motion to
intervene in the action or proceeding if a provision of law confers an
unconditional right to intervene.
 
Here, on
September 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendant Wade Hampton
Link. Progressive filed this motion to intervene over a year later on October
12, 2023. This motion was placed off calendar on December 22, 2023. (December
22, 2023 Minute Order.) 
 
Defendant
Wade Hampton Link died on February 9, 2021. (Buckley Decl., ¶ 5.) Progressive became
aware that Defendant Wade Hampton Link’s wife Kim Link was no longer
cooperating in the discovery process in February 2023. (Id., ¶ 9.) Progressive believes they have exhausted all methods
for contacting Kim Link. (Id., ¶
10.) Progressive states that they hired their counsel in August 2023 to begin
the process to intervene in the case. (Id., ¶ 11.) 
 
The Court finds Progressive has acted timely in its motion to intervene based on I Progressive discovered Defendant was not complying with
the discovery process and started the process to intervene within the year.
 
Progressive argues mandatory intervention should be
granted as it was the insurer for Defendant on the date of the incident and is
liable for any damages arising out of Defendant’s alleged negligence. (Motion,
5:24-26.) Further, Progressive cannot
file a separate lawsuit as the legal issues are not independent of this
underlying suit, and lastly, Progressive interests are not being adequately represented by the nonresponsive Defendant.
(Id., 5-6:27-28, 5-7.)
 
Under Insurance Code section 11580(b)(2), an insurer can
be sued to recover on a judgment against an insured, or the
administrator/executor of the deceased insured. 
 
Here, Progressive as insurer for Defendant
has an interest in the outcome of this matter per Insurance Code section
11590(b)(2) as it was the insurer of Defendant at the time of the accident and
can be liable for the damages incurred in the outcome of this matter. Further, Progressive has established its
interests are not current sufficiently represented by Defendant. 
 
Therefore, Progressive’s motion is GRANTED.
 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Progressive
Express Insurance Company’s motion for leave to intervene. 
 
The
Court GRANTS LEAVE to Progressive Express Insurance Company to file the proposed¿complaint-in-intervention
attached to the motion as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision
(e) with the Court within 10 days.¿¿
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.