 Case Number:  22STCV27826    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiff’s
Counsel Devin Cutting of Bish & Cutting, APC and The Law Offices of Larry
H. Parker.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On August
26, 2022, Anthony F; Villescaz (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Yolanda
Tapia for damages arising out of an automobile accident occurring on February
17, 2021.
 
On
October 24, 2022, The Law Offices of Larry H. Parker, Inc. filed an Association
of Counsel adding Bish & Cutting, APC, as co-counsel for Plaintiff. 
 
On March
18, 2024, Devin Cutting of Bish & Cutting, APC
and The Law Offices of Larry H. Parker (“Counsel”) filed motions to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration, and Order to be relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown in of the
attorney-client relationship. Counsel served Plaintiff by mail and confirmed
Plaintiff’s current address by telephone within 30 days of filing this motion. 
The Order includes
all future hearing dates; the motion and supporting papers have been served on
all parties in this matter.
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved due to the breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship. All substantive and procedural requirements have
been satisfied.
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
The order is
effective upon the filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service
of the signed order (not just the minute order) on the client.
Moving counsel
to give notice.