 Case Number:  23PSCV03690    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Laura Wang’s Motion for Substitution of
Plaintiff Successor in Interest
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Laura Wang’s Motion for Substitution of
Plaintiff Successor in Interest is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This is a personal injury
action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In November 2023, Plaintiffs Jeff
Wang and Laura Wang were involved a motor vehicle collision with Defendant Yu
Xiao Zhang at the intersection of Grand Avenue and Montefino Avenue in Diamond
Bar.
On November 29, 2023, the
Wangs filed a complaint against Zhang and Does 1-30, alleging causes of action
for (1) motor vehicle negligence and (2) general negligence.
On July 8, 2024, Laura Wang
filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for August 13,
2024, along with a case management conference and OSC Re: Sanctions.
ANALYSIS
Laura
Wang moves for the appointment of Laura Wang as Jeff Wang’s successor in
interest. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Laura Wang’s motion.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 377.31 provides that “[o]n motion after the death of
a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending
action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.30; Adams v. Superior Court (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 71,
78-79.) A successor in interest is “the beneficiary of the decedent's estate or
other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a
particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause of action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) Code of Civil Procedure section 377.33 provides
that “[t]he court in which an action is commenced or continued under this
article may make any order concerning parties that is appropriate to ensure
proper administration of justice in the case, including appointment of the
decedent's successor in interest as a special administrator or guardian ad litem.”
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32, a person who seeks to commence such
an action as the decedent’s successor in interest must file an affidavit or
declaration providing the following: (1) decedent’s name, (2) date and place of
decedent’s death, (3) language stating “[n]o proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent's estate,” (4) a final order
showing distribution of decedent’s cause of action to successor if decedent’s
estate was administered, (5) language stating “[t]he affiant or declarant is
the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the
California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in
the action or proceeding” or “[t]he affiant or declarant is authorized to act
on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11
of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent's
interest in the action or proceeding,” (6) language stating “[n]o other person
has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted
for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”, (7) language stating “[t]he
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct,” and
(8) a certified copy of decedent’s death certificate.
Discussion
In
this case, Laura Wang seeks to serve as Jeff Wang’s successor in interest in
this action following Jeff Wang’s death. In support of this motion, Laura Wang
has filed a declaration that meets all the requirements of Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.32. Accordingly, Laura Wang’s motion is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Laura
Wang’s motion to appointed as Jeff Wang’s successor in interest is GRANTED.