  Case Number:  21CHCV00420    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  F51 
APRIL 19,
2024
 

MOTION TO
VACATE/SET ASIDE DEFAULT JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 21CHCV00420

 
Motion Filed: 2/13/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Sophia Sharp-Donaldson
(“Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Shubin Nadal
Realty Investors, LLC, a California limited liability company, as
successor-in-interest to G&I VIII Northridge Operating LP, a Delaware
limited partnership (“Plaintiff”)
NOTICE: OK 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order vacating the default judgment
entered against Defendant and granting Defendant leave to file her proposed
cross-complaint.
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motion is denied.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contract action in which Plaintiff
alleges that on 3/1/18, it entered into a commercial lease agreement with
Defendants for certain premises located at 8440 Balboa Blvd., Suite 106, Los
Angeles, CA 91325. Plaintiff brings the instant action against Defendants for
nonpayment of monthly rent.
 
On 6/1/21, Plaintiff filed its
complaint against defendants Sophia Sharp-Donaldson,
DRNK Coffee + Tea LLC, and Tayro LLC, alleging the following causes of action:
(1) Breach of Lease; and (2) Breach of Guaranty. On 10/12/21, Plaintiff
filed its first amended complaint (“FAC”), alleging the same causes of action
against Defendants. On 11/10/21, Defendants filed their answer.
 
On 12/20/22, the Court granted
Defendants’ attorney’s motion to be relieved as counsel. On 3/17/23, the Court
struck defendant Tayro LLC’s answer and entered default against Tayro LLC. On
7/12/23, Plaintiff and defendant DRNK Coffee + Tea
LLC entered into a stipulated settlement.
 
On 10/2/23, the Court entered a
judgement for Plaintiff and against Defendant after a court trial, in the total
judgment amount of $255,772.27.
On 2/13/24, Defendant filed the
instant motion to set aside the judgment. On 4/8/24, Plaintiff filed its
opposition. No reply has been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 473, subd. (b).)
 
Here, Defendant “seeks an order to
vacate the default judgment and reinstate the case based on
unintentional ‘inadvertance and excusable neglect.’” (Def.’s Mot. 3:6–7
[emphasis added].) Defendant argues that she “has been experiencing extreme
psychological distress and financial hardship as a result of a divorce now
pending in Ventura Superior Court,” and failed to defend herself in the instant
action because “when defendant’s attorney withdrew from the matter, defendant
did not have counsel to guide her through what became the finality of the
matter.” (Def.’s Mot. at 3:8–9, 3:13–14.) 
 
Defendant further asserts that “the
debt was caused by another responsible party to whom defendant seeks leave of
court to file the attached cross-action. That other responsible party (Eric
Donaldson) signed as a guarantor on many of the obligations executed by
defendant and other guarantees without defendant’s knowledge or approval.” (Id.
at 3:21–24.)
 
As a preliminary matter, and as
Plaintiff observes in opposition, “the judgment entered in this case as to Ms.
Sharp-Donaldson is not, in fact, a default judgment … this Court never
struck her answer or entered her default and simply held the trial of this
matter on October 2, 2023. Plaintiff called its witness and presented its
evidence and judgment was entered.” (Pl.’s Opp. 2:5–13 [emphasis added].)
 
Plaintiff further argues that
Defendant cannot claim inadvertence or excusable neglect because she does not contend
that she failed to receive notice of the proceedings in the instant action for
which she failed to appear. (Id. at 2:25, 6:22–26.) “In fact, the
declaration just blames Eric Donaldson, Ms. Sharp-Donaldson’s husband (or
ex-husband given the reference to a divorce proceeding), for everything even
though Ms. Sharp-Donaldson, not her husband, was the tenant. … The proposed
cross-complaint also appears to be against Troy Donaldson, not Eric Donaldson,
so it is unclear who is actually the ex-husband here.” (Id. at 6:16–21.)
 
Plaintiff further represents that “approximately
a week before this motion was even filed, Ms. Sharp-Donaldson arranged for the
satisfaction of the judgment in this action (and another separate action)
through the sale of the house where she was served with the various notices of
events in this case. Plaintiff accepted payment of a compromised sum and caused
its counsel to provide an Acknowledgment of Satisfaction of Judgment for this
case (and the separate unlawful detainer where Ms. Sharp-Donaldson was also a
defendant).” (Id. at 3:3–8; Ex. H to Decl. of David M. Cohen.)
 
The Court notes that Defendant has
failed to file a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. Based on the foregoing, the
Court finds that Defendant has failed to establish that the judgment against
her should be vacated based on her inadvertence or excusable neglect.
Accordingly, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to set aside the judgment entered
against her.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is denied.