  Case Number:  19STCV40434    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
10-23-23
Case
#19STCV40434
Trial
Date: 11-15-23 c/f 10-2-23 c/f 7-17-23 c/f 2-14-23 c/f 6-6-22
 
COMPEL APPEARANCE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff, John Doe 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant, Facey Medical Group
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Compel Compliance with a Subpoena for Appearance at Trial
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On
May 28, 2019, Plaintiff John Doe attended a yearly physical examination with
Defendant Gregory Castillo. Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Castillo first began
“repeatedly and inappropriately rubbing” plaintiff’s arms and legs, next
proceeded to grab Plaintiff’s penis and testicles without “medical
justification.” Dr. Castillo then began to digitally penetrate Plaintiff’s
anus. During the course of this conduct, Dr. Castillo allegedly rubbed his own
genitals on Plaintiff’s body for purposes of sexual gratification.
 
Notwithstanding
the end of the conduct in the examination room, Dr. Castillo then removed a
wart from the finger of Plaintiff in another room, and again rubbed his
genitals on Plaintiff and again inappropriately touched him on the arms and
legs. Dr. Castillo later told Plaintiff that the penal examination was
required, due to an alleged lesion, which was not documented in any medical
notes.
 
On
November 7, 2019, Plaintiff filed his complaint for Sexual Battery, Sexual
Orientation Related Violence, Sexual Harassment, Constructive Fraud, Unfair
Business Practices, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Negligent
Hiring Retention Supervision and Training.
 
The
action was transferred to Department 49 on January 28, 2020.
 
On
May 4, 2020, Plaintiff dismissed Providence Health & Services, David Mast,
Jim Corwin and Teresa David. On June 19, 2020, the parties submitted a
stipulated protective order for the exchange of discovery. On August 4, 2020,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint for Sexual Battery, Sexual
Orientation Related Violence, Sexual Harassment, Constructive Fraud, Unfair
Business Practices, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Negligent
Hiring Retention Supervision and Training. On August 5, 2020, Plaintiff filed a
second dismissal of defendants Providence Health & Services, David Mast,
Jim Corwin and Teresa David.
 
On
November 3, 2020, the court sustained the demurrer Facey Medical Group, Roscoe Marter, M.D., and Erik Davydov, M.D. to the first
amended complaint, and denied the motion to strike the use of pseudonyms. On
December 3, 2020, Plaintiff filed the second amended complaint for Sexual
Battery, Sexual Orientation Related Violence, Sexual Harassment, Constructive
Fraud, Unfair Business Practices, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
and Negligent Hiring Retention Supervision and Training, and Negligence.
 
On
March 9, 2021, the court sustained the demurrer of Gregory Castillo, M.D.
without leave to amend as to the fourth cause of action for constructive fraud,
and fifth cause of action for unfair business practices. The court overruled
the remainder of the demurrer. The court also granted the motion to strike the
claim for punitive damages without prejudice, and granted the motion to strike
the claim for treble damages with prejudice. On March 10, 2021, the court
denied the motion for leave to add a claim for punitive damages against the
medical defendants. On March 15, 2021, Castillo answered the second amended
complaint. 
 
On
June 25, 2021, the court overruled the demurrer of Facey Medical Group, Roscoe Marter, M.D., and Erik Davydov, M.D. to
the second amended complaint, and granted the motion to strike the claim for
punitive damages. Defendants answered the second amended complaint on June 30,
2021.
 
On December 28, 2021, the court adopted the
report and recommendations of discovery referee Honorable Richard Rico in
regards to a motion to compel further response to Special Interrogatories (set
two) from defendant Castillo. On January 11, 2022, the court granted the ex
parte motion to stay enforcement of the report and recommendations of the
referee report, and stayed the entire action.
 
On March 1, 2022, the court denied the motion
to sever. On April 19, 2022, the court declined to deem the 22STCV04812, John
Doe, et al. v. Facey Medical Group, et al. related, and denied the motion to
consolidate the cases.
 
On July 11, 2022, the court vacated the
December 28, 2021, adopted recommendations and findings of the referee
regarding special interrogatories, numbers 26 and 34. On August 9, 2022, the
court denied the motion for summary judgment of Facey Medical Group, Roscoe
Marter, M.D., and Erik Davydov, M.D., but granted summary adjudication as to
the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and eighth causes of action for
sexual battery, sexual orientation related violence, sexual harassment,
constructive fraud, unfair business practices, intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and negligence. Doctors 
Marter and Davydov are now dismissed with the remaining claim for
Negligent Hiring, Retention, Supervision and Training remaining against Facey
Medical Group. 
 
RULING: Denied, without
prejudice.
 
Plaintiff
John Doe moves to compel the attendance of defendant Gregory Castillo at trial,
as well as production of documents. Plaintiff contends the notice to
appear/subpoena was served, and no objections to appearing were provided,
thereby compelling an appearance. Castillo in opposition admits to late service
of objections, but denies any prejudice given the potential setting of the
trial in a long cause courtroom. Castillo also notes the notice was served well
before the statutory deadlines, and improperly seeks to “circumvent the motion
in limine process,” in that certain categories of documents are the subject
matter of an impending motion in limine. Castillo denies any waiver of rights,
collateral estoppel, or admissibility of certain evidence. Plaintiff in reply
emphasizes the admittedly untimely objections and maintains material prejudice
if the documents are not produced. Plaintiff challenges the objections and
maintains the documents are admissible. 
 
For a party appearance at
trial and for document appearance, the court cites to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987, which provides in relevant part:
 
(b)
In the case of the production of a party to the record of any civil action or
proceeding or of a person for whose immediate benefit an action or proceeding
is prosecuted or defended or of anyone who is an officer, director, or managing
agent of any such party or person, the service of a subpoena upon any such
witness is not required if written notice requesting the witness to attend
before a court, or at a trial of an issue therein, with the time and place
thereof, is served upon the attorney of that party or person. The notice shall
be served at least 10 days before the time required for attendance unless the
court prescribes a shorter time. ... The giving of the notice shall have the
same effect as service of a subpoena on the witness, and the parties shall have
those rights and the court may make those orders, including the imposition of
sanctions, as in the case of a subpoena for attendance before the court.
 
(c)
If the notice specified in subdivision (b) is served at least 20 days before
the time required for attendance, or within any shorter period of time as the
court may order, it may include a request that the party or person bring with
him or her books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things. The notice shall state the exact materials or things desired and that
the party or person has them in his or her possession or under his or her
control. Within five days thereafter, or any other time period as the court may
allow, the party or person of whom the request is made may serve written
objections to the request or any part thereof, with a statement of grounds.
Thereafter, upon noticed motion of the requesting party, accompanied by a showing
of good cause and of materiality of the items to the issues, the court may
order production of items to which objection was made, unless the objecting
party or person establishes good cause for nonproduction or production under
limitations or conditions. The procedure of this subdivision is alternative to
the procedure provided by Sections 1985 and 1987.5 in the cases herein provided
for, and no subpoena duces tecum shall be required.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987, subd. (b-c).)
 
The
motion apparently seeks to guarantee Castillo’s appearance at trial, production
of documents, preclusion of any objections to certain documentary and testimonial
objections including Fifth Amendment privilege, scope of medical practice
versus personal prurient interest, hearsay, etc. The argument relies on both an
untimely objection and substantive argument challenging the objections. The
court appreciates the arguments but finds the motion premature in that while
Casillo admittedly submitted a late objection, the court declines to find any violation
on a subpoena/notice to appear potion of the motion given the trial remains
currently set for November 15, 2023, with potential referral to a long cause
courtroom. The court therefore finds no basis of authority to preemptively
order an appearance and testimony well before the any deadlines. 
 
As
for documents, the court, in its discretion, declines to find a waiver of any
all privileges based on service of minimally untimely objections. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a); see Monarch Healthcare v. Superior Court (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th
1282, 1288-1289.)
 
 The court finds no material prejudice,
especially given the valid objections, timing well before the first trial date,
and potential for a new trial date. Preemptively compelling production based on
an objection served more than two months before the first set potential trial date
constitutes an overly harsh result. More importantly, potential consideration
of certain document production via the motion improperly preempts potential
motions in limine, which remains at the discretion of the trial court. The
court declines to determine admissibility without specific briefing on the
topic(s) at the time of trial, and potentially on behalf of another judicial
officer, should the action become assigned to a long cause courtroom.
 
In
conclusion, any failure to appear for trial may be addressed at the time of
trial. The court otherwise defers any sought after compelled testimony and/or
document production to the time of any potential motions in limine and objections
made during trial. 
 
The
motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice to all parties.
 