 Case Number:  23GDCV02625    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  D TENATIVE RULING Calendar:     6 Date:          11/22/2024  Case No:     23 GDCV02625  Trial Date: 05/04/2026 Case Name: Bagumyan v. LeeMOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY (2) Moving Party:  Plaintiff Gevorg Bagumyan    Responding Party: Defendant William Lee  RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served :     No POS  (March 12, 2024)  Extension to Respond to: June 28, 2024  (Ex. 2)Date Responses served:  July 5, 2024August 5, 2024   Date Motion served:     September 19, 2024 ANALYSIS:ProceduralMotion to Compel Further ResponsesThe memorandum in support of the motion to compel responses to interrogatories indicates the motion is brought under CCP § 2030.290, under which, “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party “waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings...as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”   The memorandum in support of the motion to compel further responses to document demands indicates the motion is brought under a similar provision, CCP section 2031.300.  The motions indicate, however, that plaintiff has in fact been served with responses to the subject interrogatories and requests for production of documents, and has also been served with verified supplemental responses to that discovery before these motions were filed.  [Chica Decls., paras. 8-10, Exs. 4, 6].  There is accordingly no need for an order compelling responses to the interrogatories or requests for production, as responses have already been served. Plaintiff should be pursuing motions to compel further responses to the discovery, not initial responses.  This result is problematic, as plaintiff has not in the motions cited to any statutory authority supporting orders to compel further responses, so there is no notice to the responding party that such relief is being sought.   In addition, plaintiff has failed to comply with mandatory procedures for pursuing motions to compel further responses to discovery, including meeting and conferring concerning the latest set of responses, and filing separate statements, as discussed below.Moreover, plaintiff filed each of these motions under a reservation for a motion to compel discovery “not ‘Further Discovery.’”  This approach is improper.   The motions should have been brought and reserved as motions to compel further discovery, to avoid calendar congestion and jumping ahead of other discovery motions of this nature.  To the extent the motions appears to argue that defendant did not timely serve responses, and the initial responses were not verified, plaintiff concedes that supplemental responses now have been served.  The copy of those responses submitted with the moving papers show that the supplemental responses were in fact verified.  [See Chica Decls., Ex. 6, pp. 84, 98].  No orders compelling responses are warranted here, and if plaintiff wants to argue that objections have been waived, plaintiff should have done so in motions to compel further responses.  The motions are denied on the ground responses have been served.  No Separate Statement Since what plaintiff seeks by these motions is further code compliant responses without objections, these are motions for further responses to interrogatories and document demands.   As pointed out in the oppositions, such motion require the filing of a separate statement.  CRC Rule 3.1345 requires that, “Any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement.”   The motions that require a separate statement include a motion:“(2) To compel further responses to interrogatories.(3) To compel further responses to a demand for inspection of documents or tangible things;…”The motions here concern responses and their content, including the assertion of objections, and compliance with the Code.  The responses submitted with the moving papers, particularly the supplemental responses, include substantive responses along with objections, and evidently documents were produced.  The separate statement requirement is mandatory, and warrants the trial court denying a motion which is not accompanied by a separate statement.  People ex rel. Harris v. Sarpas (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1554; Mills v. U.S. Bank (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893 (concluding that because the propounding party did not comply with the separate statement requirements, “the trial court was well within its discretion to deny the motion to compel discovery on that basis.”).Without a separate statement the court cannot in good faith determine whether plaintiff is entitled to further responses.   No Meet and Confer on Supplemental ResponsesSince what plaintiff seeks by these motions is further code compliant responses without objections, these are motions for further responses to interrogatories and document demands.   As pointed out in the oppositions, such motions requires that before filing the motion, moving party meet and confer in good faith. Under CCP § 2030.300, where a party brings a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories such a motion “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  A similar provision applies to a motion to compel further responses to document demands.  See CCP§ 2031.310(b)(2).Section 2016.040 requires:“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”The motions each include a meet and confer correspondence addressing the problems with defendant’s initial discovery responses, but do not show that any meet and confer took place since the service of the supplemental responses on August 5, 2024.  [See Chica Decl., paras. 9, 10, Exs. 5, 6].  The declaration of counsel concedes that no meet and confer occurred following service of the supplemental responses, stating that, “Plaintiff was left with no reasonable alternative but to file this Motion.”  [Chica  Decls., para. 12]. The court does not consider this approach a reasonable attempt to informally resolve the issues prior to filing the motion. Contrary to the suggestion in the moving papers that the supplemental responses did not include substantive responses, that assertion is not true.  The court’s review of those responses shows that substantive responses were provided to many of the interrogatories and document demands. [See Exs. 6].  It would appear that had there been a meaningful meet and confer, the matter may not have required court intervention. Defendant in opposition, in fact, indicates that plaintiff granted extensions for the filing of supplemental discovery responses to August 5, 2024.  [Cheng Decl., para. 12, Ex. F].  This extension could possibly constitute a waiver of any argument that responses were untimely, although the extension was for responses without objections.  [Ex. F].  Defendant also confirms that supplemental responses were served on August 5, 2024, and there was no meet and confer at all concerning those responses.  [Cheng Decls., paras. 13, 14, 15, Ex. G].  The opposition suggests that meet and confer efforts may have avoided the need for these motions.  The court in the future expects that the parties fully comply with all meet and confer obligations in connection with this litigation.  Overall, the motions are denied as improperly brought as motions to compel responses to interrogatories and document demands, when verified responses had been served at the time the motions were filed.  The motions are also not supported by a request for further responses in the notices of motion, sufficient meet and confer declarations or separate statements.  Plaintiff is required to file motions for further responses following appropriate meet and confer efforts. Hence, any such motions, if necessary, must be accompanied by proper separate statements.  SanctionsWith respect to interrogatories, under CCP § 2030.290(c), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  A similar provision applies to document demands. CCP section 2031.300(c) The motion are denied, because they were brought improperly as a motions to compel responses when verified responses had been served before the motions were prepared. Therefore, the motions were not necessary. Hence, the expense of preparing them will not be shifted to defendant.  No sanctions are awarded. Defendant in the oppositions also seeks sanctions, as plaintiff has  unsuccessfully brought these motion, arguing that plaintiff has filed other motions to compel initial responses to discovery which should have been brought as motions for further discovery, and that if sanctions are imposed, plaintiff will realize that the motions should not have been brought as motions for initial responses, and that a good faith meet and confer is necessary for all future discovery disputes.  The court recognizes that the motion was brought unsuccessfully and violated several requirements for bring a discovery motion of this nature, and sanctions might ordinarily be awarded.  This result might be particularly appropriate in light of the failure of moving party to file timely written replies, which the court views as a concession that the oppositions have merit, and it would appear that plaintiff should not have continued to pursue the motions to a point which required the filing of opposition papers.  However, the court also notes that the declarations in support of the requests for sanctions in the oppositions simply request ten hours of time at $485.00 per hour, without facts supporting the billing rate or hours sought.  [Cheng Decls., para. 23, 24].  CCP § 2023.040 clearly requires that, “A request for a sanction… shall be…accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought.”  Insufficient facts are set forth here.  No sanctions are awarded to either side. RULING:Motion by Plaintiff Gevorg Bagumyan to Compel Responses by Defendant William Lee to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories (Set One) is DENIED.  The motion improperly is brought as a motion to compel responses to interrogatories, when responses had been served.  Plaintiff in its motion has not relied on statutory authority pertaining to further responses to discovery. Rather, plaintiff improperly has reserved this motion under a reservation for a motion to compel discovery, not further discovery. Contrary to this reservation, the motion seeks further responses following the service of responses and supplemental responses.  A hearing reservation should have been made for a motion to compel further responses to discovery.  Reserving a motion under an improper reservation category manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants.Plaintiff is required to file a motion for further responses following appropriate meet and confer efforts. Any such motion, if necessary, must be accompanied by a proper separate statement, and must be reserved under the proper reservation category.  Monetary sanctions requested by plaintiff are DENIED. Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED.  Motion by Plaintiff Gevorg Bagumyan to Compel Responses by Defendant William Lee to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is DENIED.  The motion improperly is brought as a motion to compel responses to requests for production of documents, when responses had been served.  Plaintiff in its motion has not relied on statutory authority pertaining to further responses to discovery. Rather, plaintiff improperly has reserved this motion under a reservation for a motion to compel discovery, not further discovery. Contrary to this reservation, the motion seeks further responses following the service of responses and supplemental responses.  A hearing reservation should have been made for a motion to compel further responses to discovery.  Reserving a motion under an improper reservation category manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants.Plaintiff is required to file a motion for further responses following appropriate meet and confer efforts. Any such motion, if necessary, must be accompanied by a proper separate statement, and must be reserved under the proper reservation category.  Monetary sanctions requested by plaintiff are DENIED. Monetary sanctions requested in the opposition are DENIED.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 