  Case Number:  23TRCV00956    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing Date: May 16, 2024Moving Party: Defendant Rayshawn Damon Washington Responding Party: NoneMotion to Compel Answers to Form Interrogatories and Request for Reasonable Sanctions and Attorneys’ Fees; Motion to Compel Answers to Special Interrogatories and Request for Reasonable Sanctions and Attorneys’ Fees; Motion to Compel Response to Request for Production of Documents and Request for Reasonable Sanctions and Attorneys’ Fees The court considered the moving papers. No opposition papers were filed. RULINGThe motion to compel answers to form interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. The motion to compel answers to special interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The motion to compel response to request for production of documents is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s demand for production within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.Pursuant to the three motions, defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART and the court awards defendant reasonable monetary sanctions in the total sum of $705.00, which are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. This amount represents total monetary sanctions as to the three motions. BACKGROUNDOn April 3, 2023, plaintiff Bawana Roberts filed a Complaint against defendant Rayshawn Damon Washington. Plaintiff alleges that defendant crashed his car into plaintiff’s garage. The Complaint is handwritten, is set forth on pleading paper, and contains no captioned causes of action. On April 27, 2023, plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendant. The FAC is handwritten, is set forth on pleading paper, and contains no captioned causes of action. On August 21, 2023, defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint. Defendant filed and served the following three unopposed discovery motions: (1) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One (the “Form Interrogatories Motion”); (2) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Special Interrogatories, Set One (the “Special Interrogatories Motion”); and (3) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Response to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (the “RPD Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions). The Motions each request monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $585.00 pursuant to each motion. The Court will address the Motions in this one ruling. LEGAL AUTHORITY“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response.” (CCP § 2030.260(a).) If the party to whom interrogatories are propounded does not serve a timely response, “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (CCP § 2030.290 (a).) “The party propounding interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).) “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (CCP § 2031.010 (a).) Where a party fails to timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (CCP § 2031.300 (a).) CCP § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” CCP § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” CCP § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.” A court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct. (CCP. § 2023.030(a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290 (c).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)THE FORM INTERROGATORIES MOTIONDeclaration of Counsel Counsel for defendant, Samantha N. Alexander (“Alexander”), declares that on September 13, 2023, Form Interrogatories, Set One, was served on plaintiff. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant has not received plaintiff’s verified answers to form interrogatories. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) As to the Form Interrogatories Motion, counsel’s hourly rate is $175 per hour, a $60 filing fee was incurred, and counsel states that she spent one (1) hour preparing the moving papers. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) The hearing on the Form Interrogatories Motion will take approximately two (2) hours including travel time. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $585.00 as to the Form Interrogatories Motion. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Analysis Plaintiff has failed to provide responses to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories. The Court GRANTS the Form Interrogatories Motion and plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The Motions are essentially all identical and are relatively brief and straightforward in nature. Exercising its discretion, the Court AWARDS defendant reasonable monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $235.00 as to the Form Interrogatories Motion. This amount represents one (1) hour of work on such motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. THE SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES MOTIONDeclaration of Counsel Ms. Alexander declares that on September 13, 2023, Special Interrogatories, Set One, was served on plaintiff. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant has not received plaintiff’s verified answers to special interrogatories. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) As to the Special Interrogatories Motion, counsel’s hourly rate is $175 per hour, a $60 filing fee was incurred, and counsel states that she spent one (1) hour preparing the moving papers. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) The hearing on the Special Interrogatories Motion will take approximately two (2) hours including travel time. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $585.00 as to the Special Interrogatories Motion. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Analysis Plaintiff has failed to provide responses to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories. The Court GRANTS the Special Interrogatories Motion and plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The Motions are essentially all identical and are relatively brief and straightforward in nature. Exercising its discretion, the Court AWARDS defendant reasonable monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $235.00 as to the Special Interrogatories Motion. This amount represents one (1) hour of work on such motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. THE RPD MOTIONDeclaration of Counsel Ms. Alexander declares that on September 13, 2023, Demand for Production, Set One, was served on plaintiff. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant has not received plaintiff’s verified responses to his demand for production. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) As to the RPD Motion, counsel’s hourly rate is $175 per hour, a $60 filing fee was incurred, and counsel states that she spent one (1) hour preparing the moving papers. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) The hearing on the RPD Motion will take approximately two (2) hours including travel time. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $585.00 as to the RPD Motion. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) AnalysisPlaintiff has failed to provide responses to set one of defendant’s demand for production. The Court GRANTS the RPD Motion and plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s demand for production within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The Motions are essentially all identical and are relatively brief and straightforward in nature. Exercising its discretion, the Court AWARDS defendant reasonable monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $235.00 as to the RPD Motion. This amount represents one (1) hour of work on such motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. ORDERThe motion to compel answers to form interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. The motion to compel answers to special interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, Hearing Date: May 16, 2024Moving Party: Defendant Rayshawn Damon Washington Responding Party: NoneMotion to Compel Answers to Form Interrogatories and Request for Reasonable Sanctions and Attorneys’ Fees; Motion to Compel Answers to Special Interrogatories and Request for Reasonable Sanctions and Attorneys’ Fees; Motion to Compel Response to Request for Production of Documents and Request for Reasonable Sanctions and Attorneys’ Fees The court considered the moving papers. No opposition papers were filed. RULINGThe motion to compel answers to form interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. The motion to compel answers to special interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The motion to compel response to request for production of documents is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s demand for production within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.Pursuant to the three motions, defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART and the court awards defendant reasonable monetary sanctions in the total sum of $705.00, which are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. This amount represents total monetary sanctions as to the three motions. BACKGROUNDOn April 3, 2023, plaintiff Bawana Roberts filed a Complaint against defendant Rayshawn Damon Washington. Plaintiff alleges that defendant crashed his car into plaintiff’s garage. The Complaint is handwritten, is set forth on pleading paper, and contains no captioned causes of action. On April 27, 2023, plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendant. The FAC is handwritten, is set forth on pleading paper, and contains no captioned causes of action. On August 21, 2023, defendant filed an Answer to the Complaint. Defendant filed and served the following three unopposed discovery motions: (1) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Form Interrogatories, Set One (the “Form Interrogatories Motion”); (2) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Special Interrogatories, Set One (the “Special Interrogatories Motion”); and (3) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Response to Request for Production of Documents, Set One (the “RPD Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions). The Motions each request monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $585.00 pursuant to each motion. The Court will address the Motions in this one ruling. LEGAL AUTHORITY“Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response.” (CCP § 2030.260(a).) If the party to whom interrogatories are propounded does not serve a timely response, “[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (CCP § 2030.290 (a).) “The party propounding interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).) “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (CCP § 2031.010 (a).) Where a party fails to timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (CCP § 2031.300 (a).) CCP § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” CCP § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” CCP § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.” A court may impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct. (CCP. § 2023.030(a).) “The court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290 (c).) A court has discretion to fix the amount of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771.)THE FORM INTERROGATORIES MOTIONDeclaration of Counsel Counsel for defendant, Samantha N. Alexander (“Alexander”), declares that on September 13, 2023, Form Interrogatories, Set One, was served on plaintiff. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant has not received plaintiff’s verified answers to form interrogatories. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) As to the Form Interrogatories Motion, counsel’s hourly rate is $175 per hour, a $60 filing fee was incurred, and counsel states that she spent one (1) hour preparing the moving papers. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) The hearing on the Form Interrogatories Motion will take approximately two (2) hours including travel time. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $585.00 as to the Form Interrogatories Motion. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Analysis Plaintiff has failed to provide responses to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories. The Court GRANTS the Form Interrogatories Motion and plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The Motions are essentially all identical and are relatively brief and straightforward in nature. Exercising its discretion, the Court AWARDS defendant reasonable monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $235.00 as to the Form Interrogatories Motion. This amount represents one (1) hour of work on such motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. THE SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES MOTIONDeclaration of Counsel Ms. Alexander declares that on September 13, 2023, Special Interrogatories, Set One, was served on plaintiff. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant has not received plaintiff’s verified answers to special interrogatories. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) As to the Special Interrogatories Motion, counsel’s hourly rate is $175 per hour, a $60 filing fee was incurred, and counsel states that she spent one (1) hour preparing the moving papers. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) The hearing on the Special Interrogatories Motion will take approximately two (2) hours including travel time. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $585.00 as to the Special Interrogatories Motion. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Analysis Plaintiff has failed to provide responses to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories. The Court GRANTS the Special Interrogatories Motion and plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The Motions are essentially all identical and are relatively brief and straightforward in nature. Exercising its discretion, the Court AWARDS defendant reasonable monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $235.00 as to the Special Interrogatories Motion. This amount represents one (1) hour of work on such motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. THE RPD MOTIONDeclaration of Counsel Ms. Alexander declares that on September 13, 2023, Demand for Production, Set One, was served on plaintiff. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. A.) Defendant has not received plaintiff’s verified responses to his demand for production. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 5.) As to the RPD Motion, counsel’s hourly rate is $175 per hour, a $60 filing fee was incurred, and counsel states that she spent one (1) hour preparing the moving papers. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) The hearing on the RPD Motion will take approximately two (2) hours including travel time. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the amount of $585.00 as to the RPD Motion. (Alexander Decl., ¶ 6.) AnalysisPlaintiff has failed to provide responses to set one of defendant’s demand for production. The Court GRANTS the RPD Motion and plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s demand for production within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The Motions are essentially all identical and are relatively brief and straightforward in nature. Exercising its discretion, the Court AWARDS defendant reasonable monetary sanctions against plaintiff in the amount of $235.00 as to the RPD Motion. This amount represents one (1) hour of work on such motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. Monetary sanctions are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. ORDERThe motion to compel answers to form interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s form interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. The motion to compel answers to special interrogatories is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The motion to compel response to request for production of documents is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s demand for production within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.Pursuant to the three motions, defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART and the court awards defendant reasonable monetary sanctions in the total sum of $705.00, which are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. This amount represents total monetary sanctions as to the three motions. Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling. code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s special interrogatories within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.The motion to compel response to request for production of documents is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to set one of defendant’s demand for production within 30 days of the date of notice of this order.Pursuant to the three motions, defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED IN PART and the court awards defendant reasonable monetary sanctions in the total sum of $705.00, which are to be paid by plaintiff to defendant within 30 days of the date of notice of this order. This amount represents total monetary sanctions as to the three motions. Moving party is ordered to give notice of ruling.