  Case Number:  24VECV01315    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  W JASON FERIEN,
et al. vs TESLA MOTORS, INC.
 
defendant
tesla motors, inc.’s motion to compel binding arbitration 
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 4, 2024                            Trial
Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV01315
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
Tesla Motors Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Jason Ferien and Shirley Ferien 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiffs Jason
Ferien and Shirley Ferien filed a complaint against Tesla Motors, Inc. for
Violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant
Tesla Motors, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Binding Discovery is GRANTED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant
Tesla Motors, Inc. request this court take judicial notice of Plaintiffs Jason Ferien
and Shirley Ferien’s Complaint, filed on or about March 25, 2024 (Exh. 3.) The
court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendant Tesla Motors, Inc. moves the
court for an order (i) compelling Plaintiffs Jason Ferien and Shirley Ferien to
arbitrate their claims in accordance with their arbitration agreement with
Tesla; and (ii) staying this action pending the outcome of arbitration. 
 
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a
dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (CCP § 1281.2; Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) Because the right to
arbitration depends upon contract, the party seeking arbitration bears the
initial burden of proving that the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the
instant dispute.  (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.)  If the moving party does so, the burden
shifts to the opposing party to show that the subject agreement is
unenforceable.  (Id. at 761.)  The court “sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)¿¿ 
 
Tesla argues Plaintiffs consented to
the terms of an online Motor Vehicle Order Agreement (“Order Agreement”) when
they ordered a 2020 Tesla Model X (“Vehicle”) from Tesla as well as when they
executed the Retail Installment Sales Contract (“Sale Contract”), both of which
require them to resolve any disputes concerning the purchase or condition of
the automobile by arbitration on an individual basis, if either party so
elects. Because Plaintiffs’ claims are all brought under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act, Defendant argues their claims arises directly out of the
“relationship between the parties”. (See Order Agreement, p. 3; Sale Contract,
p. 7.) 
 
Plaintiffs do not dispute the existence
of the arbitration agreement. However, Plaintiffs oppose the motion on the
grounds the Agreement is adhesive as well as procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. Plaintiffs also argue the arbitration agreement is void as
against public policy. 
 
Plaintiffs first argue they were forced
to agree to the terms dictated by Defendant in an adhesion contract. Plaintiff
cites to Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77 to
support their contention. Gutierrez describes an adhesive agreement to
lease a car, which is a similar concept to the subject financing Contract: 
 
The
lease was presented to plaintiffs for signature on a “take it or leave it”
basis. Plaintiffs were given no opportunity to negotiate any of the preprinted
terms in the lease. The arbitration clause was particularly inconspicuous,
printed in eight-point typeface on the opposite side of the signature page of
the lease. Gutierrez was never informed that the lease contained an arbitration
clause, much less offered an opportunity to negotiate its inclusion within the
lease or to agree upon its specific terms. He was not required to initial the
arbitration clause. [Citation.] He either had to accept the arbitration clause
and the other preprinted terms, or reject the lease entirely. Under these
circumstances, the arbitration clause was procedurally unconscionable. 
 
(Gutierrez, supra, 114
Cal.App.4th at p. 89.) 
 
Plaintiff argues just like Gutierrez,
the Agreement was presented to them with predetermined terms via online and
Plaintiffs were not afforded any meaningful opportunity to negotiate or discuss
any of the terms. Moreover, a customer must click on the “confirm” button to
finalize acceptance of the purchase resulting in Plaintiff having no choice but
to accept the terms of the Arbitration provision. Accordingly, the adhesive
nature of the Agreement establishes a degree of procedural unconscionability
such that “closer scrutiny of the agreement’s overall fairness is required.” (Prima
Donna Development Corp. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 22,
38.) Plaintiff also argues the opt-out provision does not insulate an
arbitration agreement from a finding of procedural unconscionability. (See Gentry
v. Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443, 470 [arbitration agreement had a
degree of procedural unconscionability even though there was a 30- day opt out
provision].) 
 
The court disagrees. Plaintiffs’ assertion
that it had no meaningful opportunity to negotiate is not persuasive. The
arbitration agreement contained a clear “opt out” provision. Thus, Plaintiffs
had the option of opting-out the agreement to arbitration. In any event, “a
finding of procedural unconscionability does not mean that a contract will not
be enforced, but rather that courts will scrutinize the substantive terms of
the contract to ensure they are not manifestly unfair or one-sided.” (Gentry,
supra, 42 Cal.4th at p. 469.)  
 
Next, Plaintiffs argue the requirement
that Plaintiffs arbitrate with AAA in accordance with the Consumer Arbitration
Rules (“CAR”) precludes them from adequate discovery in order to vindicate
their statutory rights under Song-Beverly and Magnuson Moss. Plaintiffs
elaborate that they need to take the deposition of Tesla’s service technicians,
service advisors, service managers, and at least a few PMK to vindicate their
statutory rights. 
 
Again, the court disagrees. AAA’s CAR
do allow for the exchange of information between the parties. Moreover, as
noted by Defendant, the California Supreme Court has recently held that
“allowing the arbitrator to deviate from agreed-upon default discovery limits
ensures that neither party will be unfairly hampered in pursuing a statutory
claim […]” (Ramirez v. Charter Commc'ns, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal. 5th 478,
551.) And in order to find an agreement substantively unconscionable, it must
be so “one-sided as to shock the conscience.”  (Pinnacle Museum Tower
Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
246.) Here, both sides have the right to demand arbitration and both sides
would be subject to the same discovery rules. Moreover, Rule 22 provides “[n]o other
exchange of information beyond what is provided for in section (a) above is
contemplated under these Rules, unless an arbitrator determines further information
exchange is needed to provide for a fundamentally fair process[]” thus ensuring
further discovery if needed. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement contravenes Plaintiff’s substantive rights under Civil
Code section 1790.1 and thus is void and unenforceable as against public
policy.  The court disagrees. In Rheinhart
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1016, cited by
Plaintiffs, the plaintiff signed a settlement agreement and release that
released the defendant from “any and all claims, lawsuits, liens, debts, dues,
damages, judgments, executions and demands of every kind, whether currently
known or unknown, and whether arising in the past or present . . . which relate
to [Plaintiff’s vehicle.]” (Rheinhart v. Nissan North America, Inc.
(2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 1016, 1021.) The court there found the release was
contrary to public policy and therefore void because it “contravened
[Plaintiff’s] right to elect the Act’s substantive remedies of replacement or
restitution.” (Id. at 1036.) This is nothing like the case at hand. In
this instance, the agreement requires the parties to arbitrate their disputes.
Plaintiff has not provided anywhere in the agreement where it limits the causes
of action or remedies available under the Song Beverly Act. Instead, under
California¿and Federal law,¿public policy favors arbitration as an efficient
and less expensive means of resolving private disputes.  (Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992)
3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9;¿AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion,¿563 U.S. at
339.)¿
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration and stays this action pending the parties’
completion of arbitration.