  Case Number:  20STCV27886    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendant City of Los Angeles’s Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict (JNOV)
 
Background
Plaintiff Gabriel Fajardo (“Plaintiff”) brought this
employment discrimination case against the City of Los Angeles (“Defendant”). Plaintiff
dismissed the individual defendant and several of his claims during the
pendency of the trial. The following claims went to the jury: (1) Discrimination
- Disparate Treatment based on race (Gov. Code § 12940(a)); (2) Retaliation for
providing testimony in prior lawsuits and exercising family leave rights (Gov.
Code § 12940(h); (3) Work Environment Harassment based on race (Gov. Code §§
12923, 12940(j)); and (4) Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or
Retaliation based on race (Gov. Code § 12940(k).
The jury returned a verdict in favor of Plaintiff on
the failure to prevent claim but did not find for Plaintiff on the other claims.
The jury awarded Plaintiff $511,863 in non-economic emotional distress damages.
Defendant has now filed a JNOV motion, which Plaintiff opposes. 
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 629, the
court may render a judgment contrary to the jury’s verdict. A JNOV motion is
analytically like a motion for directed verdict. Code Civ. Proc., § 629(a). “A
motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict of a jury may properly be
granted only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most
favorable to the party securing the verdict, that there is no substantial
evidence to support the verdict.” Hansen v. Sunnyside Prod., Inc. (1997)
55 Cal. App. 4th 1497, 1510. A court may also grant a JNOV when the verdict
does not include an essential foundational predicate required to impose
liability on the defendant. Trujillo v. North County Transit District (1998)
63 Cal. App. 4th 280, 285-86.
Analysis
Defendant does not contest that substantial evidence supports
the jury’s verdict in this case. Defendant instead argues that the Court should
grant JNOV because a FEHA plaintiff cannot recover on a failure to prevent
claim when the underlying discrimination, harassment, and retaliation claims
fail. 
The jury received the following CACI instruction
regarding what Plaintiff needed to prove to establish his claim for failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation based on race under
Government Code section 12940(k): 
(1)   That
Plaintiff was subjected to harassment, discrimination, or retaliation in the
course of employment; 
(2)   That
Defendant failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the harassment,
discrimination, or retaliation; 
(3)   Plaintiff
was harmed; and
(4)   Defendant’s
failure to take all reasonable steps to prevent harassment, discrimination, or
retaliation was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s harm. 
Jury Instr. No. 2527. Consistent with that jury
instruction, the special verdict form section for the failure to prevent claim asked
the jury: 
(1) Was Plaintiff subjected to discrimination, harassment,
or retaliation?
(2) Did Defendant fail to take all reasonable steps to
prevent the harassment, discrimination, or retaliation? and
 (3) Was
Defendant’s failure to prevent the harassment, discrimination, or retaliation a
substantial factor in causing harm to Plaintiff?
The jury answered yes to all three questions. 
Defendant contends that the fact that the jury did not
find for Plaintiff on the separate FEHA discrimination, retaliation, and harassment
claims renders the jury’s finding of discrimination, retaliation, or harassment
in the failure to prevent claim legally unsupportable. As reflected on the
verdict form, for the race discrimination claim, the jury found Defendant
subjected Plaintiff to an adverse employment action but that Plaintiff’s race
was not a substantially motivating reason. For the retaliation claim, the jury
found Plaintiff engaged in all three identified protected activities and that Defendant
subjected Plaintiff to an adverse employment action but that the protected
activities were not a substantial reason for Defendant’s adverse employment
action. The jury found that Plaintiff was not subjected to harassment. 
Defendant relies on Trujillo v. North County
Transit District (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 280 and Dickson v. Burke Williams,
Inc. (2015) 234 Cal. App. 4th 1307. In Trujillo, the jury found the
employer had not engaged in harassment or discrimination but did find for the
employee on the separate failure to prevent discrimination or harassment claim.
63 Cal. App. 4th at 283. The Court of Appeal affirmed the JNOV for the employer,
concluding that the statutory language in Government Code section 12940(k) does
not support “recovery on such a private right of action where there has been a
specific factual finding that no such discrimination or harassment actually
occurred.” 63 Cal. App. 4th at 288-89. 
In Trujillo, there is no indication that the
jury was separately asked in the failure to prevent claim (as they were here) whether
the employee had been subjected to discrimination or harassment. 63 Cal. App. 4th
at 283. But the Court of Appeal noted that the absence of a finding of actionable
harassment or discrimination by the jury precluded a claim for failing to prevent
such conduct. 234 Cal. App. 4th at 288. Thus, Plaintiff’s attempt to minimize
the holding in Trujillo is not persuasive because there is no question
that in this case, as in Trujillo, the jury found no actionable
discrimination, retaliation, or harassment in the separate FEHA claims. The question
to determine in this case is whether the jury’s separate finding that Plaintiff
was subjected to discrimination, retaliation, or harassment in the failure to prevent
claim somehow saves the jury’s verdict on that claim.
The holding in Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc.
(2015) 234 Cal. App. 4th 1307 is on point and makes it clear that the answer to
that question is no, the jury’s separate finding of discrimination, harassment,
or retaliation on the failure to prevent claim does not salvage the claim. In Dickson,
the jury found no discrimination or harassment on the separate FEHA claims. 234
Cal. App. 4th at 1312. But in the failure to prevent claim, the jury was
separately asked if the plaintiff was subjected to harassment or discrimination
and they answered yes. Id., at fn. 6. Thus, the facts in Dickson regarding
the jury’s inconsistent findings are similar to the facts in this case.
The Court of Appeal reversed the denial of the JNOV
motion, holding that there cannot be a valid claim for failure to take reasonable
steps to prevent harassment or discrimination when the jury also found that the
harassment or discrimination was not actionable, regardless of the jury’s separate
finding in the failure to prevent claim that harassment or discrimination occurred.
234 Cal. App. 4th at 1316, 1318. As the Court noted, it would be “anomalous to
provide a remedy for failure to prevent acts that are not ‘unlawful’ under the FEHA.”
234 Cal. App. 4th at 1317. 
The Court agrees with Defendant that the holdings in
these cases warrant JNOV in this case. The jury’s verdict form establishes that
they found no actionable discrimination, retaliation, or harassment. As the
Court of Appeal has made clear, these findings preclude the jury from then separately
find that Defendant failed to prevent acts that the jury already determined
were not actionable. As the Dickson court acknowledges, the notes for
the CACI verdict form on a failure to prevent claim tracks the holding in Trujillo
and states that “the jury should not reach these questions unless it finds that
the underlying claim is proved.” Of course, the jury verdict form did not include
such an instruction to the jury. Just as in Dickson, the jury in this
case did not find the underlying claims had been proved. Thus, their finding
that Defendant is nevertheless liable for failing to prevent discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation is inconsistent and cannot stand. 
Conclusion
The JNOV motion is granted. 
 