 Case Number:  22SMCV00743    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  I The motion to compel further is GRANTED.   
At issue are responses to special interrogatories 9, 14, and
15. 
Defendant contends that discovery was served on June 30,
2023.  When proper timely responses were
not forthcoming, defendant wrote to plaintiff, who promised to answer quickly,
but did not.  In September, defendant
wrote again and received a promise of responses in October, but the responses
were not received.  Defendant wrote again
threatening the motion.  Responses were
served on November 15, 2023, but defendant had some problems with the response,
leading to another letter written on November 20, 2023.  On November 29, 2023, plaintiff’s counsel
wrote to say his email had been hijacked and that there would be supplemental
responses forthcoming.  But no
supplemental responses were served.  On
December 1, 2023, defendant wrote again, and plaintiff promised to supplement
by December 15, 2023.  But as of December
18, 2023 the supplements were not received. 
Defendant wrote again and plaintiff promised supplemental responses on
December 22, 2023, which were provided. 
Plaintiff, however, does not believe that the responses are
adequate.  That led to this motion.
SI 9 is an interrogatory seeking facts that would excuse
plaintiff’s (and cross-defendant’s) liability on the cross-complaint.  The cross-complaint seeks damages for unpaid
rent and similar economic injuries.  The
response is that “there is no liability on the cross-complaint.”  There is no explanation or the like.  That is not sufficient.  Plaintiff needs to explain why there
is no liability on the cross-complaint; what are the facts that support the
contention.  SI 14 and SI 15 go to what
happened to the housing assistance money. 
A bit of background.  Plaintiff is
a tenant suing the landlord.  The
landlord has cross-complained.  The
landlord alleges that the tenant and landlord sought money from a governmental
housing assistance program designed to help tenants who were having trouble
paying rent due to COVID.  Where the
application is approved, the program would provide money to help pay the rent
due.  According to defendant, the program
approved money and sent that money to plaintiff, who, rather than turn it over
to the defendant landlord, kept the money. 
Cross-complainants’ contention is that the money should have been paid
over to the landlord because that is what the money was for—rent.  Cross-defendants disagree.  The special interrogatories at issue seek
information about where the money went and is now and why cross-defendants did
not pay it over to cross-complainants. 
The response to SI 14 was originally that “No such contention is made,
DEFENDANT failed to cooperate with the ‘housing is key.’  Responding parties had no alternative, but to
place the funds in a separate escrow account.” 
The supplemental response states that “Responding parties place the
funds in a separate account, pending resolution with the landlord on the
housing issues.”  That is not a proper
response.  The SI calls for
specifics—what specifically was done with the money.  So if the money was placed into a separate
account, the account must be specified along with the specifics as to when the
money was placed there and the type of account and whether any of the money has
been removed (and, if so, the details). 
If it is an “escrow” account, as was originally stated, the terms of the
escrow need to be stated.  SI 15 asks for
information as to the current holder of the money.  (Which would be redundant if SI 14 were
answered fully.)  The response was
originally the same as for SI 14.  The
supplemental response is “Responding parties place the funds in a separate
account and a national bank.”  The court
has no idea what is meant by “and.”  But
even beyond that, it is not a good answer.
The fact is that these responses do not come close to being
adequate, and cross-defendants do not even attempt to file a responsive
separate statement.  The theory of the
opposition is that the motion is unnecessary and that the meet and confer was
not adequate.  The court must agree with
cross-complainant here.  The responses
were inadequate, and given that the supplements did virtually nothing to cure
the problems with the responses, the court believes the meet and confer was
adequate under the circumstances.  Full,
complete, verified responses without objection will be provided within 5 court
days.  The short time period is
deliberate by the court.  The court sees
no substantial justification for the responses or supplemental responses
(especially number 9), and the request for sanctions in the amount of $1005 are
imposed against plaintiff and payable within 30 days.  The court notes that it was defense counsel
who made the repeated promises that were not kept and who approved these
answers and the supplements.  The court
is also concerned because it is sensing a pattern here. 