  Case Number:  23STCV27404    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  74 Susan Carriere v. Field Asset
Service, Inc., et al.
Defendants’ Motion to Transfer and
Consolidate Actions
The court considered the moving
papers. The motion is unopposed.
BACKGROUND
            This action arises from an
employment dispute.
            On
June 13, 2023, Plaintiff Susan Carriere (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendants Field Asset Services, Inc., Field Asset Services, LLC, Xome Field
Services, LLC, and Cyprexx Services, LLC (Defendants). The complaint alleges
one cause of action for violation of the unfair competition law. 
            On
February 23, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to transfer other actions to
this court. Defendants also seek consolidation of all the actions.
LEGAL STANDARD            
              For non-complex cases, a judge in
one court may order cases pending in other courts transferred to the judge’s
court if the cases: (1) involve a common question of fact or law with a case
pending in the judge’s court; (2) meet the criteria for coordination under Code
of Civil Procedure section 404.1; and (3) the cases are not complex. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 403.) 
            To
assess whether coordination is appropriate, courts consider the following
factors: (1) whether the common question of fact or law is predominating and
significant to the litigation; (2) the convenience to the parties, witnesses,
and counsel; (3) the relative development of actions and work product of
counsel; (4) the efficient utilization of judicial facilities and manpower; (5)
the calendar of the courts; (6) the disadvantages of duplicative and
inconsistent rulings, orders, or judgments; and (7) the likelihood of
settlement of the actions should coordination be denied. (Code Civ. Proc., §
404.1.) 
            Upon
transfer, the cases may be consolidated for trial without further notice or
hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.) 
DISCUSSION  
            As
a preliminary matter, the court notes the distinction between this motion to
transfer actions under Code of Civil Procedure section 403, and a petition for
coordination under Code of Civil Procedure section 404. The latter applies to
complex actions and requires submission of a petition to the Chair of the
Judicial Council, who may then assign a judge to determine whether the actions
are complex and, if so, whether coordination is appropriate. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 404.) By contrast, in non-complex actions, a party is not required to follow
this process. Instead, a party may make a motion to transfer and coordinate actions
directly to a judge in a court in which one of the actions is pending. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 403.0.) 
            Here,
Defendants aim to transfer forty-five actions to this court. Defendants contend
the actions are not complex. If so, a motion to transfer and consolidate under
Code of Civil Procedure section 403 would be the proper vehicle. But to prevail
on their motion, Defendants must demonstrate, in part, that the actions meet
the standards for coordination specified in Code of Civil Procedure section
404.1. (Code Civ. Proc., § 403.) On December 1, 2023, the court in Department
11 found that the Code of Civil Procedure section 404.1 coordination factors,
on balance, supported denial of Defendants’ petition to coordinate the same
actions. In what seems to be a roundabout way of seeking reconsideration of Department
11’s ruling, Defendants claim Department 11 did not assess whether the factors disfavored
transfer and consolidation, as requested here. (Motion, p. 9.) But Defendants
have not cited any authority that motions for transfer and petitions for
coordination apply Code of Civil Procedure section 404.1 differently. Rather,
both a motion for transfer and a petition for coordination must show “that the
actions meet the standards specified in [Code of Civil Procedure] section
404.1.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 403, 404.) 
CONCLUSION 
            The
court denies Defendants’ motion to transfer and consolidate actions.
            Defendants
shall give notice.