  Case Number:  20STCV06479    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 6/7/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV06479 NAKISA NOWZAR vs
VIA MARINA TAHITI HOA, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Personal Touch
Cleaning 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION IS DENIED 
 
Background
On February 18, 2020,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Via Marina Tahiti HOA, Horizon
Management Company, and Personal Touch Cleaning, alleging a slip and fall on a
puddle from a leaky pipe in the parking area of a condo located at 310 Tahiti
Way, Marina Del Rey. Via Marina Tahiti HOA had contracted Personal Touch
Cleaning to provide cleaning services at this property. Plaintiff contends that
Personal Touch Cleaning neglected to maintain the garage, including the water
puddle that led to Plaintiff's fall. Defendant Personal Touch now moves for
summary adjudication on the following issues. 
(1) Plaintiff NAKISA NOWZAR cannot establish
Defendant PERSONAL TOUCH CLEANING & MAINTENANCE, INC. owed her a duty. 
(2) Plaintiff NAKISA NOWZAR cannot establish
Defendant PERSONAL TOUCH CLEANING & MAINTENANCE, INC. breached any duty it
may have owed. 
(3) Plaintiff NAKISA NOWZAR cannot establish
Defendant PERSONAL TOUCH CLEANING & MAINTENANCE, INC. had notice of the
alleged condition that caused her to allegedly fall. 
(4) Plaintiff NAKISA NOWZAR cannot establish
causation as to Defendant PERSONAL TOUCH CLEANING & MAINTENANCE, INC.
(5) Plaintiff NAKISA NOWZAR cannot establish
Defendant PERSONAL TOUCH CLEANING & MAINTENANCE, INC. caused or created the
alleged condition that caused her to allegedly fall.
(Notice of Motion, p.2),
Preliminary Issues
 
Defendant’s Objections No. 8 and 10 are
overruled; objection 11 is sustained. The Parties did not make any other
objections to evidence that was material to Court’s ruling on the Motion for
Summary Judgment. (CCP § 437c(q).)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the present motion is not timely as it is heard less than 30 days
before the date of trial. (CCP § 437c(a)(3).) This issue was already addressed
on March 28, 2023, when the Court, upon finding good cause (CCP § 437c(a)(3)),
continued the trial and specifically set the MSJ to be heard on June 7, 2024.
The court will hear the motion on its merits.
Legal Standard
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer Cause,
Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.)
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.)
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences
favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the
evidence.¿While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in
mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine
issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be
resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in
the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial court grant
summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id.
at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
Duty
Defendant argues that it
owed no duty of care to Plaintiff because it is not the property owner but
merely an independent contractor. "The duty question must be decided on a
case-by-case basis, but each case must be governed by the general rule that
everyone is required to use ordinary care to prevent causing injury to
others." (Bloomberg v. Interinsurance Exchange (1984) 162
Cal.App.3d 571, 575.) "A defendant who enters upon an affirmative course
of conduct affecting the interests of another is regarded as assuming a duty to
act, and will be liable for negligent acts or omissions." (Id.) As
in Bloomberg, the allegations against Defendant center around a
negligent performance of a contractual duty. The parties do not dispute the
existence of contractual duties under the maintenance contract between
Defendant Personal Touch and Marina Tahiti HOA. However, they disagree on
whether this duty extends to the water puddle in question.
In meeting its initial
burden to negate the element of duty, Defendant introduced its Janitorial
Maintenance Specification Sheet, which, as part of the contract, specifies the
services provided in the parking garage. According to the sheet, Personal Touch
will "police the garage area and pick up debris," "dust
overheads," "sweep the garage using a push broom," and
"squeegee out low areas when it rains" (Def's Exhibit C [Personal
Touch's Janitorial Maintenance Specification Sheet]). The term "police
garage area and pick up debris" refers to Personal Touch’s responsibility
to walk through the garage to pick up large pieces of trash and dirt piles (Def’s
Exhibit J, Sarah Morales’ Deposition, 36:11 to 37:2; 62:13-25; 63:1-13]; Def’s Exhibit
K, Rosie Huerta’s Deposition, 23:2-6). Defendant has shown that under the
contract, it is not responsible for cleaning puddles of water created by a
leaky pipe, thus meeting its initial burden.
In raising triable issue
of fact, Plaintiff introduced portions of the deposition of Defendant's PMK,
Sarah Morales, stating that if there is water on the garage floor posing a slip
and fall threat, employees were supposed to take pictures of any water on the
ground and report that to the property manager, mop the water, and place cones
or wet floor signs as temporary solutions (Plf’s Ex. 5, Morales Depo.
37:16-38:4). Plaintiff also introduces testimony from Rosie Huerta, Director of
Operations for Defendant, regarding Defendant’s written obligation under the
contract to squeegee water when it rains. Huerta testified that if an employee
of Defendant is present and observes water from rain or leaky pipes, they will
squeegee the water (Plf’s Ex. 4, Huerta Depo. 37:9-17). Huerta confirmed that
the reason for squeegeeing water is to prevent someone from slipping and
falling (Huerta Decl. 38:5-7). Huerta also agreed that the principle applies
equally to water from leaky pipes as it does to rain water. (Huerta Decl.
38:11-39:12). Plaintiff presented evidence showing that Defendant’s employees
were required to mop or squeegee water from the garage if they observed it, and
place cones around the puddle to warn residents. Plaintiff has raised a triable
issue of fact regarding the scope of Defendant's duty under the maintenance
contract, specifically whether it includes cleanup of the water puddle in question.
Thus, summary adjudication is DENIED as to the issue of duty.
Notice
It is undisputed that
the incident occurred on April 4, 2018, at 4:30 pm. However, Defendant did not
introduce any evidence indicating how long the water puddle at issue had been
present or how long the water pipe had been leaking. The only information
available relevant to this issue is that Plaintiff filed a prior complaint to
the HOA about the leaky water pipe. (Def’s Exhibit H, Nakisa Nowsar’s
Deposition, 34:19-22.)
In meeting its burden in
negating the notice requirement, Defendant presented testimony from Sarah
Morales, Defendant's PMK, who stated that she received no reports from her
employees about water puddles or leaky pipes. However, Morales later testified
that although “she personally, are not aware of any water leaks, pipe issues,
water in the garage before this incident but maybe the employees that were
actually on the premise working, they may have some knowledge.” (Def’s Exhibit
J, Sarah Morales’ Deposition, 16:1-7; 54:19-55:4.)
Defendant failed to
provide any declarations or evidence from its onsite employees, Ms. Banuelos
and Ms. Gill (Exhibit K, Rosie Huerta Deposition, 43:19-25; Exhibit L),
confirming that they visited the garage and did not see any water puddles.
Additionally, there is no evidence, such as checklists, sweep sheets, or
declarations from the onsite employees showing that they actually performed
their duties to police or sweep the garage as required on the date of the
incident and during the period leading up to it. The absence of such
declarations, documents, or evidence could lead to the inference that Morales
did not receive any reports of the puddle either because the onsite employees
were aware of the puddle but failed to report it, or they did not visit the
garage and failed to observe the puddle. In ruling on a motion for summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence and all reasonable
inferences drawn therefrom, and must view such evidence and inferences in the
light most favorable to the opposing party (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843). Due to the lack of evidence to counter
these inferences, Defendant failed to meet its initial burden. Thus, Summary
Adjudication is DENIED as to the issue of notice.
Causation
Defendant’s argument regarding
causation hinges on the scope of its duty under the maintenance agreement.  It asserts that it did not breach this duty
nor cause the injury, as there was no duty to clean the water puddle.
Defendant provided no
evidence detailing the actions of its employees on the date of the accident or
in the days leading up to it. There are no declarations from the onsite
employees regarding whether they observed any water puddles, whether they were
actually at the property, whether they policed the garage, cleaned the puddle,
or placed cones during the relevant time period. The only evidence Defendant
provided concerns its employees' weekly schedule since 5/12/17, which outlines
tasks and routes to police the garage every 1-2 days and clean the garage
weekly. However, no evidence confirms that these tasks and schedules were
actually carried out by the onsite employees.
Defendant specifically
argues that "Plaintiff cannot establish that Personal Touch’s conduct
caused the alleged incident. Personal Touch’s duty under the contract was to
police the garage for debris and pick it up. (SSUMF No. 15) Plaintiff does not claim
that she slipped, tripped, or fell on debris. Therefore, the manner in which
Personal Touch performed its contractual duty did not cause the alleged
incident." (Motion at p. 12.) However, the court has determined that
Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact concerning the scope of duty. It
is conceivable that reasonable minds could find that Defendant was required to
clean the water puddle caused by the leak, and by the same token, Defendant’s
failure to clean the puddle was a substantial factor leading to Plaintiff’s
fall.
Defendant's argument against breach
centers on two points: it had no duty to repair the leak and it was not
notified of the hazard. (Motion at pg. 9-10.) The Court is not persuaded by
these arguments because, as discussed in the notice section, Defendant failed
to meet its initial burden of proving it had no notice. Furthermore, the focus
of Defendant’s duty has never been on its duty to repair the leaky pipes. The
central dispute in this action is whether Defendant was required to clean the
water puddle in question. Defendant did not present any evidence that Ms. Gills
and Ms. Banuelos, its onsite employees, actually swept the garage, policed the
area, or were present at the premises on the date of the incident or during the
time period leading up to it. 
In essence, Defendant has failed to
produce any evidence that its onsite employees were actually performing their
duties under the maintenance contract. Defendant’s main argument against breach
is that it had no duty to clean the puddle, and therefore, no duty was
breached. However, the Court finds that the issue of duty is appropriately left
for the jury to decide.
Thus, Defendant failed to meet its
initial burden and Summary Adjudication is DENIED as to the issue of causation 
Defendant Did Not Cause or Create The Condition That
Caused Plaintiff To Allegedly Fall
Defendant seeks to have the Court
adjudicate the issue of whether it “caused or created” the condition that caused
Plaintiff to allegedly fall.  The Court
declines to summarily adjudicate this issue because it is presented in a
confusing and ambiguous way that does not, as intended for summary adjudication
matters, clarify and/or narrow the issues for trial.  Rather, by joining the concepts of cause and
creation, Defendant appears to blur the element of causation.  Undoubtedly, Defendant did not create the
leak and water puddle at issue here, but Plaintiff is not contending that
Defendant did.  Accordingly, the Court
finds the issue for which Defendant seeks summary adjudication to be improper
for such adjudication. Thus, Summary Adjudication as to this issue is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely
(encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.