 Case Number:  22STCV27851    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL 
Hearing Date: 6/7/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV27851 EDWIN CASTANON, AN
INDIVIDUAL vs JOSE FRANCISCO CISNEROS 
Moving Party: Defendants
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing
of good cause requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors
in determining whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the
trial date; (2) whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any
party; (3) the length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
 
On August 26, 2022, Plaintiff filed the
present motor accident case. On February 9, 2024, Defendants filed their
answer. The current trial is set for June 21, 2024. Defendants now move the
Court to continue the trial by 7 months to allow more time for discovery.  Given the recent filing of the answer, one
prior request for continuances, the current request for a continuance of 7
months, and no opposition arguing for prejudice, the Court grants Defendants’
motion to continue the trial.
 
The new Trial
Date is set for February ___, 2025, at 8:30
a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to February ___, 2025, at 10:00
a.m. All case-related deadlines will follow the new trial date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿The body of the email must include the hearing date and
time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿You should assume that others may appear at the hearing
to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.