 Case Number:  23STCV20748    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION 
Hearing Date: 6/7/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV20748 JAIME ROGERS vs
KECK MEDICAL CENTER OF USC
Moving Party: Plaintiff 
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION FOR SUBSTITUTION IS GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard
 
“A pending action or proceeding does not abate
by the death of a party if the cause of action survives.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.21.) “On motion after the death of a person who
commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or
proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)
 
The person who seeks to commence an action or
proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration
under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating:
(1) The decedent’s name,
(2) The date and place of the decedent’s
death,
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in
California for administration of the decedent’s estate,”
(4) If the decedent’s estate was administered,
a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of
action to the successor in interest,
(5) Either of the following, as appropriate,
with facts in support thereof,
A) “The affiant or declarant is the decedent's
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil
Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.”
(B) “The affiant or declarant is authorized to
act on behalf of the decedent's successor in interest (as defined in Section
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the
decedent's interest in the action or proceeding.”
(6) “No other person has a
superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are
true, under penalty of perjury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32.)
A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff Jaimie Rogers passed away on January 4, 2024, and now Ina Haybaeck Rogers, Plaintiff’s wife
and successor in interest, moves the court to substitute herself in place of
her husband in the present case.
 
The court examined the filing and found that
the successor in interest has filed a declaration fulfilling all the
requirements under CCP § 377.32. A certified copy of decedent’s death
certificate is also attached. Thus, the present motion is GRANTED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 