 Case Number:  20STCV40804    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT
Hearing Date: 6/7/24
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV40804 KAREN ALFARO vs
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF GENERAL SERVICES
Moving Party: Defendant SEAN LAWSON
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION FOR RELIEF FROM DEFAULT IS
DENIED
 
Background
On October 23, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint against Defendant CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT
OF GENERAL SERVICES. On February 24, 2022, Defendant Sean Lawson was added as a
defendant in the present action. On September 4, 2022, January 3, 2023, and
January 25, 2023, Plaintiff allegedly served Defendant Sean Lawson through
personal service. Defendant did not file an answer, and on March 21, 2023,
default was entered against Defendant. Defendant now moves the Court for relief
from default on the basis that the person allegedly personally served was not
him and he has no actual knowledge of the suit.
CCP §473.5
CCP §473.5(a) permits
the court to vacate a default judgment “[w]hen service of a summons has not
resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default
or default judgment has been entered against him.” The phrase “actual notice”
means “genuine knowledge of the party litigant.” (Tunis v. Barrow (1986)
184 Cal. App. 3d 1069, 1077.)
The notice of motion
shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding
the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against
him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that
the default or default judgment has been entered. Under section 473.5(b),
a “notice of motion to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to
defend the action . . . shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath
that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not
caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.”
Under (c), “upon a
finding by the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by
(a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set
aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and
allow the party to defend the action.”
Timeliness
The present motion is
timely. Under CCP 473.5, the notice of motion must be served and filed within a
reasonable time, but not later than the earlier of: (i) two years after entry
of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him
or her of a written notice that the default or default judgment has been
entered. No default judgment has been entered against Plaintiff, nor has
Plaintiff been served with written notice that a default has been entered.
Plaintiff’s only evidence in support of her argument that the present motion is
untimely is Exhibit D. However, Exhibit D indicates that a copy of the Request
for Entry of Default was mailed on March 20, 2023, a day before default was
entered and it does not show Defendant served Plaintiff with written notice
that a default has been entered.
Actual Notice
The Court finds that
Defendant had actual notice of the present action. Defendant admits in his
declaration that the California Department of General Services informed him in
September 2022 that they would no longer represent him in this lawsuit.
(Defendant's Declaration to Motion ¶ 6.) Defendant also presented proofs of
service for each of the three personal service attempts and a declaration from
the process server for each attempt. First, these service attempts all occurred
at 11250 Blucher Avenue, Granada Hills, California. Defendant declares he
resides at that address with his son. (Defendant's Declaration to Reply ¶ 2.)
Second, the description
provided by the process server of the individual served aligns with Defendant's
characteristics. The gender, ethnicity, age, and height are all within a
reasonable range. There was an inconsistency in the proof of service dated January
25, 2023, where the individual was mistakenly listed as Caucasian; however, the
corresponding affidavit correctly identifies the individual as African
American, indicating a likely typographical error. The only discrepancy lies in
the weight: the process server recorded the individual as weighing between
170-190 lbs, while Defendant states he currently weighs 240 lbs. 
Third, Defendant resides
with his 26-year-old son at 11250 Blucher Avenue, Granada Hills, California, a
single-family home. This setting reduces the possibility that the individual
served was someone other than Defendant, particularly given the age of his son.
Fourth, and
significantly, the process server possessed a photograph of Defendant when
effecting personal service and confirmed that the individual who received
service matches the person depicted in the photograph.
Based on the foregoing
reasons, the Court finds that Defendant had actual notice of the action and
thus no basis exists to set aside the default.
Electronic Service
Defendant argues in the reply that there was no explicit
agreement for service by electronic means between Plaintiff and Defendant, who
is appearing in pro per, and therefore the Court should disregard Plaintiff’s
opposition. The Court is not persuaded by this argument. First, it is noted
that Defendant's moving papers were also served electronically on Plaintiff.
Consequently, if the Court were to disregard Plaintiff’s opposition on these
grounds, it would similarly need to disregard Defendant’s moving papers.
Second,
“It
is axiomatic that strict compliance with the code's provisions for service of
process is not required.” (Ramos v. Homeward Residential,
Inc. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1434, 1442.) Service should be liberally
construed to effectuate service and uphold the jurisdiction of the Court if
actual notice has been received by the defendant. The question of service
should ultimately be resolved by considering each situation from a practical standpoint.
The liberal construction rule, it is anticipated, will eliminate unnecessary,
time-consuming, and costly disputes over legal technicalities, without
prejudicing the right of defendants to proper notice. (Id.) Defendant's
actual notice of the opposition is undisputed as Defendant filed a reply
contesting the merits of Plaintiff’s arguments in the opposition.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative
ruling, the party must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the
case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative
ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person
for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at
the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at
hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative
ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling,
the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.
 