 Case Number:  23STCV04112    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WALTER GEE, 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
LAGUNA CREEK CONSTRUCTION, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV04112
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE
  TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 28, 2024



 
On October 6, 2023, Plaintiff Walter Gee filed a first
amended complaint.  On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint (“SAC”).
The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an amendment
to any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).)  A motion to amend a pleading
must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations
are located.  (California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324(a).)  The motion shall also be
accompanied by a declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment
is necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
Plaintiff
provides a redlined copy of the proposed SAC, which shows all amendments.  (Julander Decl. ¶ 2 & Ex. B.)  According to Plaintiff, he discovered the need
for amendments after new counsel substituted in during November 2023, depositions
were taken in February 2024, and more discovery was produced from December 2023
through April 2024.  (Julander Decl. ¶ 3.)  Trial is not until August 26, 2024.
Defendants
Laguna Creek Construction Inc. dba Alfa Kitchen, Bath & Flooring and Mohammadali
Kalantari oppose the motion.  Defendants argue
that the SAC is a sham pleading intended only to defeat their pending motion for
summary judgment, and they will be prejudiced by additional costs.  (Opposition at pp. 6-8.)  The Court does not agree that this is a sham pleading.  However, the Court will condition the amended
pleading on Plaintiff reimbursing Defendants’ costs incurred in preparing the motion
for summary judgment that will now be rendered moot by the SAC.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
Defendants
also argue that there will be a little over two months left for discovery before
the current trial date, and the SAC “will trigger further law and motion work including
potential demurrers, and extensive discovery and depositions.”  (Opposition at p. 8.)  If so, this may constitute good cause for a continuance
of trial.  (See California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(c).)
Because
there is no showing of prejudice, the motion for leave to file an amended complaint
is GRANTED.  Plaintiff is ordered to file
and serve his SAC within 10 days.
A
Hearing on Motion for MSJ Attorney Fees is scheduled for _________.  Briefing is according to code.
The
Hearing on Motion for Summary Judgment scheduled for July 16, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
is taken off calendar.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 28th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 