 Case Number:  23STCV21532    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MIN WOO JOO, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING SERVICES OF LOS ANGELES
  COUNTY, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV21532
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTIONS
  TO SET ASIDE DEFAULTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 28, 2024



 
On September 7, 2023, Plaintiffs Min Woo Joo and Prime
Educational Academy Inc. filed this action against Defendants Marvin Johnson, Lori
Gay, Jesse Ibarra, Angela Heyward, and others. 
On November 13, 2023, the Court entered default against the individual Defendants.
On April 12, 2024, Defendants filed motions
to set aside the defaults.  Defendants each
included a copy of their proposed answer to the complaint.
LEGAL
STANDARD

The Court may relieve a party or counsel from a judgment
resulting from mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, not to exceed six months, after the judgment.  (Ibid.)  Additionally, the Court may set aside a default
or default judgment upon a motion and affidavit attesting that the lack of actual
notice in time to defend the action was not caused by the party’s avoidance of service
or inexcusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473.5.)
“[I]f
a defendant is not validly served with a summons and complaint, the court lacks
personal jurisdiction and a default judgment in such action is subject to being
set aside as void.”  (Lee v. An (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 558, 564.)
DISCUSSION
According
to the proofs of service, Marvin Johnson was personally served on September 21,
2023 at 12:46 p.m. at Neighborhood Housing Services of Los Angeles County (“NHS”).  At the same time, Lori Gay, Jesse Ibarra, and
Angela Heyward were served via substituted service through Marvin Johnson.
A.        Lori Gay, Jesse Ibarra, and Angela Heyward
Were Not Properly Served.
Substituted
service requires leaving a copy of the summons and complaint either at the individual’s
dwelling house or usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing
address other than a post office box.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)  Plaintiff
must also mail a copy of the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage
prepaid to the person to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and
complaint were left.  (Ibid.)
Lori
Gay, Jesse Ibarra, and Angela Heyward were never personally served and never received
a copy of the summons and complaint left at or mailed to NHS.  (Gay Decl. ¶¶ 2-4; Ibarra Decl. ¶¶ 2-4; Heyward
Decl. ¶¶ 2-4)  Accordingly, the Court concludes
that these Defendants were not properly served via substituted service.
The
motions are granted for Lori Gay, Jesse Ibarra, and Angela Heyward.
B.        Marvin Johnson Is Entitled to Relief
Due to Mistake, Inadvertence, or Excusable Neglect.
When
the process server arrived at NHS, he handed a packet of papers to Marvin Johnson.  (Johnson Decl. ¶ 2.)  The process server asked Johnson to sign something,
“which appeared to be a log of some kind.” 
(Johnson Decl. ¶ 2.)  Johnson signed
it once and “understood that [he] was accepting service of papers for one party.”  (Johnson Decl. ¶ 2.)  The process server “did not describe what he was
serving at all, except that they were legal papers.”  (Johnson Decl. ¶ 3.)
The
papers “appeared to be multiple copies of various documents,” and Johnson did not
notice that that there were multiple copies of a summons with different names handwritten
at the bottom.  (Johnson Decl. ¶ 3.)  Because he thought the papers were “just a bunch
of duplicate copies,” he scanned one copy of each document (including the summons
for NHS)  and sent the scanned documents to
supervisor Lori Gay.  (Johnson Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)
On
April 3, 2024, Johnson retrieved the physical copies of the documents for the first
time since September 21, 2023.  (Johnson Decl.
¶ 10.)  “[N]ow that [he] knew what [he] was
looking for,” he discovered that there were separate copies of the summons for each
individual Defendant.  (Johnson Decl. ¶ 10.)  Prior to April 4, 2024, counsel for NHS was not
aware of any summons and complaint being served on the individual Defendants.  (Spitser Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)
Based
on all of these facts—and in the absence of any opposition—the Court finds that
the default is the result of mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect, and Johnson is entitled to relief under Code of Civil
Procedure sections 473 and 473.5.
The
motion is granted for Marvin Johnson.
CONCLUSION
The
unopposed motions to set aside the defaults are GRANTED.  The defaults entered on November 13, 2023 are
VACATED.
Defendants
are ordered to file and serve their answers within 10 days.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 28th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 