 Case Number:  24STCP01224    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



In re: J.G. WENTWORTH
  ORIGINATIONS, LLC, 
                        Petitioner.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCP01224
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PETITION FOR APPROVAL
  OF TRANSFER OF STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
May 28, 2024



 
On April 17, 2024, Petitioner
J.G. Wentworth Originations, LLC filed this petition for approval of transfer of
structured settlement payment rights.  The
petition seeks transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights held by
Amanda Encinas (“Payee”) under a settlement in connection with a personal injury
claim.  (Petition at p. 2, ¶ 3; see Amended
Encinas Decl. ¶ 4.)  If approved, Payee will
transfer to Petitioner 60 monthly payments of $1,996.05 each, increasing at 3% annually,
beginning on March 17, 2025 and ending on February 17, 2030.  (Petition at p. 2, ¶ 4.)  In exchange, Petitioner will pay Payee $90,000.o0.  (Petition at p. 4.)
A
direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective
unless the transfer has been approved in a final court order based on certain express
written findings by the Court.  (Ins. Code,
§ 10139.5, subd. (a).)
A.        The Transfer Is In the Best Interest of
the Payee.
The
transfer must be in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare
and support of the payee’s dependents.  (Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(1).)  When determining
whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee’s best interests, the
Court must consider the totality of the circumstances, including but not limited
to: (1) the reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed
transaction, taking into account the payee’s age, mental capacity, legal knowledge,
and apparent maturity level; (2) the stated purpose of the transfer; (3) the payee’s
financial and economic situation; (4) the terms of the transaction, including whether
the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his
or her future payments; (5) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future
periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to
pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries
sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and
whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care
and treatment; (6) whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic
payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide
for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs
the future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses;
(7) whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require
future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in connection
with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee lacks
other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those future medical expenses;
(8) whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured
settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient to
meet the payee’s future financial obligations for maintenance and support of the
payee’s dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee’s child
support obligations, if any; (9) whether the financial terms of the transaction,
including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee,
the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee,
the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to
achieve the payee’s stated objectives, are fair and reasonable; (10) whether the
payee completed previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement
payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and whether the payee
was satisfied with any previous transaction; (11) whether the transferee attempted
previous transactions involving the payee’s structured settlement payments that
were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits,
within the past five years; (12) whether, to the best of the transferee’s knowledge
after making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement
payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the transferee,
that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the
merits, within the past five years; (13) whether the payee, or his or her family
or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation; (14) whether the payee
received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction; and (15)
any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested
party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines
should be considered in reviewing the transfer. 
(Ins. Code., § 10139.5, subd. (b).)
Payee
is a single 36-year-old with three minor children and one 18-year old child, who
all reside with Payee.  (Amended Encinas Decl.
¶ 8.)  Payee is experiencing a financial hardship:
she owes approximately $75,000.00 toward personal loans, school loans, and creditors.  (Amended Encinas Decl. ¶ 11.)  The remainder of the funds would be used towards
other financial assistance for her children. 
(Amended Encinas Decl. ¶ 11.)
The
original settlement was not intended to pay for future medical care or necessary
living expenses.  (Amended Encinas Decl. ¶¶
6-7.)  Payee has not completed or attempted
any previous transactions involving this structured settlement.  (Amended Encinas Decl. ¶¶ 9-10.)  If this transfer is approved, there will still
be future payments under the structured settlement.  (See Petition at p. 7 & Ex. C.)  Payee is employed and earns $70,000.00 per year.  (Amended Encinas Decl. ¶ 8.)
Payee
acknowledges that she was advised of her right to seek independent counsel and financial
advice, and she knowingly waived that right. 
(Amended Encinas Decl. ¶ 12.)  Payee
understands the terms of the transfer agreement and does not want to exercise her
right to cancel the agreement.  (Amended Encinas
Decl. ¶ 13.)
Under
the terms of this transaction, Payee will transfer 60 monthly payments of $1,996.05
each, increasing at 3% annually, beginning on March 17, 2025 and ending on February
17, 2030, and she will pay no expenses.  (Petition,
Ex. A, ¶¶ 2(B), 10.)  The transfer and payment
of $90,000.00 was calculated using a discount rate of 10.9%.  (Petition, Ex. A, ¶ 10.) 
Considering
all the factors, the Court finds that the transfer is in Payee’s best interest.
B.        Payee Knowingly Waived Her Right to Receive
Independent Professional Advice.
The
payee must be advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional
advice regarding the transfer and either receive that advice or knowingly waive,
in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(2).)
The
Transfer Agreement advises that Payee may receive independent legal and financial
advice, but Payee knowingly waived the right. 
(Petition, Exs. A, E; Amended Encinas Decl. ¶ 12.)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.
C.        Payee Received the Required Disclosure
Form.
The
transferee must provide the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Insurance
Code section 10136.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5,
subd. (a)(3).)  The disclosure form must contain
specific text, and the transferee must provide the disclosure form at least ten
days before the payee executes a transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10136, subd. (b).)
The
disclosure form here contains the required text and form.  (Petition, Ex. B.)  Payee received and read the disclosure form at
least ten days before signing the transfer agreement.  (See Petition, Exs. A-B.)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.
D.        The Transfer Agreement Complies With Statutory
Requirements.
The
transfer agreement must comply with Insurance Code sections 10136 and 10138.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)
The
transfer agreement contains the required text and form.  (Petition, Ex. A.)  Additionally, the transfer agreement does not
contain any provision (1) waiving the seller’s right to sue or waiving his jurisdiction
or standing to sue; (2) requiring the seller to indemnify the buyer or to pay the
buyer’s costs of defense; (3) waiving benefits or rights conferred by law with respect
to garnishment of wages; (4) providing that the contract is confidential or proprietary,
belonging to the buyer; (5) in which the seller stipulates to a confession of judgment;
(6) requiring the seller to pay the buyer’s attorney’s fees and costs if the purchase
agreement is not completed; (7) requiring the seller to pay any tax liability arising
under the federal tax laws, other than the seller’s own tax liability that results
from the transfer; (8) providing for brokerage fees incurred in the contract to
be deducted from the purchase price disclosed; (9) providing for forum selection
and jurisdiction to be in a court outside of California for any action arising under
the contract, if the seller is domiciled in California at the time he signs the
transfer agreement; (10) providing for controlling law to be other than California
law in any action arising under the contract, if the seller is domiciled in California
at the time he signs the transfer agreement; (11) providing the buyer with a security
interest or collateral interest in any structured settlement payment rights that
exceed the actual dollar amount of the structured settlement payment rights being
transferred; or (12) creating a “buyer’s first right of refusal” to purchase any
remaining structured payment rights that the payee may desire to sell in the future.  (Ins. Code, § 10138, subd. (a).)
Accordingly,
the Court finds that the transfer agreement complies with Insurance Code sections
10136 and 10138.
E.        The Petition Complies With Notice Requirements.
The
transferee must comply with the notification requirements of subdivision (f)(2).  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(3).)  A notice of proposed transfer and petition must
be filed and served no later than 20 days before the hearing and must include: (1)
a copy of the transferee’s current petition and any other prior petition; (2) a
copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by section
10139.5, subdivision (a)(3); (3) a listing of each of the payee’s dependents and
their ages; (4) a copy of the disclosure required in section 10136, subdivision
(b); (5) a copy of the annuity contract, any qualified assignment agreement, and
underlying structured settlement agreement, if available; (6) proof of service showing
compliance with the notification requirements; (7) notification that any interested
party is entitled to support, oppose, or otherwise respond to the transferee’s petition
by submitting written comments to the court or by participating in the hearing;
(8) notification of the time and place of the hearing and notification of the manner
in which and the time by which written responses to the petition must be filed;
and (9) notice to the payee’s attorney of record at the time the structured settlement
was created, if payee entered into the structured settlement at issue within five
years prior to the date of the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (f)(2).)
Petitioner’s
notice and petition generally comply with these requirements.  Petitioner filed a proof of service on May 1,
2024.  The petition includes a copy of the
transfer agreement (Petition, Ex. A) and disclosure form (id., Ex. B), along
with other required information.
The
original petition did not include a copy of the underlying structured settlement
agreement.  (See Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subds.
(f)(2)(A), (f)(2)(E)-(G).)  On May 15, 2024,
Petitioner filed an Amended Exhibit D, in which Payee declares that she attempted
to locate the Settlement Agreement and has been unsuccessful.  (Ex. D, ¶ 9.)
With
the supplemental information provided, the Court finds that this requirement is
satisfied.
F.         The Petition Does Not Contravene Any
Applicable Statute or Order.
The
transfer must not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or
other government authority.  (Ins. Code, §
10139.5, subd. (a)(4).)
The
transfer generally complies with statutory requirements, and there is no evidence
that it contravenes the order of any court or other government authority.
Accordingly,
the Court finds that this requirement is satisfied.
G.        Payee Declares Her Understanding of the
Terms.
The
payee must understand the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set
forth in the disclosure statement, and the right to cancel the transfer agreement.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(5)-(6).)
Payee
declares that she understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the
terms set forth in the disclosure statement. 
(Amended Encinas Decl. ¶ 13.)  Additionally,
Payee signed the Transfer Agreement directly under a statement advising her of her
right to cancel the agreement.  (Petition,
Ex. A.)
The
Court therefore finds that this requirement is satisfied.
CONCLUSION
The
Petition is GRANTED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 28th day of May 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 