  Case Number:  22SMCV01631    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September 27, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV01631




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Cross-Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Xenon Investment Corp. and Cross-Defendant
  Rohit Mehta




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant Back to Total Health, Inc.



 
MOTIONS
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Xenon Investment Corp. (“Xenon”) and
Cross-Defendant Rohit Mehta (“Mehta”) (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) demur to
both causes of action—for breach of contract and fraud—alleged in Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Back to Total Health’s (“BTTH”) Cross-Complaint.  Cross-Defendants also move to strike the alter
ego allegations and request for punitive damages in BTTH’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
This case stems from a dispute over leased commercial property.  Xenon filed a complaint against BTTH for
breach of contract and declaratory relief based on BTTH’s failure to pay rent
on commercial properties BTTH leased from Xenon. 
 
BTTH filed a cross-complaint against Xenon and Xenon’s owner, Mehta,
on a theory of alter ego liability, for breach of contract and fraud.  BTTH alleges Xenon breached the lease
agreement by failing to provide quiet enjoyment of premises to BTTH, by
allowing “Barry’s Bootcamp” to use common areas, causing noise and vibrations
in BTTH’s leased premises, and committed fraud by promising to rectify the
Barry’s Bootcamp issues without intent to actually do so.  (Cross-Complaint ¶¶ BC-2; FR-4.)   
 
Cross-Defendants demur to BTTH’s cross-complaint on the grounds that
each cause of action fails to state a cause of action, and is barred by the applicable
statutes of limitation.  Further,
Cross-Defendants move to strike BTTH’s claim for punitive damages and alter-ego
allegations on the grounds that the cross-complaint contains matters not drawn
in conformity with the laws of California. 
   
 
ANALYSIS
 
                  
I.           
DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must
“liberally construe[]” the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal
construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the
plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  
 
A.   
      FIRST
CAUSE OF ACTION – BREACH OF CONTRACT
 
1.     
Statute of
Limitations
 
A breach of contract cause of action has a four-year statute of
limitations.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 337.)  “A cause of action for breach of contract
does not accrue before the time of breach.” (Romano v. Rockwell Internat.,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 479, 488.) 
“In the context of successive breaches of a continuing contractual
obligation, […] where the parties did not mutually abandon or rescind it upon a
breach or successive breaches, the injured party could wait until the time
arrived for a complete performance by the other party and then bring an action
for damages for such breaches.”  (Id.
at pp. 489-490.)  A party is “not bound
to treat the contract as abandoned on the first breach of it, or on any
particular breach, but [has their] election to still rely on it, and the
statute of limitations could not begin to run until [the party] had made its
election.”  (Ibid.)  “[R]esolution of the statute of limitations
issue is normally a question of fact[.]” 
(Id. at p. 487.)
 
Cross-Defendants first argue that the Breach of Contract cause of
action is barred by the statute of limitations, because the Cross-Complaint
alleges that the lease was entered into on July 15, 2017, and the breach is alleged
to have occurred “on or about July 15, 2017 and continuing” but the
cross-complaint was not filed until July 14, 2023, nearly six years later.  (Demurrer at pp. 4:20-5:14.)  
 
But BTTH alleges several “continuing” breaches.  (See Cross-Complaint ¶¶ BC-2.)  Thus, the statute of limitations has run is a
question of fact, and the Court cannot determine at the pleading stage whether the
breach of contract cause of action in the cross-complaint is time-barred as a
matter of law.
 
2.     
Failure to
State a Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
To allege a cause of action
for breach of contract, a plaintiff must allege “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (D'Arrigo Bros. of California v. United
Farmworkers of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 790, 800.)
 
Cross-Defendants first argue
that although the cross-complaint alleges BTTH “has performed all obligations
to defendant except those obligations plaintiff was prevented or excused from
performing,” BTTH has failed to meet its burden, because it has not alleged it
paid the rent due under the lease. 
(Demurrer at p. 7:3-11.)  The
Court disagrees.  The language of the
complaint suffices at this stage of the litigation.  Questions about when and under what
circumstances BTTH stopped paying rent go beyond the four corners of the
Cross-Complaint, and are factual questions to be resolved at later stages of
the litigation.
 
Similarly, Cross-Defendants
argue that BTTH has failed to allege that the $250,000 damages it allegedly
suffered were proximately caused by Cross-Defendants’ breach.  (Demurrer at p. 7:12-17.)  Again, the language of the cross-complaint,
indicates that “Plaintiff suffered damages legally (proximately) caused by
defendant’s breach of the agreement as follows: Diminished value of the leased
premises and on information and belief, in an amount not less than
$250,000.  Other damages according to
prove at trial[.]”  (Cross-Complaint ¶
BC-4.)  The assertions are sufficient at
this stage of the litigation.  
 
Finally, Cross-Defendants
argue that the language of paragraph 8.8 of the Lease Agreement precludes
recovery of damages for lost profits, and precludes recovery of damages arising
from another tenant’s act or neglect, or from Lessor’s failure to enforce another
lease in the shopping center, thus barring the claim here.  (Demurrer at 7:18-8:26.)  Cross-Defendants cite to Frittelli, Inc.
v. 350 North Canon Drive, LP (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 35, 42, in support of
their argument.
 
As a threshold matter, the
language of the Cross-Complaint shows BTTH is seeking damages for “[d]iminished
value of the leased premises,” not necessarily lost profits.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ BC-4.)  Moreover, the Cross-Complaint alleges
Cross-Defendants breached the lease agreement between Xenon and BTTH by failing
to provide quiet enjoyment of the premises to BTTH.  BTTH does not allege that its damages arise
from any breach by Barry’s Bootcamp, or Xenon’s failure to enforce its lease
with Barry’s Bootcamp.
 
Frittelli is
distinguishable for several reasons. 
First, Frittelli was decided at the summary judgment stage, not
at the pleadings stage.  Second,
Frittelli expressly sought damages for lost profits to the business, unlike
BTTH, who seeks damages for diminished value of the premises.  Third, the contract at issue in Frittelli
limited recovery in the event that the landlord’s negligence was the cause of
the breach, which is exactly what Frittelli alleged.  By contrast, here, BTTH alleges
Cross-Defendants simply failed to perform under the terms of the
agreement.  BTTH does not allege
Cross-Defendants acted negligently.
 
Thus, BTTH adequately states a cause of action for breach of contract.
 
B.     SECOND
CAUSE OF ACTION - FRAUD
 
“In a promissory fraud action,
to sufficiently alleges [sic] defendant made a misrepresentation, the complaint
must allege (1) the defendant made a representation of intent to perform some
future action, i.e., the defendant made a promise, and (2) the defendant did
not really have that intent at the time that the promise was made, i.e., the
promise was false.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)   “Moreover, to be actionable, a
misrepresentation or concealment must induce justifiable reliance and resulting
damage.”  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 482, as modified on denial of reh'g (Aug.
20, 1996).)
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“One of the purposes of the
specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish the defendant
with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384, as
modified on denial of reh'g (Mar. 18, 2009).) 
As such, less specificity is required “when it appears from the nature
of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy[.]” 
(Ibid.)  “Even under the
strict rules of common law pleading, one of the canons was that less
particularity is required when the facts lie more in the knowledge of the
opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
Here, Cross-defendants argue
that BTTH fails to plead the elements of fraud with sufficient
particularity.  The Court agrees.  
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges
“Cross-defendants, by and through Mr. Mehta, promised that the issues of sound,
noise, and vibration created by Barry’s Bootcamp would be addressed in an
appropriate manner and consistent with the Parties’ agreement.  Cross-defendants, by and through Mr. Mehta,
promised BTTH that it would have the quiet enjoyment of the premises and that
it would have the benefit of the common areas, for which it was being charged.”  (Cross-Complaint at ¶ FR-4.)  The cross-complaint further alleges that, “In
justifiable reliance upon defendant’s conduct, plaintiff was induced to act as
follows: Enter into the subject lease, attached hereto as Exhibit A, and make
substantial improvements to the subject premises, in excess of $100,000, and
develop a business plan based on the term of the subject lease.”  (Id. at ¶ FR-5.)  Further, “Because of plaintiff’s reliance
upon defendant’s conduct, plaintiff has been damaged as follows: Diminished
value of the leased premises; loss of business opportunities; loss of enjoyment
of common areas, to the detriment of BTTH’s business; loss of quiet enjoyment
of the subject premises.”  (Id. at
¶ FR-6.)
 
Although the cross-complaint includes
details about who made the promise (Mr. Mehta) and what was promised (that the
noise and vibrations caused by Barry’s Bootcamp would be appropriately dealt
with), it does not specify when, how, where, or to whom the promise(s) were
allegedly made.  
 
Therefore, BTTH has failed to
plead a fraud cause of action with requisite particularity.[1]
 
               
II.           
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  
 
Here,
Cross-Defendants move to strike from the cross-complaint, references to and
claims for punitive damages and alter ego liability. 
 
A.          PUNITIVE DAMAGES 
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
Here, as discussed above, BTTH has failed to allege facts with
requisite specificity to state a cause of action for fraud.  As such, the allegations also fall short of
supporting the request for punitive damages. 

 
B.     ALTER
EGO
 
With respect to alter ego allegations, the cross-complaint alleges, “Xenon
Investment is an alter ego for Rohit Mehta, among others.”  (Cross-complaint, ¶ 9.)  BTTH also points out that Mehta “signed the
subject lease as ‘president and authorized agent’” and “as CEO and
President.”  (Opp. 6:5-6.)  
 
The authorities cited by Cross-Defendants are distinguishable.  In Moore v. Regents of University of
California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 134, fn. 12, the court listed “egregious
examples of generic boilerplate” as “each of the defendants was the agent,
joint venturer and employee of each of the other remaining defendants, and is
jointly liable for the acts of every other defendant […] each was acting within
the course and scope of said agency, employment, partnership and joint venture
[….]”  By contrast, here, there is no
allegation that both Cross-Defendants [much less many Cross-Defendants] are agents
and employees of each other.  The
cross-complaint simply alleges that Xenon is the alter ego of Mehta.
 
And in Meadows v. Emett & Chandler (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d
496, the complaint did not allege that defendants were alter egos at all; it
simply alleged that defendants jointly owned and controlled the
corporation.  By contrast, here, the
cross-complaint alleges specifically that Xenon is the alter ego of Mehta.  That suffices at this stage of the
litigation.
 
C.   
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, the Opposition states “In the event the Court concludes that
any part of the Cross-complaint is deficient, BTTH requests leave to amend to
address any concerns the Court may have.” 
This is insufficient.
 
BTTH has thus failed to meet its burden to demonstrate what
amendments it could make to correct the deficiencies identified.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
The Court sustains Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of
action for fraud without leave to amend.
 
The Court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of
action for breach of contract.
 
The Court grants in part and denies in part Cross-Defendants’ motion
to strike.  The Court strikes from
Paragraph 10(d), p.2 of the Cross-complaint the phrase, “Punitive damages on
the Second Cause of Action for fraud in an amount to deter and to punish the
improper behavior.”  The Court does not
strike the alter-ego allegations from the cross-complaint.  
 
Cross-Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a
proof of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  September 27, 2023                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


