 Case Number:  21STCV46361    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  O   Case Name: 
Rapore, et al. v. Regents of the University of California



Case No.:


21STCV46361


Complaint Filed:


12-20-21         




Hearing Date:


5-30-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


2


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT                                   
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendants (1) The Regents of
the University of California and Nasser S. El-Okdi, M.D. 
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Jonathan
Rapore and Deborah Rapore
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
            Defendants
The Regents of the University of California and Nasser S. El-Okdi, M.D. Motion
for Summary Judgment as to Plaintiffs Jonathan Rapore and Deborah Rapores’
Complaint is DENIED.
 
            Defendants
The Regents of the University of California and Nasser S. El-Okdi, M.D.’s Evidentiary
Objections nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, , 7 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16,17,18, 19, 20, 21,22, 23,
and 24 are Overruled. Objection nos 3, 13, and 14 are SUSTAINED, IN PART, as it
relates to Dr Thalia M. Nguyen, and otherwise is OVERRULED.    
Plaintiffs’ objections made in the separate statement are
improper and the Court declines to rule on them.  (CRC Rule 3.1354 (“All
written objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the
other papers in support of or in opposition to the motion. Objections to
specific evidence must be referenced by the objection number in the right
column of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the
objections must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement.”) See, Hodjat
v. State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 7-9
(finding that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to rule
on the plaintiff’s evidentiary objections made in plaintiff’s separate
statement, to overlook plaintiff’s deficiency, or to permit plaintiff the opportunity
to reformat his opposing papers).)
Defendants’ RJN of the package insert for olanzapine
is denied. “A request for judicial notice of published material is unnecessary.
Citation to the material is sufficient. (Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title
Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 34, 36 fn. 9.)
            Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication,
he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if
not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(o)(2).) A
defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be
established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the
claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)
Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove the existence of a
triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary adjudication in
favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.) 
 
     
I.         
Defendants The
Regents of the University of California and Nasser S. El-Okdi meet their burden
to show there are no triable issues of material fact
 
            Defendants The Regents of the University of California
(the “Regents”) and Nasser S. El-Okdi (“El-Okdi”), M.D. (collectively “Regents
Defendants”) move for summary judgment as to Plaintiff Jonathan Rapore’s cause
of action for Professional Negligence based on the elements of breach and
causation, and Plaintiff Deborah Rapore’s cause of action for Loss
of Consortium, which is dependent on the medical malpractice cause of action.
 
A.    First Cause
of Action for Medical Malpractice
 
            The
elements of a medical malpractice cause of action are (1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  (See Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 468 fn 2.)
 
            The standard of skill, knowledge and care prevailing in a
medical community is ordinarily a matter within the knowledge of experts. 
(See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 836, 844.)  “The
standard of care for physicians is the reasonable degree of skill, knowledge
and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical
profession under similar circumstances.  The test for determining
familiarity with the standard of care is knowledge of similar conditions. 
Geographical location may be a factor considered in making that determination,
but, by itself, does not provide a practical basis for measuring similar
circumstances.”  (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 470.)
             
            Whether the standard of care in the community has been
breached presents a basic issue of fact in a malpractice action which can only
be proved by expert opinion testimony unless the medical question is within the
common knowledge of laypersons.  (Id.; see also 1 Witkin, Cal.
Evid., supra, Opinion, § 86, p. 631.  [“[A]n opinion unsupported by
reasons or explanations does not establish the absence of a material fact issue
for trial, as required for summary judgment.”]; Golden Eagle Refinery
Co., Inc. v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 85 Cal.App.4th 1300, 1315,
citing Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 524). 
Accordingly, where a plaintiff provides proper opposing expert testimony via a
declaration, a triable issue of material fact is raised which precludes summary
judgment.  (Jambazian, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at 844.) 
The absence of opinion evidence on this issue is fatal to the plaintiff’s cause
of action.  (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 406,
412.)  An expert declaration is
admissible as long as Defendants’ expert states in detail his qualifications
and the factual basis for his opinion.  (See generally Kelley v. Trunk
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 524.)
 
            Expert testimony is also required to establish the
element of causation in a medical malpractice action.  “The law is well
settled that in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a
reasonable medical probability based on competent expert testimony. Mere
possibility alone is insufficient to establish a prima facie case. That there
is a distinction between a reasonable medical probability and a medical
possibility needs little discussion. There can be many possible causes, indeed,
an infinite number of circumstances that can produce an injury or disease. A
possible cause only becomes probable when, in the absence of other reasonable
causal explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a
result of its action. This is the outer limit of inference upon which an issue
may be submitted to the jury.”  (Jennings v. Palomar Pomerado Health
Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1118 [trial court properly
struck medical expert testimony on issue of causation where expert’s opinion
failed to provide a reasoned explanation regarding the etiology connecting
plaintiff’s infected subcutaneous tissue to the nidus inside peritoneal cavity
where retractor was retained].)   
            Here, The Regents
Defendants submit expert opinion and evidence to negate Plaintiffs’ allegations
of causation and breach. (Shapiro Decl., ¶¶ 8(a–p).) Specifically, The Regents Defendants
experts declare and provide evidence that Rapore’s condition, prior to and
following the administering of olanzapine at issue, was a result of the
progressive nature of Parkinson’s Disease in an elderly patient with multiple
comorbidities.  (SSUF, ¶ 86–99; Lew Decl., ¶¶
8(a)–(b), 8(d), 8(n)–(r), Ex. B, C, H, and K, pp. 122:9-123:6; Shapiro Decl.,
¶ 8(o)-(p).) The Regent Defendants’ expert declares that the
package insert and prescribing information for olanzapine does disclose an
increased risk of death for elderly patients with dementia-related psychosis
“treated with antipsychotic drugs,” including olanzapine. This warning is based
on seventeen studies with an average duration of 10 weeks, and most of the
deaths in that study appeared to be cardiovascular or infectious in nature. It
is also noted that the “extent to which the findings of increased mortality in
observational studies may be related to the antipsychotic drug as opposed to
some characteristic(s) of the patients is not clear.” (SSUF, ¶ 78.) There is no
warning with respect to a single low dose administration for sedation in the
package insert and prescribing information for olanzapine. As such, the
warnings included in prescribing information are not appliable, and do not
establish a breach of the standard of care in connection with the selection of
olanzapine to achieve sedation so plaintiff could obtain the needed CT scan. (SSUF,
¶ 79.) Further, Defendants’ expert concludes that based on Rapore’s medical records,
Rapore’s overall global decline due to Parkinson’s Disease was not a result of
a single low dose of olanzapine administered on 12-25-21. (SSUF, ¶ 99; Lew
Decl., ¶ 8(r), Ex. C.) In the years leading up to December 2020,
plaintiff’s cognition, hallucinations and overall mental status worsened in the
setting of infections. This is evidence of how sickness and infection can cause
acute worsening of Parkinson’s, which is what occurred during the December 24,
2020 hospitalization at issue. (SSUF, ¶ 88.) 
            The
Regent Defendants have provided competent expert testimony and evidence to show
that there are no triable issues of material fact as to whether the
administration of a single dose of olanzapine was within the standard of care
and was not the cause of Plaintiff’s injuries as Defendants’ experts declare
that there is no warning with respect to a single low dose of olanzapine, and
Plaintiff’s overall decline was the result of Plaintiff’s preexisting condition
which was exacerbated due to infections. The burden shifts to Plaintiffs to present
a triable issue of material fact as to the elements of breach and causation.
B.        Second Cause of Action for Loss of
Consortium 
“There are four
elements to a cause of action for loss of consortium: ‘(1) a valid and lawful
marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the
injury; [¶] (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; [¶] (3) loss of
consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and [¶] (4) the loss was proximately
caused by the defendant’s act.’ [Citations.]” (Vanhooser v. Superior Court
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927 [emphasis removed] (“Vanhooser”).)
 
“Injury is an
essential element of any cause of action,” and, therefore, “[w]ithout injury to
the spouse, the plaintiff has no loss of consortium claim. Thus, a cause of
action is not complete in the sense it is not actionable, without spousal
injury.” (Vanhooser, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th at pp. 927-928.)
 
Here, the Court
finds that The Regent Defendants have met their burden of showing that Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for loss of consortium has no merit by showing that at
least one element (tortious injury to Plaintiff) cannot be established. (Civ.
Code Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The burden shifts to Plaintiffs.
 
   
II.         
Plaintiffs meet their burden to show triable issues
of material fact exist 
In opposition, Plaintiffs’ experts opine that
Parkinson’s patients are deficient in dopamine. (SUMF 12; Goodstein Decl., ¶
13(k); Lobatz Decl., ¶ 23(k).) They further opine that Olanzapine is a known
dopamine blocker. (SSUF, ¶ 13; Goodstein Decl., ¶ 13(k); Lobatz Decl., ¶
23(k).) Giving a dopamine blocker to a Parkinson’s patient is contraindicated
and below the standard of care in the community. (SSUF, ¶ 14; Goodstein Decl.,
¶ 13(k); Lobatz Decl., ¶ 23(k).) Following the administration of olanzapine
(trade name Olanzapine) to Mr. Rapore, the contemporaneous medical records
reflect a change in condition, and that Mr. Rapore was somnolent. (SSUF, ¶¶ 18
& 19; Goodstein Decl., ¶ 13(o) & (p); Lobatz Decl., ¶ 23(o) & (p).)
Following the administration of Olanzapine, Mr. Rapore was noted to be sleepy,
delusional, and paranoid. (SSUF, ¶ 21; Goodstein Decl., ¶ 13(s); Lobatz Decl., ¶
23(s).) Dr. Bronstein had published an article in a peer-reviewed medical
journal which was circulated to UCLA physicians prior to treating Mr. Rapore
indicating giving a dopamine blocker and/or dopamine inhibitor to a known
Parkinson’s patient is contraindicated. (SSUF, ¶ 24; Goodstein Decl., ¶13(w);
Lobatz Decl., ¶ 23(w).) The black box warning for Olanzapine at the time
contained the warning in bold and within the black box: “Olanzapine is not
approved for the treatment of dementia-related psychosis.” (SSUF, ¶ 28;
Goodstein Decl., ¶ 11; Lobatz Decl., ¶ 21) Plaintiffs’ experts further opine
that administering even a single dose of Olanzapine under these circumstances
is below the standard of care for a Parkinson’s patient. (See Goodstein
Decl., ¶ 13(u); Lobatz Decl., ¶ 23(u).) Moreover, Dr. El-Okdi admitted in his
contemporaneously written discharge summary, “During the hospitalization, he
[Mr. Rapore] did continue to have worsened mental status, perhaps
exacerbated by olanzapine administered so that CT orbit could be obtained.”
(SSUF, ¶ 35; Goodstein Decl., ¶ 13(hh); Lobatz Decl., ¶ 23(hh).) Plaintiffs’
experts thus opine that giving Olanzapine to Plaintiff was below the standard
of care in the community, and the cause of his injuries. (SSUF, ¶¶ 34, 38-39;
Goodstein Decl., ¶¶ 11, 13(jj), 13(n), 13(q); Lobatz Decl., ¶¶ 21,
23(jj), 23(n), 23(q).) 
“The rule that a trial court must liberally construe the
evidence submitted in opposition to a summary judgment motion applies in ruling
on both the admissibility of expert testimony and its sufficiency to create a
triable issue of fact. [Citations.]” (Garrett v. Howmedica Osteonics Corp.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 173, 189.) It is established in California law that
expert declarations offered by the party opposing the motion are “entitled to
all favorable inferences,” and are sufficient to defeat the motion if they
contain facts that, given the proper inference, would show the existence of a
triable issue of material fact. (Hanson v. Grode (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
601, 607. See Avivi v Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 470 [summary judgment reversed because trial court erroneously
excluded plaintiff's medical expert's declaration for lack of familiarity with
standard of care]; Lyons v Colgate-Palmolive Co. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th
463, 467 [expert declaration in opposition to summary judgment created triable
issue as to whether plaintiff's use of defendant's talcum powder exposed her to
asbestos]; Manco Contracting Co. (W.L.L.) v. Bezdikian (2008) 45 Cal.4th
192, 197 [expert's declaration on Qatari law raised triable issue of fact on
finality of foreign judgment]; Shugart v Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 499, 506 [plaintiff's medical expert declaration raised triable
issue of fact on whether defendant physician's medical care met standard of
care in medical community and whether that care caused or contributed to
plaintiff's alleged damages].)  Construing Plaintiffs’ evidence liberally, and in a light most favorable
to Plaintiffs, the Court finds Plaintiffs have presented evidence sufficient to
show there are triable issues of material fact including:
            1.         There is
a triable issue of material fact as to whether administering olanzapine to Plaintiff
Jonathan Rapore on December 25, 2020 fell below the standard of care. In
support of their Motion for Summary Judgment, Defendants submitted expert
testimony from Jeffrey S. Shapiro, M.D. and Mark F. Lew, M.D. Both Dr. Shapiro
and Dr. Lew concluded that administering olanzapine to Mr. Rapore on December
25, 2020 was within the standard of care. (See Declaration of Jeffrey S.
Shapiro, M.D. (“Shapiro Decl.”), ¶¶ 8, 8a–o; Declaration of Mark F. Lew, M.D.
(“Lew Decl.”), ¶¶ 8, 8a–m.) In response, Plaintiffs submitted expert testimony
from Gelsey L. Goodstein, M.D. and Michael Lobatz, M.D. Both Dr. Goodstein and
Dr. Lobatz concluded that administering olanzapine to Mr. Rapore on December
25, 2020 fell below the standard of care. (See Declaration of Gelsey L.
Goodstein, M.D. (“Goodstein Decl.”), ¶¶ 13(k)– (jj); Declaration of Michael
Lobatz, M.D. (“Lobatz Decl.”), ¶¶ 23(k)–(jj), 24(a).) The Court finds that all
four medical experts have provided competent and admissible testimony.
Therefore, the Court finds that the conflicting opinions of the expert
witnesses as to the standard of care creates a triable issue of material fact.
See Powell v. Kleinman, 151 Cal. App. 4th 112, 123 (Cal. Ct. App. 2007) (“When
a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert
declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is
entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with
conflicting expert evidence.”) (internal quotation marks and citation omitted)
(emphasis added).
            2.         There is
a triable issue of fact as to whether administering olanzapine to Mr. Rapore on
December 25, 2020 caused or contributed to Mr. Rapore’s injuries. In support of
their Motion for Summary Judgment, Defendants submitted evidence that the dose
of olanzapine administered to Mr. Rapore on December 25, 2020 did not cause his
injuries, specifically the respiratory failure he experienced on December 29,
2020 and the overall decline following his hospitalization. (See Lew Decl., ¶¶
8p–t; Shapiro Decl., ¶¶ 8o–p.) In response, Plaintiffs have submitted evidence
that the dose of olanzapine administered to Mr. Rapore on December 25, 2020
caused or contributed to his injuries. (See Goodstein Decl. at ¶¶ 13(o), (p),
(s), (gg)–(jj); Lobatz Decl. at ¶¶ 23(o), (p), (s), (gg)–(jj), 24; Defendants’
Exhibit B at 19, 836, 900–901.) Both Defendants and Plaintiffs rely on their
expert witnesses’ opinions based on the experts’ analysis of the evidence.
Therefore, the Court finds that the conflicting opinions of the expert witnesses
as to whether administering olanzapine to Mr. Rapore on December 25, 2020
caused or contributed to Mr. Rapore’s injuries creates a triable issue of
material fact. See Powell, 151 Cal. App. 4th at 123.
            As Plaintiffs met their
burden as to the cause of action for medical malpractice, the motion for
summary judgment as to the loss of consortium claim cannot be granted either.
            The
Regent Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.  Case
Name:  Rapore, et al. v. Regents of
the University of California


Case No.:


21STCV46361


Complaint Filed:


12-20-21         




Hearing Date:


5-30-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


11


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None


SUBJECT:                 MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT                                   MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Thalia M. NguyenRESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiffs Jonathan
Rapore and Deborah Rapore TENTATIVE
RULING            Defendant
Thalia M. Nguyen’s Motion for Summary Judgment as to Plaintiffs Jonathan Rapore
and Deborah Rapores’ Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant supplied expert
declarations and evidence to refute the breach and causation elements of
Plaintiff’s causes of action for Professional Negligence, and the claim for Loss
of Consortium depends on tortious injury to Plaintiff. In turn, Plaintiffs
provide only speculative expert declarations and no evidence to show a disputed
material fact as to the causation element of the claim for Professional
Negligence. Defendant Thalia M. Nguyen,
M.D.’s Evidentiary Objection nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, , 7 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 16,17,18,
19, 20, 21,22, 23, and 24 are Overruled. Objection nos 3, 13, and 14 are SUSTAINED,
IN PART, as it relates to Dr Thalia M. Nguyen, and otherwise is OVERRULED.                Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or adjudication,
he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of action, even if
not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to that cause of action.” (Code of Civil Procedure §437c(o)(2).) A
defendant may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be
established” because of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the
claim. (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)
Once the defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show
that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or defense thereto.” (Id.) If unable to prove the existence of a
triable issue of material fact, summary judgment or summary adjudication in
favor of the defendant is proper. (Id.)       
I.         
Defendant Nguyen satisfies her burden on
summary judgment             Defendant Thalia Nguyen (“Nguyen”) moves for summary
judgment as to Plaintiff Jonathan Rapore’s cause of action for Professional
Negligence based
on the elements of breach and causation, and Plaintiff Deborah Rapore’s cause
of action for Loss of Consortium, which is dependent on the
medical malpractice cause of action. A.   
First Cause of Action for Medical
Malpractice             The
elements of a medical malpractice cause of action are (1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  (See Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 468 fn 2.)             The elements of a spouses claim for loss of consortium
are “(1) a valid and lawful marriage between the plaintiff and the person
injured at the time of the injury; [¶] (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff's
spouse; [¶] (3) loss of consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and [¶] (4) the
loss was proximately caused by the defendant's 
act.” (LeFiell Manufacturing Co. v. Superior Court (2012)
55 Cal.4th 275, 284–285.)             The standard of skill, knowledge and care prevailing in a
medical community is ordinarily a matter within the knowledge of experts. 
(See Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 836, 844.)  “The
standard of care for physicians is the reasonable degree of skill, knowledge
and care ordinarily possessed and exercised by members of the medical
profession under similar circumstances.  The test for determining
familiarity with the standard of care is knowledge of similar conditions. 
Geographical location may be a factor considered in making that determination,
but, by itself, does not provide a practical basis for measuring similar
circumstances.”  (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 470.)                         Whether the standard of care in the community has been
breached presents a basic issue of fact in a malpractice action which can only
be proved by expert opinion testimony unless the medical question is within the
common knowledge of laypersons.  (Id.; see also 1 Witkin, Cal.
Evid., supra, Opinion, § 86, p. 631.  [“[A]n opinion unsupported by
reasons or explanations does not establish the absence of a material fact issue
for trial, as required for summary judgment.”]; Golden Eagle Refinery
Co., Inc. v. Associated Intern. Ins. Co. (2001) 85 Cal.App.4th 1300, 1315, citing
Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 524).  Accordingly,
where a plaintiff provides proper opposing expert testimony via a declaration,
a triable issue of material fact is raised which precludes summary
judgment.  (Jambazian, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at 844.) 
The absence of opinion evidence on this issue is fatal to the plaintiff’s cause
of action.  (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 406, 412.)
 An expert declaration is admissible as
long as Defendants’ expert states in detail his qualifications and the factual
basis for his opinion.  (See generally Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 519, 524. )             Expert testimony is also required to establish the
element of causation in a medical malpractice action.  “The law is well
settled that in a personal injury action causation must be proven within a
reasonable medical probability based on competent expert testimony. Mere
possibility alone is insufficient to establish a prima facie case. That there
is a distinction between a reasonable medical probability and a medical
possibility needs little discussion. There can be many possible causes, indeed,
an infinite number of circumstances that can produce an injury or disease. A
possible cause only becomes probable when, in the absence of other reasonable
causal explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury was a
result of its action. This is the outer limit of inference upon which an issue
may be submitted to the jury.”  (Jennings v. Palomar Pomerado Health
Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1118 [trial court properly
struck medical expert testimony on issue of causation where expert’s opinion
failed to provide a reasoned explanation regarding the etiology connecting
plaintiff’s infected subcutaneous tissue to the nidus inside peritoneal cavity
where retractor was retained].)                Here, Nguyen submits
expert opinion and evidence to negate Plaintiff’s allegations of causation and
breach. (Shapiro Decl., ¶¶ 8(a–p).) Specifically, Nguyen provides evidence that she was no longer
involved in Rapore’s care and treatment following Rapore’s transfer to the
intensive care, which was prior to the administration of the olanzapine at
issue. (SSUF, ¶ 44, Ex. I, p. 83:2–5.) Nguyen’s experts declare Nguyen did not
issue the order to give Rapore the olanzapine and thus there is no causation
between the administration of the pharmaceutical and the alleged harm to
Rapore, and even if Nguyen did issue the order to administer the olanzapine it
would not have been a breach of the standard of care for her to do so. (Shapiro
Decl., ¶¶ 8j, 8k.)  Further, Nguyen’s
expert declares
Plaintiff’s continued global decline is consistent with the progressive nature
of Parkinson’s Disease in an elderly patient with multiple comorbidities. (UMF
78.) Plaintiff’s expected decline due to the progression of his Parkinson’s
Disease continues to this day, and his alleged inability to speak, communicate,
mange household finances, and carry out household chores are the result of his
advanced Parkinson’s disease, likely Parkinson’s dementia, and other chronic
medical conditions, not the single administration of 2.5 mg of olanzapine on
December 25, 2020. (SSUF, ¶ 70.)              Thus,
Nguyen met her burden to show that there are no triable issues of material fact
as to the elements of breach and causation for the professional negligence
cause of action. The evidence presented shows that Nguyen did not issue the
order to administer Rapore olanzapine, and even if she did it would have been
within the standard of care. Further, because she did not issue the order, no
act or omission caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries. The burden shifts
to Plaintiffs to present triable issues of material fact.  B.        Second Cause of Action for Loss of
Consortium “There are four
elements to a cause of action for loss of consortium: ‘(1) a valid and lawful
marriage between the plaintiff and the person injured at the time of the
injury; [¶] (2) a tortious injury to the plaintiff’s spouse; [¶] (3) loss of
consortium suffered by the plaintiff; and [¶] (4) the loss was proximately
caused by the defendant’s act.’ [Citations.]” (Vanhooser v. Superior Court
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927 [emphasis removed] (“Vanhooser”).) “Injury is an
essential element of any cause of action,” and, therefore, “[w]ithout injury to
the spouse, the plaintiff has no loss of consortium claim. Thus, a cause of
action is not complete in the sense it is not actionable, without spousal
injury.” (Vanhooser, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th at pp. 927-928.) Here, the Court
finds that Nguyen has met her burden of showing that Plaintiff Deborah Rapore’s
second cause of action for loss of consortium has no merit by showing that at
least one element (tortious injury to Plaintiff Jonathan Rapore) cannot be
established. (Civ. Code Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The burden shifts to
Plaintiffs.     
II.         
Plaintiffs do not meet their burden to show a
triable issue of material fact             “Admissible evidence is required to show that disputed
issues of material fact exist. Responsive evidence that gives rise to no more
than mere speculation’ is not sufficient to establish a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Champlin/GEI Wind
Holdings, LLC v. Avery (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 218, 226, citing Taylor v.
Financial Casualty & Surety, Inc. (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 966, 994; Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 889–890.) “An issue of fact
can only be created by a conflict of evidence. It is not created by ‘speculation,
conjecture, imagination or guess work.’ [Citation.] Further, an issue of fact
is not raised by ‘cryptic, broadly phrased, and conclusory assertions'
[citation], or mere possibilities [citation].” (Myricks v. Lynwood Unified
School Dist. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 231, 237.)            Even
construing Plaintiffs’ evidence, and the foundation for that evidence,
liberally, and in a light most favorable to Plaintiffs, the Court finds
Plaintiffs have not met their burden  to
show to show there are triable issues of material fact.  Specifically, Plaintiff’s failed to show by competent
evidence that Dr. Nguyen participated in the decision to administer
olanzapine to Plaintiff, and provided no competent evidence to refute the evidence
that Nguyen’s was no longer involved in Plaintiff’s care and treatment
following his transfer to intensive care. (See SSUF, ¶¶ 44, 45; Goodstein Decl., ¶¶
13(t)–(z): Labatz Decl., ¶¶ 23(k)–(cc).) In
Plaintiffs’ supplemental brief, Plaintiffs point to evidence that Dr. Nguyen
testified that she treated Mr. Rapore and described how she evaluated the risks
of prescribing olanzapine to Mr. Rapore. (Nguyen Depo. at 22:7–26:23.) They
provide evidence that it was Dr. Nguyen who originally placed the order
for olanzapine. (Nguyen Depo. at 64:3–5.) Plaintiffs argue that even if Dr.
Nguyen’s order was never carried out, another member of Mr. Rapore’s medical
team ordered olanzapine mere minutes after Dr. Nguyen’s order was discontinued,
and the reason for discontinuing Dr. Nguyen’s order had nothing to do with the
fact that olanzapine is a dopamine inhibitor—in other words, Dr. Nguyen’s order
was not discontinued because she considered the risks of prescribing olanzapine
to a Parkinson’s patient. (Nguyen Depo. at 66:5–68:3.) From this evidence,
Plaintiffs argue the medical records and Dr. Nguyen’s own testimony make clear
that she treated Mr. Rapore, and participated as part of the team and further
participated in the decision to administer olanzapine to Mr. Rapore. Even
if Nguyen made an initial decision to order olanzapine, that order was not
carried out.  Nothing Nguyen did caused
or contributed to Plaintiffs’ injuries.  No evidence has been introduced to show she
participated in the decision to administer olanzapine. That someone else
ordered the administration of olanzapine after she did, does not show, or
support an inference, that Nguyen participated in the decision to administer olanzapine.
As such, Plaintiffs fail to
show disputed issue of material fact as to the causation element of the
Plaintiff’s claim for medical malpractice.            As Plaintiffs have failed to present triable issues of
material fact as to the cause of action for medical malpractice, Plaintiffs
have failed to show tortious injury to Plaintiff Jonathan Rapore, and
therefore, Plaintiff Deborah Rapore’s loss of consortium claim against Nguyen
also fails.             Defendant
Nguyen’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. 
 