  Case Number:  23STCV12208    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of
  California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Essey Construction Company, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV12208




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Inspire Hollywood Propco, LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Release or Reduce Mechanic’s
Lien
Moving Party: Defendant Inspire Hollywood Propco,
LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Essey Construction Company,
Inc.
 
T/R:       DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO RELEASE OR
REDUCE MECHANIC’S LIEN IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
“Under California's mechanic’s lien
law, a mechanic’s lien attaches to any interest in a work of improvement and
the real property on which it is situated. 
The lien is a direct lien, similar to a mortgage, and is imposed as
security for payment of sums due the mechanic.” (Wachovia Bank v. Lifetime
Industries, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1050; see also Cal. Const.,
art. XIV, § 3.) The California mechanic’s lien statutes are intended “to
prevent unjust enrichment of a property owner at the expense of a laborer or
material supplier.” (Burton v. Sosinsky (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 562, 568.)
The relevant statute, California Civil Code section 8430, governs amounts
permissibly included in mechanic’s liens, and provides as follows:
 
“(a) The lien is a direct lien for the
lesser of the following amounts:
 
(1) The reasonable value of the work provided by the
claimant.
 
(2) The price agreed to by the claimant and the person that contracted
for the work. . . .
 
(c) This section does not preclude the claimant from including in a
claim of lien work performed based on a written modification of the contract,
or as a result of rescission, abandonment, or breach of the contract.  If there
is a rescission, abandonment, or breach of the contract, the amount of the lien
may not exceed the reasonable value of the work provided by the claimant.”
 
“When a claimant has recorded a
mechanic’s lien and then secured a stay of an action to foreclose the lien, an
owner must have a speedy court remedy for showing that the lien is invalid.” (Lambert
v. Superior Court (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 383, 389.)  Accordingly, a Lambert motion examines
the “probable validity of the lien” under Civil Code section 8430. (Id.
at p. 388.) The question is “not the ultimate merit of the contractor’s claim
but whether the contractor should be entitled to retain the security of the
mechanic’s lien . . . pending a resolution of the matter.” (Cal Sierra
Construction, Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 841, 850.) The
court is empowered to reduce or remove the lien to the extent that it does not
comply with Civil Code section 8430.
 
In a Lambert motion, the burden
is on the claimant-plaintiff to establish the probable validity of the lien.
(See Cal Sierra Construction, supra, 206 Cal.App.4th at p. 845; Lambert,
supra, 228 Cal.App.3d at p. 387.)
Defendant Inspire moves to release or reduce the mechanic’s lien filed
by Plaintiff against the real property at issue in this construction action.
The current balance recorded on the lien is $5,007,609.10. Defendant asserts
that the lien is invalid because Plaintiff engaged in fraud by secretly using
another company as the general contractor, Plaintiff refused to credit Defendant
for direct payments made to subcontractors, and Plaintiff did not offset the
amount of the lien with liquidated damages. 
In opposition, Plaintiff presents evidence showing Defendant was aware of
all companies used by Plaintiff and that Plaintiff credited Defendant for all
payments made to subcontractors. Plaintiff disputes any obligation to pay
liquidated damages under the relevant contract provisions. This is sufficient
to show the probable validity of the lien.
Defendant’s motion is DENIED.


 