 Case Number:  23STCV20055    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
PG Imtech of California, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV20055




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling 
 




 
Kathleen M. Saylor, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 11, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Bifurcate
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant PG Imtech
of California
Responding Party: Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Kathleen M. Saylor and Patricia A. Marrero
 
T/R:     PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO
BIFURCATE IS DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF/CROSS-DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the
tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:30 am on the
day of the hearing. 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff PG Imtech
of California, LLC filed a complaint against Defendants Kathleen M. Saylor and
Patricia A. Marrero, asserting causes of action for (1) specific performance;
and (2) breach of written contract. Plaintiff, a commercial tenant of
Defendants, alleges it exercised an option in the lease to purchase the
property from Defendants. Plaintiff alleges the parties could not agree on a
sales price; Plaintiff seeks specific performance to purchase the property at
the appraisal value Plaintiff obtained.
 
On October 2, 2023, Saylor and Marrero
filed a cross-complaint against PG Imtech for declaratory relief regarding
interpretation of the appraisal provision in the option to purchase in the
lease.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 598 allows a party to seek an order
before trial ‘that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the
trial of any other issue or any part thereof in the case,’ where ‘the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby ….’” (Estate of Young (2008)
160 Cal. App. 4th 62, 90.)
 
Plaintiff moves for an order bifurcating trial between the equitable and
legal claims in the complaint and cross-complaint. Plaintiff asserts that the
Court should determine the claims for specific performance and declaratory
relief in a bench trial before sending the claim for breach of contract to the
jury. 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that this could essentially deprive
Defendants of their right to a jury trial by requiring the Court make factual
determinations that should be made by the jury. The Court agrees. Though it is
common for Courts to bifurcate equitable and legal claims, to try the equitable
claims here before submitting the dispute to the jury for factual findings
could greatly prejudice Defendants.
 
Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.
 
 