 Case Number:  24NNCV02267    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  T Antonio Ruvulcaba vs Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., et al.Motion: Motion to Disqualify The Lemon Pros, LLP Moving Party: Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc.  Responding Party: Plaintiff Antonio Ruvulcaba Tentative Ruling: Deny BACKGROUNDThis is a Song-Beverly action which was filed on June 14, 2024 by Plaintiff Antonio Ruvulcaba (“Plaintiff”). The case involves a 2018 Volkswagen Atlas, which Plaintiff purchased on February 17, 2019. (Complaint ¶ 13.) Plaintiff is represented by counsel from the firm The Lemon Pros, LLP.   Defendant Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (“Defendant”) now moves to disqualify The Lemon Pros, LLP from representing Plaintiff. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendant argues that The Lemon Pros. LLP should be disqualified because its attorney Anthony Paul Greco, is a former attorney of Defendant, who obtained confidential and privileged information about Defendant’s litigation strategies. Defendant has used the firm Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLC (“Squire”) to defend against Song-Beverly actions since 2004; Squire formerly employed Anthony Paul Greco (“Greco”) as an attorney for almost three years. Defendant argues that while working for Squire, Greco defended more than 100 lemon law cases for Volkswagen and was highly involved in developing and implementing litigation strategies. Defendant also argues the conflict should be imputed to the entire firm because Greco substantially participated in Defendant’s representation, and it received no notice of Greco’s representation afterward. OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues the motion should be denied because Defendant fails show that the current representation is substantially similar to Greco’s former representation. Next, Plaintiff contends even if there is a conflict, it should not be imputed to The Lemon Pros. LLP because Greco was properly screened from the instant action and any cases involving Defendant. REPLYDefendant argues Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter after this motion was filed, purporting to comply with the ethical screening procedures, and questions its veracity.    SUR-REPLYOn December 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a document asking the Court to strike Defendant’s Reply Declaration of Sean P. Conboy. If the Court will consider the Conboy declaration, Plaintiff asks for leave to file a sur-reply. Plaintiff also separately filed evidentiary objections to the Conboy Reply Declaration. ANALYSISI. Legal Standard for Motion to Disqualify  A. Attorney Disqualification “Code of Civil Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(5) gives courts the power to order a lawyer's disqualification…[A] trial court's decision concerning a disqualification motion will not be disturbed absent an abuse of discretion…’” (See DCH Health Services Corp. v. Waite (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 829, 831-832.)¿¿  The duty of loyalty is at stake when an attorney’s representation of one client is adverse to the interests of another current client.¿(Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 284.)¿“Disqualification in cases of successive representation is based on the prohibition against ‘employment adverse to a [. . .] former client where, by reason of the representation of the [. . .] former client, the [attorney] has obtained confidential information material to the employment.’”¿(See H.F. Ahmanson & Company v. Salomon Brothers, Inc. (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1445, 1451.)¿¿  A former client need not establish that the attorney actually possesses confidential information to disqualify the former attorney.¿ (H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at 1452.)¿ “It is enough to show a ‘substantial relationship’ between the former and current representation.”¿ (Id.)¿ “It is the possibility of the breach of confidence, not the fact of an actual breach that triggers disqualification.”¿ (In re Marriage of Zimmerman (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 556, 563; H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at 1452.)¿¿¿  “[T]he attorney’s possession of confidential information will be presumed only when ‘a substantial relationship has been shown to exist between the former representation and the current representation, and when it appears by virtue of the nature of the former representation or the relationship of the attorney to his former client confidential information material to the current dispute would normally have been imparted to the attorney . . . .’”¿ (H.F. Ahmanson & Co., supra, 229 Cal.App.3d at 1454.)¿ Disqualification of the attorney from representing the second client is mandatory where the substantial relationship test is met and access to confidential information is presumed.¿ (Flatt v. Superior Court (1994) 9 Cal.4th 275, 283.)¿“[T]he question whether an attorney should be disqualified in a successive representation case turns on two variables: (1) the relationship between the legal problem involved in the former representation and the legal problem involved in the current representation, and (2) the relationship between the attorney and the former client with respect to the legal problem involved in the former representation.” (Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.) “If the relationship between the attorney and the former client is shown to have been direct—that is, where the lawyer was personally involved in providing legal advice and services to the former client—then it must be presumed that confidential information has passed to the attorney and there cannot be any delving into the specifics of the communications between the attorney and the former client in an effort to show that the attorney did or did not receive confidential information during the course of that relationship. As a result, disqualification will depend upon the strength of the similarities between the legal problem involved in the former representation and the legal problem involved in the current representation.” (Id.) “[A] ‘substantial relationship’ exists whenever the ‘subjects’ of the prior and the current representations are linked in some rational manner.”¿ (Jessen v. Hartford Casualty Ins. Co. (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 698, 711 (citing Flatt, supra, 9 Cal.4th at 283).)¿ The “subject” of a representation includes “information material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the litigation or transaction given its specific legal and factual issues.”¿ (Id. at 712-13.)¿ “[S]uccessive representations will be ‘substantially related’ when the evidence before the trial court supports a rational conclusion that information material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the former representation given its factual and legal issues is also material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the current representation given its factual and legal issues.”¿ (Id. at 713.)¿¿However, “Jessen did not adopt a ‘playbook approach’ to the substantial relationship test or create ‘a lifetime prohibition against representation adverse to a former client.’ [Citation.]” (Khani v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 916, 921.) “The attorney's acquisition of general information about the former client's ‘overall structure and practices’ would not of itself require disqualification unless it were found to be ‘material’—i.e., directly in issue or of critical importance—in the second representation. [Citation.] The same is true about information such as the first client's ‘litigation philosophy’ or ‘key decision makers.’ [Citation.]” (Id. [internal citations omitted].) B. Firm Disqualification “[W]hether disqualification of the entire firm is automatic is an open question.”¿ (California Self-Insurers’ Security Fund v. Superior Court (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1065, 1077.)¿ As was noted by the Court of Appeal in Kirk v. First American Title Ins. Co. (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 776 and discussed in California Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, the case law regarding whether vicarious disqualification is automatic and absolute is mixed.¿ (California Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1075; Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 799.)¿ The Kirk Court summarized the history of the law of vicarious disqualification and found that Flatt did not create an absolute rule of vicarious disqualification and that “the state of the law is as initially expressed by the appellate courts: (1) a case-by-case analysis based on the circumstances present in, and the policy interests implicated by, the case; (2) tempered by the Henriksen [v. Great American Savings & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109] rule that vicarious disqualification should be automatic in cases of a tainted attorney possessing actual confidential information from a representation, who switches sides in the same case.”¿ (Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 800; California Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1076 (quoting Kirk).)¿ The Kirk Court further indicated that vicarious disqualification is the general rule and that courts should presume knowledge is imputed to all members of a tainted attorney’s law firm, but that, “in the proper circumstances, the presumption is a rebuttable one, which can be refuted by evidence that ethical screening will effectively prevent the sharing of confidences in a particular case.’”¿ (Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 801; California Self-Insurers’ Security Fund, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1076 (quoting Kirk).)¿ “The showing must satisfy the trial court that the [tainted attorney] has not had and will not have any involvement with the litigation, or any communication with attorneys or [ ] employees concerning the litigation, that would support a reasonable inference that the information has been used or disclosed.” (Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 810.) “The specific elements of an effective screen will vary from case to case, although two elements are necessary: First, the screen must be timely imposed; a firm must impose screening measures when the conflict first arises. It is not sufficient to wait until the trial court imposes screening measures as part of its order on the disqualification motion.” (Ibid.) “Second, it is not sufficient to simply produce declarations stating that confidential information was not conveyed or that the disqualified attorney did not work on the case; an effective wall involves the imposition of preventive measures to guarantee that information will not be conveyed.” (Ibid.) “The typical elements of an ethical wall are: [1] physical, geographic, and departmental separation of attorneys; [2] prohibitions against and sanctions for discussing confidential matters; [3] established rules and procedures preventing access to confidential information and files; [4] procedures preventing a disqualified attorney from sharing in the profits from the representation; and [5] continuing education in professional responsibility.” (Id. at 810-11.) However, not all elements need to be established. (Id. at 811.) II. Request for Judicial NoticeMatters are ordinarily subject to judicial notice when they are “reasonably beyond dispute.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.¿(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113.) As a result, a court can take judicial notice of the existence of a document. However, it cannot take judicial notice of the truth of statements within that document if they are reasonably disputable. (Id.) The Court of Appeal has approached judicial notice of deposition testimony differently. Some courts have held that the truth of statements within deposition transcripts can never be judicially noticed. (Garcia v. Sterling¿(1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 22.) Others have held statements within deposition transcripts can be judicially noticed only if they are statements by the plaintiff or his agent which are inconsistent with the pleadings. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.) A third approach allows judicial notice “only in those instances where there is not or cannot be a factual dispute concerning that which is sought to be judicially noticed.” (Cruz v. County of Los Angeles¿(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 1131, 1134; Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage¿(1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369, 374–75.)  The Court grants the request for judicial notice of the existence of exhibits A and C as court records. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) The Court denies the request for the judicial notice of exhibits B, D, and E because the information contained within are not reasonably beyond dispute. III. Evidentiary ObjectionsThe Court rules as follows on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Sean Conboy: Objection 1 is sustained. Objections 2 through 17 are overruled. Declaration of Nicholas Johnson: Objections 18 to 26 are overruled. Objection 27 is sustained.IV. DiscussionHere, Greco represented Defendant in more than 100 cases from July 2021 to March 2024 in Song-Beverly and other breach of warranty actions. (Johnson Decl. ¶ 2-3; Conboy Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant’s Senior Counsel, Breach of Warranty and Single Incidents, Nicholas Johnson, also declares that he regularly communicated with Greco several times a day. (Johnson Decl. ¶ 5.) Greco also attended and led meetings to discuss Defendant’s strategy. (Id. ¶ 6.) Johnson further declares that “[Greco] handled every aspect of Volkswagen’s defense on the matters where he was the day-to-day handling. He developed and recommended strategies, reviewed confidential and privileged documents, prepared responses to discovery, prepared Volkswagen corporate representatives to testify at depositions (and defended the depositions), and prepared discovery and dispositive motions.” (Id. ¶ 7.)Greco also helped prepare Defendant’s corporate executives and experts for depositions. (Johnson Decl. ¶ 9-11.) Notably, in January 2024, Greco attended and participated in a national conference at Volkswagen’s headquarters which was held to exchange nationwide litigation strategies for breach of warranty cases. (Id. ¶ 16.)In opposition, Plaintiff provides a declaration from Greco, stating that after viewing the complaint in this case, he was never involved in any case involving the same vehicle or repairs at issue. (Greco Decl. ¶ 3.) The Court finds there is evidence that Greco primarily worked on Song-Beverly and breach of warranty actions; Plaintiff does not dispute this fact, nor disputes that Greco represented Defendant from July 2021 to March 2024. Therefore, this matter involves a successive relationship since it is undisputed that Greco represented Defendant in previous actions. Therefore, the issue in this motion turns on whether the “evidence before the trial court supports a rational conclusion that information material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the former representation given its factual and legal issues is also material to the evaluation, prosecution, settlement or accomplishment of the current representation given its factual and legal issues.” (See Jessen, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 713.) Plaintiff relies on Khani v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 916, where the Court of Appeal reversed the granting of a disqualification motion involving an attorney who had represented Ford in 150 cases over a three-year period, which included lemon law cases. (Id. at p. 919.) There, the court determined the evidence was insufficient for disqualification because Ford had not established that any confidential information obtained would be at issue in the present case, that the same vehicle was at issue, or that Ford had policies, practices, or procedures generally applicable to the evaluation, settlement or litigation of lemon law cases at the time that were unchanged. (Id. at p. 922.) The court then held that disqualifying an attorney because the former and current cases involve claims under the same statute, does not make them substantially related. (Id.) Moreover, the court concluded that disqualifying an attorney based on playbook information in prior lemon law cases is insufficient without showing its materiality. (Id.) Considering the principles discussed in Khani, Defendant’s declarations offer few specific facts of the legal and factual issues in this case, and the over 100 cases that Greco defended between July 2021 to March 2024. Instead, the declarations focus on generalizations, such as “Anthony Greco has knowledge of privileged and confidential information that will be directly relevant to this litigation.” (Johnson Decl. ¶ 20.) However, Greco defended the depositions of Defendant’s person most qualified and expert Jeffrey Calhoun in the Pittacora and Shah cases respectively. The Court took judicial notice of the complaints in these cases which both alleged Song-Beverly violations; Pittacora involved a 2022 Volkswagen Atlas and Shah involved a 2021 Volkswagen Golf. The vehicle at issue in this case is a 2018 Volkswagen Atlas. Still, here, there is likely insufficient evidence of the specific factual and legal issues; like in Khani, the general facts that Greco received Defendant’s playbook information from defending previous Song-Beverly actions is insufficient without showing it is material to this case. Nevertheless, even if the declarations contained sufficient facts, the motion would still be denied because Plaintiff shows that Greco was properly screened. Here, Plaintiff sets forth declarations from Michael Saeedian and Jorge L. Acosta, both partners at The Lemon Pros, LLP. Saeedian declares that Greco was hired on October 14, 2024. (Saeedian Decl. ¶ 2.) Although Saeedian determined there was no conflict issue, out of an abundance of caution, Greco was screened from all matters involving Volkswagen. (Id.) Saeedian further declares that Greco is “categorically excluded from all communications, discussions, and meetings regarding cases involving Volkswagen.” (Id. ¶ 4.) Greco has his own private office with a door and his own paralegal who also does not have access to any cases involving Volkswagen. (Id. ¶ 5.) Two days after Greco was hired, Saeedian sent a firm-wide email informing all attorneys and staff of these screening measures and prohibiting them from showing or discussing any cases involving Volkswagen with Greco. (Id. ¶ 6.) Greco also does not receive any portion of fees received from cases involving Volkswagen. (Id. ¶ 7.) The Declaration of Jorge Acosta also confirms that on October 14, 2024, he was instructed to restrict Greco’s access to cases involving Defendant within the firm’s case management software. (Acosta Decl. ¶ 7.) Greco has confirmed this information in his own declaration. (Greco Decl. ¶ 4-7.) Based on the foregoing information, the Court concludes that the screening measures were sufficient. (See Kirk, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 810-11.) Plaintiff’s evidence shows Greco was timely screened when he was hired, that he is physically separated from other attorneys in the firm with his own office and paralegal, that all staff were informed not to discuss cases involving Defendant with Greco, that Greco cannot share in profits related to Defendant’s cases, and that Greco is prevented from accessing information about Defendant’s cases within the firm’s management software. Therefore, the elements enumerated in Kirk are sufficiently shown; Plaintiff has rebutted the presumption that any of Greco’s knowledge is imputed to the firm. Though Defendant questions whether the screening procedures described were actually applied, it offers no direct contrary evidence. Therefore, the motion to disqualify is denied.Given the disposition of the ruling, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for leave to file a sur-reply and declines to rule on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to Defendant’s reply declaration. RULINGDefendant’s Motion to Disqualify The Lemon Pros, LLP is DENIED. 