  Case Number:  19STCV43701    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  T Mari Hartoonian vs
Ashley Furniture Industries, Inc.
 
Motion:                                   Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents 
Moving Party:                         Defendant
Ashley Furniture Industries, Inc.  
Responding Party:                  None
Tentative Ruling:                    Granted 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 4, 2019, Plaintiff Mari Hartoonian (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Ashley Furniture Industries, Inc. (“Defendant”) for negligence, premises liability, and products liability.
Plaintiff alleges she was injured at an Ashley Furniture store in Burbank after
she sat on a coffee table which then collapsed, causing her injuries. 
 
On October
11, 2024, Defendant served Request for Production, Set Three on Plaintiff,
which contains Request numbers 49 and 50. (See Chung Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. A.) 
 
Defendant
now moves to compel Plaintiff to provide further responses to its Request for
Production, Set Three numbers 49-50. No opposition has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Defendants argue responses
to Requests 49 and 50 should be compelled because Plaintiff failed to serve any
responses.  
 
OPPOSITION
            
            No opposition has been filed.  
 
REPLY

No reply has
been filed.       
ANALYSIS
As an initial matter, Defendant has moved
to compel further responses to Request for Production, Set Three. However, the
Notice of Motion references Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.290, which
pertains to Request for Admissions, and section 2031.310, which refers to
compelling further responses to Request for Production. The supporting
memorandum also references section 2031.310. (See Motion, at p. 6.) 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has
not responded to Request for Production, Set Three, and has not responded to
its meet and confer letter. (Chung Decl., ¶ 8, Exh. F.) Therefore, it appears
Defendant is seeking to compel an initial response to the discovery, as opposed
to a further response. 
Nevertheless, the Court notes that on
October 24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney substituting her
original counsel, Laurence Ring, for Tom Antunovich (“Antunovich”). No
Association of Counsel was filed. On October 31, 2024, the Court granted and
signed an order relieving Antunovich as Plaintiff’s counsel. On that same day, Antunovich
filed a proof of service of the Order Relieving Counsel on Plaintiff. 
Plaintiff has not appeared in this
case since her counsel was relieved, nor has she filed a substitution of
attorney. Therefore, Plaintiff is currently self-represented. 
Nevertheless, the proof of service
for this motion shows that it was served electronically on Laurence Ring, Esq.,
Plaintiff’s original attorney. Defendant’s exhibit F shows some correspondence
between Defendant’s counsel and Laurence Ring. However, because the docket
shows that Plaintiff is self-represented, Defendant has not shown that it
provided adequate notice of this motion. Therefore, based on lack of notice,
the Court is inclined to deny this motion on procedural grounds. 
In the event Defendant shows that
notice was proper, and Laurence Ring is Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court will
address the merits of the motion below, construing it as a motion to compel initial
responses under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300. 
A.   
Motion to
Compel
The Court notes that on September
25, 2024, the Court denied Defendant’s motion to compel further responses to Requests
for Production, numbers 25 and 26, which sought documents supporting
Plaintiff’s loss of earnings claim and lost wages claim. (Min. Order, 9/25/24.)
The motion was denied as untimely because it was not noticed within 45 days
after the responses were served on May 20, 2020. (Ibid.; Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).) 
Responses to demands for inspection,
copying, testing or sampling must be made within 30 days after service of the
demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to serve
a timely response, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling
a response to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) Additionally,
“[t]he party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
is directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 2018.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
Here, Defendant’s Request for
Production, Set Three was served on October 11, 2024. Defendant asserts
Plaintiff has not responded. 
Request number 49 seeks the
following: “Copies of your income tax returns, state and federal, for the years
2017 through the present, whether filed individually or jointly with another
person. Documents should also include, but are not limited to, W2 forms, 1099
forms, worksheets, schedules, and any other documents used in preparation of
your income tax returns.”   (Chung Decl., Exh. A.) 
Request number 50 seeks the
following: “Cash registers, canceled checks, bank statements, deposit slips,
travelers’ checks, and cashiers’ check acquisition records, and any other
documents reflecting deposits, withdrawals, and/or exchanges of funds at any
bank or financial institution for all accounts (a) held by you, individually or
jointly with another person, or (b) standing in the name of any corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, or other entity in which you have had any
interest from January 2017 to the present.” (Chung Decl., Exh. A.)
Regarding request 49 for tax
returns, California recognizes a privilege against the forced disclosure of federal
and state tax returns. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704,
719-20; see also Webb v. Standard Oil Co. of Cal. (1957) 49 Cal.2d 509, 513-14.)
The purpose is to encourage truthful declarations in tax returns, without fear
they will be used against the taxpayer. (Sav-On Drugs, Inc. v. Superior
Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1, 6.) However, the privilege may be waived in three
situations: “(1) there is an intentional relinquishment [Citation], (2) the
‘gravamen of [the] lawsuit is so inconsistent with the continued assertion of
the taxpayer's privilege as to compel the conclusion that the privilege has in
fact been waived’ [Citation], or (3) a public policy greater than that of
confidentiality of tax returns is involved [Citation.]” (Schnabel, supra,
5 Cal.4th at 721 [quoting Sammut v. Sammut (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 557,
560].)
As discussed further in Schnabel,
the public policy exception has been applied to proceedings enforcing child
support obligations. (Schnabel, supra, 5 Cal.4th at 722.) 
Notably, in Brown v. Superior
Court (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 141, the Court of Appeal applied the privilege
to a personal injury case where the plaintiff was claiming lost income. There,
the court found that W-2 forms “constitute an integral part of the return” and
were subject to the privilege where it had not been waived by plaintiff. (Id.
at p. 143-44.) 
However, because Plaintiff failed to
provide timely responses, the Court deems the tax return privilege waived. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).)
Therefore, because timely responses
were not served, the motion to compel is granted. 
B.    
Sanctions
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
Here, because Defendant has not
requested sanctions in the Notice of Motion, the Court declines to award
sanctions. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 [“A request for a sanction shall,
in the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against
whom the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought.”].)  
RULING
Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents is GRANTED.     