 Case Number:  22STCV05716    Hearing Date:   January 3, 2025    Dept:  T Alison Zatta vs
William James Hill, et al. 
 
Motion:                                   Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set Two
and Request for Monetary Sanctions
Moving Party:                         Defendant
Uber Technologies, Inc.  
Responding Party:                   None
Tentative Ruling:                    Grant
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 15, 2022, Plaintiff Alison Zatta (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants William James Hill, Uber Technologies, Raiser LLC,
Raiser-CA LLC, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence based on a motor vehicle
accident that occurred on February 18, 2020. 
 
On May 14, 2024, Defendant
Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Defendant”) served Plaintiff with Requests for
Production of Documents, Set Two. (Sharma Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Responses were
due June 15, 2024. Plaintiff failed to serve timely responses. 
 
After Defendant filed a motion to compel, Plaintiff
served responses on September 26, 2024. (Sharma Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed the instant
motion, seeking to compel further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Two, numbers 4 to 6. Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
 
Defendant argues the
responses to Requests 4-6 are deficient because the objections lack merit and
fail to show how the work product objection applies. 
 
OPPOSITION
            
            No opposition has been filed.  
 
REPLY

No reply has
been filed.           
ANALYSIS
I. Compel Further Responses to Request for Production
Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310(a) provides that
on receipt of a response to a request for production of documents, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses if:¿ 
¿ 
(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is
incomplete.¿ 
(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive.¿ 
(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.¿¿ 
 
A response
consisting of an objection must specify with particularity the document being
objected to, and, if based on privilege, must provide sufficient factual
information for other parties to evaluate the merits of this claim, including
if necessary, a privilege log. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240 (b), (c).) 
¿ 
The motion must set forth specific facts showing good cause
for the discovery and include a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.310(b).) 
 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of
the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or
on or before any specific later date to which the demanding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(c).)¿¿¿ 
 
A.   
Meet and
Confer
Defendant’s counsel, Pragya Sharma,
declares that she sent two correspondences for Plaintiff to provide further
responses, on October 9, 2024 and October 25, 2024. Plaintiff failed to respond
to the meet and confer effort. (Sharma Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 2, 3.) Therefore, the
meet and confer requirement is met.  
B.    
Requests 4-6
Requests 4-5 seek all contracts and
agreements between Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s counsel, and Plaintiff’s medical
treatment providers. Request 6 seeks all communications between Plaintiff’s
counsel, anyone employed by counsel, and Plaintiff’s medical treatment
providers. 
In response, Plaintiff asserted the
following objections to each Request: 
“Objection: The request is
oppressive and burdensome because it is vague, ambiguous, and unintelligible so
as to make a response impossible without speculation as to the meaning of the
question. Consequently the question is oppressive and harassing and without a
foundational showing of competence. . . . The request seeks information which
is protected from disclosure by the attorney’s work product privilege.”
The discovery requests appear to
seek relevant materials. Additionally, they are not so vague and ambiguous that
Plaintiff cannot reasonably respond. Plaintiff also has not filed an opposition
and fails to set forth evidence that the documents are subject to the work
product doctrine. Moreover, the record shows that the responses were untimely;
therefore, any privilege or objection based on work product has been waived.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff’s objections are without merit. Accordingly, the motion to
compel further is granted. 
C.   
Sanctions
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (h).) 
 
Here, Defendant seeks $600 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff,
$400 of which was incurred in bringing the moving papers and $200 for preparing
a reply and appearance at the hearing. (See Sharma Decl. ¶ 9.) Although no
reply was necessary, the Court still finds the requested sanctions to be
reasonable.  Therefore, the Court grants
$600 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. 
 
RULING
Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set
Two, numbers 4-6 is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall provide further responses within 20
days. 
The
Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the amount
of $600 against Plaintiff. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 20 days.