 Case Number:  23SMCV01663    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  I The motions to compel are GRANTED.  The motion to deem admitted is GRANTED unless
responses were served prior to this hearing. 
Verified, code-compliant responses without objection will be served
within 30 days and documents will be produced at the same time. 
 
This is a dental malpractice case.  Defendant served discovery on November 6,
2023.  No responses were received and
defendant’s letters were met with silence. 
No opposition has been filed to any motion, and the court sees no cause
for plaintiff’s failure to respond to the discovery.  Because the court must therefore grant the
motion, sanctions are mandatory and are GRANTED as well.  However, the motions are somewhat
duplicative, suggesting that the amount of sanctions is also potentially
duplicative.  That is not a criticism of
counsel; the motions are duplicative because the issues are the same in
each.  But it does mean that there ought
to be efficiency.  And there was.  Counsel is seeking 1 hour for each motion
plus 1 additional combined hour for the hearing.  (Because there was no opposition or reply, no
recovery is appropriate for such time and none is being sought as the court
reads the papers).  Thus, defendant seeks
a total of four hours at the rate of $215/hour, which the court finds to be
reasonable.  That is $645 in fees plus
$215 for the hearing, or $860 in total fees. 
In addition, the $60/motion filing fee is appropriate for a total award
of $1040.  Those  sanctions are payable within 30 days.
 
The court ordered plaintiff to be present so that the court
could be sure that plaintiff understands what is happening.  Plaintiff has sued the defendant, and
plaintiff has every right to do so.  But
defendant has rights as well, including the right to take discovery (a right
plaintiff also has).  Plaintiff is
legally obligated to respond to the discovery in a timely way.  If plaintiff needs more time, she can ask
defendant for it.  If defendant
unreasonably refuses to give extra time, plaintiff can ask the court for
relief.  The failure to respond, however,
will lead to consequences for the case, potentially including both monetary
sanctions and perhaps dismissal of the action.
 
The court is aware that the discovery and other rules of
civil procedure are technical and hard to follow.  Nonetheless, the court is legally required to
hold plaintiff to the same standards as it would hold a lawyer in terms of
obeying those rules.  Plaintiff would,
therefore, be well advised to consider whether she wants to retain
counsel.  She is not required to do so,
and she may not be able to do so.  But if
she can, it would aid her a lot. 
 
For now, the court’s order is what it is.  But plaintiff will need to understand that if
she wants to pursue the case, she has to respond.  And to the extent that requests for admission
have been deemed admitted, plaintiff will need to do something about that or it
is likely that the case will soon be dismissed based on orders already issued
or issued today.