 Case Number:  23STCV01711    Hearing Date:   February 27, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



AJA
  VASQUEZ-LOOPER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
RENAISSANCE IMAGING MEDICAL ASSOCIATES,
  INC., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendant.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV01711
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PLAINTIFF AJA VASQUEZ-LOOPER’S MOTION TO
  SET ASIDE DISMISSAL
 
Date: February 27, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Aja Vasquez-Looper
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Renaissance
Imaging Medical Associates, Inc. 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and supplemental papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act action arises from Plaintiff Aja Vasquez-Looper’s medical bill from
Defendant Renaissance Imaging Medical Associates, Inc. for medical services
provided for the treatment of injuries subject to Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper’s
worker’s compensation claim. Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper filed a Complaint against
Defendant RIMA alleging a sole cause of action for Violations of Rosenthal Fair
Debt Collection Practices Act (Civil Code Section 1788 et seq.). 
 
            Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper filed this
instant motion to set aside dismissal. Defendant RIMA filed an opposition. No
reply has been filed. 
 
Pursuant
to the Court’s February 8, 2024 Order, Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper submitted a
supplemental declaration in support of this present motion. 
             
DISCUSSION
            The court is empowered to relieve a
party or their legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against them through their mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) The court shall,
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry
of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any: (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment; or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Id.) The law
favors a trial on the merits and courts therefore liberally construe section
473. (Bonzer v. City of Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474,
1477.) Doubts in applying section 473 are resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief from default. (Id. at 1478.)
            
Plaintiff
Vasquez-Looper moves for an order setting aside the Order of Dismissal entered
in this Court on or about August 3, 2023. This present motion is made on the
ground that the Dismissal was made as a result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
In
support of this instant motion, Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper’s counsel Youssef H.
Hammoud provides a supplemental declaration. Mr. Hammoud avers in or around
August 2023, after Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper and Defendant RIMA engaged in
written discovery, Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper discovered that non-party Xifin,
Inc. was the entity that engaged in the purported unlawful collection efforts
against Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper. (Hammoud Supp. Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Mr.
Hammoud further avers after receiving a signed declaration from Defendant RIMA
stating Xifin, Inc. handled all billing activity related to Plaintiff
Vasquez-Looper, Dismissal of all Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper’s claims against
Defendant RIMA was filed on August 3, 2023. (Id. at ¶ 3.). Mr. Hammoud
contends the proper course of action would have been to file a Motion for Leave
to File Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper’s First Amended Complaint prior to the
dismissal so that the Court could grant leave while the case was still active
and open. Mr. Hammoud states due to his overlooking the issue, the Dismissal
was filed first. (Id. at ¶ 5.) Mr. Hammoud also states due to the
Dismissal being filed first, the subsequent tentative ruling granting Plaintiff
Vasquez-Looper’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint was rendered
invalid. (Id. at ¶ 6.) Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper asserts she is not
seeking to reassert any claims against Defendant RIMA nor attempting to bring
Defendant RIMA back into this action to defend itself against any of the
previously dismissed claims. 
 
The
Court finds that the Hammoud Supplemental Declaration clearly describes the
mistake and inadvertence that led to the dismissal of the Complaint.
Specifically, Mr. Hammoud’s supplemental declaration explains counsel
mistakenly filed the Dismissal of all claims against Defendant RIMA prior to
filing Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended
Complaint against non-party Xifin, Inc. Mr. Hammoud’s supplemental declaration
further demonstrates that due to counsel’s mistake and inadvertence the
tentative ruling granting Plaintiff Vasquez-Looper’s leave to file the First
Amended Complaint was rendered invalid. Lastly, Mr. Hammoud’s supplemental
declaration adamantly states it does not seek this motion for purposes of
reasserting any claims against Defendant RIMA. Therefore, relief under Code of
Civil Procedure Section 473, subdivision (b) is mandatory. 
 
            The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Aja
Vasquez-Looper’s motion to set aside dismissal. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 27th day of February 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



