  Case Number:  21PSCV00552    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Malik Crawford’s Motion for Approval of Private
Attorneys General Act Settlement Agreement and Release, Award of Attorneys’
Fees and Costs, General Release Fee, and Settlement Administration Costs
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Malik Crawford’s Motion for Approval of
Private Attorneys General Act Settlement Agreement and Release, Award of
Attorneys’ Fees and Costs, General Release Fee, and Settlement Administration
Costs is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing set in Department
G (Pomona).
Plaintiff Malik Crawford’s counsel is ordered to
provide supplemental briefing on (1) Defendants’ estimated PAGA penalties
exposure and (2) a comparison of that amount to the amount obtained in the
present settlement.
BACKGROUND
This is a wage and hour
action brought pursuant to the Private Attorneys General Act (PAGA). Defendants
West Covina Nissan and West Covina Motor Group, LLC (West Covina Motor Group) employed
Plaintiff Malik Crawford as an hourly non-exempt employee. On July 6, 2021, Crawford
filed a complaint individually and on behalf of other aggrieved employees
against West Covina Nissan, West Covina Motor Group, and Does 1 through 100,
alleging violations of Labor Code section 2698 et seq. for (1) failure to pay
overtime, (2) failure to provide meal periods, (3) failure to provide rest
periods, (4) failure to pay minimum wage, (5) failure to timely pay wages upon
termination, (6) failure to timely pay wages during employment, (7) failure to
provide complete and accurate wage statements, (8) failure to keep complete and
accurate payroll records, and (9) failure to reimburse necessary
business-related expenses and costs.
On August 20, 2024, Crawford
filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against West Covina Nissan; West Covina
Motor Group; Trophy Automative Dealer Group, LLS (Trophy); and Does 100, alleging
the same cause of action.
On October 14, 2024, Crawford
filed the present motion. A hearing on the motion and an OSC Re: Dismissal are
set for November 20, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Crawford
moves for court approval of PAGA settlement pursuant to Labor Code section
2699, subdivision (l). For the following reasons, the court CONTINUES the hearing on Crawford’s
motion.
Legal Standard
Labor
Code section 2699, subdivision (l)(2) states:¿“The superior court shall review
and approve any settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to this part. The
proposed settlement shall be submitted to the agency at the same time that it
is submitted to the court.”  “A copy of the superior court’s judgment in
any civil action filed pursuant to this part and any other order in that action
that either provides for or denies an award of civil penalties under this code
shall be submitted to the agency within 10 days after entry of the judgment or
order.”  (Lab. Code, §2699, subd. (l)(3).)
While
PAGA requires court review and approval of settlements, it does not specify the
standard or criteria for such review. (Moniz v. Adecco USA, Inc. (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 56, 75 (Moniz).) Thus, courts have generally applied the
same review standards used for class actions, which inquire “independently
whether a PAGA settlement is fair and reasonable.” (Id., at p. 77.)
To
determine if a PAGA settlement is fair and reasonable, courts consider factors
“including the strength of the plaintiff's case, the risk, the stage of the
proceeding, the complexity and likely duration of further litigation, and the
settlement amount.” (Ibid.) Lastly, courts will also consider if the
settlement is “adequate in view of PAGA's purposes to remediate present labor
law violations, deter future ones, and to maximize enforcement of state labor
laws.” (Ibid.)
Discussion
In
this case, West Covina Nissan, West Covina Motor Group, and Trophy
(collectively Defendants) have agreed to settle the present matter with
Crawford for the gross amount of $145,000.00. (Mayer Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 1, §
3(a).) From this, the following would be deducted: attorney fees ($58,000.00 or
40% of gross settlement amount), litigation costs ($16,547.96), a general
release fee to Crawford ($5,000.00), and settlement administration costs (up to
$3,400.00). (Mayer Decl., Ex. 1, § 3(a).) This leaves a net settlement amount
of $62,052.04. Pursuant to Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (i), seventy-five
percent is payable to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency (LWDA), and twenty-five
percent is payable to the aggrieved employees.  Thus, the sum of $46,539.03
is payable to the LWDA, and $15,513.01 will be divided among approximately 160
employees. (Mayer Decl., Ex. 1, § 3(b).)
In
the FAC, Crawford seeks civil penalties for thirteen different violations of
the Labor Code including (1) failure to pay overtime in violation of Labor Code
sections 510 and 1198; (2) failure to provide meal periods in violation of
Labor Code sections 226.7 and 512, subdivision (a); (3) failure to provide rest
periods in violation of Labor Code section 226.7; (4) failure to pay legally
required minimum wages in violation of Labor Code sections 1194, 1197, and
1197.1; (5) failure to pay wages upon termination in violation of Labor Code
sections 201 and 202; (6) failure to timely pay wages during employment in
violation of Labor Code section 204; (7) failure to provide complete and
accurate wage statements in violation of Labor Code section 226, subdivision
(a); (8) failure to keep complete and accurate payroll records in violation of
Labor Code section 1174, subdivision (d); (9) failure to reimburse necessary
business-related expenses and costs in violation of Labor Code sections 2800
and 2802; (10) failure to timely produce personnel records in violation of
Labor Code sections 1198.5; (11) failure to provide sick leave in violation of
Labor Code sections 227.3 and 245 et seq.; (12) failure to pay reporting time
pay in violation of Labor Code section 1198; and (13) failure to provide a day
of rest in violation of Labor Code sections 551, 552, and 1198.
In
analyzing the strengths, risks, and complexity of this case, Crawford’s counsel
believes there is sufficient evidence to support the allegations that Defendants
violated the Labor Code. (Mayer Decl., ¶ 15.) Nonetheless, Crawford’s counsel
also acknowledges there is a risk a court could find the current action
unmanageable and require individual inquiries into these alleged violations.
(Mayer Decl., ¶ 15.) In addition, Crawford’s counsel points to defenses or
challenges that can be raised by the Defendants to reduce or eliminate recovery
including that they did not engage in a uniform policy and systematic scheme of
wage abuse, that they have legally compliant employment policies and practices,
that the present action should be subject to arbitration, that standing is
lacking, that discovery or trial should be limited or bifurcated, and that
heightened or cumulative penalties are inappropriate. (Mayer Decl., ¶ 17-19.)
But
while Crawford’s counsel states “the parties have conducted sufficient
investigation and review of information to be sufficiently apprised of the
nature and extent of the PAGA claim asserted in this lawsuit, and to enable
both sides to fully evaluate the Settlement for
its fairness, adequacy, and reasonableness,” Crawford’s counsel fails to
provide any actual evaluation of the specific claims raised by Crawford. (Mayer
Decl., ¶ 20.) Crawford’s counsel also fails to make any attempt to estimate
Defendants’ potential PAGA exposure and compare that exposure to the results of
this settlement. Thus, Crawford’s counsel has failed to provide the court with
an adequate basis upon which to evaluate whether the amount of the proposed
settlement is fair and reasonable.
Accordingly,
the court CONTINUES the hearing on Crawford’s motion in order for Crawford’s counsel to
provide additional briefing.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Crawford’s motion for approval of PAGA settlement is CONTINUED
to a date to be determined at the hearing set in Department G (Pomona). Crawford’s
counsel is ordered to provide supplemental briefing on (1) Defendants’
estimated PAGA penalties exposure and (2) a comparison of that amount to the
amount obtained in the present settlement.