 Case Number:  20BBCV00878    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      October 30, 2023                                TRIAL DATE: January 9, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         TAVAKKOLI, LLC, a
California limited liability company, v. COHEN & ASSOCIATES INVESTMENTS,
LLC, a California limited liability company; ALL PERSONS KNOWN OR UNKNOWN,
CLAIMING AN INTEREST IN THE PROPERTY; and DOES 1 through 26, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 20BBCV00878
 
            
 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

 
MOVING PARTY:               Brian Bergman, Lisa DeLorme, and
Marina Melikyan, counsel of record for Defendant Cohen & Associates
Investments, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed October 6, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Brian Bergman, Lisa
DeLorme, and Marina Melikyan (“Counsel”) move to be relieved as counsel of
record for Defendant Cohen & Associates Investments, LLC.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises out of Plaintiff
Tavakkoli, LLC’s claim that Defendants Cohen & Associates Investments, LLC
have interfered with Plaintiff’s use of an easement through Defendant’s
property. Plaintiff filed this complaint on December 1, 2020, alleging three
causes of action for (1) temporary restraining order, preliminary, and
permanent injunction, (2) damages for interference with the use of a recorded
easement, and (3) declaratory relief. 
             
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
 
            The court
will delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of
service of a copy of the signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the
clients have been properly served with notice of the next trial date have been
filed with the court.
 
            Counsel are
ordered to submit a declaration or affirmatively inform the court at the
hearing that Cohen & Associates Investments, LLC understands that as
corporations it cannot proceed in pro per status.
             
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure §284(1) allows for a change or substitution of
attorney “[u]pon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk,
or entered upon the minutes.” If both parties do not consent to a substitution
of attorney, Code of Civ. Proc. §284(2) allows for a substitution “[u]pon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 sets forth
procedures for relieving counsel without the mutual consent of both parties.
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362, an attorney seeking to
withdraw by motion rather than by consent of the client, as here, is required
to make that motion using approved Judicial Council forms. The motion also
requires a declaration stating “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of Ct., Rule
3.1362(c).)  Judicial Council form
MC-052, the attorney’s declaration, requires that the client be provided no
less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.  A proposed order prepared on form MC-053 must
also be lodged with the court with the moving
papers.
 
            California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d) also requires that the motion, notice of
motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice served on the
client by mail must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts that show
that either the service address is current or “that [t]he service address is the last known residence or business
address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current
address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the
filing of the motion to be relieved.”
(California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 subd. (d)). 
 
The Court of Appeals has recognized, “A lawyer violates his or her
ethical mandate by abandoning a
client [citation], or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby
prejudicing the client’s case. 
[Citation.]  We are, however,
aware of no authority preventing an attorney from withdrawing from a case when
withdrawal can be accomplished without undue prejudice to the client’s
interests.” (Ramirez v. Sturdevant
(1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel
moves to be relieved as the attorneys of record for Defendant Cohen &
Associates Investments, LLC. Counsel provides that a breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship occurred between August 30, 2023, and October 5,
2023, because the client failed to pay under the fee arrangement. (Bergman
Decl. ¶ 10.) Counsel provides that the client was
served this motion by mail at the client’s last known address.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
 
            The court
will delay the effective date of the order relieving counsel until (1) proof of
service of a copy of the signed order on the clients and (2) proof that the
clients have been properly served with notice of the next trial date have been
filed with the court.
 
            Counsel are
ordered to submit a declaration or affirmatively inform the court at the
hearing that Cohen & Associates Investments, LLC understands that as
corporations it cannot proceed in pro per status.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   October 30,
2023                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court