  Case Number:  19SMCV01008    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  I There are a number of issues before the court that must be
resolved between now and trial.  The
court addresses some here. 
 
The court is very concerned about Albert.  The court’s recollection of the testimony,
which is consistent with the citations that the parties have put forth,
suggests that Albert is one who brokers talent on the one hand and those who
want to use that talent to promote a product on the other hand.  Albert quite clearly works almost entirely
with what the court will call “known” talent, by which the court means talent
that is known by name to the public or a particular sector of the public, or,
in some cases, talent that has a unique job position where that position can be
exploited.  That is important because in
those cases, the use of the talent plays off of the talent’s celebrity status
to sell the product as an express or implied endorsement.  If there is a picture of Serena Williams
wearing athletic gear, the implication is that she is endorsing it, and that
endorsement has added effect because of who she is, not only how she looks.  Simply put, she adds a value different than a
model in tennis gear.  While the court
could see some unclear areas—such as “Jake from State Farm”—where the actor
becomes a celebrity due to the role in the advertisement—the court is not aware
of that happening in this case to that extent, and certainly not at the time of
the photo shoots.
 
Albert does, on occasion, act as a broker for non-celebrity
or not known talent.  But he has not done
it very often and only as a favor to major clients.  He had no specific recollection of any
particular instances where he did so. 
That alone makes it hard to see that Albert has the qualifications to
opine as to a hypothetical negotiation between plaintiff and defendants here. 
 
That concern is enhanced by Albert’s methodology.  He does not use a formula or some objective
basis to make his determination.  He
testified that he uses a “sixth sense” to determine what the talent would
demand.  That can work, perhaps, but only
if one is drawing on a deep well of similar extensive experience.  Thus, it might be that Albert could testify
as to what known talent would demand for a particular type of contract because
he has brokered thousands upon thousands of those exact sorts of contracts with
just those same types of parties.  But
that is not the case here.  He has not
acted as a broker for not known talent on more than a dozen or two occasions,
and never for a contract anything like the one he is opining about.  In short, to the best of the court’s
knowledge, Albert has never brokered a contract between not known talent
and an advertiser where the contract will as a practical matter preclude the
talent from working anywhere else during the contract period.  Never. 
Not once.  And he draws on nothing
else.  Albert’s testimony, then, strikes
the court as rank speculation.  True,
defendants could cross examine him.  But
cross-examination is not a cure for an opinion that has no basis in
expertise.  The court does not doubt
Albert’s sincerity, but the court does not believe that he has the expertise to
render the opinion that he does.  And
further, his opinion assumes that plaintiff did no other work whatsoever from
the date the contract was signed until forever. 
There is no evidence of that—in fact, the evidence would appear to be to
the contrary.  Albert appears to have
made no adjustment for what might be a reduction rather than an elimination of
plaintiff’s future work.
 
Further, Albert assumed that defendants would be willing
buyers.  But there is no evidence that
defendants would have (or even could have) agreed to pay what Albert opines to
be the voluntary contract sum.  The
royalty measure of damages assumes that there had been a good faith
hypothetical negotiation between the parties to enter into an agreement that
reflects what actually occurred.  The
assumption is that plaintiff would have demanded more and that defendant
would have paid the amount demanded. 
If plaintiff’s demand would have been so high that a reasonable
defendant would have foregone the transaction, then there is no royalty.  But Albert seems to have opined that
defendants (or a reasonable defendant) would have paid whatever plaintiff would
have demanded.  There is no evidence of
that, and Albert certainly provided none. 
That, independently, undermines Albert’s ability to testify.
 
In other words, Albert raises both an 801 problem and an 802
problem.  The 801 problem is that he
draws on experience he has from a vast reservoir of negotiations involving
known talent to render an opinion as to not known talent.  But the difference is significant.  Much of the value that known talent brings is
the implied endorsement of the known individual to the product.  Jaeschke does not bring that to the
table.  The court is not saying he is
fungible; but he is not the same as the type of known talent with which Albert
works.  By drawing off of dissimilar
data, the court does not believe that Albert meets the 801 criteria.  Albert’s methodology is also a problem.  He has not attempted to mine the data that he
does possess to draw inferences in any kind of rigorous way.  Rather, the methodology appears to be more of
a gut sense.  As the court stated above,
that might in some cases be an acceptable methodology (although less so when
more rigorous methods are readily available with the data at hand), but not
here.  To get to the jury, Albert must
satisfy both 801 and 802.  The court does
not believe he satisfies either.
 
Albert’s second methodology also fails.  Albert candidly testified that he believed
that such a model was not appropriate. 
He testified that method two had a “way less than 50%” chance of
actually occurring.  And he admitted that
it had to be revised.  The fact is that
even Albert did not see any such methodology as being more likely than not to
be something that would occur.
 
The court is aware of Garner v. BNSF Railway Co.
(2024) 98 Cal.App.5th 660, which is the most recent authority the court could
find on this subject.  There, plaintiff,
who worked for defendant as a trainman, claimed an injury caused by inhaling
diesel fuel over time.  Plaintiff had an
expert who opined that inhaling the fuel caused the injury.  Defendant was able to establish that
plaintiff’s expert had seen no study to support the conclusion nor had the
expert seen any published authority that would support the conclusion.  The trial court excluded the expert’s opinion
in limine.  The Court of Appeal
reversed, concluding that the question was one for the jury and that the
opinion was not barred by Sargon. 
Adverting to our Supreme Court’s warning in Sargon, the court
emphasized in Garner that courts must be cautious in excluding expert
testimony and that trial courts ought not use the gatekeeping role to choose
among competing opinions.   Rather, the
focus must be on principles and methodologies, not on conclusions.   In reversing the trial court’s decision, the
Court of Appeal first considered whether the trial court was correct in
excluding the testimony on the basis that there were no published studies that
linked inhaling diesel fuel and cancer even though the expert did rely on air
sampling data, air modeling studies involving railway workers, and an
inhalation cancer potency factor developed by the Air Resources Board.  The appellate court concluded that the trial
court erred.  In explaining the trial court’s
error, the Garner Court found that there may be many reasons why there
might be no published authority to support an opinion.  The opinion could be too specific to warrant
publication, or too new.  The trial court
also concluded that there was no sufficient link showing causation rather than
mere association.  Again, the Court of
Appeal disagreed.  The appellate court
concluded that it was proper for the expert to bring training and judgment to
bridge the gap between association and causation.  An expert is perfectly able, the court held,
to summarize and synthesize the data that is out there in order to draw
reasonable conclusions.  It is entirely
possible for there to be some analytic gap; the question is whether the
expert is using the type of information that is reasonable (801) and a proper
methodology (802).  If so, then generally
the opinion’s weight is for the jury. 
That is what plaintiff here contends that Albert is doing.  The court, though, simply cannot agree.  If the question were the kind of contract
negotiations between known talent and an advertiser for a broad license, it
could be that Albert would have more of a basis to bring his judgment to bear
to bridge the gap between actual data and conclusions.  But the court cannot help but see the
significant difference between known talent and not known talent.  The court also notes that Garner
concerned epidemiology—which often does not itself reveal causation but can
point in that direction.  The expert was
thus at least on a marked path when reaching conclusions.  But Albert is not doing that.  Albert’s problem is only partly the
methodology, but, as discussed above, it is also partly the information upon
which he relies.  For unlike the expert
in Garner, Albert is relying on a pool of dissimilar data.  Albert’s expertise goes to negotiations with
known talent—that is, where the talent’s own prominence is the driver of the
value the talent brings.  That is
dissimilar to not known talent, where there is nothing particular in the
individual that is the value driver.  And
he has never actually negotiated a contract like the one at issue.  Further, his methodology is not
sufficient.  He did not mine the data
that he had in order to derive some common theme or rubric.  Rather, he relied on a “sixth sense” to
ascertain what a hypothetical negotiation would have yielded.  The court might have gotten past that if
Albert had a vast reservoir of similar negotiations under his belt.  But he had none.  When the inadequate date is combined with the
“sixth sense” methodology, the court believes that Albert has moved past Garner
and into Sargon.  It is just a
bridge too far.
 
Without Albert, Rybolt cannot testify on these
subjects.  First, he simply took Albert’s
number.  He did no independent
verification as to whether the number was sound or not.  That is not a criticism; he lacked the
expertise to so verify.  But it does mean
that if the input is not reliable, neither is the output.  Somewhat to the court’s surprise, plaintiff
contended that two witnesses from Ford can provide the same numbers and so
Rybolt can testify even without Albert. 
The court does not believe that either was designated as a witness on
that monetary topic.  If the court is
correct, then they cannot opine on the subject. 
This is not percipient evidence; it is expert testimony.  A lay witness cannot provide expert testimony
unless designated.  True, an expert can
be designated as a non-retained expert, such as a treating physician might be.  If that is the case, the non-retained expert
can give expert testimony as to things the expert knows so long as the expert
knows it from sources other than the litigation.  But that is not the case here.  These witnesses were never designated at all
as experts, retained or otherwise, as to the numbers for the hypothetical
negotiation.  Nor did they provide the
numbers that Rybolt actually used.  In
short, it was a nice try, but ultimately plaintiff cannot swap out Albert for
the Ford witnesses.
 
That means that this measure of damages will be excluded and
will not go to the jury.  Both Albert I
and Albert II.
 
The court is also worried about Hirschkorn.  Hirschkorn testified that he has extensive
experience selling goods on Amazon.com. 
Not only has he done so for many years, but he talks and lectures about
it to others.  The court believes he has
adequate expertise to explain, at least to some extent, how Amazon.com
works.  But that is not the end of the
matter.  Hirschkorn is essentially
responsible for what has been referred to as the “Jaeschke effect”—a term that
has been used but no expert particularly likes. 
The gist of it is to try and quantify the effect that having Jaeschke
model an article of clothing has over having someone else model it.  The theory is that if having Jaeschke model a
shirt will cause an increase in sales by 15% over having anyone else model the
same shirt, then one might plausibly assume that 15% of the sales generated by
shirts Jaeschke modeled are attributable to the fact that Jaeschke modeled them
and it follows that the revenues are as well. 
In order to know that, though, at least in a perfect world, one would
need to compare sales of shirts where Jaeschke and only Jaeschke modeled the
item to sales of identical shirts modeled by everyone else over the same period
of time holding everything else constant. 
How one measures that is beyond this poor court’s ability, but that
would be the perfect way.  Even that
would be more correlation than causation, but when everything else is held
constant, causation could be a reasonable inference.  Of course, one rarely lives in the perfect
world, but the farther one deviates, the more troubling the opinion.  Up to a point, that is all it is:
troubling.  It is for the jury to decide
just how troubling it is and that is what cross-examination is for.  But after that point, the analysis becomes
nothing more than guesswork.  And then it
is for the court, not the jury.
 
Hirschkorn’s analysis was done in different ways. But there
is one problem off the bat.  Hirschkorn
stated at his deposition that he believed that proof of causation and the
determination of how to compare particular colors came from Rybolt.  As to causation, Rybolt did no such
thing.  Rybolt did conclude that there
was a 12%-17% range of correlation, but he did not do more than that as to the
percentage.  In fact, at the 402 hearing
he was extremely clear that he would not give any opinion as to causation; he
merely assumed it.  As to colors, which
was a major component in how to measure the range, Hirschkorn believed that the
color groupings were such that colors in the same group were colors that looked
essentially the same.  But it turns out
that Hirschkorn was not quite right.  The
court recalls the days from the Crayola box of 64 crayons; many were awfully
close to one another in color, but not all. 
The colors here were color groupings not chosen using some scientific
basis, but rather as determined by Jaeschke. 
And Jaeschke chose to group colors together generically.  Blue is blue; green is green.  But such is not necessarily the case.  Midnight blue is quite different than sky
blue.  Army green is different than Kelly
green.  Turquoise is blue and
green.  The court is aware of no reason
why this was done that way.  The problem
is not that it is improper to lump all blues together (although some at UCLA or
Cal might have strong feelings about it); it is that Hirschkorn mis-perceived
what was done as it fed into his analysis. 
And in fact, Hirschkorn at deposition questioned whether lumping the
colors together was even appropriate if they looked different to the eye.
 
As to the specific analysis Hirschkorn did, the court is
also troubled.  Hirschkorn ran a search
on Amazon.com for a generic style of shirt and “Bella + Canvas.”  He then looked at what picture came up and
where.  After ignoring pictures that came
up first because the sponsor paid to put them first, he looked at what he
called the “organically first” picture. 
This is the picture that pops up first based on Amazon.com’s
algorithm.  Where Jaeschke came up first,
Hirschkorn assumed that Jaeschke was the sales driver and (at least as to
models) the only sales driver.  Where he
came up not first, he assumed someone else was the sales driver and Jaeschke
drove no sales at all.  Thus, all of the
sales where Jaeschke came up first were attributable to Jaeschke.  This essentially controls for just about
nothing.  Hirschkorn does not know if the
person who came up second came up second by a hair under the algorithm or by a
lot.  (But, having said that, Hirschkorn
also testified that if one used a search engine (that is, did a search not from
Amazon.com) and used the same search term, only one picture would appear and
that the picture would be of the model who was organically first.)  Hirschkorn does not know what causes a buyer
ultimately to buy the particular product. 
He does not know whether people buying from Amazon.com use a generic
search engine or go on Amazon.com (where more than one picture appears).  He did not try to control for color.  Jaeschke might well model gray shirts and not
yellow ones.  That does not necessarily
mean that gray sells better than yellow because Jaeschke is the model; it might
be because people like gray more than yellow for a shirt.  He did not take good account of Amazon.com’s
product number system.  Under
Amazon.com’s system, each product is to have one and only one product
number.  But some products that ought to
have only one number have more than one. 
A model selling under that kind of “rogue” product number would almost
certainly have fewer sales—not because the person doing the modeling does not
sell but rather because it is not the main number for the product.  And, somewhat troublingly, he does not know
how Amazon.com’s algorithm works.  That
is hardly a surprise—the algorithm is a trade secret and Amazon.com does not
give that information out.  But even so,
other than making the reasonable assumption that the goal is to drive sales,
Hirschkorn does not know how the algorithm upon which he places sole reliance
works.  So, once again, the court has
problems with both the 801 analysis (the type of information upon which the
opinion is based) and the 802 analysis (the methodology used).
 
The court is not trying to be critical of Hirschkorn or
suggesting that he is sloppy.  As
Hirschkorn said, he could only work with the data he had, and the data from
Amazon.com is limited to what Amazon.com will give.  But if the data do not allow the proper
analysis, that does not mean that an improper analysis goes to the jury.  The analysis as done must still have some
rigor to it and some scientific basis and backdrop to get to the jury.  Nor is the court confident that no other data
was available.  Surveys could have been
done that might have confirmed or undermined the assumptions that Hirschkorn
was making.
 
Plaintiff has tried to turn the burden on its head, at least
in the court’s view.  Plaintiff contends
that it is plaintiff’s job only to show that there is some effect greater than
zero.  That is, if Jaeschke’s picture had
any causative impact at all, then Jaeschke should get the entirety of the revenues
received from the product at issue unless defendants can prove that the effect
was not 100%.  But the court does not see
it that way.  It is plaintiff’s job to
show causation and to put up an expert who can opine not only that there was
some causative effect greater than zero, but approximately what that causative
effect was.  Once that is done, it is the
defense’s job to differentiate between gross revenues and net profits.  The court’s view is that the amount of the
so-called “Jaeschke effect” is a matter of proof for which plaintiff has
the burden, and if at least a reasonable approximation cannot be shown then
that lack dooms the measure of damages. 
A case on point is Olive v. General Nutrition Contractors, Inc.
(2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 804.  That case
involved a model and actor who had a contract with the defendant to use his
likeness in an advertising campaign. 
Much as is the case here, he alleged that defendant continued to use the
image after the contract expired. 
Although defendant admitted the wrong (albeit not until the trial
started), the measure of damages was in hot dispute.  Plaintiff there (like Jaeschke here) sought
rescission and restitution for unjust enrichment.  Plaintiff had three experts and he sought a
portion of defendant’s profits from sales of goods using plaintiff’s image past
the contract period and he sought damages in tort and also in contract.  The jury in Olive awarded plaintiff
over $1.1 million, the bulk of which was emotional distress.  The jury did not find, though, that any of
defendant’s profits were attributable to the improper use and the court found
for defendant on unjust enrichment. 
Plaintiff claimed that the court erred in refusing to give plaintiff’s
proffered jury instruction on lost profits, which mirrored the theory Jaeschke
advances here.  The Olive Court
agreed with plaintiff as to some preliminary matters, for example that
plaintiff was entitled to recover as damages any profits attributable to the
unauthorized use.  The court further
explained, as this court has said, that plaintiff’s burden was to prove only
gross revenue; it was defendant’s burden to reduce that sum to lead to net
profits.  But that is where the Court of
Appeal and plaintiff parted company. 
Plaintiff asked that the trial court instruct the jury that it was
defendant’s burden to prove the portion of the revenue attributable to factors
other than plaintiff’s likeness, much as Jaeschke attempts to argue here.  The trial court refused that instruction and
the appellate court affirmed.  In
discussing the point, the Olive Court agreed with defendant that it was
plaintiff’s burden to prove the revenue attributable to the improper use of
plaintiff’s likeness.  (Id., at
pp. 814-815.)  The Olive court
emphasized that the law “could not be clearer as to which party bears the
burden to prove [defendant’s] profits attributable to the unauthorized use of
[plaintiff’s] image.”  (Id. at p.
815.)  (Also, like the situation here
with Albert, plaintiff’s expert in Olive was based on contracts with
celebrities.  That made the opinion
improper.  (Olive, supra,
30 Cal.App.5th at p. 819.))  It is, in
this court’s view, therefore Jaeschke’s burden to determine the amount of
revenue that defendants received from the unauthorized use; not, perhaps, with
exactitude, but with some degree of rigor to show causation and not just
correlation and the amount thereof.  That
means that Jaeschke, not defendants, must demonstrate the amount of the
so-called Jaeschke effect.  It is not sufficient
to establish that there was some effect and then require defendants to prove
how much of the revenue was attributable to the use.  Once the amount of revenue attributable to
Jaeschke is determined, and only then, does the burden shift to the defendants
to quantify the expenses needed to obtain that revenue so as to reduce the
number.  Indeed, the very structure of
the applicable jury instruction (CACI 1821) makes the case plain.  Plaintiff, not defendants, have the burden to
show the amount of revenue attributable to Jaeschke.  Defendants, not Jaeschke, have the burden to
establish the expenses that were incurred to obtain the
revenue.  (The highlighted words come out
of the instruction, but the instruction, of course, does not emphasize any
particular word.)  Jaeschke is asking for
far more than that.  He is not seeking to
force defendant to quantify expenses, like any fee that Amazon.com might charge
or some portion of an annual fee or the payment to a third party to write
advertising copy.  Jaeschke is trying to
shift the burden as to how much of the revenue can be attributed to the
improper use.  But that is his burden.
 
So, at least some of the court’s specific problems with
Hirschkorn are: (1) he assumed that someone who is an expert determined the
color groupings when in fact it was Jaeschke who did that; (2) he specifically
testified that the color groupings should be colors that look similar to the
eye, and some of these do not; (3) he does not know how the Amazon.com
algorithm works and cannot testify to the mechanics, let alone whether they are
proper or appropriate, so, for example, he does not know whether male models
are preferred over female models or whether bearded men are preferred over
clean-shaven ones; (4) he takes an all or nothing approach to the measure such
that if Jaeschke is the first organic picture, he gets full credit, but there
is no effort to account for any sales that pictures of other models might have
generated; (5) he does not account for the difference between the main product
number and other product numbers for the same item even though that is not
consistent with Amazon.com policy; and (6) he does not control or attempt to
control for other factors.  The court
needs to understand how these issues are not so severe that Hirschkorn’s
analysis is simply not reliable enough to get to a jury.  
 
And critically, as discussed above, the court is concerned
as to attribution and causation.  Rybolt
disclaimed any causal analysis.  He found
a difference in growth rates, but he expressly refused to opine that this was
caused by plaintiff, let alone how much of it is caused by plaintiff.  He said others did that and he assumed
it.  Therefore, Rybolt cannot provide
causation.  The court had assumed that
Hirschkorn would provide that opinion—that is, that Hirschkorn would testify as
to how much of the sales growth was caused by Jaeschke.  But he did not.  He was able to opine that plaintiff’s picture
had a positive impact, and that he believed that the image was a substantial
factor.  But he did not try to quantify
the effects of that impact; Rybolt did that, according to Hirschkorn.  Where that leaves the court is that
Hirschkorn believed that using plaintiff’s image enhanced the sales of the
item, but he refused to try and figure out by how much.  Rybolt took the sales differentials and
assumed that 100% of it was caused by the use of plaintiff’s image because he
was told to do so.  But that is not
consistent with the court’s understanding of Olive.  The court understands that it is plaintiff’s
burden, not defendants’ burden to determine the amount of the
causation.  Did Jaeschke’s image “cause”
sales to increase by 15%, or did the use of his image likely cause some
increase but the amount of the increase is unknown.  If the former, then that would go to the
jury; but if the latter, then it does not go to the jury.  The court understands that plaintiff’s view
(as discussed above) is that once it shows that the use is a substantial
factor, it need do no more.  The court
just disagrees with that proposition. 
Plaintiff cannot escape this problem by adverting to a substantial
factor test and then citing to cases involving that term.  “Substantial factor” analysis in much of the
case law tends to occur where more than one defendant’s conduct is responsible
for a single injury.  In other words, it
is generally a concept used for purposes of compensation, that is, damages to
make plaintiff whole for a loss, like a physical injury where multiple causes
led to the singular injury.  Put another
way, where one defendant’s conduct is a “substantial factor” causing the single
harm, the plaintiff can recover fully any economic damages suffered, but the
jury will determine, as between the two or more defendants, how to apportion
the damage.  In those cases, once the
plaintiff shows that a defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in the
singular harm, the plaintiff need do no more. 
But that concept starts to fail where, as here, plaintiff is trying to
get a share of the profits.  At least
under the court’s reading of Olive, plaintiff must do more than simply
show that the defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in generating some
additional profits; it must show by how much, or at least some reasonable
approximation of that number.  The
problem here is that Rybolt said he thought Hirschkorn (or someone) was going
to show causation and quantify it (although he would translate that into
dollars); Hirschkorn said he thought Rybolt would do it.  And, therefore, in the end, neither did
it.  Without a showing of causation as to
the amount of the so-called Jaeschke effect, the opinions cannot come in.
 
The court was also troubled that Hirschkorn is going to be
used to support damages outside the Amazon.com context.  The court does not recall Hirschkorn even
suggesting that he was an expert outside of that context or field and the court
does not see sufficient relevant experience that would qualify him as an expert
outside of the Amazon.com context.  The
court will discuss with the parties whether Bania fills the causation gap, or
whether another 402 hearing is required for it.
 
The court is aware that this will have the effect of
significantly limiting Jaeschke’s potential damages.  But the court warned plaintiff of that
possibility in the MSA decision and even before that.  While the court agrees that the measure of
damages is permitted for the tort, the proof of it is difficult under these
circumstances and the court noted that the evidence at the MSA point was not
sufficient (although that was not before the court at that time).  That said, though, part of the problem is
that plaintiff seeks more than compensatory damages.  He seeks the profits that he claims
defendants made from the improper use of his image rather than the injury he
suffered, and they are not one and the same, and in this case, the measures
here at issue are extremely hard to show.
 
Essentially, then, this court is inclined to GRANT
defendants’ motions in limine 1 and 3. 
The court will inquire as to whether there is anything left of Rybolt’s
testimony in light of the foregoing rulings (it might depend on Bania).  
 
The court will turn quickly to some of the MIL’s, starting
with plaintiff’s MIL 2.  
 
MIL 2—Court will discuss. 
Plaintiff is trying to exclude testimony from his wife unless he calls
her as a witness.  (Oddly, defendants are
trying to exclude her, too.  One sort of
obvious thought is that if both sides seek to exclude her, maybe the parties
can just agree that she will not be called.) 
Plaintiff contends that defendant just wants to turn this into a
sideshow because she used to work for defendants.  The motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  The court will not preclude the testimony at
this stage, but the spousal privilege may be invoked if appropriate, although
the court cautions that the privilege cannot be both a sword and shield.
 
MIL 3—This is a motion to exclude evidence not
disclosed.  In particular, plaintiff
seeks to bar introduction of documents discussing how other models were treated
and the performance of other models.  The
court is inclined to discuss this further. 
Plaintiff contends that defendant refused to produce documents relating
to other models or how they were treated because this was a case about
plaintiff alone.  The court recalls such
a discussion.  To the extent that the
defense was able to avoid producing documents on that basis, the court will not
allow the documents to be produced now, nor will the court allow evidence or
argument on that point by the defense. 
That was a tactical choice defendants made and they will be judicially
estopped from changing their minds now given that they were successful in
discovery motions by advancing that theory. There could well be specific pieces
of evidence that will be allowed, but if the theory is that defendants seek to
introduce the evidence they earlier resisted producing on the ground that
treatment of other models was not relevant to this case, they will not be
allowed to do so now.  Plaintiff also
contends that defendants spoliated the image gallery.  If that is proven (and it might be proven),
then what flows from it will flow.  
 
MIL 4—To bar evidence as to other models.  This is largely the same as MIL 3.  
 
MIL 5—To exclude evidence of future earnings.  The court will need to know more.  But the court will say that this is an area
of expert testimony and if no expert has rendered an opinion and if plaintiff
asked the proper “button up” questions at deposition, the motion would be
granted.  And this cannot come in through
a lay witness.  
 
MIL 6—To exclude the malpractice case against former
counsel.  The court believes that
introducing evidence about that case will be substantially more prejudicial
than probative and will consume undue amounts of time, at least for the purpose
defendants have thus far articulated. 
The motion is likely GRANTED.,
 
MIL 7—To exclude Hullinger. 
The court is inclined to allow plaintiff to depose him, but if he is
deposed, to allow him to testify to the following extent.  He can testify about corporate practices and
the like, but he will not be able to testify about specific facts related to
this case.  While the court appreciates
that the prior president has left the company and, presumably, refuses to testify
and cannot be readily compelled to do so, that is no excuse to swap out a
percipient witness.  If Hullinger was a
percipient witness, he should have been disclosed.  The court has a somewhat different view if it
is just more generic corporate practices.
 
MIL 8—to exclude evidence that defendant owns the
copyrights.  The court is inclined to
DENY this motion.  Even if the court also
were to deny defendant’s MIL 7, this motion would likely be denied.
 
MIL 9—to use Bella + Canvas and Color Image and the parent
company interchangeably.  The court is
inclined to DENY the motion.  The jury
will understand, most likely, where a deposition was read or a document used
that uses the names interchangeably.  But
unless it just becomes too cumbersome, the parties should use the proper
entity.
 
Turning to the defense motions.
 
MIL 5—To exclude Simon (an agent with Ford).  The court is confident that the jury will be
able to differentiate his proper role. 
The court is inclined to DENY the motion.  The court notes, though, that his testimony
cannot be to tell the jury what the contract means.  What he can do as an expert is to testify as
to industry custom and practice.  Thus,
for example, opining that “usage” as used in a contract is to be construed
strictly is not how it ought to be put. 
However, testimony that in negotiating a contract, the “usage” term is
an important one and that the custom and practice is to define it with
precision and to give the reasons for that opinion would be permissible.  In addition, it is not clear to the court
that Simon can testify as to what he might have “expected” defendant or third
parties to do.  Again, Simon can testify
as to industry standards as a non-retained expert, but he cannot testify as to
generalized expectations.   The court
also notes that there is no attempt that the court saw by Simon (or Feltus) to
quantify the injury to Jaeschke.
 
MIL 6—Essentially the same but as MIL 5 but as to
Feltus.  Same ruling.
 
MIL 7—To exclude evidence preempted by Copyright.  This deserves special treatment.
 
MIL 8—To exclude spreadsheets.  The spreadsheets will need to come in before
an expert can testify about them, but if they can be admitted through a proper
witness, the court is not inclined to exclude them in limine.  The errors in the spreadsheet go to weight,
not admissibility.  Therefore, the
tentative is to DENY assuming that the spreadsheets can be properly admitted.
 
MIL 9—To exclude reference to Copyright case.  That case settled.  The court is inclined to think that evidence
about that case will lead to a mini-trial and will exclude it under 352.  GRANT.
 
MIL 10—To exclude images outside the SOL.  The court cannot say at this time that they
ought to be excluded, but they ought not come in unless they are independently
probative of something.  If it is just
background, the court would be inclined to think that is not enough.  The court therefore DENIES WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
MIL 11—To exclude recently produced documents.  The court is inclined to DENY the motion to
the extent that the documents were not in existence until recently.  That said, because they did come in late, the
court would not think they would be heavily emphasized and would not come in to
show a point that can be shown with other documents.  So long as plaintiff does not over-use them,
they have a legitimate purpose.
 
MIL 12—To exclude evidence of parent company’s or founders’
financials.  There is no opposition due
to the bifurcation, so the motion is GRANTED.
 
MIL 13—To exclude plaintiff’s wife.  The claim is that she evaded service.  The court will allow her to testify provided
she is deposed before trial.  She will
make herself available or she will be precluded from testifying.  (But see plaintiff’s MIL 2.)
 
Bifurcation.  There is
no opposition, so GRANT.  The punitive
damages phase will begin immediately upon conclusion of Phase I if the jury
makes the appropriate finding, or perhaps the next trial day.