 Case Number:  22SMCV00598    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  I Before the court are motions to seal and the motion for
sanctions.  The motions to seal are
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.  The
motion for sanctions is DENIED.
 
As to the motions to seal, the court’s view at the last
hearing was that the settlement agreement would not be sealed but medical
information would remain sealed for now. 
The court continued the matter, however, to allow for further briefing.  Plaintiffs have stated that they will submit
to the court’s prior view.  Defendant
Fireman’s Fund continues to assert that in addition, Spacey’s declaration
should not be sealed.  The test for
sealing has been set forth in other orders; the court will not repeat it
here.  The court continues to apply that
rubric.
 
Fireman’s Fund argues that the information in these
documents is critical to the case.  And
perhaps it is.  The question, though, is
the importance of those documents to the court’s resolution of the
demurrer.  As the court has stated
previously, the more central the information is to an issue that is before the
court, the stronger the public’s interest in knowing what the information is.  Further, by voluntarily agreeing to
participate in this case (albeit as a witness, not a party), Spacey’s privacy
interest is reduced.
 
As to the declaration, the court believes that much of it
need not be sealed or redacted.  The
portions that are problematic are paragraphs 8 after the first sentence, 10,
11, 12 second sentence, 16 after the first two sentences, 17, 19, 20, 21, and
29 after the first sentence.  The
foregoing parts deal with the specifics of Spacey’s treatment and specific
medical issues.  But, to be fair, they
also explain why statements were made. 
Even so, the court’s view is that at this stage the paragraphs set forth
should remain redacted.  The remainder of
the declaration will not be placed under seal.
 
The court also warns the parties that if the demurrer is
overruled it is likely that, sooner or later, much more information from
Spacey’s records—including medical records—may be placed on the public
record.  Of course, that will depend on
the specific issue before the court and the importance of the evidence to the
court’s determination.  But the purpose
of this admonition is to be sure that no one is caught off guard that the
weighing and balance are dynamic in nature. 
For now, the court believes that Spacey has a compelling interest in the
privacy of his medical condition, especially given the nature of the
allegations and the fact that much of the information sought goes to very
personal medical issues.  The court does
not believe that a confidentiality order will be sufficient to protect that
interest.  Things have a way of leaking
out and once in the public domain this toothpaste can not be put back into the
tube.  The court does not believe that
redacting or sealing less of the information than set forth above would be
sufficient.  However, some of the
information in the declaration can be put in the public domain given its
importance to the issue before the court and the somewhat less sensitive nature
of it.  On balance, the public’s right to
know of court proceedings to the extent of the paragraphs set forth is
outweighed by the limited sealing order being given, at least at this
moment.  However, the court notes that
there has been no non-party request made. 
If such a request is made, the court will re-weigh the matter anew based
on any new arguments presented.
 
Plaintiffs will re-file their papers unredacted other than
as set forth above or in prior orders not superseded herein with 10 court
days.  Unredacted versions of those
documents may be filed under seal.
 
As to the motion for sanctions, the court hopes the parties
have resolved that issue.
 
The court is aware that the demurrer is presently under
submission.  The court hopes to get the
decision out shortly.