  Case Number:  22PSCV00879    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:   Hector Olavarria, Jr. v. Doe  Unified School District, et al.  Defendant  El Monte Union High School District’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the  Alternative, Summary Adjudication of the Issues  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Defendant El Monte Union High School District’s  motion for summary judgment. The Court DENIES the alternative motion for  summary adjudication as moot.  Defendant El Monte Union High School District shall submit a  proposed Judgment.  Defendant El Monte Union High School District is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of same within five days  of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND  This is a childhood sexual assault case based on events that  occurred between 1987 and 1988 and the recent enactment of AB 218 which revived  a plaintiff’s right to pursue childhood sexual assault claims. On August 17,  2022, Plaintiff Hector Olavarria, Jr. (Plaintiff) filed this action. Plaintiff  filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (SAC) on October 26, 2022, against  Defendant El Monte Union High School District (Defendant) and Does 1 through 50,  alleging causes of action for negligence, negligence per se, negligent hiring,  retention, and supervision of an unfit employee, negligent supervision of a  minor, and negligent failure to warn, train, or educate. On November 16, 2022,  Defendant filed an answer to the SAC.  On September 19, 2023,  Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,  summary adjudication of the issues. On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed an  opposition. On November 29, 2023, Defendant filed a reply.  On  December 5, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request to continue the hearing  on this motion to permit further discovery to be conducted. On February 20,  2024, Plaintiff filed an updated opposition. On February 29, 2024, Defendant  filed a reply to the updated opposition.  LEGAL  STANDARD  The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On  a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party  to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material  fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,  1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met  his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party  has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not  separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense  to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of  action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a  defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS              The Court  OVERRULES all of Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Robin  Torres.              The Court SUSTAINS  Defendant’s evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Hank Gonzales for lack  of foundation.  DISCUSSION                        Summary of Defendant’s Proffered Material Facts              Defendant had no information that would have precluded it  from hiring Ms. Trina Cardona (Cardona) as a cheerleading coach during the 1987  – 1990 time frame. (UMF 1-2.) Cardona’s performance evaluations from 1994 to  2022 have been uniformly positive and contained no criticisms regarding her  interactions with minor students, (UMF 3), and there were no complaints of  sexual misconduct with a student before 2023, (UMF 4). Defendant also provides  the background details surrounding Plaintiff’s and Cardona’s relationship, such  as when the relationship began and where the sexual encounters would occur, i.e.,  primarily outside of school with two limited instances inside Cardona’s closed  classroom which no one witnessed. (UMF 6-10.)  Plaintiff’s relationship with Cardona was kept a  secret, and Plaintiff did not tell any school district personnel about his  relationship with Cardona. (UMF 11.) Defendant then states that Plaintiff  alleges his coach Frank Alonzo (Alonzo) believed something was going on and  that Plaintiff does not recall telling Alonzo any details about the  relationship. (UMF 13.) Defendant also contends that Plaintiff alleges that Gilbert  Adame (Adame), a school district teacher, should have known about the  relationship because Adame was Cardona’s boyfriend at the time and was present  when Plaintiff and Cardona first spoke over the phone. (UMF 14.)  First Cause of Action – Negligence              “To succeed in a negligence action, the plaintiff must  show that (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty, (2) the defendant  breached the duty, and (3) the breach proximately or legally caused (4) the  plaintiff's damages or injuries.” (Thomas v. Stenberg  (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)                          Vicarious  Liability  “[A] public school district may be vicariously liable  under [Government Code] section 815.2 for the negligence of administrators or  supervisors in hiring, supervising and retaining a school employee who sexually  harasses and abuses a student.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union  High Sch. Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 879.)  Defendant argues that it cannot be found vicariously  liable here because a school employee engaging in sexual misconduct is outside  the scope of employment for such employees per John R. v. Oakland Unified  School District (1989) 48 Cal.3d 438, which held that, “the connection  between the authority conferred on teachers to carry out their instructional  duties and the abuse of that authority to indulge in personal, sexual  misconduct is simply too attenuated to deem a sexual assault as falling within  the range of risks allocable to a teacher's employer. It is not a cost this  particular enterprise should bear, and the consequences of imposing liability  are unacceptable.” (Id. at p. 452.) The Court finds this argument  unavailing.              The California Supreme Court stated clearly in C.A.,  which was decided in 2012 and addressed John R. in great detail, that a  school district may be vicariously liable under Government Code section  815.2 for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining a school employee who  sexually abuses a student. (C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 879, italics  added.) The California Supreme Court in C.A. stated the following:  The lead opinion in John R. v. Oakland Unified  School Dist., supra, 48 Cal.3d at page 446, 256 Cal.Rptr. 766, 769  P.2d 948, it is true, referred to the school district's potential liability for  negligent hiring and supervision of the molesting teacher as “direct.” In  context, however, that label served merely to distinguish the negligent hiring  and supervision theory from the theory that the district was vicariously liable  for the teacher's molestation, a theory we rejected on the ground the  molestation was beyond the scope of the teacher's employment. (Id. at pp. 447–452,  256 Cal.Rptr. 766, 769 P.2d 948.) To the same effect is Delfino v. Agilent  Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815, 52 Cal.Rptr.3d  376, referring to a negligent supervision and retention theory as one of  “direct liability,” where the plaintiff had also sought to hold the employer  vicariously liable for the intentional torts of its employee. (See also Diaz v. Carcamo  (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1148, 1152, 126 Cal.Rptr.3d 443, 253 P.3d 535 [characterizing  negligent entrustment as a theory making the employer “liable for its own  negligence,” without considering an employer's possible vicarious liability for  a manager's negligent entrustment of a vehicle to a subordinate].) As these  decisions did not consider the theory of vicarious liability posited here—that  the District is liable under section 815.2 for the negligence of its  administrative and supervisory personnel—they cannot be taken as either  endorsing or precluding this theory.  (C.A., supra, 53  Cal.4th at p. 875.)              Additionally, while John R. held that the school  district may not be vicariously liable under a theory of respondeat superior, it  still held that a school district may be directly liable for negligently hiring  and supervising the teacher. (John R., supra, 48 Cal.3d at pp. 452-453.)  Plaintiff’s allegations here are based on Defendant’s allegedly negligent  hiring, supervising, and retention of Cardona, not necessarily via respondeat  superior. (Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 54-70.) Accordingly, the Court rejects  this argument and finds that it does not establish the absence of a triable  issue of material fact.              Foreseeability  [T]he issue here is not whether it is foreseeable a  particular adult will sexually abuse a student if left alone with the  student…  the issue is whether it is  reasonably foreseeable that organizations or entities that provide services  primarily or exclusively for children have employees who may sexually abuse a  child if the organization fails to take reasonable measures to prevent the  abuse. In any event, to the extent John R. suggests sexual abuse of students by school  employees is not reasonably foreseeable, it is inconsistent with the Supreme  Court's more recent holding in [C.A.] that school personnel owe students  a duty to take reasonable measures to protect them from foreseeable injury,  including “injuries to a student resulting from a teacher's sexual assault.” [Citation.]  (Doe v. Lawndale Elementary Sch.  Dist. (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 113, 132.)  With respect to the issue of foreseeability, Defendant  argues that Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action for negligence has no merit.  Defendant contends that Plaintiff cannot demonstrate Defendant had actual or  constructive knowledge that Cardona posed a foreseeable risk of harm to  students because it had no notice that Cardona had a propensity to engage in  sexual misconduct.[1] Defendant also contends Plaintiff was required to identify an administrator or  supervisor who was negligent, citing the case of Z.V. v. County of Riverside  (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, which held that, “[t]o establish negligent  supervision, a plaintiff must show that a person in a supervisorial position  over the actor had prior knowledge of the actor's propensity to do the bad  act.” (Id. at p. 902.)  Defendant argues it had no information to put it on  notice, as the majority of the sexual encounters between Plaintiff and Cardona  occurred off-campus, their limited on-campus sexual encounters were not  witnessed by anyone, and Plaintiff never reported the abuse to Defendant. (UMF  8-11.) Defendant also notes that it never received a complaint about Cardona  engaging in sexual misconduct with students in her long career. (UMF 4.)  Defendant then contends Plaintiff’s references to a conversation he purportedly  had with Coach Alonzo is vague, (UMF 13), and that the claim Adame was aware of  the relationship is based on speculative hearsay, as rumors and speculation are  not actual evidence per C.A., (UMF 14). Defendant further argues there  is no evidence that Defendant’s actions caused Plaintiff’s injuries.  The Court agrees with Defendant. There is no evidence  in the record that Defendant had actual or constructive knowledge that Cardona  posed a foreseeable risk of harm to students. There is no evidence in the  record that Defendant had notice that Cardona had a propensity to engage in  sexual misconduct. There is no evidence in the record that Plaintiff ever  notified someone in a supervisory or administrative position over Cardona  regarding the sexual misconduct. The closest evidence of Plaintiff ever having  informed any other personnel of Defendant is his purported conversation with  Coach Alonzo. (Compendium of Evidence[2],  Ex. B, Olavarria Depo, 64:17-67:16.) However, there does not appear to be any evidence  that Coach Alonzo was in a supervisory or administrative position over Cardona,  so even if he was aware, that does not automatically impute such knowledge to  Defendant. (See Id.) Additionally, Plaintiff admitted during his deposition  that he never told Coach Alonzo he was dating Cardona or having sexual  relations with Cardona, so it is unclear how Coach Alonzo would have known of or  had reason to suspect the improper relationship. (See Id.; C.A.,  supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 878, italics in original [“we emphasize that a  district's liability must be based on evidence of negligent hiring, supervision or  retention, not on assumptions or speculation.”])  Moreover, similar problems exist with respect to  Adame’s purported awareness of the relationship between Plaintiff and Cardona.  Even assuming Adame was aware, there does not appear to be any evidence in the  record demonstrating that Adame was in a supervisory or administrative position  over Cardona. (See Compendium of Evidence, Ex. B, 103:4-21.) Plaintiff’s claim  with respect to Adame appears to be based on assumption and speculation that Adame  was aware of it, but that is not proper evidence. (See C.A., supra, 53  Cal.4th at p. 878.) Furthermore, Plaintiff admitted in his deposition to having  never mentioned Cardona’s sexual misconduct to any other school staff members, or  any teachers, administrators, or representatives of the school district.  (Compendium of Evidence, Ex. B, Olavarria Depo., 74:21-75:8.) Given the  foregoing, the Court finds Defendant has established the absence of a triable  issue of material fact. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to establish the  existence of a triable issue of material fact.  Plaintiff contends in his separate statement that triable  issues of material fact exist by virtue of Plaintiff having had sexual  encounters with Plaintiff in her classroom, (UMF 1, 5), and that it is unknown  if there were observers to Plaintiff’s entrance to the classroom or if others saw  anything, (UMF 10). Plaintiff further contends he told Coach Alonzo about the  relationship, who told Plaintiff to “just be an adult about it.” (UMF 11, 13.)  Plaintiff also contends disputed material facts exist  because Cardona has been placed on administrative leave since January 24, 2023,  due to the allegations in this lawsuit, and that persons such as Robin Torres,  Coach Alonzo, and Adame all agreed in their depositions that the type of  conduct Cardona engaged in with Plaintiff would be improper. (Drake Decl., Ex.  A, Torres Depo., 15:23-16:16, 26:16-35:12; Drake Decl., Ex. B, Alonzo Depo., 7:20-12:3,  14:7-15:14; Drake Decl., Ex. C, Adame Depo., 9:3-12:23, 15:17-18:23, 20:3-24.)  Plaintiff claims other disputed material facts exist by virtue of declarations  from third-party witnesses such as Hector Gonzales and Jimmie Bowers, who were  friends of Plaintiff during the relevant time period. Plaintiff also indicates  that additional evidence may exist, but that he still has not been unable to  depose Cardona. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that Defendant can be held  vicariously liable for Cardona’s conduct, and that disputed material facts  exist as to the foreseeability of Cardona’s risk of harm to students, including  reasonable suspicion of child abuse.  The Court finds Plaintiff fails to establish the  existence of a triable issue of material fact. As noted above, even assuming  for the sake of argument that Coach Alonzo and Adame were on notice of  Plaintiff’s relationship with Cardona, there is no evidence in the record  indicating that Coach Alonzo or Adame were in supervisory or administrative  positions over Cardona, which is necessary to impose liability against  Defendant. (See Z.V., supra, 238 Cal.App.4th at p. 902.) Plaintiff also  still has failed to overcome the fact that he admits he did not tell Coach  Alonzo the details of his relationship with Cardona, (Compendium of Evidence,  Ex. B, Olavarria Depo., 64:17-67:16), or that his claim regarding Adame having  knowledge of their relationship is based on assumption and speculation, which  is not permissible here, (see Id., 103:4-21; C.A., supra, 53  Cal.4th at p. 878). Additionally, it still does not overcome the fact the he  admitted in his deposition that he did not talk to any supervisors or  administrators about his relationship with Cardona. (Compendium of Evidence,  Ex. B, Olavarria Depo., 74:21-75:8.)  Moreover, the fact that Robin Torres, Coach Alonzo,  and Adame agree such conduct between Plaintiff and Cardona would be improper  does not create a triable issue of material fact, as it does not show that they  had notice of it at the time it was happening, were in a position to address it,  and told any supervisors or administrators for Defendant about the relationship  between Plaintiff and Cardona. (See C.A., supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 870.)  Furthermore, the declarations of Hector Gonzales and Jimmie Bowers are unavailing  because they were students at the school with Plaintiff, not supervisors or  administrators over Cardona, and do not indicate that they told any supervisors  or administrators for Defendant about the relationship between Plaintiff and  Cardona. (See generally, Gonzalez Decl.; Bowers Decl.; see Z.V., supra, 238  Cal.App.4th at p. 902.)  Finally, the fact that some of the sexual encounters  occurred within Cardona’s classroom does not create a triable issue of material  fact because there is no evidence anyone witnessed it. None of the evidence  shows that anyone witnessed these encounters. (See Compendium of Evidence, Ex.  B, Olavarria Depo., 45:18-47:2.) Plaintiff’s contention that someone could have  witnessed him go into the classroom is speculative at best. (See C.A.,  supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 878.) The mere fact they occurred in the classroom  does not automatically impute notice to the school, especially when no one  witnessed it. (C.f. Id. [“That an individual school employee has  committed sexual misconduct with a student or students does not of itself  establish, or raise any presumption, that the employing district should bear  liability for the resulting injuries.”])              Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s  motion for summary judgment as to the First Cause of Action.              Second Cause of Action – Negligence Per Se              “The negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence  Code section 669, creates a presumption of negligence if four elements are  established: ‘(1) the defendant violated a statute, ordinance,  or regulation of a public entity;  (2) the violation proximately caused death or injury  to person or property;  (3) the death  or injury resulted  from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,  ordinance, or regulation was designed  to prevent; and (4) the person suffering the death  or the injury to his person or property was one of  the class of persons  for whose protection  the statute, ordinance,  or regulation was adopted.’ [Citation.]” (Spates v. Dameron Hosp. Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th  208, 218.)              Defendant contends Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action for  Negligence Per Se has no merit because Defendant did not have the prerequisite  notice. Defendant further contends there is no independent cause of action for  negligence per se, and even if this cause of action were treated as one for  negligence, it fails because it is based on the Child Abuse and Neglect  Reporting Act. Defendant contends there is no admissible evidence indicating  that any employees of Defendant knew or reasonably suspected Plaintiff was in a  sexual relationship with Cardona. Plaintiff never told Coach Alonzo that he was  dating Cardona or in a sexual relationship with her, and the claim that Adame  was aware is speculative.              The Court finds Defendant has established the absence of  a triable issue of material fact on this cause of action. Defendant correctly  contends that negligence per se is not a separate cause of action. “’[T]he  doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, but creates an  evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action  for negligence.’ [Citation.]” (Turner v. Seterus, Inc.  (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 516, 534.) The Court also notes that, as Plaintiff is  basing this claim off of Penal Code section 11164, et seq., there is no  evidence of a police report or citation indicating that Defendant violated this  statute. (See Spates, supra, 114 Cal.App.4th at p. 218 [need to prove  violation of statute].) Therefore, Defendant has met its moving burden. The  burden now shifts to Plaintiff to establish the existence of a triable issue of  material fact.              Plaintiff did not provide any arguments or evidence to  the contrary here. At most, Plaintiff argued that the risk of harm was  foreseeable, but that argument fails for the same reasons set forth above under  the First Cause of Action. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for  summary judgment as to the Second Cause of Action.  Third Cause of Action – Negligent Hiring, Retention,  and Supervision of an Unfit Employee              “[A]n employer may be liable to a third party for  negligently hiring or retaining an unfit employee.” (J.W. v.  Watchtower Bible & Tract Soc'y of New York, Inc. (2018) 29  Cal.App.5th 1142, 1163.)              This cause of action is duplicative of the First Cause of  Action for negligence. Accordingly, the Court incorporates by reference its  analysis from above with respect to the First Cause of Action, and GRANTS  Defendant’s motion for summary judgment on this cause of action.              Fourth Cause of Action – Negligent Supervision of a  Minor  The purpose of the law requiring supervision of  students on school property is to regulate students' conduct “so as to prevent  disorderly and dangerous practices which are likely to result in physical  injury to immature scholars ....” [Citation.] As noted by the California  Supreme Court, “[s]uch regulation is necessary precisely because of the  commonly known tendency of students to engage in aggressive and impulsive  behavior which exposes them and their peers to the risk of serious physical  harm.” [Citation.]  (M. W. v. Panama Buena Vista  Union Sch. Dist. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 508, 517–518.)              Defendant contends Plaintiff’s Fourth Cause of Action for  negligent supervision of a minor has no merit because Defendant did not have  the prerequisite notice. Defendant also argues that this law is inapplicable  because Plaintiff is not alleging any student caused harm. Defendant further  contends there is no evidence Defendant could have foreseen Plaintiff placing  himself in harm’s way, (UMF 7, 8), that most of the relationship and sexual  encounters occurred off-campus, and that Plaintiff did not tell any school  district staff about the relationship, (UMF 9-12).  The Court agrees that this law is inapplicable  because there is no evidence that Plaintiff’s alleged harm was caused by  another student. Clearly, the alleged harm was caused by Cardona, an employee  of Defendant, not a student. (UMF 6-10.) To the extent the negligent  supervision refers to the supervision of Cardona, the claim is duplicative of the  Third Cause of Action and the same analysis applies here. Therefore, Defendant  has met its moving burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to establish the  existence of a triable issue of material fact.  In opposition, Plaintiff does not present any  evidence to refute Defendant’s arguments. Instead, Plaintiff argues that the  alleged misconduct was foreseeable, which does not address Defendant’s argument  regarding the lack of student caused harm. Further, the Court incorporates by  reference its analysis from above with respect to the Third and First Causes of  Action. Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff has not established the  existence of a triable issue of material fact here.  Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s  motion for summary judgment as to the Fourth Cause of Action.  Fifth Cause of Action – Negligent Failure to Warn,  Train, or Educate  School boards do not owe a duty of care to be certain  that students attain basic academic skills. (Peter W. v. San Francisco  Unified School District (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 814, 825 [“To hold them [i.e.,  school boards] to an actionable ‘duty of care,’ in the discharge of their  academic functions, would expose them to the tort claims—real or imagined—of  disaffected students and parents in countless numbers. [Citations.]”])  Defendant contends Plaintiff’s Fifth Cause of Action  for Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate has no merit because Defendant did not  have the prerequisite notice. Defendant contends this cause of action fails as  a matter of law because there is no duty of care owed to a student inadequately  trained or educated per Peter W. Defendant then argues that even assuming  Plaintiff can show Defendant owed such a duty regarding Cardona, Plaintiff  cannot prove that such a breach occurred, as Defendant had no knowledge of the  alleged risks. (UMF 1-5.)  The Court finds Defendant  has established the absence of a triable issue of material fact here. The law  is clear that a school cannot be held liable for failure to properly educate  its students. (Peter W., supra,  60  Cal.App.3d at p. 825.) Plaintiff’s allegations are based on an alleged failure  to educate Plaintiff on known and knowable dangers posed by Defendants’  employees and agents, and that Defendant owed a duty to train and educate  minors regarding such matters. (Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 107-108.) Defendant  has therefore met its moving burden. The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to  establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  In opposition, Plaintiff  again does not present any arguments or evidence to the contrary on this issue.  While Plaintiff does argue about foreseeability, which has been addressed  above, Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s arguments regarding the lack of  an actionable duty of care to educate students per Peter W. Accordingly, the Court  finds Plaintiff has failed to establish the existence of a triable issue of  material fact.  Based on the foregoing,  the Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion for summary judgment as to the Fifth Cause  of Action. The Court further DENIES the alternative motion for summary  adjudication as moot.  Requested Continuance  “If it appears from the affidavits submitted in  opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that  facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated,  be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit  affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as  may be just.” (Civ. Proc. Code § 437c, subd. (h).)  The Court declines to  grant Plaintiff’s request for another continuance to conduct further discovery.  Plaintiff provides little explanation as to why Cardona’s deposition has not been  conducted after having been in litigation for over a year and half at this  point. (See Drake Decl. (2/20/24), ¶ 8.) The Court already granted one  continuance on this motion precisely to permit Plaintiff to conduct further  discovery, which gave Plaintiff over two months to conduct the desired  discovery. This action has been pending for over a year and a half now, which  the Court finds to be sufficient time for Plaintiff to have deposed Cardona. Plaintiff’s  failure to conduct that deposition lies with Plaintiff.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant El Monte Union High School District’s  motion for summary judgment. The Court DENIES the alternative motion for  summary adjudication as moot.  Defendant El Monte Union High School District shall submit a  proposed Judgment.  Defendant El Monte Union High School District is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of same within five days  of the Court’s order.    