 Case Number:  23PSCV03333    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Arthur Clark and Maureen Clark
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing
in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing.
 
BACKGROUND

This is a lemon law action. On October 27,
2023, Plaintiffs Arthur Clark and Maureen Clark filed a complaint against
Defendants Ford Motor Company (Ford), Puente Hills Ford, and Does 1-10,
alleging the following cases of action: (1) violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subdivision (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3); (4) breach of implied warranty of merchantability; (5) concealment; and
(6) negligent repair.
 
On December 1, 2023, Ford filed a demurrer to
the Clarks’ Complaint. On January 3, 2024, the Clarks filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On February 6, 2024, Ford filed the present
demurrer. A hearing on the demurrer is set for March 19, with a case management
and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service set for March 28.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Ford demurs to the Clark’s first (violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (d)), second (violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(b)), third (violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (a)(3)),
fourth (breach of implied warranty of merchantability), and fifth causes of
action (concealment). For the following
reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Ford’s
counsel filed a declaration suggesting counsel met and conferred telephonically
with the Clarks’ counsel on November 28, 2023, with regards to the Clarks’
original Complaint. (Patel Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) But counsel does not describe
any code-compliant attempt to meet and confer after the Clarks filed the
operative FAC on January 3, 2024. Because Ford’s counsel has not stated any
meet-and-confer efforts occurred with respect to the present demurrer, the
court finds a continuance of the hearing on Ford’s demurrer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Ford’s demurrer is CONTINUED to
a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Ford’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with the Clarks’
counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the
next scheduled hearing.