 Case Number:  23PSCV02129    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Mabek Co.’s Motion for Attorney Fees
Respondent: Defendant Pilot
Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Mabek Co.’s Motion for Attorney Fees is
GRANTED in the reduced amount of $20,518.75.
BACKGROUND
On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff
Mabek Co. (Mabek) filed an unlawful detainer action for commercial premises in
the City of Industry against Defendants Pilot Inc. (Pilot); NFI California
Cartage Holding Company, LLC; Mike Campbell & Associates, LTD.; HaoRong
Global, Inc.; HIXIH Rubber Industry Group Co., LTD; Pacific Import
Manufacturing, Inc.; Eco Green Ology, Inc.; Wang’s International, Inc.;
Dreamway Express, Inc.; EPS International Logistics Inc.; Shipflex Logistics
LLC; Spring Wind Logistics Inc.; Bully Truck Accessories; Cosmo Group; DC
Sports; ECO USBCELL; Lunna Smart Home; Pickman; Rolling Big Power; RPVI
Accessories; ShopThatHere.com; Tofu Lights; VooDoo Ride; YNeon; and Does 1-30.
On October 12, 2023, Mabek
and Pilot entered into a stipulation for the issuance of a writ of possession
and entry of judgment. On February 1, 2024, the court entered a judgment of
unlawful detainer pursuant to the stipulation.
On February 16, 2024, Mabek
submitted a memorandum of costs and filed the present motion. A hearing on the
present motion is set for March 19.
ANALYSIS
Mabek
moves the court for an award of reasonable attorney fees in the amount of
$83,297.50. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Mabek’s
motion, but reduces the amount requested.
Legal
Standard
“Except
as attorney’s fees are specifically provided for by statute, the measure and
mode of compensation of attorneys and counselors at law is left to the
agreement, express or implied, of the parties; but parties to actions or
proceedings are entitled to their costs . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.)¿
The prevailing party on a contract which specifically provides for attorney
fees and costs incurred to enforce the agreement is entitled to reasonable
attorney fees in addition to other costs.¿ (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a); Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 1032, 1033.5, subd. (a)(10)(A).)¿ The court, upon notice and
motion by a party, shall determine the prevailing party and shall fix, as an
element of the costs of suit, the reasonable attorney fees.¿ (Civ. Code, § 1717,
subd. (a), (b).)
“The
amount to be awarded to a party as attorney fees is a matter within the sound
discretion of the trial judge.” (Contractors Labor Pool, Inc. v. Westway
Contractors, Inc. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 152, 168.) In determining the
reasonableness of an attorney fees award, the court considers “the nature,
difficulty, intricacy and importance of the litigation, the amount involved,
the skill required and success of the attorney's efforts, his or her learning,
age and experience, and the time consumed.” (Id., at p. 169.)
Discussion
In this case,
Mabek requests attorney fees pursuant to section 31 of their lease agreement
with Pilot which states as follows:
“Attorneys'
Fees. If any Party or Broker brings
an action or proceeding involving the Premises whether founded in tort,
contract or equity, or to declare rights hereunder, the Prevailing Party (as
hereafter defined) in any such proceeding, action, or appeal thereon, shall be
entitled to reasonable attorneys' fees. Such fees may be awarded in the same
suit or recovered in a separate suit, whether or not such action or proceeding
is pursued to decision or judgment. The term, ‘Prevailing Party’ shall include,
without limitation, a Party or Broker who substantially obtains or defeats the
relief sought, as the case may be, whether by compromise, settlement, judgment,
or the abandonment by the other Party or Broker of its claim or defense. The
attorneys' fees award shall not be computed in accordance with any court fee
schedule, but shall be such as to fully reimburse all attorneys' fees
reasonably incurred. In addition, Lessor shall be entitled to attorneys' fees,
costs and expenses incurred in the preparation and service of notices of
Default and consultations in connection therewith, whether or not a legal
action is subsequently commenced in connection with such Default or resulting
Breach ($200 is a reasonable minimum per occurrence for such services and
consultation).” (Complaint, Ex. 1, ¶ 31.)
Here, Mabek obtained a
judgment of unlawful detainer against Pilot. Thus, the court finds Mabek is the
prevailing party in the present unlawful detainer action and is accordingly
entitled to reasonable attorney fees.
Reasonableness
of Hourly Rate
To
determine if an hourly rate is reasonable, courts consider the rates of similar
attorneys in the community as well as “the experience, skill, and reputation of
the attorney requesting fees.” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy
(2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1009.)
In
this case, Mabek’s counsel requested hourly rates of $595. In support of this
request, Daniel A. Corren provided a declaration describing counsel experience
and stating counsel’s requested rate is comparable to other litigators in the
Los Angeles area with comparable experience. (Corren Decl., ¶ 16.) Corren also
provided information about Corren’s co-counsel, Gary Fidler, that included
Fidler’s experience and justification for a similar rate. (Corren Decl., ¶ 17.)
Based on this information and the court’s own experience, the court finds an
hourly rate of $595 to be reasonable.
Reasonableness
of Hours Billed
Although
a verified fee bill is “prima facie evidence the costs, expenses and services
listed were necessarily incurred,” (Hadley v. Krepel (1985) 167
Cal.App.3d 677, 682), counsel still has the burden to demonstrate the
reasonableness of charges. (Mikhaeilpoor v. BMW of North America, LLC
(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 240, 247.) Here, Mabek requests fees for a total of 104
hours spent by counsel and 15.75 hours spent by counsels’ paralegals. Mabek
also requests an additional 10 hours of fees for time spent on the present
motion. The court addresses each category of requests below.
Compliance
with Pre-Lawsuit Notice Requirements
Mabek
requests $3,675 in attorney fees for 6.5 hours of compliance with pre-lawsuit
notice requirements. (Motion, p. 9.) It is unclear to the court from where
these costs come as Mabek failed to provide any citations to the specific invoice
entries that support this request. Thus, the court finds this request
unsupported and declines to award these requested fees.
Preparation
of Complaint and Associated Filings
Mabek
requests $4,725 in attorney fees for 8.75 hours spent preparing the complaint
and associated filings in the present action. (Motion, p. 9.) Given counsel’s
significant experience and counsel’s use of an unlawful detainer form
complaint, the court finds this amount to be excessive. Accordingly, the court
reduces the hours awarded to 3.25 hours (2.0 hours for counsel at an hourly
rate of $595 and 1.25 hours for paralegal work at an hourly rate of $210) for a
total fee award of $1,452.50.
Service
of Tenant and Subtenants, Research and Service on Illegal Subtenants,
Negotiation of Agreements with Cooperative Subtenants
Mabek
requests $11,427.50 in attorney fees for 14.25 hours spent serving parties in
this action and negotiating agreements with cooperative subtenants. (Motion, p.
9.) It is unclear to the court from where these costs come as Mabek failed to
provide any citations to the specific invoice entries that support this
request. The court is also not inclined to award fees for any time spent
negotiating with or serving parties other than Pilot. Thus, the court finds
this request unsupported and declines to award these requested fees.
Written
Discovery and Inspection of Premises
Mabek
requests $4,016.25 in attorney fees for 6.75 hours spent on written discovery
and inspection of the premises. (Motion, p. 9.) Upon review of the discovery
requests Mabek submitted (Corren Decl., Ex. C) and in light of counsel’s significant
experience, the court finds 6.75 hours excessive and reduces the requested time
to 3.75 hours for a total fee award of $2,231.25.
Trial
Preparation Time
Mabek
requests $18,886.25 for 24.25 hours spent on trial preparation. (Motion, p. 9.)
Given counsel’s experience, the court finds the time spent excessive and
reduces the requested time to 12.5 hours at an hourly rate of $595 in addition
to 4 hours of paralegal time at an hourly rate of $210 for a total fee award of
$8,277.50.
Preparation
of Motion for Summary Judgment
Mabek
requests $5,311.25 for 9.25 hours spent on preparing a motion for summary
judgment. (Motion, p. 9.) Given counsel’s experience, the court finds this
request excessive and reduces the requested time to 4.5 hours at an hourly rate
of $595 in addition to 0.5 hours of paralegal time at an hourly rate of $210
for a toral fee award of $2,782.50.
Stipulation
for Entry of Judgment
Mabek
requests $8,881.25 for 15.25 hours spent negotiating and preparing stipulation
for entry of judgment, corresponding with Pilot, and corresponding with third
parties regarding Pilot’s compliance. (Motion, p. 9.) It is unclear to the
court from where these costs come as Mabek failed to provide any citations to
the specific invoice entries that support this request. Thus, the court finds
this request unsupported and declines to award these requested fees.
Writ
of Execution
Mabek
requests $1,373.75 for 2.75 hours spent preparing a writ of execution and
communicating with the sheriff regarding lockout. (Motion, p. 9.) It is unclear
to the court from where these costs come as Mabek failed to provide any
citations to the specific invoice entries that support this request. Thus, the
court finds this request unsupported and declines to award these requested
fees.
Ex
Parte Application Regarding Default
Mabek
requests $19,051.25 for 32.5 hours spent preparing ex parte application
regarding Pilot’s default, analyzing opposition, preparing supplemental
filings, and three appearances for hearings on application. (Motion, p. 9.) It
is unclear to the court from where these costs come as Mabek failed to provide
any citations to the specific invoice entries that support this request.
Furthermore,
the court finds this amount excessive given counsel’s experience. Accordingly,
the court reduces the requested time to 5.5 hours (2.0 hours drafting ex parte
application, 1.0 hour reviewing opposition papers, 1.0 drafting supplemental
filings, and 1.5 hours attending the hearings) at an hourly rate of $595 in
addition to 2.0 hours of paralegal time at an hourly rate of $210 for a total
fee award of $3,692.50.
Present
Motion
Mabek
requests $5,950 for 10 hours preparing the present motion and appearing at the
hearing. (Motion, p. 9.) The court finds this amount excessive given counsel’s
experience and accordingly reduces the requested time to 3.5 hours (2.0 hours
drafting the present motion, 1 hour reviewing the opposition and drafting the reply,
and 0.5 hours attending the hearing) at an hourly rate of $595 for a toral fee
award of $2,082.50.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Mabek’s
motion for attorney fees is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $20,518.75.