 Case Number:  24SMCV02422    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02422




MOTION


(1)  
  OSC re: Contempt
(2)  
  Motion to Intervene, Vacate Order Appointing
  Receiver, and Dismiss




MOVING PARTIES


(1)  
  Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition,
  LLC
(2)   Intervenors
  Behnam Ghasseminejad; Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


(1)  
  Intervenors Behnam Ghasseminejad; Kaysan
  Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC
(2)  
  Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan
  Acquisition, LLC; joined by Receiver; joined by Cross-Defendant LACC 9996,
  LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute regarding competing claims on the
property located at 9996 Sunset Boulevard. 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff 9996 Sunset Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed suit for declaratory relief against Defendants 9996 Sunset Loan
Acquisition, LLC and Fidelity National Title Company.  
 
On July 18, 2024, Defendant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant LACC 9996, LLC and Plaintiff for (1)
judicial foreclosure; (2) specific performance; and (3) injunctive relief.
 
On July 23, 2024, pursuant to the parties’ stipulation, David
Stapleton was appointed as receiver over the property.
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant 9996 Sunset Loan Acquisition, LLC (“Defendant”)
moved ex parte for an order to show cause re contempt against the
occupants/trespassers on the property (1) Kayasan Ghassemi-nejad; (2) Behnam
Ghassemi-nejad; and (3) K3B Enterprises, LLC for failure to comply with the
July 23, 2024 receivership order, which the Court granted and set the order to
show cause for hearing.
 
On August 21, 2024, the non-party occupants Behnam Ghasseminejad;
Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad; and K3B Enterprises LLC (collectively, “Occupants”) moved
to intervene, to vacate the order appointing a receiver, and to dismiss the
case.  Defendant and Cross-Complainant
opposes the motion to intervene, vacate, and dismiss.  The Receiver and Cross-Defendant LACC 9996,
LLC have each filed joinders in the opposition. 
The Occupants have replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD – CONTEMPT
 
Disobedience of any
lawful judgment, order, or process of the court constitutes contempt of the
legal authority of the court.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1209, subd. (a)(5).)
 
“When the contempt is not
committed in the immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge at
chambers, an affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts
constituting the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or
arbitrators, or other judicial officers.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1211, subd. (a).) 

 
“Upon the answer and
evidence taken, the court or judge shall determine whether the person proceeded
against is guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that the
person is guilty of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on the person not
exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), payable to the court, or the person
may be imprisoned not exceeding five days, or both. In addition, a person who
is subject to a court order as a party to the action, or any agent of this
person, who is adjudged guilty of contempt for violating that court order may
be ordered to pay to the party initiating the contempt proceeding the
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs incurred by this party in connection with
the contempt proceeding.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1218, subd. (a).)  
 
“The judgment and orders
of the court or judge, made in cases of contempt, are final and conclusive.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1222.)  
 
“Where the primary object
of contempt proceedings is to protect the rights of litigants, the proceedings
are regarded as civil in character. On the other hand, where the object of the
proceedings is to vindicate the dignity or authority of the court, they are
regarded as criminal in character even though they arise from, or are ancillary
to, a civil action.”  (In re Nolan W.
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 1217, 1236.)  Thus,
“[c]ivil contempt is a forward-looking remedy imposed to coerce compliance with
a lawful order of the court.”  (Ibid.)  By contrast, “criminal contempt may be used
to punish past conduct in violation of a court order.”  (Id. at p. 1237.)
 
DISCUSSION

 
            The Court’s July 23, 2024 Order Appointing
Receiver provides, “Subject to the requirements in this Order, the Receiver
shall have the power to take all lawful actions necessary to seek and/or
effectuate the removal of any and all unauthorized occupants on the Property,
including, but not limited to, lawsuits to remove such occupants.”  (Minute Order, Jul. 23, 2024 at p. 4.)   The
Order further provides:
 
All Parties, and/or current owners or occupants of the Property, their
agents, servants, employees or representatives, or all persons or entities
acting under or in concert with them, now in possession of any part of the
Property and not holding under valid leases, or rental agreements, shall
forthwith surrender their possession thereof to said Receiver, and that all
tenants or lessees in possession of any part of the Property, and such other
persons or entities as may be lawfully in possession thereof, are hereby
directed to attorn as tenants, or lessees to said Receiver, and until further
order of this Court, to pay over to said Receiver all rents, issues, income
profits, revenues, and lease payments of the Property now due and unpaid or
that may be hereafter become due, and all persons and entities liable for such
rents, issues, income, profits, revenues, royalties or lease payments are
hereby enjoined and restrained from paying any rents, issues, income, profits,
revenues, royalties, storage unit rentals or lease payments for the Property to
any Party or owner of the Property, their agents, servants, or attorneys.  
 
Access:
 
All persons occupying the Property, including, without limitations, any
lawful tenant or otherwise, shall immediately provide Receiver and its
officers, employees and agents, access to the Property to enable them to view
and inspect Property for the purposes of appraisal, marketing and potential
sale.
 
[…]
 
            IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that
all Parties or owners or occupants of the Property, and their agents, employees
and representatives, and all persons or entities acting under or in concert
with them, are restrained and enjoined from engaging in or performing, directly
or indirectly, any or all of the following acts: 
 
            Committing or permitting any waste
on the Property or any act on the Property in violation of law or removing,
encumbering, or otherwise disposing of any of the fixtures on the Property;
 
            Demanding, collecting, receiving or
in any other way diverting or using any of the rents, issues, income, profits,
revenues, royalties or lease payments emanating from the Property;
 
            Interfering with or hindering in any
way whatsoever the Receiver in the performance of the Receiver’s duties herein
described and in the performance of any duties incident thereto;
 
            Interfering in any manner with the
Property, including their possession;
 
            Being on the Property or
communicating with any staff, vendors, employees etc. of the Receiver in
connection with the Property without the Receiver’s written consent, which
consent will not be unreasonably withheld after no less than twenty-four (24)
hours’ prior written notice to the Receiver;
 
            Transferring, conveying, assigning,
pledging, deeding, selling, renting, leasing, encumbering, changing ownership
of, vesting of title to, or otherwise disposing of the Property without a prior
order from this Court;
 
            Terminating or otherwise adversely
affecting any of the utilities which service the Property; and/or
 
            Doing any act that will impair the
preservation of the Property or Lender’s interest in the Property.
 
(Minute Order, July 23, 2024, at pp. 10-12.)
 
In support of Defendant’s request
for contempt, Defendant has provided the Declaration of Michael A. Abromson,
which provides:
 
6. Shortly after entry of the Order, the Receiver
signed the retainer agreement with my office in the form that this Court
approved in the process of the Receiver’s appointment, and I am therefore
currently employed by, and currently act as counsel for the Receiver for the
purposes set forth in the Order, i.e., to take any and all actions to remove
any and all unauthorized persons in possession of the Property.
 
7. Since my engagement as counsel, I have worked
with David Keiffer, the Receiver’s Senior Managing Director, and Justin
Picardi, the Receiver’s Associate Director, in connection with the Receiver
obtaining immediate turnover of the Property (as described in Pages 3 and 4 of
the Order). The Order directs the Receiver to take all lawful actions to remove
any and all unauthorized occupants on the Property; and provides powers for the
Receiver to access to the Property. 
 
8. To that end, the Receiver has undertaken
implementing the injunctive relief as set forth on Pages 9 through 12 of the
Order to aid in the conduct of the receivership. Specifically, for parties and
third parties with notice of the Order, it requires “immediate turnover of
possession of the Property to the Receiver,” to allow the Receiver’s
“inspection, appraisal, and marketing for potential sale.” See Order (Ex. 1),
Page 10, lines 14-25 & 27-28, and Page 11, line 1-2.
 
[…]
 
10. On July 30, 2024, the Receiver requested that
licensed process server “ASAP Legal” (“ASAP”) serve the Order (Ex. 1) and a
Notice of Inspection on any occupants of the Property (the “Notice of
Inspection”). A true and correct copy of the Notice of Inspection is attached
hereto as Exhibit 2.
 
11. On July 30, 2024, ASAP served the Order and
Notice of Inspection by posting at the Property. A true and correct copy of
ASAP’s proof of posting these documents is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.
 
12. Later that day, the Receiver and counsel for
Plaintiff received a letter from attorney Anthony Egbase, stating that his
office was retained by Kaysan Ghassemi-nejad, Behnam Ghassemi-nejad, and K3B
Enterprises, LLC (the “Occupants”). A true and correct copy of that letter is
attached as Exhibit 4. Attorney Egbase confirms in Paragraph 2 of
his letter (Ex. 4) that the Occupants did in fact “receive” the 24-hour Notice
of Receiver’s Intent to Enter and the Order, and he confirms that each of the
Occupants are “in possession” of the Property.
 
Meet & Confer with Occupants’ Counsel
to Obtain Access and Turnover of the Property is Unsuccessful.
 
13. On or about 5:30 p.m. on July 30, 2024, I
called Mr. Egbase and left a detailed voicemail requesting his and his clients’
cooperation with the Property inspection which was noticed by the Receiver for
the next morning, July 31, 2024. I embodied that voicemail in my
email sent to Mr. Egbase at approximately 6:14
p.m. A true and correct copy of that email is attached hereto as Exhibit
5. I stated that the Receiver sought compliance with the Order, specifically
turnover of the Property and immediate access thereto for purposes of
inspection. I
offered to coordinate a different date if July
31, 2024 was not available. I stated that, in any event, the inspection would
need to take place on or before August 2, 2024 (see Ex. 5).
 
14. At or about 9:30 a.m., on July 31, 2024, I
received a return call from the Occupants’ counsel, Mr. Egbase. I again advised
him that the Receiver would be at the Property at 10:00 a.m. that day, per the
Notice. I asked him whether his clients would cooperate and he responded that
he would call his clients to ask.
 
15. Approximately 15 minutes later, Mr. Egbase
called me back and said the Occupants would not permit access. I asked him for
an alternative date for inspection and turnover, and he did not respond. I
further asked him to identify who occupied the Property, whether there was any
lease to any occupant and whether the Property generated any income. He
responded that he did not know the names of the other parties occupying the
Property, but believed that they were “family members” of his clients, and that
none were paying any rent.
 
16. I then wrote Mr. Egbase an email confirming
our July 31, 2024 conversation. I attached another copy of the Receiver’s Order
to that email. Attached hereto as Exhibit 6 is a true and correct
copy of my July 31st email to Mr. Egbase. Attached as Exhibit 7 is a true and correct
Proof of Service reflecting the additional service of the Order upon the
Occupants.
 
17. In my July 31, 2024 email, I again reiterated
the Receiver’s requests for: (1) an insurance certificate; (2) identification
by name of all other occupants in the Property; and (3) a description of all
business-related activities taking place on the Property. 
 
18. Despite this detailed meet & confer,
I did not receive any further response from Mr. Egbase on July 31st or at any
time thereafter.
 
The Occupants Refuse Access to the Property.
 
19. As he noticed that he would do, the
Receiver’s representatives did in fact arrive at the Property at 10:00 a.m.,
July 31st, as per the Notice (Ex. 2). As set forth in the Picardi Decl., the
Receiver’s representatives attempted at that time to gain entry to the
Property, but the Occupants refused to allow access. Picardi Decl., ¶¶ 2-9.
This was despite the fact that the Receiver’s representatives saw a car parked
in the drive-way of the Property. Id., ¶ 6.
 
A Third Attempt to Obtain Agreement for
Access is Unsuccessful.
 
20. Having not received any response or any
alternative inspection dates from Occupants’ counsel on July 31 or August 1, I
wrote a third meet & confer email to Mr. Egbase, on August 2, 2024. A true
and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit 8. In that email,
I once again reiterated the Receiver’s requests for turnover of the Property,
insurance information, the names of all occupants, an immediate inspection
date, and other relevant information per the Order. I also highlighted the
Occupants’ refusal to permit the inspection and refusal to provide alternative
dates. 
 
21. I stated clearly that the deadline for
receipt of this information was the morning of Monday, August 5, 2024. That
date has come and gone without any response or inspection dates from the
Occupants or their counsel. 
 
22. Having received no cooperation (or even a
response), the Receiver understands that the Occupants are willfully refusing
to comply with the Order despite adequate notice and knowledge of their
obligations thereunder. 
 
23. Based upon the Occupants’ outright refusal to
comply with any of the terms of the Order, the Receiver requested that the
party which sought his appointment and issuance of the Order – defendant and
cross-complainant Sunset – seek enforcement of the Order by way of a contempt
action against the intransigent and uncooperative Occupants. This Declaration
(as well as the Picardi Decl.), are provided at Sunset’s request to facilitate
Sunset’s pursuit of appropriate relief to effectuate the purposes of the Order.
 
A Fourth Attempt to Identify the Occupants
is Unsuccessful.
 
24. I again wrote the occupant’s counsel on
August 7, 2024 demanding cooperation in identifying all occupants on the
Property. I also called Mr. Egbase and had a further meet and confer
conversation at noon on August 7th. I again asked Mr. Egbase to perform
whatever investigation was necessary in order to identify the occupants of the
Property. He stated it was “not his duty to investigate.” He further stated he
had transmitted my requests to his clients for response. I have not received
any response. 
 
25. I also pointed out there was evidence of
video streaming on the Property and “gaming” as noted in the Picardi Decl. 
 
26. I also sent Mr. Egbase a further fourth
demand to cooperate, investigate and provide the names of all occupants. A true
and correct copy of the email is attached hereto as Exhibit 9. In
that email I also demanded that any video streaming, gaming, and any other such
activities cease at once. I received no response to that email.
 
(Abramson
Decl. ¶¶ 6-8, 10-26.)
 
            Defendant has also provided the
declaration of Justin Picardi, the Associate Director of Stapelton Group, the
receiver, which provides:
 
3. As set forth in the Order, the Receiver is
charged with various critical duties with respect to the Property, including
the responsibility to take immediate possession, management, and control of the
Property. See Order, at page 3 lines 19-20. Additionally, the Receiver is
charged with collecting any and all income from the Property, taking proper
care of the Property, and the removal of all unauthorized occupants, and
ultimately marketing and sale of the Property. See id., Ex. 1, Order, page 3,
line 27 and page 4, lines 1-28.
 
4. To that end, the Receiver on July 30, 2024
employed a licensed process server to serve the Order and a Notice of
Inspection on the occupants of the Property. A copy of that Notice of
Inspection is attached to the Abramson Decl., as is the Proof of Service
thereon, as Ex. 3 thereto. The inspection was set for the next day, July 31,
2024. 
 
5. I arrived at the Property at approximately
10:00 a.m. on July 31, 2024, which was the time stated on the Notice of
Inspection. I was accompanied by my colleague, Mr. Chase Stroman, the Appraiser
Jonathan Goldrich, the listing broker, Ms. Ginger Glass, and her driver.
 
6. All parties mentioned above arrived to the
property in one car and I pressed the call button on the gate to ring any
occupants at the property. When we arrived there were several vehicles –
including two Mercedes Benzs, a Range Rover, and a Jeep Wrangler parked in the
driveway on the enclosed side of the gate. After about 5 minutes of ringing the
gate with no answer, I recorded myself making an announcement to the call box
(this recording may be made available to the Court for listening in the event that
the Court would find that helpful). I identified myself as an agent of the
Receiver and asked that the occupant respond and grant us access for the
appraisal. We had still not received a response so all of us got out of the car
and took a few pictures of the outside of the property and street while the
driver turned the car around. True and correct copies of those pictures are
attached as Exhibit A to this declaration. I then called my
supervisor, David Kieffer to see if we could get on the phone with the occupant’s
attorney. David Kieffer informed me that our attorney was on the phone with the
occupant’s attorney and that we would not be getting access. After about 25
minutes attempting to get access, I left a copy of the Order with my business
card in the mailbox, we all got back in the car and left the property (again,
without gaining any access or a response). 
 
7. After waiting 25 minutes, and after the
Receiver’s attorney spoke with the Occupants’ attorney, still, no access was
permitted. 
 
8. In order for the Receiver to comply with the
Order and properly care for, maintain, and ultimately market the Property,
there must be unimpeded access. The normal statutory procedure
under Civ. Code sec 1954 is to permit an owner to enter a dwelling unit in
order to make necessary repairs, exhibit Property to prospective purchasers,
workers or contractors. Indeed, Code Civ. P., § 1954(a)(4) specifically permits
entry “Pursuant to court order.” (Emphasis added.) 
 
9. For the occupants and their attorney to refuse
entry and to further refuse to provide alternative dates makes it impossible
for the Receiver to discharge his duties under the Order. Such refusal by the
occupants completely negates the entire purpose and effect of the Court’s
Order.
 
The Receiver is Not Receiving Any Income
From this High-Value, Luxury Property. 
 
10. Based on consultations with the broker and
rental comparison websites such as Redfin, Zillow, and Realtor.com, the
Receiver is informed and believes that current estimated monthly rental value
for the Property is at least $60,000. 
 
11. As stated in the Abramson Decl., the
Occupants’ own counsel will not confirm whether or not there are any leases for
any occupant of the Property, but despite knowing that action may be taken to
remove the Occupants, he has not come forward with any lease. There is also no
payment of any rent by any of the Occupants. Indeed, some of those Occupants’
identities are currently unknown and are being withheld from the Receiver and
his attorney. See Abramson Decl. 
 
12. Because the Receiver has a duty to sell the
Property, and cannot do so when the occupants block all access, the Receiver
requires immediate relief from the Court. The occupants must be ordered to
leave immediately and turn over possession per the Order. 
 
13. Alternatively, the occupants should be
ordered to post a bond to protect the Receiver for the amount of reasonable
monthly rental (at least $60,000 per month). 
 
Evidence of Unlicensed “Gaming” and Web
Streaming Activities on the Property. 
 
14. The Receiver has thoroughly researched the
occupant of the property, Kaysan Ghassemi-nejad, and determined that he is a
professional web streamer that goes by the name “FaZe Kaysan.” He is a part of
the professional esports and entertainment organization called “FaZe Clan.” I
have personally viewed Kaysan’s streams of himself playing video games, DJing,
and hanging out with friends on internet platforms such as Twitch, YouTube, and
Tik Tok. 
 
15. My search and review of Kayson’s Tik Tok and
Twitch accounts clearly show videos of Kaysan streaming himself and friends at
the Property playing video games, basketball, and performing loud DJ
music sets. In recent streams from the Property, Kaysan broadcasted that he was
being filmed on the Property for a documentary he is working on. This type of
activity (widespread public disclosure of his activities on the Property) is
potentially dangerous and could lead to liability for injury to persons or
property. It is completely incompatible with proper residential use of the
Property (which, even itself, would be unauthorized).
 
(Picardi
Decl. ¶¶ 3-15.)
 
            Thus, Defendant has provided
evidence that the Occupants continue to occupy the premises in violation of the
Court’s July 23, 2024 Order.
 
            The Occupants challenge that order and
seek to intervene in this matter on the grounds that they are the rightful
owners of the property, and the order appointing the receiver violated their
due process rights, as they were not named as parties to this litigation, and
were not given notice or an opportunity to be heard before the receiver was
appointed.  
 
            In support, the Occupants point to
Orange County case number 30-2023-01329501-CU-BC-CJC, where the Occupants
contend they have filed a cross-complaint against Sunwest Bank, Preferred
Mortgage Bank, Villa Villamar (loan broker), Defendant 9996 Sunset Loan
Acquisitions LLC; and Plaintiff 9996 Sunset Properties, LLC, alleging
violations of the Truth in Lending Act, fraud, and California’s Unfair
Competition Law, “arising form the wrongful classification of a consumer loan
as a business loan, fraudulent conduct, and failure to make required
disclosures” under the Truth in Lending Act.
 
            Defendant points out in opposition
that their counter-claims filed in the Orange County matter were filed after
the receiver was appointed in this matter.
 
            Plaintiff’s verified complaint in
this action provides:
 
2. In early 2019, Benham Ghasseminejad and his
son Kaysan Ghasseminjejad wanted to purchase the Sunset Property, a lavish
six-bedroom, 7,885-square-foot house for approximately $13 million. The
Ghasseminejads, however, lacked sufficient capital to achieve their goal, so
they sought and obtained financing from Defendant’s predecessor in interest,
Preferred Bank (“Preferred”). Upon information and belief, before Preferred
financed the Ghasseminejads’ purchase, Preferred required Kaysan Ghasseminjad
to form a limited liability company that would own the Sunset Property. At
Preferred’s instructions, Kaysan Ghassminejad formed the single purpose real
entity, K3B Enterprises, LLC, and elected himself as its sole member and
manager. With this new entity formed, Preferred structured two residential
loans, disguised as business purpose loans, to facilitate the Ghasseminejad’s
purchase of the Sunset Property. 
 
3. Preferred Bank made a $7,800,000 first loan
(“Preferred First Consumer Loan”) memorialized by a business loan agreement and
promissory note from Kaysan Ghasseminejad’s entities (“Preferred First Loan
Borrowers”): K3B, VIP Hospice Care, Millenium Hospice Care, Inc., Blue Heaven
Hospice & Palliative Care, Inc., and Toluca Hospice Care, Inc. Kaysan
Ghasseminejad guaranteed Preferred’s First Consumer Loan. K3B secured
Preferred’s First Consumer Loan with a Deed of Trust recorded on May 14, 2019,
with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Instrument Number 20190438998.

 
4. Preferred Bank made a $2,000,000 second loan
(“Preferred Second Consumer Loan”) memorialized by a business loan agreement
and promissory note from Kaysan Ghasseminejad’s entities (“Preferred Second
Loan Borrowers”): VIP Hospice Care, Millenium Hospice Care, Inc., Blue Heaven
Hospice & Palliative Care, Inc., Hollywood Health Services, Inc., Med Plus
Hospice Care, Inc., Toluca Hospice Care, Inc., and Relyable Hospice Care, Inc.
K3B and Kaysan Ghasseminejad guaranteed Preferred’s Second Consumer Loan. K3B secured
its guaranty obligations with a Deed of Trust dated recorded on May 16, 2019,
with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s Office as Instrument Number 20190450126.

 
5. Upon information and belief, neither the
Loans’ Borrowers nor the Loans’ Guarantors had any operating income to service
Preferred’s Consumer Loans. As such, the Sunset Property was Preferred Bank’s
primary repayment source for Preferred’s Consumers Loans. 
 
6. Two years after the Ghasseminejads obtained
the Preferred’s Consumer Loans, the Ghasseminejads sought financing to purchase
a commercial building located at 17835 Ventura Boulevard, Encino, CA 91316
(“Encino Property”). The Ghasseminejads formed another single-purpose real
estate entity, Encino Towers, LLC, and purchased the Encino Property. To
finance the purchase, Encino obtained two purchase money loans from 9996 Sunset
Properties’ predecessor in interest, Sunwest Bank. This action concerns
Sunwest’s second loan. 
 
7. Sunwest made a $4,939,000 short-term bridge
loan (“Sunwest Loan”) memorialized by another business loan agreement and
promissory note from Encino. To secure Sunwest’s Loan, Sunwest received a Deed
of Trust dated July 8, 2021, encumbering the Encino Property and recorded it on
August 31, 2021, as Instrument No. 20211333337. To further secure Sunwest’s
Loan, Sunwest received executed Commercial Guarantees from Millennium Hospice
Care, Inc., Toluca Hospice Care, Inc., Relyable Hospice Care, Inc., Merit Hospice
Care, Inc., Med Plus Hospice Care, Inc., Hollywood Health Services, Inc., Grove
Hospice Care, Inc., Golden Hills Healthcare Services, Inc., Especial Care Hospice,
Inc., Blue Heaven Hospice & Palliative Care Inc., AIM Hospice Care Inc.,
and Kaysan Ghasseminejad. 
 
8. On March 6, 2023, after Encino defaulted on
Sunwest’s Loan Documents, Sunwest and Encino entered into a Forbearance
Agreement. Among other inducements in the Forbearance Agreement, Encino Towers
agreed to deliver K3B’s executed Deed of Trust dated March 9, 2023, and
recorded on March 16 2023 as Instrument No. 202330169741 against the Sunset
Property. Encino also agreed to sell the real property securing its obligations
under Sunwest’s Loan and repay both loans by July 10, 2023. Encino breached the
Forbearance Agreement before July 10, 2023, prompting Sunwest to commence a
judicial foreclosure action and record Notices of Default against the Encino
and Sunset Properties. K3B also defaulted on Preferred’s Consumer Loan
Documents. 
 
9. Unable to repay Sunwest’s Loan or Preferred’s
Consumer Loans, K3B tried to delay Sunwest’s foreclosure with a frivolous
bankruptcy filing. On July 10, 2023, K3B filed a voluntary Chapter 11
bankruptcy petition to delay Sunwest’s foreclosure. The Bankruptcy Court
dismissed K3B’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy case on November 3, 2023, with a 180-day
refiling bar. 
 
10. Once K3B exited bankruptcy, Preferred sought
to exercise its rights and remedies under its Consumer Loan Documents. On
November 20, 2023, Preferred commenced its nonjudicial foreclosure proceeding
against the Sunset Property with a recorded Notice of Default under its second
priority Deed of Trust. Preferred later sold all of its interest in its First
and Second Loan Documents to Defendant, which took over Preferred’s nonjudicial
foreclosure. K3B tried to delay Defendant’s foreclosure with another frivolous
bankruptcy filing. On April 25, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court dismissed K3B’s
second bankruptcy case, clearing the way for Sunwest and Preferred to foreclose
on the Sunset Property. 
 
11. On May 2, 2024, Defendant recorded Notices of
Trustee Sale on its first and second Deeds of Trust with a trustee’s sale date
scheduled for May 29, 2024. The next day after Defendant recorded these
trustee’s sale notices, Sunwest assigned its interests in its first and second
Loan Documents to Plaintiff. Plaintiff commenced the first nonjudicial
foreclosure on the Sunset Property: it held a Trustee’s Sale on May 10, 2024,
and tentatively won with a $3,000,000 credit bid. This Trustee’s Sale will not
be finalized until June 24, 2024, under Civil Code section 2924m. Seeking to
protect Plaintiff’s interest in the Sunset Property, Plaintiff requested that
Defendant provide reinstatement amounts for Defendant’s Consumer Loans.
Defendant’s $2,234,891.65 reinstatement demand (“Reinstatement Amount”)
included: (1) $639,376.29 in default accrued interest on Defendant’s First
Consumer Loan; (2) $176,203.32 in default accrued interest on Defendant’s
Second Consumer Loan; (3) a $35,000 servicing fee; and (4) $33,903.74 in late
charges. Since Defendant issued its reinstatement demand, Plaintiffs and
Defendant have been embroiled in actual controversy over Defendant’s default
interest calculations in its reinstatement demand. Plaintiff asked Defendant to
briefly postpone its Trustee’s Sale so the parties could resolve Defendant’s
reinstatement demand, but Defendant refused. Defendant agreed to extend
Plaintiff’s reinstatement deadline under Civil Code section 2924c(e) to May 24,
2024. With less than five days left before Plaintiff’s reinstatement deadline
expires, Plaintiff brings this action against Defendant regarding two actual
controversies between the Parties.
 
(Verified Complaint, ¶¶ 2-11.)
 
            Thus, as a threshold matter, Occupants
Behnam Ghasseminejad and Kaysan Ghassemi-Najad never had a legal interest in
the subject property, only K3B Enterprises LLC did so.  The Occupants argue in reply that they have
an equitable interest in the property, by virtue of their roles as managing
members and beneficiaries of K3B Enterprises, LLC.  In support, the Occupants cite to
Corporations Code section “177701.”  No
such section of the Corporations Code exists. 
To the extent Occupants intended to cite to sections 17701 et seq.,
those sections encompass the entire Uniform Limited Liability Company Act and
simply outline the law governing limited liability companies generally.  Those sections do not provide that a managing
member of an LLC has an automatic equitable interest in real property owned by
the LLC by virtue of his status as managing member.
 
Further, K3B Enterprises LLC’s legal interest in the subject property
terminated in connection with the May 10, 2024 trustee’s sale.  Although finalization of that sale was
subject to the 45-day bidding period, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2924m, subd. (c)(4), that 45-day period concluded on June 24,
2024.  Occupants also reference their
right to rescission under 15 U.S.C. § 1635, but pursuant to subdivision (f) of
that section, the right of recission expires “three years after the date of consummation
of the transaction [secured by the property] or upon the sale of the property,
whichever occurs first[.]”  Here, the
property has already sold. Occupants further reference certain redemption
rights available under Code of Civil Procedure section 2924m for fifteen days
following the sale, but provide no evidence that they timely exercised those
redemption rights.
 
Ultimately, none of the moving Occupants have provided any evidence
that they offered a winning bid during that 45-day period, that they timely exercised
their right of redemption or rescission, or any other independent basis to
support their claim of an ownership interest in the subject property, other
than their contentions that the underlying loans were fraudulent and/or in
violation of TILA’s disclosure requirements. 
But because the property has apparently already been sold to Cross-Defendant
LACC 9996, LLC, and there is no evidence that the Occupants offered a winning
bid during the 45-day period or otherwise timely exercised any right to rescission
or redemption, at this point, the Occupants’ recourse, if any, would not
include the reversion of any interest in the subject property.  
 
In reply, Occupants emphasize that K3B still had a legal interest in
the property on May 21, 2024, when this case was filed, by virtue of the 45-day
bidding period.  However, Occupants
challenge the appointment of the receiver, which did not occur until July 23,
2024 – a month after the conclusion of that 45-day bidding period.  Thus, the Occupants have not established that
any of them still had any legal interest in the property at the time the
receiver was appointed.  Therefore, their
due process rights were not violated by virtue of not having received prior
notice of that hearing.
 
            Therefore, the Occupants have not
provided any evidence demonstrating they currently have or had at the time the
receiver was appointed, any ownership interest in the subject property to
warrant their intervention in this matter, the vacation of the order appointing
a receiver, or dismissal of this action. 

 
However, in light of the Occupants’ apparent good faith challenge to
the Court’s order, the Court will continue the Order to Show Cause re Contempt to
provide the Occupants another opportunity to comply with the Court’s July 23,
2024 Order appointing the Receiver, David Stapleton, by either vacating the
subject property or, at minimum, permitting the Receiver access to the subject
property to complete an inspection.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, for the foregoing reasons, the Court denies the Occupants’
motion to intervene, vacate order appointing receiver, and dismiss this action
in its entirety. 
 
Further, the Court continues the Order to Show Cause re Contempt to October
14, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  Defendant, and all parties who have joined
with Defendant, and Occupants may file supplemental papers in support of, or in
opposition to, the Order to Show Cause on or before October 7, 2024.  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling to all parties
including counsel for the Occupants, and file the notice with a proof of
service forthwith.  
 
 
 
 
DATED:  September 23, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court