 Case Number:  24SMCV02485    Hearing Date:   September 23, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  16, 2024, continued to September 23, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02485




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Service of Summons




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Lajos Gerbino and Edith Molnar




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Silver Block Holding Company, LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff Silver Block Holding Company, LLC
(“Plaintiff”) filed the unlawful detainer complaint against Defendants Lajos
Gerbino (“Gerbino”) and Edith Molnar (“Molnar”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff applied for an
order to serve the summons by posting, which was granted the same day.
 
The next day, on June 14, 2024, Defendants moved to quash service of
the summons and complaint.  
 
At the original hearing, the Court found Defendants’ proof of service
for the motion to be faulty and continued the hearing to September 23,
2024.  Subsequently, Defendants filed a
revised proof of service and a proof of service regarding notice of the
continued hearing, and on September 17, Plaintiff filed a written
opposition.  
 
Because this is an unlawful detainer action, Plaintiff may file and
serve a written opposition the day before the hearing or may make an opposition
orally at the time of the hearing. 
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1327(b)-(c).)
 
LEGAL
STANDARDS
            
A.    SERVICE
 
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or
within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and
file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him
or her.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10,
subd. (a)(1).)  
 
“In the absence of a voluntary
submission to the authority of the court, compliance with the statutes
governing service of process is essential to establish that court's personal
jurisdiction over a defendant. When a defendant challenges that jurisdiction by
bringing a motion to quash, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the
existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an
effective service.”  (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439–1440; accord Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th
1154, 1160 [“It was incumbent upon plaintiff, after the filing of defendant's
motion to quash, to present evidence discharging her burden to establish the
requisites of valid service on defendant”]; Summers v. McClanahan (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413 [“when a defendant challenges the court's personal
jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process ‘the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the
facts requisite to an effective service’ ”].)  
A declaration of service by a registered process server establishes a
presumption that the facts stated in the declaration are true. (Evid. Code, §
647; Rodriguez v. Cho (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.)
 
            “In
order to obtain in personam jurisdiction through any form of constructive
service there must be strict compliance with the requisite statutory
procedures.  (Zirbes v. Stratton
(1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1407, 1417, quoting Stamps v. Superior Court (1971)
14 Cal.App.3d 108, 110.)  
 
For service on persons within California, generally, service of
summons and complaint must be done by personal service.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)  However, “[i]f a copy of the summons and
complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the
person to be served,” a plaintiff may
serve an individual defendant “by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint
at the person's dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business,
or usual mailing address . . . , in the presence of a competent member of the
household or a person apparently in charge of his or her office, place of
business, or usual mailing address . . . , at least 18 years of age, who shall
be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and of the complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person
to be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were
left.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd.
(b).)  
 
Further, “A summons in an action for unlawful detainer of real
property may be served by posting if upon affidavit it appears to the
satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that the party to be
served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in any manner specified in
this article other than publication[.]” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.45, subd. (a).)  “The court shall order the summons to be
posted on the premises in a manner most likely to give actual notice to the
party to be served and direct that a copy of the summons and of the complaint
be forthwith mailed by certified mail to such party at his last known
address.”  (Id. at subd.
(b).)  Service is complete on the 10th
day after posting and mailing.  (Id.
at subd. (c).)
 
On June 13, 2024, Plaintiff applied for an order to serve Defendants
by publication.  That application
included a declaration of diligence, outlining several unsuccessful attempts to
personally serve Defendants with a copy of the summons and complaint.  Plaintiff’s application to post was granted
the same day.
 
The following day, June 14, Defendants filed the instant motion to
quash.  In support of the motion,
Plaintiff included the Declaration of Lajos Gerbino, which provides, “Plaintiff
has only left a copy of the first page of the Complaint with one person at the
premises.  Plaintiff has not even
attempted to serve the entire summons and complaint, nor has Plaintiff
completed substituted service.”  (Motion
at p. 3; Gerbino Decl. at lines 16-18.)
 
At the initial hearing, the Court found Defendants’ proof of service
for the motion faulty.  It indicates the
declarant, Chelsea Cooper served a copy of the notice of motion and motion to
Plaintiff’s counsel “AS FOLLOWS. I am “readily familiar” with the firm’s
practice of collection and processing correspondence for mailing.  Under that practice, it would be deposited
within U.S. Postal Service on that same day with postage thereon fully prepaid
at San Diego, California in the ordinary course of business.  I am aware that on motion of the party
served, service is presumed invalid if postal cancellation date of postage
meter date is more than one day after the date of deposit for mailing in
affidavit.”  
 
This does not indicate that the declarant actually left the notice of
motion and motion anywhere for mailing, or otherwise deposited it in the mail.  Further, declarant does not specify which
“firm” or “firm’s practice” the declarant refers to.
 
Following the hearing, Defendants filed a new proof of service, which
corrects the deficiencies identified by the Court above, indicating that the firm
in question is CQC Law, and that the declarant deposited the documents for
mailing in accordance with that firm’s mail process.  The revised proof of service indicates it was
executed on June 13, 2024, the same date the original proof of service was executed.  Defendants also filed a Notice of Change of
Hearing Date regarding the continued hearing date with proof of service
indicating the Notice of Change of Hearing Date was served on Plaintiff by mail
on July 26, 2024.
 
Plaintiff submitted a written opposition to the motion on September 17.  In support of the opposition, Plaintiff
included the Declaration of attorney Donna Vasseghi, which provides as follows:
 
9. I engaged the services of registered process server,
Rushrunners.com (Robles Attorney Services and Courier, LLC), to accomplish
formal service of the Summons and Complaint package. 
 
10. I was thereafter advised by registered process server, Remy
Robles, at Rushrunners.com, that Defendants were evading service, and I decided
to file an Application to Serve Summons by Posting, submitted to this Court on
May 31, 2024. Attached hereto and marked as Exhibits “A” and “B” are true and
correct copies of Declarations of Diligence from registered process server,
Manuel Gil, with Rushrunners.com, for Gerbino and Molnar respectively. 
 
11. I continued to make every attempt to serve Defendants by personal
service, and in early June 2024, Remy Robles of Rushrunners.com, stated to me
that their registered process servers, including the person who had made the
previous attempts, Mr. Manuel Gil, refused to return to the Premises, due to
fears for their safety, and as such, Rushsunners.com, would not make any
further attempts at service in this case, due to safety concerns. (When
Plaintiff had previously tried to serve defendants with a 3 Day Notice, Gerbino
threw a large hammer and broke a large glass window at Premises; defendants
subsequently drove a motorcycle into the common area courtyard, and placed it
in front of the lower level entrance to Premises, in order to block access for
service. (Exhibit “3” attached hereto is true and correct copy of photograph
that I took depicting the motorcycle, as well as the window smashed by the
hammer.) 
 
12. I continued attempts at personal service, and retained an attorney
with experience in handling these situations, Kathleen M. Neumann, in order to
accomplish service. 
 
13. On June 12, 2024, Gerbino was served personally, at the Premises,
by Kathleen M. Neumann. Exhibit “4” attached hereto is true and correct copy of
the Proof of Service, which has also been filed with this Court separately. 
 
14. On June 12, 2024, Molnar was served via substitute service by
Kathleen M. Neumann. Exhibit “5” attached hereto is true and correct copy of
the Proof of Service, which has also been filed with this Court separately. 
 
15. I personally witnessed and photographed the service of process by
Ms. Neumann, and the encounters with Defendants, including on June 12, 2024.
 
(Vasseghi
Decl. ¶¶ 9-15.)
 
 Thus, the attorney declaration
of Vasseghi provides specific detail regarding Defendants’ history of evading
service, including by aggressive and/or violent means.  Specifically, the original process server,
Rushrunners.com, refused to return to the premises due to fears for their
safety.  (Vasseghi Decl. ¶¶ 10-11.)  Vasseghi also declared that when Plaintiff
tried to serve Defendants with a 3 Day Notice, Defendant “Gerbino threw a large
hammer and broke a large glass window at the Premises” and “defendants
subsequently drove a motorcycle into the common area courtyard, and placed it
in front of the lower level entrance to the Premises, in order to block access
for service.”  (Vasseghi Decl. ¶ 11 and
Ex. 3.)  
 
Plaintiff subsequently hired a new process server, attorney Kathleen
M. Neumann, to continue attempting service (Vasseghi Decl. ¶ 12), while
simultaneously moving the Court for an order to post, which the Court granted
on July 13, 2024.  
 
Attached as Exhibits 4-5 to the Vasseghi Declaration are proofs of
service, indicating that attorney Kathleen M. Neumann served Defendant Lajos
Gerbino via personal service at the subject premises and Defendant Edith Molnar
via substitute service on cotenant, Defendant Lajos Gerbino on June 12, 2024 at
9:47 a.m.
 
Comparing the detailed attorney declarations of Vasseghi and Neuman
with Defendant Gerbino’s declaration, which simply indicates, “Plaintiff has
only left a copy of the first page of the Complaint with one person at the
premises.  Plaintiff has not even
attempted to serve the entire summons and complaint, nor has Plaintiff
completed substituted service[,]” combined with Defendant’s faulty proof of
service and the revised proof of service for the Motion, the Court finds Plaintiff’s
version of events more credible, and specifically finds that Defendants Gerbino
and Molnar were properly served with the summons and complaint via personal and
substituted service, respectively, by attorney Neumann on June 12, 2024 at 9:47
a.m.  
 
Equally important, Plaintiff filed the proofs of service regarding the
summons and complaint on September 17, 2024. 
The proofs of service indicate that Defendant Gerbino was personally
served with the summons and complaint on June 12, 2024, and Defendant Molnar
was served with the summons and complaint via substitute service on June 12,
2024.  Based upon the record, the Court
finds that Defendants have not rebutted the presumption that the facts stated in the proofs of service are
true.  In short, the Court does not find
Defendants to be credible concerning their contention that the summons and
complaint were not properly served.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Therefore, the Court denies
Defendants’ motion to quash in its entirety. 
Defendants shall file and serve a response to the complaint on or before
September 30, 2024.
 
            Further, on the Court’s own motion,
the Court vacates the Case Management Conference and sets a Trial Setting
Conference on October 7, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207.  All parties and their counsel of record shall
appear in person at the Trial Setting Conference.   
 
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling by personal service or overnight/express mail, and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  September 23, 2024                                               ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court