 Case Number:  23PSCV02093    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
the Second Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Second Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District
 
Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La Puente Unified
School District’s Petition for Order Granting
Retroactive Leave to Assert New Causes of Action for Negligence and Aiding and
Abetting Breach of Charitable Trust in Second Amended Complaint
 
Respondent:
NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Second Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Defendants HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation,
Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of
the Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED IN PART as to the Prayer for Attorney
Fees and DENIED IN PART on all other grounds.
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Second Amended Complaint is GRANTED IN PART as to the Prayer for Attorney Fees
and DENIED IN PART on all other grounds.
 
Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La Puente Unified
School District’s Petition for Order Granting
Retroactive Leave to Assert New Causes of Action for Negligence and Aiding and
Abetting Breach of Charitable Trust in Second Amended Complaint is DEEMED MOOT.
 
Defendants Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED
Foundation, SVG Training Foundation, Inc. and San Gabriel Career Foundation,
Inc. are ordered to file their Answer, as applicable, to the SAC’s remaining causes
of action for Fraud (4th Cause of Action), Common Counts (7th Cause
of Action), Unfair Business Practices (8th Cause of Action),
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage (9th
Cause of Action ), and Declaratory Relief (10th Case Of Action) in
ten (10) days. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action arising from alleged misappropriation of
non-profit funds. Defendant HLP ED Foundation (HLP ED) was a non-profit public
benefit corporation initially founded in August 2008. Its alleged purpose was
to provide scholarships for the students of Hacienda La Puente Unified School
District (HLPUSD) and fund special projects that enhanced students’ academic
and co-curricular activities. Since HLP ED’s founding, Defendant Cynthia
Parulan-Colfer served as a director. In 2016 and 2018, Parulan-Colfer and
another HLP ED board member allegedly used HLP ED’s funds to provide
scholarships for Parulan-Colfer’s children outside the normal scholarship
review process. In 2019, HLP ED’s funds were allegedly used for
Parulan-Colfer’s retirement party. And in July 2020, HLP ED’s funds were
allegedly used to pay Parulan-Colfer’s husband’s law firm for legal services.
 
In September 2020, HLP ED was dissolved and Parulan-Colfer
allegedly transferred its remaining funds to other non-profits founded by
Parulan-Colfer including Defendants SVG Training Foundation, Inc. (SVG Training
Foundation) and San Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc. (San Gabriel Career
Foundation). As a result, at least one of HLP ED’s scholarship recipients was
unable to cash a scholarship check.
 
On July 12, 2023, Anthony Duarte and HLPUSD filed a
complaint against Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, San Gabriel
Career Foundation, and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
breach of fiduciary obligations and duties, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach
of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (4) fraud, (5) conversion, (6)
breach of charitable trust, (7) money had and received, (8) unfair business
practices, (9) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage,
(10) declaratory relief, and (11) accounting.
 
On October 3, 2023, Duarte and HLPUSD filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action
with an additional twelfth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duties. On January 24, 2024, the Court
sustained demurrers to the FAC by HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, San Gabriel
Career Foundation, and Parulan-Colfer in part with leave to amend.
 
On
March 22, 2024, Duarte and HLPUSD filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC)
against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action with an
additional thirteenth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of
charitable trust and a fourteenth cause of action for negligence. They also
named Rob Bonta, the Attorney General of the State California, as an
indispensable party.
 
On April 26, 2024, HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, and San
Gabriel Career Foundation (collectively, Entity Defendants) filed their
demurrer. On the same day, Parulan-Colfer filed a demurrer and motion to strike
while the Entity Defendants filed a notice of joinder to Parulan-Colfer’s
demurrer and motion to strike. On April 29, 2024, the Entity Defendants filed
their motion to strike. Prior to filing on April 8, 2024, counsel for
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants telephonically met and conferred with
counsel for Duarte and HLPUSD and were unable to reach a resolution. (Brethen
Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
A hearing on the present motions is set for July 15, 2024, along
with a case management conference and Duarte and HLPUSD’s petition for
retroactive leave to amend.
 
DEMURRERS

Parulan-Colfer demurs to Duarte’s first cause
of action (breach of fiduciary obligations and duties), HLPUSD’s fifth cause of
action (conversion), HLPUSD’s sixth cause of action (breach of charitable
trust), Duarte and HLPUSD’s eleventh cause of action (accounting), HLPUSD’s
thirteenth cause of action (aiding and abetting breach of charitable trust), and
Duarte and HLPUSD’s fourteenth cause of action (negligence). In addition to the
causes of action demurred to by Parulan-Colfer, the Entity Defendants also
demur to HLPUSD’s second cause of action (breach of contract), HLPUSD’s third
cause of action (breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing), and Duarte
and HLPUSD’s twelfth cause of action (aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duties). 
 
For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS their demurrers in their entirety without leave to amend.
 
Legal Standard

A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept
all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
 
Breach of Fiduciary Duty (First Cause of
Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer argues Duarte’s first cause of
action for breach of fiduciary obligations and duties fails as a matter of law
because Parulan-Colfer did not owe any fiduciary duty to Duarte. HLP ED also
argues this cause of action fails as a matter of law because HLP ED did not owe
any fiduciary duty to Duarte and HLPUSD. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary
duty are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty,
and damages.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811,
820.)
 
Discussion
 
The SAC alleges HLP ED owed fiduciary duties
to HLPUSD, Duarte, and student beneficiaries from soliciting and accepting
charitable contributions. (FAC, ¶ 65-66.) The SAC also alleges Parulan-Colfer
owed similar fiduciary duties by acting as HLP ED’s agent. (FAC, ¶ 66.) Parulan-Colfer
argues Duarte lacks standing to assert breach of fiduciary duty claims because Duarte
does not have standing to enforce a charitable trust. (Parulan-Colfer Demurrer,
p. 2:13-3:17.) HLP ED makes the same argument with regard to both Duarte and
HLPUSD. (Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 5:10-19.)
 
Business and Professions Code section 17510.8
recognizes the existence of “a fiduciary relationship between a charity or any
person soliciting on behalf of a charity, and the person from whom a charitable
contribution is being solicited.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17510.8.) It also
recognizes that “[t]he acceptance of charitable contributions by a charity or
any person soliciting on behalf of a charity establishes a charitable trust and
a duty on the part of the charity and the person soliciting on behalf of the
charity to use those charitable contributions for the declared charitable
purposes for which they are sought.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17510.8.)
 
Here, as noted below, HLPUSD lacks standing
to sue for breach of charitable trust as they do not have any contractual
interest in HLP ED’s funds. As to Duarte, the court previously found Duarte
lacked standing to sue for breach of charitable trust. (1/24/2024 Ruling, p. 3.)
The court finds the SAC does not cure that deficiency. Instead, Duarte argues
that there is no current case law that indicates a lack of standing to sue for
breach of charitable trust precludes standing to sue for breach of fiduciary
duty. (Parulan-Colfer Opp., p. 9:17-20.) Even so, the standing requirements for
breach of charitable trust claims apply to any “action to enjoin, correct,
obtain damages for or to otherwise remedy a breach of a charitable trust.”
(Corp. Code, § 5142, subd. (a).) Because a breach of charitable trust
necessarily includes a breach of the fiduciary duties arising pursuant to that
trust, the court finds repackaging such claims as breach of fiduciary claims
does not allow Duarte or HLPUSD to avoid the standing requirements of
Corporation Code section 5142.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer by Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED to the first cause of action without
leave to amend.
 
Breach of Contract (Second Cause of
Action)
 
HLP ED contends HLPUSD’s second cause of
action for breach of contract fails because HLP ED’s articles of incorporation
do not constitute a contract. The court agrees HLPUSD’s second cause of action
fails because HLPUSD is not a third-party beneficiary of HLP ED’s articles of
incorporation.
 
Legal Standard
 
To state a cause of action for breach of
contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of
contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms
must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin,
Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances,
a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its
precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty
Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.) “[T]he vital elements of a cause
of action based on contract are mutual assent (usually accomplished through the
medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.” (Division of Labor
Law Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d
268, 275.)
 
Discussion
 
In previously sustaining HLP ED’s demurrer to
this cause of action, the court found HLP ED’s articles of incorporation did
not form a binding contract between HLP ED and HLPUSD. (1/24/2024 Ruling, p. 4.)
While HLPUSD also alleged HLP ED’s articles of incorporation formed a binding
contract between HLP ED and the state, HLPUSD failed to provide any legal
authority in support of this contention. (1/24/2024 Ruling, p. 4.) The SAC
repeats this allegation and provides citations to Trustees of Dartmouth
College v. Woodward (1819) 17 U.S. 518 (Dartmouth College), and Heller
Inv. Co. v. Southern Title & Trust Co. (1936) 17 Cal.App.2d 202, 211 (Heller).
(SAC, ¶ 74.) HLP ED contends these authorities are inapposite. (Entity Def.
Demurrer, p. 7:21-8:14.)  The court
addresses each case below.
 
In Dartmouth College, the U.S. Supreme
Court addressed whether a state legislature’s modifications to the charter of a
charitable corporation violated the constitutional prohibition on the
impairment of contracts. (Dartmouth College, supra, 17 U.S. at p.
624-626.) In answering in the affirmative, the Supreme Court held the charter
was “plainly a contract to which the donors, the trustees and the crown (to
whose rights and obligations New Hampshire succeeds) were the original parties.”
(Id., at p. 643-644.) In Heller, the court addressed whether the
legislature had the power “to change the contract of a stockholder with a
corporation.” (Heller, supra, 17 Cal.App.2d at p. 206.) While the
court’s opinion included block quotes from out-of-state cases that referenced Dartmouth
College and quoted another Supreme Court decision for the suggestion that
“[a] legislative grant to a corporation of special privileges, if not forbidden
by the constitution, may be a contract,” the court’s analysis was limited to
the legislature’s power to change a corporation’s structure. (Id., at p.
208, 210-212, quoting Attorney General v. Looker (1897) 111 Mich. 498,
505.)
 
The court notes, however, that neither Dartmouth
College nor Heller address whether a third-party has standing to sue
for breach of the contract between the corporation and the state as a
third-party beneficiary. And, HLPUSD failed to direct the court to a single
case in which a court has held so. Furthermore, even if the contractual
relationship between the state and a corporation could give rise to third-party
beneficiary standing, the court finds HLPUSD does not qualify as a third-party
beneficiary.
 
“A contract, made expressly for the benefit
of a third person, may be enforced by him at any time before the parties
thereto rescind it.” (Civ. Code, § 1559.) “A third party may qualify as a
beneficiary under a contract where the contracting parties must have intended
to benefit that third party and such intent appears on the terms of the
contract. [Citation.] However, it is well settled that Civil Code section 1559
excludes enforcement of a contract by persons who are only incidentally or
remotely benefited by it.” (Jones v. Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. (1994)
26 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1724.) This is because “[a] third party should not be
permitted to enforce covenants made not for his benefit, but rather for others.
He is not a contracting party; his right to performance is predicated on the
contracting parties’ intent to benefit him. [Citations.] As to any provision
made not for his benefit but for the benefit of the contracting parties or for
other third parties, he becomes an intermeddler.” (Murphy v. Allstate Ins.
Co. (1976) 17 Cal.3d 937, 944.)
 
Here, HLP ED’s articles of incorporation do
not specifically entitle HLPUSD to funds collected by HLP ED. Instead, the
articles merely state that such funds are to be disbursed “to the benefit” of
HLPUSD. (SAC, Ex. A, ¶ 2(II)(B).) And upon dissolution, HLP ED’s funds were to
be sent to another nonprofit fund, foundation, or corporation. (SAC, Ex. A, ¶
2(IV).) Because HLP ED’s articles of incorporation do not entitle HLPUSD to HLP
ED’s funds, HLP ED is not a third-party beneficiary. Instead, the court finds HLP
ED is an incidental beneficiary that received indirect benefits from HLP ED,
and therefore has no standing to sue HLP ED for breach of contract.
 
Accordingly, HLP ED’s demurrer to this cause
of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing (Third Cause of Action)
 
HLP ED maintains HLPUSD’s third cause of
action for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails because
the SAC does not establish the existence of a contract. (Entity Def. Demurrer,
p. 9:21-26; Entity Def. Reply, p. 8:20-23.) Since the court has previously
determined that HLPUSD cannot state a cause of action for breach of contract,
the court finds this cause of action also fails.
 
Accordingly, HLP ED’s demurrer to this cause
of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
Conversion (Fifth Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants
argue HLPUSD’s fifth cause of action for conversion fails because HLPUSD has no
ownership interest in the funds at issue. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.” (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.)
“Conversion is an intentional tort.” (Multani v. Knight (2018) 23
Cal.App.5th 837, 853.) “Because the act [of conversion] must be knowingly done,
‘neither negligence, active or passive, nor a breach of contract, even though
it result in injury to, or loss of, specific property, constitutes a
conversion.’” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991) 235
Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.)
 
“[C]ases recognizing claims for the conversion of money
‘typically involve those who have misappropriated, commingled, or misapplied
specific funds held for the benefit of others.’” (Voris v. Lampert (2019)
7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152, quoting PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink,
Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 396.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the SAC alleges HLPUSD had an
ownership interest in HLP ED’s funds which arose out of its status as a
third-party beneficiary of HLP ED’s articles of incorporation. (SAC, ¶ 92.) Since
the court rejected this argument above and found HLPUSD has no contractual
interest in HLP ED’s funds, HLPUSD cannot state a cause of action for
conversion.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED’s
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
Breach of Charitable Trust (Sixth Cause
of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED contend HLPUSD’s sixth
cause of action for breach of charitable trust fails because HLPUSD lacks
standing. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Corporations Code section 5142, subdivision
(a), an action for breach of charitable trust may be brought by “(1) [t]he
corporation, or a member in the name of the corporation pursuant to Section
5710[,] (2) [a]n officer of the corporation[,] (3) [a] director of the
corporation[,] (4) [a] person with a reversionary, contractual, or property
interest in the assets subject to such charitable trust,” or the attorney
general.”
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the SAC alleges HLPUSD’s
standing arises from its contractual interest in HLP ED’s assets as a
third-party beneficiary of HLPUSD’s articles of incorporation. (SAC, ¶ 97-98.)
Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED contend HLPUSD does not have a contractual interest
in HLP ED’s assets. (Parulan-Colfer Demurrer, p. 6:22-25; Entity Def. Demurrer,
p. 5:14-23.) As noted above, the court has found HLPUSD is a not a third-party
beneficiary of the contract between HLP ED and the state and thus has no
contractual interest in the disposition of HLP ED’s funds.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED’s
demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
Accounting (Eleventh Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants
maintain Duarte and HLPUSD’s eleventh cause of action for accounting fails because
they cannot establish some balance is due to them. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing
that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting. [Citations.] An action for accounting is not
available where the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a
sum that can be made certain by calculation.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Parulan-Colfer maintains Duarte
and HLPUSD cannot show some balance is due to them as HLP ED’s articles of
incorporation do not establish they are entitled to HLP ED’s funds.
(Parulan-Colfer Demurrer, p. 8:4-20.) The Entity Defendants maintain this cause
of action fails because they did not owe any fiduciary duty to Duarte and
HLPUSD. (Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 11:19-26.)
 
With regard to Duarte, the court agrees. In
the SAC, Duarte alleges a first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a
fourth cause of action for fraud, a seventh cause of action for common counts, an
eighth cause of action for unfair business practices, a tenth cause of action
for declaratory relief, a twelfth cause of action aiding and abetting breach of
fiduciary duties, and fourteenth cause of action for negligence. Following this
demurrer, only Duarte’s fourth, seventh, eighth, and tenth causes of action
remain. Since these causes of action are based on a specific sum that HLP ED
allegedly fraudulently induced, Duarte is not able to state a claim for
accounting. (SAC, ¶ 29.)
 
As to HLPUSD, HLPUSD can no longer show some
balance is due to HLPUSD as HLPUSD is not entitled to HLP ED’s funds and lacks
standing to contest HLP ED’s distribution of funds. 
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity
Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
 
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary
Duties (Twelfth Cause of Action)
 
The Entity Defendants argue Duarte and
HLPUSD’s twelfth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duties fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim because HLP ED was
legally obligated to transfer its property to the other Entity Defendants.
(Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 12:1-8.) The court finds this cause of action fails
for the reasons noted above since Duarte and HLPUSD cannot state a cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duties.
 
Accordingly, the Entity Defendants’ demurrer
to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Charitable
Trust (Thirteenth Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED contend HLPUSD’s thirteenth
cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of charitable trust fails for
the same reasons as HLPUSD’s cause of action for breach of charitable trust. (Parulan-Colfer
Demurrer, p. 9:6-7; Entity Def. Demurrer, p. 12:10-13.) The court agrees.
 
Accordingly, their demurrer to this cause of
action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend for the same reasons
noted above.
 
Negligence (Fourteenth Cause of Action)
 
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants maintain
Duarte and HLPUSD’s fourteenth cause of action for negligence fails because (1)
the Court did not permit Parulan-Colfer to be named as a party pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 425.15, subdivision (a), (2) the cause of action is
time-barred, and (3) the cause of action fails to allege sufficient facts to
state a claim.
 
As an initial matter, Duarte and HLPUSD did
not obtain leave to include this cause of action in the SAC when the Court
sustained the previous demurrers to the FAC with leave to amend. (See Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.) And even if
they did, this cause of action is barred as it is essentially an attempt to
restate and repackage the causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty and
breach of charitable trust. (See Tribeca Companies, LLC v. First American
Title Ins. Co. (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1114 [“[B]reach of fiduciary
duty can be based upon either negligence or fraud, depending on the
circumstances.”].)
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity
Defendants’ demurrers to this cause of action are SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
 
MOTIONS TO STRIKE

Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants move
to strike (1) punitive damages, (2) fiduciary duty allegations, (3) alter ego
allegations, (4) injunctive relief, (5) requests for attorneys’ fees, and (6)
references to irrelevant parties. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS their motion as to the request for attorney fees and DENIES it on all other grounds.
 
Legal Standard
 
Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own motion, the court
may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the
challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take
judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
An immaterial or irrelevant allegation includes “(1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense,”
“(2)¿An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3)¿A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)
 
Punitive
Damages
 
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants first argue there are insufficient allegations to
support the SAC’s request for punitive damages. The court disagrees.
 
Civil Code
section 3294 allows punitive damages when a plaintiff establishes by clear and
convincing evidence that a defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) For the purposes of determining punitive
damages, fraud is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) “In addition
to the requirement that the operative complaint set forth the elements as
stated in section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations showing
that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a
claim for punitive damages.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)
Furthermore, “[p]unitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, the court previously held that
Duarte and HLP ED have adequately alleged a cause of action for fraud against
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants. (1/24/2024 Ruling, p. 5.) Because
well-pled allegations of fraud are sufficient to support a request for punitive
damages, the court declines to strike punitive damages allegations from the
SAC.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity
Defendants’ motion to strike on this ground is DENIED.
 
Fiduciary Duty Allegations

Parulan-Colfer next contends the court should
strike the allegations that Parulan-Colfer owed a fiduciary duty to HLPUSD as a
former employee. The court disagrees.
 
The SAC alleges Duarte and HLPUSD were
entitled to rely on Parulan-Colfer’s fiduciary duties as “a former employee of
[HLPUSD].” (SAC, ¶ 52.) The SAC further alleges that HLPUSD expected
“Parulan-Colfer’s fiduciary duties as a former employee would be honored.” (SAC,
¶ 59.) Last, the SAC alleges Parulan-Colfer owed fiduciary duties as an
employee which included “the common law duty of loyalty owed by a former
employee with respect to engaging in unfair competition against a former
employer.” (SAC, ¶ 64.)
 
In interpreting and liberally construing
these allegations, the court finds they appear to denote Parulan-Colfer’s
current employment status as opposed to suggesting Parulan-Colfer still owes
fiduciary duties after the end of Parulan-Colfer’s employment. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 452 [“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.”].) 
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer’s motion to
strike on this ground is DENIED.
 
Alter Ego Allegations
 
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants
maintain the SAC’s alter ego allegations against them are insufficiently pled.
The court disagrees.
 
“Two requirements
must be met to invoke the alter ego doctrine: (1) ‘[T]here must be such a unity
of interest and ownership between¿the corporation and its equitable owner that
the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in
reality exist’; and (2) ‘there must be an¿inequitable result¿if the acts
in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.’” (Turman v.
Superior Court of Orange County (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 969, 980-981, quoting
Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.)
When making alter ego allegations, pleading with particularity is not required
as a Plaintiff need only allege “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236, quoting Burks
v. Poppy Construction Co. (1962) 57 Cal.2d 463, 474.)
 
In this case, the
SAC alleges there was a unity of interest between the Entity Defendants and
Parulan-Colfer that eliminated any separation between the entities and
Parulan-Colfer. (SAC, ¶ 54.) The SAC also alleges inequity would result if these
entities were treated as separate. (SAC, ¶ 55.) While Parulan-Colfer and the
Entity Defendants demand further specificity, the Court finds the SAC’s general
pleading of this requirements is sufficient to allege the Entity Defendants
were Parulan-Colfer’s alter ego.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity
Defendants’ motion to strike on this ground is DENIED.
 
Injunctive Relief and Attorney Fees

Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants
argue Duarte and HLPUSD are not entitled to attorney fees or injunctive relief.
 However, the court notes injunctive
relief is available for Duarte and HLPUSD’s eighth cause of action for unfair
business practices pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 17203.
 
As for attorneys’ fees, Duarte and HLPUSD
argue they are entitled to attorneys’ fees pursuant to Prentice v. North Am.
Title Guaranty Corp., Alameda Division (1963) 59 Cal.2d 618 (Prentice).
In that case, the court held a party may be entitled to attorney fees as form
of damages “where a defendant has wrongfully made it necessary for a plaintiff
to sue a third person.” (Id., at p. 621.) The court finds the Prentice
case is inapplicable here since Duarte and HLPUSD are not claiming attorney
fees as damages for a suit against a third party. Instead, Duarte and HLPUSD seek
attorneys’ fees from Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants who they allege
are alter egos of each other, and not third parties. Since Duarte and HLPUSD do
not identify any other ground for the award of attorneys’ fees, the court
strikes their request for attorneys’ fees without leave to amend.
 
Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED
as to the request for injunctive
relief and GRANTED as to the request for attorneys’ fees without
leave to amend.
 
References to Irrelevant Third Parties

Last, the Entity Defendants argue the Court
should strike all references regarding a recipient of HLP ED’s scholarship
funds, HLP ED’s hiring of a CPA, and other unnamed donors. But while these
allegations serve as the basis for Duarte and HLPUSD’s causes of action for breach
of fiduciary duty and breach of charitable trust, the Court finds they also
serve to provide support for Duarte and HLPUSD’s viable causes of action for
fraud, common counts, unfair business practices, and interference with prospective
economic advantage.
 
Accordingly, the Entity Defendants’ motion to
strike is DENIED as to these issues.
 
PETITION FOR RETROACTIVE LEAVE TO AMEND

Duarte and HLPUSD petition the court for
retroactive leave to amend their SAC with a thirteenth cause of action for
aiding and abetting breach of charitable trust and a fourteenth cause of action
for negligence. Because the court sustained the above demurrers to these causes
of action without leave to amend, the court deems this petition MOOT.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, the Entity Defendants and Parulan-Colfer’s demurrers to the SAC are SUSTAINED
without leave to amend in their entirety.
 
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants’ motions to strike are GRANTED IN PART as to the
SAC’s
prayer for attorney fees and DENIED IN PART on all other grounds.
 
Based on the analysis regarding the demurrer
by Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants, HLPUSD and Duarte’s petition for
retroactive leave to amend is DEEMED MOOT.
 
Defendants Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED
Foundation, SVG Training Foundation, Inc. and San Gabriel Career Foundation,
Inc. are ordered to file their Answer, as applicable, to the SAC’s remaining causes
of action for Fraud (4th Cause of Action), Common Counts (7th Cause
of Action), Unfair Business Practices (8th Cause of Action),
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage (9th
Cause of Action ), and Declaratory Relief (10th Case Of Action) in ten
(10) days.