 Case Number:  23BBCV01098    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 13,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION & PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01098

 



MP:  


Erika Gomez Sandoval
  & Francisco Salazar (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


American Honda Motor Company, Inc.
  (Honda)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Erika
Gomez Sandoval (Sandoval) and Francisco Salazar (Salazar) (collectively
Plaintiffs) bring this action against American Honda Motor Company, Inc.
(Honda). Plaintiffs allege that Honda sold them a defective 2019 Honda Odyssey
(Subject Vehicle) and thereafter refused to repurchase the vehicle in violation
of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
Before the Court is motion by Plaintiff to compel the
deposition of Honda’s Person Most Knowledgeable (PMK) as to a variety of
categories. Plaintiff argues that despite noticing the deposition and
attempting to meet and confer, Honda has not produced its PMK. Plaintiff also
moves to compel production as to the Request for Production of Documents (RFPD)
attached to its noticed deposition. Honda opposes, arguing that they timely
objected to a number of Plaintiffs’ deposition categories. Honda also argues
that the RFPD are duplicative of those which were the subject of a previous
Motion to Compel Further Responses upon which the Court has already ruled.
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
If, after
service of a deposition notice,  a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under C.C.P. §
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under C.C.P. § 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. (C.C.P.§ 2025.450(a).)
 
If the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In
that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of
its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent. (C.C.P.§ 2025.230.)
 
The
motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (C.C.P.§ 2025.450(b)(1).)
 
The
motion shall also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the
documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the
deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted
the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (C.C.P.§ 2025.450(b)(2).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline of Discovery 
 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiffs served upon Honda a deposition notice for its PMK
to take place on June 25, 2024. (Grigoryan Decl. ¶ 15, Exh. 1.) Plaintiffs
state that there were no objections to this notice from Honda but do not
explain if there were any meet and confer efforts that took place thereafter.
Regardless, it is clear that some communication took place as Plaintiffs
proceeded to issue an amended deposition notice. 
 
On April
18, 2024, Plaintiffs served upon Honda their amended deposition notice, to take
place on May 2, 2024. (Grigoryan Decl. ¶ 17, Exh. 2.) On May 22, 2024, Honda
served its objections to the amended deposition notice. (Grigoryan Decl.
¶ 18, Exh. 3.) Honda objected on grounds that the deposition was
unilaterally noticed, along with a variety of other objections to the requested
categories for the deposition. (Id.) The Court notes that, outside of
the objection based on unavailability, none of these objections pertain to an
error or irregularity in the deposition notice itself. Counsel for Honda states
that it reached out to Plaintiffs’ counsel to reschedule the deposition, given
the extreme backlog in PMK depositions related to Song Beverly cases. (Sloas
Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 6.) 
 
On
June 19, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel cancelled an inspection of the Subject
Vehicle which was to take place on June 20, 2024. (Sloas Decl. ¶ 9, Exh.
7.) Honda argues that because of this cancellation they were forced to cancel
the deposition of their PMK and assign a new corporate designee. (Id.) 
 
On
July 9, 2024, Plaintiffs served upon Honda their second amended deposition
notice. (Grigoryan Decl. ¶ 19, Exh. 4.) Plaintiffs also served a meet and
confer letter requesting Honda provide dates for the deposition by July 16,
2024. (Sloas Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. 9.) On July 18, 2024, Honda served its
objections to this notice, the content of which mirrors their objections to the
first amended deposition notice. (Grigoryan Decl. ¶ 20, Exh. 5.) 
 
On
July 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed and served the instant motion. (Sloas Decl.
¶ 14, Exh. 11.) Honda states that, on August 7, 2024, they emailed
Plaintiffs’ counsel and offered September 5, 2024 as an available deposition
date. (Sloas Decl. ¶ 15, Exh. 12.) 
 
Discussion 
 
The
Court first addresses the motion insofar as it concerns the deposition of
Honda’s PMK only. 
 
Plaintiffs’
motion is based on C.C.P. § 2025.450, which provides in relevant part:
"If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without
having served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, or to
proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document …, the party giving
the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document…." (C.C.P. §
2025.450(a).) Although C.C.P. § 2025.410(b) provides that any deposition taken after the
timely service of a valid objection cannot be used against the objecting party
if the party did not attend the deposition, such objections relate to an error
or irregularity in a deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2
(commencing with Section 2025.210). (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).) 
 
Here,
the objections raised by Honda did not pertain to any irregularity or error in
the deposition notice, so there is no reason to believe that Honda's service of
objections alone would have prevented Plaintiff from moving forward with the
deposition. Honda's objections were not based on any grounds provided under
Article 2, Chapter 9 of the Civil Discovery Act. Nor did Honda seek an order
quashing the deposition subpoena on the basis of these objections. (C.C.P. §
2025.410(c) ["In addition to serving this written objection, a party may
also move for an order staying the taking of the deposition and quashing the
deposition notice"].)
 
Honda’s
objections to the deposition of its PMK were instead based primarily on
unavailability. Not being available may
be a reason to not attend as a practical matter, but it is not a valid
objection under C.C.P. § 2025.410. That section refers to objections to “a
deposition notice that does not comply with Article 2 (commencing with section
2025.210),” not for other reasons a party cannot attend a deposition. Though it
may be a professional courtesy to mutually schedule a deposition, the Civil
Discovery Act does not require that. “An oral deposition shall be scheduled for
a date at least 10 days after service of the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. §
2025.270(a).) “The service of a deposition notice under Section 2025.240 is
effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action… to attend and
to testify, as well as to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying.” (C.C.P. §
2025.280(a).) The party serving the notice of deposition can choose the date so
long as it complies with these requirements and Plaintiffs did so here. 
 
As
concerns Honda’s objections to certain categories of the deposition, such
objections are not sufficient to forestall a noticed deposition. Despite Honda’s
posture on producing a PMK only as to selective categories, it is still bound
by the requirement of the Discovery Act to designate and produce at the
deposition "those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees,
or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters
to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the
deponent." (C.C.P. § 2025.230.) To the extent that Honda finds certain
categories objectionable on the grounds of relevance, it is entitled to object
to those questions at the deposition. After the
deposition, Plaintiffs may move to compel further deposition of Honda’s PMK as
to any categories on which the parties are unable to reach agreement. (C.C.P. §
2025.480.) 
 
The
Court further finds that Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts were sufficient as
concerns the deposition of Honda’s PMK. A motion under C.C.P. § 2025.450 must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating that the moving
party has made a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented in the motion, or, if the motion is based on the
deponent's failure to attend the deposition and to produce documents, it must
be accompanied by a declaration stating that the moving party has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (C.C.P. §§ 2025.450(b)(2),
2016.040.) 
 
Here
the Court is satisfied that Plaintiffs attempted to meet and confer regarding
the deposition of Honda’s PMK in good faith and received no timely response. Plaintiffs
accompanied their second amended deposition notice with a meet and confer
letter providing clear deadlines by which Honda could request alternative dates
for the noticed deposition. On July 18, 2024, two days after Plaintiffs’ July
16, 2024 response deadline, Honda served its objections. Honda’s suggestion for
alternative dates did not come about until August 7, 2024, well after
Plaintiffs served their motion. 
 
Given
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied the requirements
for compelling the deposition of Honda’s PMK under C.C.P. § 2025.410. Accordingly, the motion to compel deposition
is GRANTED. 
 
Notwithstanding
above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have not demonstrated good cause to
compel further production as to the document requests which accompanied their
deposition notices. Honda argues that the RFPD attached to the deposition
notice mirrors the RFPD Set Two which were already served upon Honda at large. Indeed,
the contents of these RFPD were the subject of a previous Motion to Compel
Further Responses, which the Court heard and ruled upon on June 7, 2024. Upon
review it appears that each of the requests attached to the deposition notice
also appear in RFPD Set Two. Plaintiffs provide no briefing as to why there is
good cause to compel further responses when the Court has already adjudicated
the matter in a previous motion. 
 
Given
the foregoing, the Court finds Plaintiffs have not satisfied the showing of
good cause required to compel further production in response to the RFPD
attached to their deposition notice. Accordingly, the motion to compel
production is DENIED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
“If
a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
Here,
the Court finds Honda substantially justified in opposing the motion. Although
Honda’s objections were clearly not within the bounds of C.C.P. § 2025.410,
their arguments regarding the RFPD were salient and persuasive. Accordingly,
the Court declines to grant sanctions. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Erika
Gomez Sandoval & Francisco Salazar’s
Motion to Compel Deposition came on regularly for
hearing on September 13, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION IS GRANTED. 
 
THE PARTIES SHALL CONDUCT THE DEPOSITION OF HONDA’S
PMK WITHIN 35 DAYS OF THIS ORDER AS TO ANY CATEGORIES ON WHICH THEY CAN REACH
AGREEMENT. 
 
PLAINTIFF MAY MOVE TO COMPEL FURTHER DEPOSITION
OF HONDA’S PMK AS TO ANY CATEGORIES ON WHICH THE PARTIES ARE UNABLE TO REACH
AGREEMENT. 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS IS
DENIED. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 