 Case Number:  23BBCV01126    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 13,
2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01126

 



MP:  


Sosy and Harout Sandaljian
  (Plaintiffs) 




RP:  


Vilma M. Baquir and Emiliano D.
  Baquir, Jr. (Defendants) [No Response]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Sosy and Harout Sandaljian (Plaintiffs)
bring this action against Vilma M. Baquir and Emiliano D. Baquir, Jr.
(Defendants). Plaintiffs allege that Defendants capped a drain pipe on Plaintiffs’
property which subsequently caused water to pool under their home. Plaintiffs
allege Defendants’ impeded access to the drain pipe. Plaintiffs allege a number
of damaging consequences resulted from the pooling of the water. 
 
Before the Court is a motion brought by
Plaintiffs to compel the deposition of Defendant Emiliano D. Baquir Jr. (Emiliano).
Defendants have rendered no opposition to this motion. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Failure to file an opposition to the motion indicates the other parties'
acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (C.C.P. § 2025.450(a).)
 
I.                   
MERITS 
 
As noted above, a failure to oppose a
motion is an indication that the motion has merit.  Here, Plaintiffs state that they unilaterally
noticed the deposition of Emiliano after their meet and confer attempts with
Defendants’ counsel were met with silence. Plaintiffs’ counsel sent several
emails to counsel soliciting deposition dates but received no response. (Euredjian
Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. 3.) On February 16, 2024, Plaintiffs noticed the
deposition of Emiliano for March 7, 2024. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 4.) 
 
On March 1, 2024, counsel for Defendants,
Joseph Kang (Kang), emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 8.)
This email purported to attach Emiliano’s objection to the noticed deposition,
but no attachments were present. (Id.) Eventually Plaintiff’ counsel
received the objections and began working with Kang to secure mutually
agreeable dates. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 9.) Throughout March 2024, Plaintiffs’
counsel contacted Kang several times via email, but received no response and were
given no deposition dates. (Id.) 
 
On April 29, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel
once again noticed the deposition of Emiliano, this time to occur on May 29,
2024. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. 6.) While Emiliano served a response to Request
for Production of Documents at Deposition, he served no objections to the
appearance. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 11, Exh. 9.) On May 29, 2024, neither Emiliano
nor his counsel appeared for the deposition. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 11.) Plaintiffs’
counsel reached out to Kang, who stated that he had confused this deposition
date for one in another case. (Id.) Despite contacting Kang’s
supervising attorney and several more attempts to schedule Emiliano’s
deposition, Plaintiffs received no proposed dates. (Euredjian Decl.
¶¶ 13-15.) 
 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiffs once again
noticed the deposition of Emiliano, this time for July 12, 2024. (Euredjian
Decl. ¶ 14.) On July 10, 2024, Kang emailed Plaintiffs’ counsel to inform
them that Defendants were unavailable as they were out of the country until
October 24, 2024. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. 10.)  Kang also informed that he was leaving the
firm. (Id.)  On July 11, 2024,
Plaintiff spoke again with Kang’s supervising attorney, who informed that
Emiliano would not attend the noticed deposition the following day. (Euredjian
Decl. ¶ 15, Exh. 12.) 
 
Given the foregoing, the Court finds
Plaintiffs have demonstrated that Emiliano failed to proceed with the duly
noticed deposition despite multiple attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’
counsel regarding the nonappearance. (C.C.P. § 2024.450(a), (b)(2).)
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ unopposed motion to compel the deposition of Emiliano
is GRANTED. The deposition shall take place within the next 30 days. 
 
Sanctions
 
If a motion to compel deposition is
granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who
noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel estimates that seven
hours were spent in attempting to conduct Plaintiffs’ deposition and preparing
this motion at the hourly rate of $495. (Euredjian Decl. ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs’
counsel further states that they incurred a $60 filing fee for this motion and $873.00
in court reporter fees for the July 12, 2024 non-appearance. (Euredjian Decl.
¶ 19.) As such, the Court awards sanctions in the amount of $4,398 ((7 x
495 = $3,465) + 60 + 873 = $4,398). This amount does not account for the time
estimated in preparing a reply as the motion was not opposed and no reply was
filed. Sanctions are awarded jointly and severally against his prior counsel
Joseph Kang and the law firm joint and several.. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Sosy and Harout
Sandaljian’s Motion to Compel the Deposition of Emiliano D. Baquir Jr. came on regularly for hearing on September 13, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT
EMILIANO D. BAQUIRJR. IS GRANTED. 
 
SANCTIONS
ARE AWARDED IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,000 AS AGAINST DEFENDANT EMILIANO D. BAQUIR AND HIS COUNSEL JOSEPH KANG AND HIS FIRM
THE LAW OFFICERS OF SCOTT STRATMAN, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 