 Case Number:  24NNCV00296    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 13,
2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24NNCV00296

 
MP:     Complete
Merchant Services, Inc. (Plaintiff)             
RP:     Signature
Payments, LLC (Defendant) 

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Complete Merchant Services, Inc.
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Signature
Payments, LLC (Defendant). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant improperly
transferred a merchant account, attributable to merchant Digica, Inc. (Digica).
Plaintiff argues that this transfer has resulted in Defendant’s refusal to pay
Plaintiff residuals owned under their agency contract. Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint (FAC) states causes of action for (1) Specific Performance,
(2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (4) Unjust Enrichment, (5) Conversion, (6) Common Count, (7) Violation
of Penal Code § 496, and (8) Unfair Competition. 
 
Defendant now demurs to each cause of action on grounds that Plaintiff
fails to allege sufficient facts. Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
request for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and the motion to
strike. Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Demurrer
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to C.C.P. §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the
grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, or that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible.
It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is a reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motion
to Strike 
 
Motions
to strike are used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not
challengeable by demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages.
(See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false
allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting
a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of
complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations
that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or supported by
an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court
may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”
(C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Pearson Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Facts 
 
Defendant is
alleged to run an Independent Sales Organization (ISO). (FAC ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff explains that the purpose of an ISO is to provide payment processing
services to various merchants through banks who are members of the ISO. (FAC
¶ 7.) Plaintiff serves as an independent contract agent for Defendant,
bringing potential merchants to Defendant’s ISO in exchange for some portion of
the processing fees the merchant generates. (FAC ¶¶ 8-9.) Plaintiff would
present the merchant’s application to Defendant and the revenue split would be
memorialized in a Sales Agent Agreement. (FAC ¶ 10.) 
 
On February 23,
2023, Plaintiff and Defendant entered into the Sale Agent Agreement
(hereinafter the Agreement) which is the subject of this action. (FAC
¶ 11.) On February 26, 2023, Plaintiff allegedly submitted to Defendant a
merchant processing application for Digica. (FAC ¶ 15.) Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant approved the application and opened a merchant account for
Digica under the Merchant Identification Number (MID) 9025742704076469.  (FAC ¶ 15.) 
 
On July 19,
2023, Plaintiff alleges it received an email from Defendant that Digica’s
account would be migrating to a new backend service provider and would be
assigned a new MID. (FAC ¶ 17.) As of August 30, 2023, Digica shifted all of
its processing to the new MID and ceased processing on the original MID that
had been opened for its account. (FAC ¶ 18.) Plaintiff alleges it has
received no residuals in connection with Digica after this switch occurred.
(FAC ¶ 19.) When Plaintiff requested clarification from Defendant, they
were told that the switch had resulted from an internal error. (FAC ¶ 23.)
Plaintiff thereafter demanded that the account be switched back, but Defendant
refused. (FAC ¶¶ 25, 26.) 
 
First COA –
Specific Performance – Sustained with Leave to Amend 
 
Plaintiff’s
first cause of action seeks specific performance of the Merchant Agreement
between Digica and Defendant (this contract is separate from the Agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant). Plaintiff concedes that Specific Performance
is not a separate cause of action in the State of California but asks that the
Court grant leave to amend so that they can properly allege specific
performance as an alternative remedy. Defendant argues that such an amendment
would be improper because Plaintiff seeks to enforce an agreement to which they
are not a party. 
 
“There are no
separate causes of action for specific performance or injunctive relief, which
are instead remedies.” (Green Valley Landowners Ass'n v. City of Vallejo
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 425, fn. 8, citing Wong v. Jing (2010) 189
Cal.App.4th 1354, 1360, fn. 2 [specific performance and injunctive relief are
equitable remedies and not causes of action for injuries].)
 
The Court notes
that the Merchant Agreement between Digica and Defendant is not attached to
Plaintiff’s Complaint. If a breach of contract claim “is based on
alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the
body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and
incorporated by reference.” (Harris v.
Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some
circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract
rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.)
 
As the Merchant
Agreement is not attached to the Complaint, any determination that Plaintiff is
a party to the Merchant Agreement, or an intended third-party beneficiary,
would be premature. Such determinations would necessarily require the
attachment of the Merchant Agreement.  
 
Accordingly, the
demur to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
Second COA-
Breach of Contract – Overruled 
 
To state a cause
of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the
existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
 
Defendant demurs
to this cause of action arguing that Plaintiff has not pled sufficient facts as
to the element of breach.  Defendant
argues that the Agreement between the parties pertains only to MID
9025742704076469. Defendant argues that Digica voluntarily chose to switch its
MID and service agent away from Plaintiff. Defendant thus argues that any
transactions occurring under the new MID are not subject to residual payments
under the Agreement with Plaintiff.  
 
The Court finds
Defendant’s arguments do not speak to the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s pleadings.
First, Defendant’s assertion that Digica voluntarily switched MID is a matter
entirely apart from the factual sufficiency of Plaintiff’s pleadings. This
argument speaks to a defense for breach of contract, not Plaintiff’s failure to
state one. Second, Defendant’s arguments necessarily implicate the issue of
contract interpretation, which is not resolvable upon demurrer. 
 
“Where
a complaint is based on a written contract which it sets out in full, a general
demurrer to the complaint admits not only the contents of the instrument but
also any pleaded meaning to which the instrument is reasonably susceptible.” (Aragon–Haas
v. Family Security Ins. Services, Inc. (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 232, 239.)
“[W]here an ambiguous contract is the basis of an action, it is proper, if not
essential, for a plaintiff to allege its own construction of the agreement. So
long as the pleading does not place a clearly erroneous construction upon the
provisions of the contract, in passing upon the sufficiency of the complaint,
we must accept as correct plaintiff's allegations as to the meaning of the
agreement.” (Id. [internal quotation marks omitted].)
 
Here,
Defendant’s argument is essentially that the Court should interpret Section 7
and Schedule A of the Agreement as limiting the payment of residuals to
transactions occurring under the original MID. For sake of clarity, Section
7(a) is reproduced below: 
 
The
Company shall pay to Agent an amount equal to (the “Revenue Share”) (1) the sum
of (i) the gross transactional revenue for the Services paid by the Merchant in
connection with those fees provided for in the “Buy Rates” section of Schedule
A, less (ii) all applicable returns and other credits, and less (iii) all
costs, fees and expenses, including but not limited to Card Association and
processing costs calculated pursuant to the Buy Rates, each as determined by
the Company in its sole discretion, multiplied by (2) the applicable “Revenue
Split” set forth in Schedule A. Upon 30-day’s notice to Agent, Company may
modify Schedule A, provided that, unless otherwise agreed upon by the Parties,
such changes will only apply to those Merchants approved following such notice.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Company may pass through increases to costs at
any time without notice. Company shall have the right, in accordance with
Section 13(e), to terminate all payments to Agent hereunder and at which point,
Company shall have no further obligation to make any such payments. Company
shall also have the right to cease making payments under this Section 7(a) when
the amount of such compensation would be less than $100 per month for three (3)
consecutive months. Furthermore, notwithstanding anything contained in this
Agreement to the contrary, Agent agrees and acknowledges that, with respect to
any given Merchant, Company shall be under no obligation to pay the Revenue
Share unless Company receives its corresponding income in connection with the
respective Merchant. In the event Agent is required to share revenue with any
third party, Agent understands and agrees all such revenue sharing obligations
shall be satisfied solely by Agent and that the Company shall not be required
to pay any amount to any third party pursuant to this Agreement.
 
(FAC Exh A, p.
27.)
 
Schedule A of
the Contract reads, in relevant part, as follows: 
 
The
following table sets forth the Revenue Split associated with the percentage
paid on the then current portfolio of Merchants for which Agent is entitled to
compensation pursuant to Section 7(a) of this Agreement (“Portfolio”)
 
(FAC Exh. A, p.
31.) 
 
The Court first
notes that nothing in the language of Section 7 references transactions
occurring under a specific MID. The Agreement simply entitles Plaintiff to
payment equal to the sum of the gross transactional revenue for services paid
pursuant to Schedule A. Schedule A in turn entitles Plaintiff to a revenue
split associated with the percentage paid on “the then current portfolio of
Merchants for which Agent is entitled to compensation…” Defendant interprets
the phrase “then current portfolio” to mean the MID initially associated with
Digica. Plaintiff argues the opposite, that the phrase entitles them to payment
on any transactions Defendant facilitates on behalf of Digica. 
 
As previously
stated, the merits of these interpretations are a matter not suitable for
resolution on demurrer. So long as Plaintiff’s presentation of its claim does
not present a clearly erroneous interpretation of the contract, its cause of
action should survive demurrer. The Court does not find Plaintiff’s
interpretation to be so erroneous. Nothing in the language of the Agreement
explicitly limits its terms to the initial MID number. Further, it would make
little sense for the Agreement to be so limited in the absence of language
stating that Digica could elect to switch its service agent at will. While this
interpretation may be proven in a subsequent dispositive motion, it is not
appropriately resolved in this demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Third COA –
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing – Overruled 
 
“A breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond
breach of the contractual duty itself and it has been held that bad faith
implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement
of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek
the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause
of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is
actually stated … [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id. at 1394-1395.) To recover in tort
for breach of the implied covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably
or without proper cause.” (Id. at
1395, [citations and italics omitted].)
 
Defendant argues
that this claim is merely duplicative of Plaintiff’s breach of contract action.
The Court finds this argument unpersuasive. Plaintiff alleges facts which speak
directly to Defendant’s alleged bad faith in handling the Agreement. Specifically,
Plaintiff alleges that after the breach, Defendant was made aware of the
improper transfer and admitted it was an error. (FAC ¶ 23.) Despite this,
Defendant is alleged to have completely refused to switch Digica’s account to
the prior MID. (FAC ¶ 25.) 
 
Further,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant has a track record of routinely inventing ways
in which they can deny paying out the merchants they service. (FAC ¶ 29.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant constructs arbitrary barriers to recovery by
merchants in hopes of divesting merchants of money they are rightfully owed. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant now seeks to employ the same tactics to
deprive Plaintiff of its rightfully earned residuals. (FAC ¶ 30.) While the
veracity of these claims is far from determined, the fact remains that
Plaintiff has pled conduct beyond breach of contract which can support this
cause of action.
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Fourth COA –
Unjust Enrichment – Sustained without Leave to Amend
 
Some California
courts have held that unjust enrichment is not a stand-alone cause of action,
but a principle underlying various legal doctrines and remedies. E.g., Hooked
Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc. (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 323, 336. Other
courts, including courts within the second appellate district, recognize unjust
enrichment as a cause of action with its own set of elements. E.g., Prof'l.
Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238.
 
Defendant
argues there is no separate cause of action for unjust enrichment. The Court
acknowledges some authorities support this position, but other binding
precedents upholds unjust enrichment as a separate cause of action. Because
there is a split in authority, the court follows the rule that most promotes
expedience and judicial efficiency and treats unjust enrichment as a valid,
separate cause of action.
 
Nevertheless,
the Court still finds the cause of action is subject to demurrer. “[A]s a
matter of law, a quasi-contract action for unjust enrichment does not lie
where, as here, express binding agreements exist and define the parties’
rights.” (California Medical Ass’n, Inc. v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of
California, Inc. (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 151, 172; see also Wal-Noon Corp.
v. Hill (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 605, 650) Here, the rights and obligations of
the parties are expressly governed by written agreement. Plaintiff has alleged
no obligation to Defendant which does not derive from the contract between
them. Nor does the Court see a way in which amendment could rectify this
deficiency. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
 
Fifth COA –
Conversion – Overruled 
 
“Conversion is
the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of
a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of
the property; (2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.” (Lee
v. Hanley (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)
 
Normally, money
cannot be converted. (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 1457, 1491.) But money can be the subject of a conversion action
when a specific sum capable of identification is involved. (See SP
Investment Fund I LLC v. Cattell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 898, 907.)
 
The simple
failure to pay money owed does not constitute conversion, otherwise the tort of
conversion would swallow the category of contract claims based on the “mere
contractual right of payment. (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141,
1151.) Cases recognizing claims for the conversion of money “typically involve
those who have misappropriated, commingled, or misapplied specific funds held
for the benefit of others.” (Id. at 1152.)
 
Here, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently stated a cause of action for conversion.
First, Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged a right
to funds converted is unpersuasive. Plaintiff has clearly alleged that they are
entitled to all residuals stemming from Defendant’s activity in processing
Digica’s payments. Second, while the Court agrees that the law does not permit
an action for conversion without a specified sum, it finds that such a sum has
been sufficiently alleged in the Complaint. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
has substantially interfered with its ownership of funds in a total of no less
than $993,272. (FAC ¶ 60.) This number is purportedly derived from Defendant’s
own statistics showing Digica’s continued processing of transactions and the
residuals associated. (FAC ¶ 61.) Taking the pleadings as true, as the Court
must do on Demurrer, it appears Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged a specified
sum such that they can state a claim for conversion. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Sixth COA –
Money Had and Received (Common Count) – Overruled 
 
The required
elements of a common count claim are “(1) the statement of indebtedness in a
certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and (3)
nonpayment. A cause of action for money had and received is stated if it is
alleged the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum for money
had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.” (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460 [citation and quotation marks omitted].)
 
Here, Defendant
argues that this cause of action is based on the same facts as the cause of
action for conversion, which is also subject to demurrer. (See McBride v.
Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th379, 394.) 
 
“When a common
count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a
specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the common count is
demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” (Berryman v. Merit
Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1560.) A common count
is proper notwithstanding that it relates to an original transaction involving
an express or implied contract. (Utility Audit Co. v. City of L.A.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 950, 958.) 
 
The Court having
found the demurer to cause of action for conversion is overruled, it follows
from the above authority that the demurrer to the cause of action for Common
Count is also overruled. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Seventh COA –
Violation of Penal Code § 496 – Overruled 
 
Penal Code § 496(a) provides in
relevant part: 
 
Every person who buys or
receives any property that has been stolen or that has been obtained in any
manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to be so stolen or
obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or
withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen
or obtained, shall be punished...
A principal in the
actual theft of the property may be convicted pursuant to this section.
However, no person may be convicted both pursuant to this section and of the
theft of the same property.
Penal Code § 496(c) provides: 
 
Any person who has
been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for
three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff,
costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.
 
Defendant first
argues that this cause of action is subject to demurrer because Plaintiff has
not alleged the theft of any property. This argument is predicated on the
success of Defendant’s argument as to the interpretation of the Agreement,
which as previously stated is not resolvable upon demurrer. 
 
Defendant also
argues that Plaintiff has not pled that Defendant possessed the requisite
intent to sustain this cause of action. Defendant cites to the recent
California Supreme Court decision in Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour,
which they argue stands for the idea that an action cannot be maintained under
Penal Code § 496(c) where a Plaintiff alleges only simple misrepresentation.
The Court finds this argument inconsistent with the Court’s understanding of the
holding in Siry. 
 
The court in Siry did
explain that not all consumer fraud or misrepresentations fall within the
purview Penal Code § 496. “To prove theft, a plaintiff must establish criminal
intent on the part of the defendant beyond mere proof of nonperformance or
actual falsity. If misrepresentations or unfulfilled promises are made
innocently or inadvertently, they can no more form the basis for a prosecution
for obtaining property by false pretenses than can an innocent breach of
contract.” (Siry Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13
Cal.5th 333, 362 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].) Siry
simply did not concern the sufficiency of pleadings. The Siry court reinforced
that a plaintiff must prove theft and intent to commit theft in order to
recover under the statute, but they did not opine on the circumstances under
which a plaintiff’s pleadings concerning theft and intent were sufficient. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged that
despite Defendant’s clear knowledge that the Digica account was mistakenly
transferred, it has continually refused to transfer the account back such that
Plaintiff can collect the residuals due under the agreement. Such allegations
are indicative of Defendant’s intent to deprive Plaintiff of money to which
they are entitled. Further, as previously discussed, Plaintiff has alleged that
this willful refusal to correct an alleged mistake is in fitting with
Defendant’s regular business conduct. 
 
The holding in Siry makes
clear that Plaintiff will eventually have to prove Defendant’s intent in
committing theft to succeed on his cause of action. This is an element which
separates the cause of action under 496(c) from those of fraud and conversion
such that the statutory cause of action is not duplicative. While Plaintiff may
ultimately be unable to prove the intent required to recover on this cause of
action, it does not follow that the cause of action is subject to demurrer. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to this
cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Eighth COA –
Unfair Competition – Overruled
 
“California Business and Professions
Code §§ 17000, et seq…states…that unfair competition shall mean and include
unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business practices…A plaintiff alleging unfair
business practices under these statutes must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 618-619.) The
Court notes that “[b]ecause Business and Professions Code section 17200 is
written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of unfair
competition-acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or fraudulent. An
act can be alleged to violate any or all of the three prongs of the
UCL-unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent.” (Berryman v. Merit Property
Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554 [internal quotation
marks and citation omitted].)
 
Defendant demurs
to this cause of action, arguing that Plaintiff has failed to allege any
activity of Defendant which is unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent. The Court finds
this argument unpersuasive. At the very least Plaintiff has alleged that
Defendant was engaged in the unfair practice of improperly transferring
Digica’s account to a different agent with the intent to deprive Plaintiff of
residuals due under the agreement. Defendant’s argument here mirrors its
argument as to the breach of contract argument. Defendant argues that because
it never refused to pay residuals on the original MID account, it never
deprived Plaintiff of anything. As previously discussed, this argument is
unresolvable upon demurrer as it necessarily implicates interpretation of a contract.

 
Accordingly, the
demur to this cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike

 
Defendant moves
to strike Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages. In ruling on a motion to
strike punitive damages, “judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a
motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute. (College Hosp., Inc. v.
Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) Per C.C.P. § 3294(a), a
plaintiff must allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice. 
 
Defendant argues
that breach of contract actions cannot be the basis of punitive damages. (See
C.C.P. § § 3294 (a) [“In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising
from contract…”].) Plaintiff counters that they only assert punitive damages in
connection with their fifth cause of action for Conversion. "There is no
question that punitive damages may be recovered in an action for
conversion." (Krusi v. Bear, Stearns & Co. (1983) 144 Cal. App.
3d 664, 678.)  The Court finds that
Plaintiff’s punitive damages claims are properly stated as concerns their cause
of action for Conversion. (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal. 5th 1141, 1151).
 
However,
although permitted, the Court finds the Complaint is insufficiently detailed as
to Defendant’s alleged malice. Punitive damages claims “must include specific
factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious . . . [p]unitive damages may not be pleaded
generally.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff
relies upon its allegations that Defendant purposefully refused to correct
their alleged mistake in transferring Digica’s account. Plaintiff’s only
allegations on this front are that Defendant stated the transfer was a mistake
and that Defendant has refused to rectify. While these allegations may be
sufficient to sustain a cause of action for conversion, they are far too
general to allege conduct that is “so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people.” (See Johnson & Johnson Talcum Powder Cases
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 292, 332, 333.) 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike
punitive damage is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend. 
 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records. 
 
ORDER
 
Signature
Payments, LLC’s Demurrer and Motion to
Strike came on regularly for hearing on September 13, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows:
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE SECOND, THIRD, FIFTH,
SIXTH, SEVENTH, AND EIGHTH CAUSES OF ACTION IS OVERRULED. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS GRANTED WITH 20 DAYS’
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, DEFENDANT TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  September
13, 2024                          _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 