 Case Number:  22AHCV00887    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 13,
2024 

MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22AHCV00887

 



MP:  


Bake Code 1001 Inc. and Sam Leung
  (Plaintiffs) 




RP:  


Amber Sun (Defendants) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Bake Code 1001 Inc.
(Bake Code) and Sam Leung (Leung) (collectively Plaintiffs) bring this action
against La Kaffa International Co. Ltd. (La Kaffa) and Henry Wang (Wang), as
well as several other parties. Wang is a resident of Taiwan where he operates
La Kaffa. Plaintiffs allege Wang and La Kaffa conspired with parties in the
U.S. to sell Leung a Bake Code franchise which did not exist with the promise
that Leung would receive an EB-5 Visa. Plaintiffs’ action seeks restitution for
the investment made into the nonexistent franchise. 
 
On January 26, 2024,
the Court granted a motion by La Kaffa and Wang to quash service of the
Complaint upon them. This was the second such motion. In making its ruling, the
Court found that Plaintiff could not demonstrate that La Kaffa and Wang were
subject to general or specific personal jurisdiction of this Court. Plaintiffs
made no attempt to appeal this ruling and did not move for reconsideration
thereafter. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion by Plaintiffs for leave to file a First Amended Complaint (FAC).
Plaintiffs argue that they should be allowed to amend so that they can convince
the Court of facts relating to personal jurisdiction over La Kaffa and Wang.
Defendant Amber Sun (Sun) opposes the motion.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A party
requesting leave to amend must submit a motion that includes: (1) a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, serially numbered to differentiate it
from previous pleadings; (2) a statement of which allegations would be deleted
by the amendment, and where they are located in the previous pleading; and (3)
a statement of what allegations would be added by the amendment, and where they
are located in the proposed pleading.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).)
The motion should also include a declaration stating: (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) why the request
was not made earlier.¿ (Id. at Rule 3.1324(b).)
 
A party
may amend its pleading once without leave of court at any time before an
answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed. C.C.P. § 472(a). After the
period for amending a pleading without leave of court has passed, the pleading
may be amended under C.C.P. § 473(a) and § 576.
 
The trial
court should permit a plaintiff to amend a pleading when doing so is in
furtherance of justice and in keeping with the fundamental policy that cases
should be decided on their merits.¿ (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America
(1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960, 956-966.) While the trial court may deny a motion for
leave to amend on grounds that, e.g., the party seeking the amendment has
caused unreasonable delay in doing so, it probably abuses its discretion if it
denies any such motion in the absence of a finding of prejudice to the opposing
side.¿ (See Thompson Pacific Construction, Inc. v. City of Sunnyvale
(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 525, 545.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
To begin, Plaintiffs’
motion is procedurally defective in several regards. Plaintiff states that they
did not include a list of proposed changes or a copy of the FAC because it was
“was unreadable due to the number of additions, deletions and amendments.”
(Mot. p. 9.) Noting that the readability of the FAC is a matter entirely within
the control of Plaintiff, the Court rejects this reasoning for omitting a
statutorily required attachment to this motion. Should Plaintiff find that 33
causes of action are necessary to maintaining this action, it is incumbent upon
them to present their pleadings in a readable manner. The Court will not permit
amendment on the vague representation that Plaintiff’s 11 new causes of action,
two new Plaintiffs, and 5 new Defendants are all proper. 
 
Further, CRC Rule 3.1324(b)
requires Plaintiffs to explain when the facts giving rise to the amendments
were discovered and why the request was not made earlier. Plaintiffs state that
“the primary purpose for the FAC and its Exhibits is to provide additional and
new facts and documents to persuade the court that it does have jurisdiction
over the Taiwan based defendants.” (Mot. p. 5.) The Court finds this statement
is insufficient to explain any of the facts behind the proposed amendments and
why the request was not brought earlier. Eight months have passed since the
Court’s ruling on the motion to quash and Plaintiff has provided no explanation
as to why they did not move to amend in that time. 
 
Additionally, the Court
finds that a Motion for Leave to Amend is likely an improper vehicle to address
Plaintiff’s concerns about the previous ruling regarding personal jurisdiction.
The motion to quash was not decided based on the pleadings, it was decided
based on the evidentiary showings made by both parties in connection with that
motion. When a defendant makes
a motion to quash, the burden is on the plaintiff to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction over
the defendant. (See Ziller Elecs. Lab. GmbH v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, at 1232-1233.) To state that the primary purpose of
this Motion for Leave to Amend is to convince the Court personal jurisdiction
exists is tantamount to reversing the ruling on the Motion to Quash without
having to engage in any of the usual procedures for doing so. 
 
For the above stated reasons, the Motion
for Leave to Amend is DENIED. 
 
ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: SANCTIONS FOR
FAILURE TO APPEAR
 
The Court has read and considered
defense counsel’s declaration and finds good cause for having missed the last
court hearing.   The Order to Show Cause
will be discharged, and Plaintiff’s counsel will be admonished to provide parties
timely notice of court dates when ordered to do so in the future.  The Court will decline to set an Order to
Show Cause for Sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel for untimely notice.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Bake Code 1001 Inc. and
Sam Leung’s Motion for Leave to Amend came on
regularly for hearing on September 13, 2024 with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND IS DENIED. 
 
OSC RE SANCTIONS AGAINST DEFENSE COUNSEL IS
DICHARGED.   PLAINTIFF’S COUNSEL IS
ADMONISHED TO PROVIDE TIMELY NOTICE OF FUTURE DATES WHEN ORDERED TO DO SO.
 
CASE MANAGEMENT AND TRIAL SETTING CONFERENCE IS
CONTINUED TO JANUARY 13, 2025 AT 9:00 AM.
 
OSC RE DISMISSAL OF UNSERVED DEFENDANTS SET FOR
JANUARY 13, 2025 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFF TO
GIVE NOTICE.   
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 13, 2024                          _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 