 Case Number:  24STCV08102    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 13,
2024

MOTION
TO UNSEAL THE RECORD

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24STCV08102

 



MP:  


First Amendment Coalition (Non-Party)
  




RP:  


John Doe and Jane Roe (Plaintiffs) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This
is an action for defamation brought by John Doe and Jane Roe (Plaintiffs) as
against Jenna Smith and Mother Smith (Defendants). Each of these parties is
currently proceeding in this action under pseudonyms. 
 
The
action stems from Defendants’ alleged accusation that John Doe sexually
assaulted Jenna Smith whilst they both attended high school. (Compl. ¶ 2.)
Plaintiffs allege that they and Jenna Smith were members of a “secret club” at
their high school. (Compl. ¶ 18.) Plaintiffs suggest that the impetus
behind Defendants’ allegedly defamatory statements is her jealousy of
Plaintiffs’ leadership status in that club. (Compl. ¶ 33.) Jenna Smith is
alleged to have told five other students of the club that John Doe sexually
assaulted her. (Compl. ¶¶ 35, 40, 62, 63.) Mother Smith is alleged to have
made the same representations to other parents whose children participated in
the club. (Compl. ¶ 39, 43.) Plaintiffs’ action seeks over five million
dollars in damages and an injunction restraining further speech by Defendants.
Plaintiffs also demand a public apology from Defendants. (Compl. ¶ 123.) 
 
Before
the Court is a motion by non-party First Amendment Coalition (First Amendment)
to unseal the record and compel Plaintiffs to disclose their true names. First
Amendment argues that Plaintiffs have not demonstrated an overriding privacy
interest such that the constitutional right of public access to the courts is
outweighed.  Defendants support First Amendment’s motion
and Plaintiffs oppose. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Under
California Rules of Court (CRC) Rule 2.550(c), unless confidentiality is
required by law, court records are presumed to be open. Subject to certain
exceptions, a court record must not be filed under seal without a court order.
(Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
471, 486.) A party requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a
motion or an application for an order sealing the record. (CRC Rule 2.551(b).)
The motion or application must be accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing. (Id.) 
 
In
order for records to be sealed, a trial court must hold a hearing and expressly
find that: 
 
(1)  
there exists an overriding interest supporting closure
and/or sealing; 
 
(2)  
there is a substantial probability that the interest will
be prejudiced absent closure and/or sealing; 
 
(3)  
the proposed closure and/or sealing is narrowly tailored to
serve the overriding interest; and 
 
(4)  
there is no less restrictive means of achieving the
overriding interest. 
 
(Universal
City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1279.) 
 
Since
court records are public records, the burden rests on the party seeking to deny
public access to those records to establish compelling reasons why and to what
extent these records should be made private. (Mary R. v. B. & R. Corp.
(1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 308, 317.)
 
A
party or member of the public may move, apply, or petition, or the court on its
own motion may move, to unseal a record. (CRC Rule 2.551(h)(2).) Notice of any
motion, application, or petition to unseal must be filed and served on all
parties in the case. (Id.) The motion, application, or petition and any
opposition, reply, and supporting documents must be filed in a public redacted
version and a sealed complete version if necessary to comply with CRC Rule
2.551(c). (Id.) 
 
In
determining whether to unseal a record, the court must consider the matters
addressed in CRC Rule 2.550(c)-(e). (CRC Rule 2.551(h)(4).) The order unsealing
a record must state whether the record is unsealed entirely or in part. (CRC
Rule 2.551(h)(5).) If the court's order unseals only part of the record or
unseals the record only as to certain persons, the order must specify the
particular records that are unsealed, the particular persons who may have
access to the record, or both. (Id.) If, in addition to the records in
the envelope, container, or secure electronic file, the court has previously
ordered the sealing order, the register of actions, or any other court records
relating to the case to be sealed, the unsealing order must state whether these
additional records are unsealed. (Id.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The
Court finds that the instant motion to unseal is premature. The documents were
not filed under seal, but rather Plaintiffs filed their Complaint anonymously.  The Court notes that Plaintiffs have not
adhered to the proper procedure for proceeding anonymously. Before a party can
proceed anonymously, they must move the Court for permission to do so.
This procedure is addressed in Department of Fair Employment and Housing v.
Superior Court of Santa Clara County (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 105 (hereinafter
DFEH). There the Court observed the following: 
 
Procedurally,
because a hearing is required, a party who wants to proceed anonymously will
file the initial complaint or petition conditionally under
a pseudonym and then move for an order granting permission to proceed that way.
If the request is granted, the initial pleading can remain. If pseudonym use is
denied, the pleading must be amended to state the party's true name.
 
(DFEH
supra, 82 Cal.App.5th at fn.1.) 
 
Here,
no motion was made to proceed anonymously, and no hearing was ever conducted on
Plaintiff’s right to do so. This procedural posture is important because it
places the burden on the party seeking to proceed anonymously to demonstrate an
overriding interest. Plaintiff’s failure to move for permission to proceed
anonymously has essentially improperly shifted this burden to First Amendment
and Defendants. Plaintiffs have never demonstrated to the Court that they can
overcome the presumption of openness provided by CRC Rule 2.550(c). 
 
Further,
the procedural posture of this case makes proceeding with an unsealing order an
uncertain prospect. As explained above, the Court has never ruled any
information or documents in this matter to be sealed. CRC Rule 2.551(h)(5)
requires an unsealing order to state which parts of the record are unsealed, a
requirement that cannot be met if the record is not sealed to begin with. In
short, the Court cannot unseal what has not been previously sealed. 
 
These
procedural concerns are compounded by the fact that both Plaintiffs and
Defendants have been named under pseudonyms. Ordinarily, Plaintiff is required
to demonstrate to the Court not only why the record should be private,
but also the extent to which it should remain private. (See Mary R.
supra 149 Cal.App.3d 308, 317.) Ruling on First Amendment’s motion would
result in a determination as to whether Plaintiffs could proceed anonymously
without ever addressing Defendants’ anonymity. It makes little sense to rule on
one without consideration of the other. Had Plaintiff complied with the
appropriate procedure, they would have been required to demonstrate the need
for total anonymity of all parties. 
 
Additionally,
the relevant California authority relied upon by both parties also becomes
substantially more difficult to apply when considering this procedural
distinction. DFEH is undoubtedly the most relevant case in the
determination of Plaintiffs’ ability to proceed anonymously, as evidenced by
the briefing of all parties to this motion. The Appellate Court decision in DFEH
relied upon the factual showings of necessity by the party seeking to remain
anonymous.  (See DFEH supra, at 112
[“A party seeking anonymity has the burden to show that geographically distant
family members are at risk. The trial court's task is to consider the evidence
produced on that point and assign it the appropriate weight.].) While
Plaintiffs present argument as to necessity in their opposition, this does not
equate to the demonstration of fact that would occur at a hearing required
under CRC Rule 2.551(b). Further, CRC Rule 2.551(b) requires that a party
seeking to proceed anonymously to submit both a memorandum and a declaration
containing facts sufficient to justify the sealing. Here, Plaintiffs have
presented no declaration to substantiate their claims of necessity. This leaves
the Court without any facts to consider in considering the necessity of
Plaintiffs’ anonymity. 
 
Given
the foregoing, the motion to unseal the record is DENIED without prejudice. The
Court is not opining whether Plaintiffs are allowed to proceed anonymously, as
that is not currently before the Court.  Should
Plaintiffs wish to proceed anonymously they must move for permission to do so
in accordance with CRC Rule 2.551(b). Plaintiffs are to file such a motion
within the next 60 days. Should Plaintiffs neglect to do so, the Court will
consider an order requiring them to refile the Complaint with their true names.

 
The
Court sets an OSC re: Proceeding Anonymously for November 15, 2024 at 10:30
a.m. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
First Amendment
Coalition’s Motion to Unseal the Record came on
regularly for hearing on September 13, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE
MOTION TO UNSEAL THE RECORD IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE. 
 
THE COURT
SETS AN OSC RE: PROCEEDING ANONYMOUSLY FOR
NOVEMBER 15, 2024 AT 10:30 A.M. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO PROVIDE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 