 Case Number:  23BBCV00117    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 13,
2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00117

 



MP:  


Jonathan
  Lee (Plaintiff)




RP:  


Zane
  and Gina Cazares (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Jonathan Lee
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Zane and Gina Cazares (Defendants).
Plaintiff alleges he was injured by virtue of Defendants’ negligent operation
of a motor vehicle. 
 
Before the Court are
two motions to compel further responses to discovery demands. These motions are
as follows: 
 
·        
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant Zane Cazares’ further
responses to his Form Interrogatories Set Two Nos. 16.2-16.6. Defendants oppose
and Plaintiff replies. 
 
·        
Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant Gina Cazares’ further
responses to his Form Interrogatories Set Two Nos. 16.2-16.6. Defendants oppose
and Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
On
receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that the
responses contain: (1) answers that are evasive or incomplete, (2)¿an
unwarranted or insufficiently specific exercise of an option to produce
documents in lieu of a substantive response, or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections.  (C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-21.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
On
April 12, 2024, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories Set Two on both
Defendants. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 1.) On May 10, 2024, Defendants counsel requested
a two-week extension to reply, which was granted. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 2.) On May
23, 2024, a second two-week extension was requested. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 3.)
Plaintiff granted a one-week extension, making responses due June 4, 2024.
(Aziev Decl. ¶ 3.) On June 4, 2024, Defendants served their responses
consisting of objections and yes/no answers only and did not identify any
facts, witnesses, or documents. (Aziev Decl. Exh. 3.) 
 
On
June 28, 2024, Plaintiff sent Defendants a meet and confer letter outlining the
perceived deficiencies in these responses. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff
thereafter granted Defendant an extension to July 12, 2024 to provide
supplemental responses. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 6.) On July 12, 2024, Defendants
sent a letter informing Plaintiff that they stood by their objections and would
not provide supplemental responses to the Form Interrogatories. (Aziev Decl.
¶ 7, Exh. 6.)  
 
Responses 
 
Each
of Defendants’ responses to Form Interrogatory Nos. 16.2-16.6 asserted
objections on grounds that each interrogatory: 
 
(1)  
is overbroad, unduly burdensome, or vague, 
(2)  
calls for liability/medical expert opinion, 
(3)  
violates the attorney/client privilege and/or attorney work
product privilege, and 
(4)  
requests premature disclosure of expert witnesses.
 
Discussion 
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause
for further production. Each of the Form Interrogatories in question ask
Defendants about their contentions regarding Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.
Defendants’ contentions regarding Plaintiff’s injuries are clearly relevant to
this action and Defendants do not contend otherwise. As such, the Court will
address Defendants’ objections to determine whether they have been justified. 
 
The
Court notes that despite stating objections on grounds that the requests are
overbroad, unduly burdensome, or vague, Defendants have not briefed these
objections in their opposition. Generally,
undue burden objections must be accompanied by a specific factual showing
setting forth the amount of work necessary to respond to the subject discovery.
(West Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court supra, 56 Cal.2d
at 417-418.) Here, Defendants have made no factual showing to this effect, nor
do the requests appear on their face to be overly broad. In fact, given that
these are Form Interrogatories approved by the Judicial Council, their being
overbroad/unduly burdensome appears highly unlikely. As such, the Court finds
these objections without merit. 
 
Defendants
similarly omit their objections based improper request for expert testimony.
The Court does not see any way in which these interrogatories elicit expert
testimony. Each interrogatory is confined to Defendants’ contentions and do not
seek the substance of any lay/expert witness testimony. As
such, the Court finds this objection without merit.
 
What
remains is Defendants objection on the grounds of attorney/client privilege
and/or attorney work product privilege. 
 
Each
interrogatory states that if Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s injuries do
not result from the underlying incident, Defendants should identify the facts
upon which they base this contention, the witnesses who have knowledge of those
facts, and any supporting documents. Defendants responses are bereft of any
such information, instead simply asserting “yes” and that discovery is ongoing.

 
The
Court finds Defendants’ vague assertion of attorney/client privilege and/or
attorney work product privilege renders their answers non-responsive. This is
because Defendants do not identify any information which is subject to that
privilege. The Court finds the ruling in Hernandez v. Superior Court
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 285 to be instructive. 
 
Hernandez concerned the
necessity of providing a privilege log when asserting attorney/client privilege
in response to interrogatories. The Court of Appeal reviewed the language of
the Civil Discovery Act and agreed that a privilege log “is unnecessary with
regard to answering interrogatories seeking the identification of documents.” (Hernandez
supra, 112 Cal.App.4th at 293.) At the same time, the Court of Appeal found
that the objecting party was still required to identify privileged documents
where the interrogatory asked them to do so. (Id.) The Hernandez court
held: 
 
In short, a responding
party may object to an interrogatory that seeks privileged information by
clearly stating the objection and the particular privilege invoked. But the
existence of a document containing privileged information is not privileged.
Interrogatories may be used to discover the existence of documents in the other
party's possession. If an interrogatory asks the responding party to identify a
document, an adequate response must include a description of the
document…[P]etitioners have no right to refuse to identify documents in
response to interrogatories, even if they may properly refuse to produce them
later, based upon a claim of privilege.
 
(Id.  at 294 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
Here,
Defendants have asserted the attorney/client privilege to each interrogatory
but neglected to identify any information which is subject to that privilege.
This is indicative of the fact that documents exist which are responsive to the
interrogatories, but Defendants are refusing to identify them. Hernandez makes
clear that such refusal is improper. As such, Defendants’ failure to identify
these documents in their responses to the Form Interrogatories renders those
responses incomplete within the meaning of C.C.P.
§¿2030.300(a). 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses of Zane and Gina Cazares to Form Interrogatories 16.2-16.6 is
GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions 
 
The Court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. § 2030.300 (d).) 
 
Here, the Court finds Defendants were without
substantial justification in opposing this motion. Defendants’ opposition omits
briefing on a number of their objections and fails to substantiate any basis
for not identifying documents subject to the privilege they claim. 
 
As such, the Court awards sanctions in the
amount of $1,710. This amount reflects seven and half hours of attorney work at
a rate of $275, plus the $60 filing fee. (Aziev Decl. ¶ 11.) Given the
virtually identical nature of the two motions, the Court finds this amount
reasonable to compensate Plaintiff in bringing the motion. Sanctions are
awarded as against Defendants counsel only. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Jonathan Lee’s Motions
to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for
hearing on September 13, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows:  
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES OF ZANE CAZARES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES NOS. 16.2-16.6 IS
GRANTED.
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES OF GINA CAZARES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES NOS. 16.2-16.6 IS
GRANTED.
 
FURTHER PRODUCTION TO
OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 
SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,710 AS AGAINST DEFENDANTS’ COUNSEL. 
 
SANCTIONS TO BE PAID
WITHIN 30 DAYS. 
 