  Case Number:  19BBCV00959    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
SEPTEMBER 13,
2024

MOTION
TO ENTER CONSENT JUDGMENT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 19BBCV00959

 



MP:  


Judah
  Friedman (Defendant/Cross-Complainant) 




RP:  


Miriel Thompson (Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant)
  [No Response]



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
On October 24, 2019, Miriel
Thompson (Thompson) filed suit against Judah Friedman (Friedman) for Friedman’s
alleged failure to repay loans Thompson made to him from 2015 to 2017. Friedman
in turn filed a Cross-Complaint against Thompon alleging, among other things,
defamation. 
On January 3, 2024, Friedman filed
a notice of settlement with the Court. At the January 4, 2024 final status
conference, Thompson confirmed with that settlement had been reached. The Court
then scheduled an OSC: Re Dismissal for January 29, 2024. This OSC was
continued to February 26, 2024 and then March 1, 2024 to allow the parties to finalize
the terms of the settlement. 
Thereafter, Friedman filed a motion
to enforce settlement. On May 6, 2024, the motion to enforce settlement came on
for hearing. During this hearing the parties stipulated to the terms of the
settlement as memorialized in the Court’s minute order. The Court also granted
each party’s oral motion to dismiss their respective cases with prejudice. The
Court’s minute order memorialized the parties’ agreement that the Court would
retain jurisdiction under C.C.P. § 664.6 to make orders to enforce any and all
terms of settlement. 
Before the Court is a motion made
by Friedman to “Enter Consent Judgment”. Thompson has filed no response. 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
664.6(a) provides: 
 
If
parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties
outside of the presence of the court or orally before the court, for settlement
of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may enter judgment
pursuant to the terms of the settlement. If requested by the parties, the court
may retain jurisdiction over the parties to enforce the settlement until
performance in full of the terms of the settlement.
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The Court is uncertain of
the grounds for Friedman’s motion. Pursuant to the oral stipulation of both
parties on May 6, 2024, this case has been dismissed. While the Court has
retained jurisdiction pursuant to C.C.P. § 664.6, Friedman does not allege that
Thompson has violated any terms of the settlement agreement such that entry of
judgment would be appropriate. Friedman merely avers that a Consent Judgment is
needed so that he may seek to vacate the permanent restraining order he holds
against Thompson. The Court is unaware of any requirement that judgment be
entered to obtain such a vacatur, nor has Friedman presented any. 
 
A confidential settlement
agreement has already been filed and executed by all parties and the Court.
(See May 21, 2024 Notice of Filing.) Friedman provides insufficient information
for the Court to determine what it is he is asking for in making this motion. Given
the foregoing, the Court is unclear as to the purpose of this motion. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to
Enter Consent Judgment is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Judah Friedman’s
Motion to Enter Consent Judgment came on regularly
for hearing on September 13, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the
minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO ENTER CONSENT JUDGMENT IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, FRIEDMAN TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
September 13, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 