  Case Number:  23STCV16078    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  34 Hector Gonzalez v. Ivan Alberto
Rodriguez, et al. (23STCV16078)
 
Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment Properties LLC,
and Filipe Rodriguez’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default is GRANTED. 
 
Background
On July 10, 2023,
Plaintiff Hector Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment Properties LLC, Filipe Rodriguez,
and First Choice Interlock, Inc. on causes of action arising from the parties’
business contracts and interactions.
On September 13, 2023, at
the request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office entered default on Defendant First
Choice Interlock, Inc.
On December 22, 2023,
Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment Properties LLC, and
Filipe Rodriguez filed their respective answers to Plaintiff’s complaint.
            On April 23, 2024, the court ordered
Plaintiff’s Request for Admissions served on Defendants Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment
Properties LLC, and Filipe Rodriguez to be deemed admitted. 
 
            On October 3, 2024, Defendants Ivan
Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment Properties LLC, and Filipe Rodriguez
(“Defendants”) filed this Motion to Set Aside court order dated April 23, 2024 deeming Plaintiff’s requests for
admissions admitted against Defendants. On October
15, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendants’ motion. As of October
22, 2024, no reply has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
The court has
broad discretion to relieve a party from an order taken against him or her due
to excusable neglect, but that discretion can be exercised only if the party
establishes a proper ground for relief, by the proper procedure and within
the set time limits. Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides, in relevant
part:
The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or
his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . No affidavit or declaration of
merits shall be required of the moving party. Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. . . .
 
            Section 473(b) provides for two
distinct types of relief. “Under the discretionary relief provision, on a
showing of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect,” the court
has discretion to allow relief from a “judgment, dismissal, order, or other
proceeding taken against” a party or his or her attorney. Under the mandatory
relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney declaration of
“mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,” the court shall vacate any
“resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.” (Leader v. Health
Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615–616.)
 
A party seeking relief under section 473(b) on the ground of
excusable neglect bears the burden of demonstrating that the neglect was
excusable in order to secure relief. (Cochran v. Linn (1984) 159
Cal.App.3d 245, 252.) Excusable neglect under section 473(b) is an act or
omission that might be expected of a reasonably prudent person under similar
circumstances. (Zamora v. Clayborn Contracting Group, Inc. (2002) 28
Cal.4th 249, 257-258; Renteria v. Juvenile Justice, Dep't of Corrections
& Rehabilitation (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 903, 910.) “The mislaying of
process, forgetfulness, or intentional disregard of service are not ‘mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect’ as those terms are used in section
473 of the Code of Civil Procedure...” (Price v. Hibbs (1964) 225
Cal.App.2d 209, 217 [citations omitted].)
 
Discussion
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
to Defendants’ evidence supporting their motion are overruled. 
 
Merits
 
Defendants
move the court to set aside its April 23, 2024 order deeming Plaintiff’s
requests for admissions admitted against Defendants under California Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b). (Motion, at p. 3.) Defendants argue that their
failure to respond to Plaintiff’s requests was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect. (Ibid.) Defendants
contend that their prior attorney Donald B. Serafano did not submit timely
responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests, did not oppose any of Plaintiff’s
discovery motions, and did not propound any discovery on Plaintiff. (Rodriguez
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.) Defendants argue that but for their prior attorney’s conduct,
Defendants would have served timely responses to Plaintiff’s requests for
admissions which were later deemed admitted by the court. (Id., ¶ 4.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ motion should be denied as it was
not brought within a reasonable time under California Code of Civil Procedure
section 473(b), does not attach a proposed code compliant response to
Plaintiff’s request for admissions, does not attach an attorney declaration,
and does not provide evidence of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. (Opp., at pp. 2-8.) 
 
As
of October 22, 2024, no reply has been filed. 
 
            The court grants the instant motion for discretionary
relief under California Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). Here,
Defendants filed their motion within six months of the court order at issue. As
Defendants seek discretionary relief under Section 473(b), no attorney
declaration was required. Defendant’s failure to attach proposed responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests can be remedied and will be discussed further at
hearing. Lastly, Defendants’ motion provides sufficient information for the
court to find that Defendants’ failure to respond to Plaintiff’s requests for
admissions was due to Defendants’ excusable neglect caused by their prior
attorney’s conduct. 
 
            The motion to
set aside the April 23, 2024 court order deeming Plaintiff’s requests for
admissions admitted against Defendants is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants
Ivan Alberto Rodriguez, Rodjach Investment Properties
LLC, and Filipe Rodriguez’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default is GRANTED. 