

Hearing Date:             September 26, 2024    
Case Name:                 Oscar Alvarado Ortiz v.
Architectural Surfaces, Inc., et al.
Case
No.:                    23STCV06568
Motion:                       Motion
to Compel Deposition of Person Most Knowledgeable
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Oscar
Alvarado Ortiz

Responding Party:      Unopposed 


 

Tentative
Ruling:      Plaintiff Oscar Alvarado
Ortiz’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Person Most Knowledgeable is granted.
 
                                    Request for
sanctions is reserved for hearing. 
 

 
On March 23, 2023, Plaintiff Oscar
Alvarado Ortiz (“Ortiz”) filed a personal injury action against Architectural
Surfaces, Inc. and 48 other defendants for alleged injuries resulting from
exposure to toxic silica, metals, and other fibrogenic substances in the scope
of his employment.  On April 22, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against more than 70 defendants for
(1) negligence, (2) products liability – failure to warn, (3) products
liability – design defect, (4) fraudulent concealment, and (5) breach of
implied warranties.  Several parties have
filed cross-complaints against Plaintiff.
 
On August 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant Stoneville USA, Inc.’s
Custodian of Records and Person Most Knowledgeable. The motion is unopposed. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure Section
2025.450, subdivision (a) provides that “[i]f, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action . . . without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it
. . . the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the
deponent's attendance and testimony . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450(a).) 
 
“Any party served with a deposition
notice . . . waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly serves
a written objection specifying that error or irregularity at least three
calendar days prior to the date for which the deposition is scheduled, on the
party seeking to take the deposition and any other attorney or party on whom
the deposition notice was served.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410.) 
 
A deposition notice may specify
“with reasonable particularity of any materials or category of materials,
including any electronically stored information, to be produced by the
deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.220(a)(4).) “If the deponent is a¿party, the
notice by itself¿compels production¿of the documents.” (Weil & Brown, Cal.
Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial (2022 ed.), §¿8:483.)  
 
Discussion
 
            Here,
Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant Stoneville USA, Inc.
(“Stoneville”) to produce its Custodian(s) of Records and Person(s) Most
Qualified for deposition, as well as documents requested in Plaintiff’s noticed
deposition. Plaintiff contends Stoneville was served on February 5, 2024 with a
Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendant’s Custodian(s) of Records and
Person(s) Most Qualified set for February 28, 2024. (Young Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.)
Plaintiffs also contends his counsel, Heather-Ann T. Young sent a letter to
Stoneville the same day stating she recognized the deposition date was
unilaterally set and asked for alternate dates if the noticed date did not work
for Stoneville. (Id. at ¶2, Ex, B.) Stoneville provided confirmed dates
for May 22, 2024; June 20, 2024; and August 7, 2024, which Plaintiff asserts were
accepted. (Id. at ¶¶6-13.) Moreover, Plaintiff contends after receiving
Stoneville’s July 29, 2024 letter stating unavailability for the August 7, 2024
rescheduled deposition, the parties exchanged multiple emails and phone calls
in an effort to meet and confer pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure Section
2025.450, subdivision (b)(2). (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff argues the deposition is
needed to gather evidence regarding product identification of the artificial
stone that Plaintiff cut during his employment. Specifically, Plaintiff assert
Stoneville sold artificial stone slabs to Plaintiff’s employer. Furthermore,
Stoneville has not filed an opposition suggesting it objects to the deposition
based on the topics to be covered or documents requested. The issue appears to
be scheduling of the actual deposition. 
 
            Thus, the
present motion is warranted. 
 
Request for Sanctions 
 
“If the party giving notice of a
deposition fails to attend or proceed with it, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
that party, or the attorney for that party, or both, and in favor of any party
attending in person or by attorney, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.430.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel,
Heather-Ann T. Young seeks $2,660.00 in sanctions at an hourly rate of $650.00
for (1) 3.0 hours of time drafting the motion and engaging in meet ad confer
efforts; (2) 1.0 hour preparing for and attending the hearing on this motion;
and (3) $60.00 filing fee for the motion. Although Defendant Stoneville has not
filed an opposition to show that substantial justification or other
circumstances makes imposing sanctions unjust or unwarranted at this time,
Young’s declaration indicates the issue of scheduling the deposition has been
due to Stoneville’s counsel having other depositions in other stone cases that
conflicted with the dates scheduled in this case; lack of attorney coverage for
those depositions; and Stoneville’s being out the country until the end of
September. (Young Decl., ¶¶10-11, 13.)
 
The Court reserves the issue of
sanctions for argument at the hearing. 
 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
Oscar Alvarado Ortiz’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant Stoneville USA,
Inc.’s Custodian of Records and Person Most Knowledgeable is granted. 
 
The Court intends to order the date
for Stoneville’s deposition at the hearing. 
The Court urges counsel to confer before the hearing to select a date,
time, and location for the deposition and production of documents. 