  Case Number:  23PSCV00989    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Gabriela  Moreno v. Executive Law Property Group LLC, et al. Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to  File First Amended Complaint to Amend Complaint the Cause of Action for General  Negligence  TENTATIVE RULING The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion  for leave to file First Amended Complaint.               Plaintiff  is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  this order.  BACKGROUND This is a premises liability  action. On April 5, 2023, Plaintiff Gabriela Moreno (Plaintiff) filed this  action against Defendants Executive Law Property Group LLC (Executive Law),  Mukhtair Kundi, M.D., The Neurology Group, Inc. (collectively, Defendants), and  Does 1 to 20, alleging causes of action for premises liability and general  negligence.  On October 12, 2023, Plaintiff  filed a motion for leave to file First Amended Complaint to amend complaint [sic] the cause of action for general negligence. The motion is unopposed.[1]  LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure section  473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,  and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or  proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a  mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,  upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,  after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an  amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like  terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  “This discretion should be  exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors  resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports  Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under Rule 3.1324,  subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a pleading  shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which  must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or  amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to  be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted  allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be  added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line  number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1324, subd. (a).)  Under Rule 3.1324, subdivision  (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate declaration must accompany the  motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment  is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended  allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment  was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b).)  DISCUSSION Plaintiff seeks leave to file a  First Amended Complaint (FAC) to amend the cause of action for general  negligence. Plaintiff seeks to do so on the grounds that she recently retained  new legal representation, who thereafter found the operative complaint to lack  sufficient detail describing the facts in support of Plaintiff’s general  negligence claim and premises liability claim. Plaintiff contends the amendment  is necessary and proper to address this issue, that the amendment was not made  earlier since Plaintiff’s new counsel was just retained on September 6, 2023,  that the factual allegations are meritorious, and that granting the motion will  be in the interests of justice. Plaintiff further contends there is ample legal  authority for adding these allegations. The Court agrees.  Leave to amend is liberally  granted. (Kittredge Sports Co, supra, 213 Cal.App.3d at p. 1047.) This  action was only filed approximately six months ago and Plaintiff’s new counsel  was retained just a couple months ago. The Court finds no prejudice in  permitting amendment at this stage of the litigation, especially in light of  Defendants’ lack of opposition to this motion for leave to amend. (Holden v. City of San  Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418;  C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before  Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)  The Court does note that Plaintiff’s  motion does not specifically identify by page, line, and paragraph number the  allegations proposed to be deleted or added, (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,  subdivision (a)), but since the pleadings are Judicial Council forms, this is  not as much of a concern here. The Court nevertheless admonishes Plaintiff to  comply with the requirements of the California Rules of Court going forward.  The Court otherwise finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements of Rule  3.1324 of the California Rules of Court.               Based  on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a First  Amended Complaint.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s  motion for leave to file First Amended Complaint.               Plaintiff  is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of  this order.     