 Case Number:  23PSCV02976    Hearing Date:   June 3, 2024    Dept:  K Defendants
Guilmer’s Trucking’s and Efrain Ramos Leon’s Motion to Strike Portions of
Plaintiffs’ Complaint is DENIED.
Background[1]  
Plaintiffs Oscar Espinoza (“Oscar”)
and Carter Espinoza, a minor, by and through Oscar Espinoza, Guardian Ad Litem (“Carter”)
(together, “Plaintiffs”) sustained injuries in a January 19, 2022 motor vehicle
collision on the I-210 westbound near Grand Avenue in Glendora.
On September 26, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of action against Guilmer’s
Trucking Inc. “Guilmer’s”), Efrain Ramos Leon (“Leon”) and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Motor Vehicle
2.                 
General Negligence
3.                 
Intentional Tort
4.                 
General Negligence
A Case Management Conference is
set for June 3, 2024.
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Guilmer’s and Leon move the court for an order striking out
the following portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint:
1.                 
Page 7, Lines 2-3 (i.e., “Leon fled the scene of the
collision with a conscious and reckless disregard for the rights and safety of
Mr. Espinoza and his son, Carter”);
2.                 
Page 7, Lines 3-4 (i.e., Mr. Leon knowingly fled the
scene of the violent collision”);
3.                 
Page 7, Lines 17-21 (i.e., “Leon acted with malice,
which conduct was despicable and was undertaken with a willful and knowing
disregard of the rights or safety of Plaintiffs. Leon was aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his conduct and yet he deliberately failed to avoid
those consequences. Leon’s conduct was so vile, base, and/or contemptible that
it would be looked down on and despised by reasonable people”);
4.                 
Page 8, Lines 4-7 (i.e., “an officer, director, or
managing agent of Guilmer s Trucking had advanced knowledge of the unfitness of
Leon and employed him with a knowing disregard of the rights or safety of
others”);
5.                 
Page 8, Lines 7-11 (i.e., an officer, a director, or a
managing agent of Guilmer s Trucking knew of Leon’s wrongful conduct and
adopted or approved the conduct after it occurred”); 
6.                 
Page 10 (i.e., the words “Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress”); 
7.                 
Page 10, (i.e., the words “Defendants’ conduct was
outrageous”);
8.                 
Page 10 (i.e., the word, “Defendants intended to cause
Plaintiffs emotion distress, and/or Defendants acted with reckless disregard of
the probability that Plaintiff would suffer emotion distress, knowing that
Plaintiffs were present when the conduct occurred”); and 
9.                 
Page 3, paragraph 14 (i.e., “punitive damages” and
“according to proof”). 
Untimely Filing
At the outset, Plaintiffs assert that the court should summarily deny the
instant motion on the basis of untimeliness. Plaintiffs have not articulated
any prejudice they have suffered as a consequence. Further, Defendants
represent that “[c]ounsel for Defendants met and conferred with Counsel
for Plaintiffs and reviewed potential settlement of the lawsuit with insurance
carrier for Defendants prior to determining the Motion to Strike was necessary.”
(Reply, 2:4-6). The court elects to
entertain the motion on the merits.
Merits
Punitive damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).)
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts
must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.)
Here, Plaintiffs have alleged that on January 19, 2022 Oscar was driving
westbound in the HOV lane on the I-210 in Glendora at approximately 45-50 miles
per hour with Carter in the vehicle (Complaint, p. 5, ¶ GN-1); that at the same
time, Leon was driving one lane to the right of Plaintiffs’ vehicle when he
“suddenly, and without warning” swerved his vehicle to the left side of the HOV
lane causing a “violent collision” with the right side of Plaintiffs’ vehicle (Id.);
that, after the collision, Leon’s vehicle pinned Plaintiffs’ vehicle against
the median concrete barrier, resulting in a second collision to Plaintiffs’
vehicle (Id.); that Leon did not stop but kept driving after the
collision (Id., p. 7, ¶ 2); that Oscar pursued Leon approximately 8.5
miles until he finally compelled Leon to pull over (Id.); that
during this time Oscar followed Leon's vehicle and called the police to get
Leon to pull over (Id.); that, also during this time, while Oscar was
honking at Leon, attempting to get him to pull over, the passenger of Leon’s
vehicle was flipping off and being visibly aggressive with Plaintiffs (Id.);
and that approximately 8.5 miles west of the initial collision, Oscar was able
to get Leon to pull his vehicle over to the right hand shoulder of the freeway
(Id., ¶ 3).
Defendants’ argument
that Leon did not stop because he was not aware the accident occurred is beyond
the face of the complaint and is thus not considered.
Plaintiffs have also alleged that Leon “was an officer, a
director, or a managing agent” and “was at all times relevant herein acting on
behalf of” Guilmer’s. (Id., p. 8, ¶ 5).
The motion is
denied.


