 Case Number:  23AHCV01338    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



INCENTAX, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MARTINI
   AKPOVI PARTNERS, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01338
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

November
   15, 2023




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On June 12,
 2023, this action was filed by Incentax,
 LLC (“Plaintiff”) against Martini
 Akpovi Partners, LLP (“Martini LLP”), Christopher Passmore (“Passmore”), Steve
 Martini (“Martini”), and Withum Smith + Brown, PC (“Withum”). Plaintiff
asserts causes of action for: (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) aiding and
 abetting breach of fiduciary duty, (3) breach of contract, (4) breach of
 implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (5) intentional interference
 with contractual relations (6) unjust enrichment, (7) gross negligence, (8)
 intentional interference with prospective economic relationships. (9)
 negligent interference with prospective economic relationships. 
Plaintiff alleges that it formed a
joint venture with Martini LLP, Passmore, and Steve Martini to provide tax
incentive services through a limited liability company, MAP Tax Credits, LLC
(“MTC”). Plaintiff alleges that Passmore, Martini, and Martini LLP used the
success of MTC to sell Martini LLP to Withum, which sale effectively shut down
the joint venture. 
On
August
 14, 2023, Martini LLP, Passmore, and Martini (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this motion to compel arbitration and stay action. 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief and objection on November
 1, 2023. 
Defendants
filed a reply brief on November 7, 2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking
arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the petition
bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact, weighing
all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether parties
have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn.
v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236; see
also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th
943, 947.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Validity
and Scope of the Arbitration Agreement 
“The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.” (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 581, 586.) 
MTC’s Operating Agreement provides the
following: 
14.10 Arbitration. Except as otherwise
provided in this Agreement, any controversy between the Members or Managers
arising out of this Agreement shall be submitted before a retired judge or
appellate justice affiliated with JAMS for arbitration in Los Angeles,
California. The costs of the arbitration, including any JAMS administration
fee, the arbitrator's fee, and costs for the use of facilities during the
hearings, shall be borne equally by the parties to the arbitration. Attorneys'
fees may be awarded to the prevailing or most prevailing party at the
discretion of the arbitrator. The provisions of Sections 1282.6, 1283, and
1283.05 of the California Code of Civil Procedure apply to the arbitration. The
arbitrator shall not have any power to alter, amend, modify or change any of the
terms of this Agreement nor to grant any remedy which is either prohibited by
the terms of this Agreement, or not available in a court of law." 
 
(Lanson Dec.,
Exh. 1.) 
          
          Defendants
argue that whether Plaintiff’s claims are covered by this arbitration provision
is subject to the arbitrator’s decision due to the presence of a delegation
clause. While courts often decide issues of “arbitrability,” the “'parties can
agree to arbitrate “gateway” questions of “arbitrability,” such as whether the
parties have agreed to arbitrate or whether their agreement covers a particular
controversy.”' (Aanderud v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880,
891, quoting Rent–A–Center, West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63,
68-69.) To establish this exception, it must be shown by “clear and
unmistakable” evidence that the parties intended to delegate the issue to the
arbitrator.  (Rent-A-Center, West,
Inc. v. Jackson (2010) 561 U.S. 63, 68, 70, fn.1; Howsam v. Dean Witter
Reynolds (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 84; see also Peleg v. Neiman-Marcus Group,
Inc. (2012) 204 Cal. App. 4th 1425, 1439-1445.) 
          Here, the
arbitration provision states any controversy between members or managers
arising out of the Operating Agreement will be submitted “before a retired
judge or appelate [sic] justice affiliated with JAMS for arbitration in Los
Angeles, California.” Rule 11(b) of JAMS Comprehensive Arbitration Rules and
Procedures (“Rules”) states that “Jurisdictional and arbitrability disputes,
including disputes over the formation, existence, validity, interpretation or
scope of the agreement under which Arbitration is sought, and who are proper
Parties to the Arbitration, shall be submitted to and ruled on by the
Arbitrator. The Arbitrator has the authority to determine jurisdiction and
arbitrability issues as a preliminary matter.”
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
there is no “clear and unmistakable” delegation of arbitrability to the
arbitrator. Plaintiff claims that the arbitration agreement only states that
the arbitrator would be affiliated with JAMS and that JAMS would be the
arbitral provider, not that the arbitration would be conducted in accordance
with JAMS’ Rules. (Opp., p. 11.) 
The Court disagrees. The Operating
Agreement identifies the JAMS administration fee as a cost which is to be born
equally by the parties, and additionally specifies that sections 1282.6, 1283,
and 1283.05 of the Code of Civil Procedure (which pertain to discovery methods)
would apply. These terms indicate that the JAMS Rules are to govern the
arbitration, with the exception of the specifically-identified issues of costs,
fees, and the discovery process identified within the Operating Agreement.  Accordingly, insofar as Plaintiff asserts
claims against Martini LLP and Passmore, the arbitrability of those claims is
to be determined by the arbitrator and the motion is GRANTED with respect to
Plaintiff’s individual claims against defendants Martini LLP and Passmore. 
However, Defendants have not shown that
an arbitration agreement exists between Plaintiff and Withum, or Plaintiff and
Martini, because neither Withum nor Martini are parties to the Operating
Agreement. Similarly, Plaintiff’s derivative claims brought on MTC’s behalf are
not within the scope of the arbitration provision because MTC is not a party to
the operating agreement. Although Withum has expressed a willingness to
arbitrate, Plaintiff is not required to arbitrate its claims against Withum and
cannot be compelled to do so. The cases cited by Defendants in support of its
argument that the derivative claims must be compelled are inapposite as they
involve far broader arbitration clauses that are not restricted to
controversies “between members or managers.” (Reply, pp. 4-5.) Therefore, the
motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s derivative claims on behalf of MTC
and Plaintiff’s claims against Withum and Martini is DENIED. 
B.  
Whether
This Action Should Be Stayed 
In light of the fact that Plaintiff’s
claims against Withum, Martini, and its derivative claims are nonarbitrable,
Defendants argue that this court action should be stayed until the arbitration
is resolved. In opposition, Plaintiff cites to Leenay v. Superior Court (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 553. 571, in which the appellate court held that a trial court
is not authorized to stay an action under CCP section 1281.4 on the basis of a
nonparty’s arbitration claim. The Leenay court held that section 1281.4 only
applies “if a court has ordered arbitration of a question arising between
parties to an agreement, and that question and those parties are involved in
the present action.” (Id. p. 570.) Here, Withum Smith, Martini, and MTC
are not parties to the arbitration provision, therefore a stay cannot be
invoked pursuant to section 1281.4.  
However, section 1281.2(d) allows this
Court to order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to arbitration,
and to stay this action pending the outcome of arbitration if there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law and fact. Here, Plaintiff’s
claims against Defendants and Withum (including any derivative claims on behalf
of MTC) involve common issues of fact, including the extent to which Defendants
breached any fiduciary duties owed to Plaintiff and MTC and whether Withum
aided and abetted those breaches, and whether there was any interference with
prospective economic relations by any of the defendants. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s unsubstantiated concerns of potential spoliation do not outweigh the duplication
of judicial resources and the possibility of conflicting rulings if this case
were to proceed against Withum or Martini in court alongside arbitration. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff is ordered to arbitrate
its claims brought directly against Passmore and Martini LLP. 
The remainder of the action is stayed
pending the completion of arbitration. The Court sets a Status Conference for May
15, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. Parties are
to submit a joint report on the status of arbitration no later than 5 days
before the date of the hearing. 
Dated this 15th day of November,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 