 Case Number:  EC066608    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



KCB TOWERS, INC., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ANGELES
   CONTRACTOR, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  EC066608
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT PURSUANT TO CCP § 631.8 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
  15,
   2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
Plaintiff and cross-defendant KCB
Towers, Inc. (“KCB”) and Cross-Defendants JAYSCO, Inc. (“JAYSCO”) and Agustin
Arreola Perez d/b/a Mr. Welder (“Mr. Welder”) (collectively referred to as “Cross-Defendants”)
move for judgment pursuant to CCP § 631.8 on the grounds that defendant and
cross-complainant Angeles Contractor, Inc. (“Angeles”) has not produced
sufficient evidence to prove the breach of a tort duty or evidence in support
of the other elements of its negligence cause of action and that the negligence
cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule. Cross-Defendants contend
that as a matter of law, Angeles has produced no evidence of a tort duty
separate and apart from the contractual duties arising from the subcontract
agreement for the welding and structural steel work on the Temple City School
Project, nor has it produced evidence to prove the other elements for a
negligence claim.  
Angeles filed its opposition brief on
November 1, 2023. 
Cross-Defendants filed a reply brief on
November 7, 2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“After a party has completed his
presentation of evidence in a trial by the court, the other party, without
waiving his right to offer evidence in support of his defense or in rebuttal in
the event the motion is not granted, may move for a judgment.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 631.8(a).) “Such motion may also be made and granted as to any
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 631.8(a).) “A motion for judgment under
Code of Civil Procedure section 631.8 is the equivalent of a nonsuit motion in
a court trial.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 119 fn. 5
[citing Ford v. Miller Meat Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 1196, 1200].)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Negligence, Generally
“An action in negligence requires a
showing that the defendant owed the plaintiff a legal duty, that the defendant
breached the duty, and that the breach was a proximate or legal cause of
injuries suffered by the plaintiff.” (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping
Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 673.) Duty is a legal issue and must be
determined by the court. (Isaacs v.
Huntington Memorial Hospital (1985)
38 Cal.3d 112, 124.) A duty of care may arise through statute, contract, the
general character of the activity, or the relationship between the parties. (J’Aire Corp. v. Gregory (1979) 24 Cal.3d 700, 803.) 
Economic Loss Rule 
Cross-Defendants argue that Angeles
cannot recover on its negligence cause of action because it did not present
evidence of a tort duty separate and apart from the contractual duties arising
from the Angeles/KCB subcontract for KCB’s work on the project. The economic
loss rule bars recovering tort damages in a contract action for breaches of
purely contractual duties, unless there is harm “above and beyond a broken
contractual promise.” (Robinson Helicopter Co. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 979, 989.) Robert Hofmann, Angeles’ principal witness, identified
various deductive change orders which allegedly constitute damages, but Cross-Defendants
argue that these change orders only reflect contract-based damages and are
unrelated to any separate tort duty. (Motion, p. 8.) 
In opposition, Angeles argues that the
economic loss rule does not apply because there is “clear evidence of property
damage” which falls within an exception to the economic loss rule. With respect
to KCB, Angeles cites to North American Chemical Co. v. Superior Court (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 764, 774 in which the court of appeal recognized that a contract
for services gives rise to a duty of care which requires that the services be
performed in a competent and reasonable manner, and a failure to do so could
constitute both a breach of contract and a tort. Angeles argues that the
evidence shows that KCB owed a duty to adhere to commonly-accepted quality
standards to ensure that their construction was safe for use by the general
public but breached said duty by causing property damage that Angeles was
required to correct by hiring a supplemental subcontractor with out-of-pocket
funds. (Opp., pp. 4-5.) Yet, as KCB points out on reply, the described property
damage still falls within the scope of the subcontract between Angeles and KCB,
and any alleged damage is caused by substandard performance, i.e., a breach of
the subcontract. 
With respect to JAYSCO and Mr. Welder,
Angeles argues that the economic loss rule does not apply because JAYSCO and
Mr. Welder do not have a contract with Angeles. Instead, Angeles argues, JAYSCO
and Mr. Welder owed Angeles a duty of care, which they breached, and their
breach directly caused damage to Angeles and affected Angeles’ ability to
recover under its contract with the project owner. Angeles cites to Beacon
Residential Community Association v. Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, LLP (2014)
59 Cal.4th 568, 577, in which the California Supreme Court considered whether
design professionals owed a duty of care to a homeowners’ association and its
members for the design of an apartment building. The court stated that a duty
of reasonable care was owed “for the protection of anyone who may foreseeably
be endangered by the negligence, even after acceptance of the work.” (Id.
at p. 575.) 
However, as Cross-Defendants point out
in their reply brief, Beacon provides a path to recovery for Temple
City, which is the owner of the project, or the users of the facilities, who
would suffer any potential personal injuries – not Angeles. Cross-Defendants additionally
argue on reply that Angeles cannot establish the element of causation against
JAYSCO and Mr. Welder because there was no evidence submitted regarding welds
or work that was specifically performed by either JAYSCO or Mr. Welder. The
Court agrees. The element of causation requires that the breach of duty serve
as a substantial factor in bringing about the plaintiff’s harm. (Janie H. v.
696 North Robertson, LLC (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 586.) Mr. Hoffman’s offer to
“extrapolate out” each weld from daily reports to determine which weld was
rejected or accepted is still too speculative to attribute any particular weld
to JAYSCO or Mr. Welder. (See Lubka Reply Decl., Ex. 1.) 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s motion
for judgment pursuant to CCP section 631.8 on Cross-Complainant’s third cause
of action for negligence. 
Dated this 15th day of November,
2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 