  Case Number:  23AHCV00534    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ALDO PEREZ, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HELIODARO
   JOSE ALTAMIRO, JR., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00534
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

November
   15, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On March 10, 2023, plaintiff Aldo Perez
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Heliodaro Jose Altamiro, Jr. (“Altamiro”)
and the City of Arcadia (“City”) (collectively, “Defendants”) for negligence
and statutory liability under Government Code section 815.2. Plaintiff alleges
that on or around July 20, 2022, he was driving a 2019 GMC Terrain and stopped
at a red light on northbound Baldwin Avenue at its intersection with Longen
Avenue. Altamiro, a City employee, was driving a 1990 Chevrolet Terrain that
was owned, operated, and maintained by the City. Plaintiff alleges Altamiro was
negligently operating the City’s vehicle at a speed that endangered the safety
of persons and property in violation of Vehicle Code section 22350, failed to
stop in time, and rear-ended Plaintiff’s vehicle. 
Defendants
filed an answer to the complaint on April 14, 2023. 
On October 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed
this motion for judgment on the pleadings as to Defendants’ affirmative
defenses. Plaintiff argues that Defendants have not pleaded sufficient facts in
their answer to constitute any of the 33 affirmative defenses asserted against
his complaint. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
“A motion
for judgment on the pleadings performs the same function as a general demurrer,
and hence attacks only defects disclosed on the face of the pleadings or by
matters that can be judicially noticed. [Citations.]” (Burnett v. Chimney Sweep (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 1057, 1064.) A
motion for judgment on the pleadings filed by the plaintiff can only be granted
if “the complaint states facts sufficient to constitute a cause or causes of
action against the defendant and the answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense to the complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(3)(A).)

As with a demurrer to an answer, the
allegations of the answer must be regarded as true. (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 730.) The
“determination of the sufficiency of the answer requires an examination of the complaint
because its adequacy is with reference to the complaint it purports to answer.”
(Ibid.) “[T]he demurrer to the answer
admits all issuable facts pleaded therein and eliminates all allegations of the
complaint denied by the answer.”  (Ibid.) “Presentation of extrinsic evidence
is therefore not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings.  [Citation.]” 
(Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.)
The answer should contain any and all
affirmative defenses or objections, i.e., “new matter”, to the complaint that
defendant may have and that would otherwise not be in issue under a simple
denial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (b).) Generally, a defendant bears
the burden of proving “new matter” and, as such, “new matter” must be
specifically pleaded in the answer.  (California Academy of Sciences v. County of
Fresno (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1436, 1442.) The same pleading of “ultimate
facts” rather than evidentiary matter or legal conclusions is required as in
pleading a complaint.  The answer must
aver facts as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which constitute
the cause of action and which are alleged in the complaint. (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) The various affirmative defenses must be
separately stated and must refer to the causes of action to which they relate
“in a manner by which they may be intelligently distinguished.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.30(g).) Defenses must be pleaded in the nature of “yes, the
allegations [of the complaint] are true, but . . .”  (FPI
Development, Inc., supra, 231
Cal.App.3d at p. 383.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Meet
and Confer
As an initial matter, the Court rejects
Defendants’ argument that this motion is procedurally defective and should be
denied based on Plaintiff’s failure to meet and confer before filing it. Code
of Civil Procedure section 439 explicitly states that “[a] determination by the
court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to
grant or deny the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
439, subd. (a)(4).)  
B.  
Request
for Judicial Notice 
Plaintiff requests the court judicially
notice his complaint, Defendants’ answer, and Defendants’ discovery responses.
The complaint and answer are judicially noticeable under Evidence Code section 452(d).
However, Defendants’ discovery responses are not “[f]acts and propositions that
are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” Therefore,
the Court denies Plaintiff’s request to judicially notice Defendants’ discovery
responses. 
C.  
Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings Based on Discovery Responses
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
written discovery responses show that they do not have evidence to support
their affirmative defenses. Plaintiff contends that despite having produced his
medical records and his own discovery responses for Defendants, Defendants have
been unable to identify any facts in support of their affirmative defenses. As
stated above, Defendants’ discovery responses are not judicially noticeable.
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion, insofar as it relies on these discovery
responses, impermissibly relies on extrinsic evidence and is denied. 
D.
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings Based on Failure to State Sufficient
Facts
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that
Defendants’ 33 affirmative defenses are pleaded as bare legal conclusions and
fail for uncertainty by referring to unnamed third parties and unnamed acts or
omissions of Plaintiff or unnamed third parties, without any description of
those acts or omissions. (Motion, pp. 7-8.) 
In opposition, Defendants argue that the
answer pleads a sufficient factual basis for each defense and that later
discovery will “flush out” the facts that support each defense. Defendants also
argue that the affirmative defenses are identified in their answer in order to
preserve them. Defendants additionally argue that the answer is sufficiently
stated based on Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 because their attorneys
have already certified, by presenting the answer to the Court, that “to the
best of their knowledge, information, and belief, formed after an inquiry
reasonable under the circumstances . . . the allegations and other factual
contentions [in the answer] have evidentiary support or, are likely to have
evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or
discovery. 
However, if Defendants lack facts to
support an affirmative defense, Defendants should not plead that defense unless
and until they learn of facts to support the application of the defense. As
noted above, an affirmative defense is not well-pled unless it includes
ultimate facts to support the assertion of the same. Accordingly, the Court
reviews the Answer and rules on the motion as follows: 
-             
The
Fourth and Thirteenth Affirmative Defenses state that Plaintiff has not stated
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Defendants. The
Thirty-Third Affirmative Defense reserves the right to assert additional
defenses later. These defenses are not in the style of “yes, but,” as required
in order to state an affirmative defense. They do not introduce new material
and Plaintiff’s burden of proof remains the same regardless of whether these
defenses are stated in the answer. Therefore, the motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the Fourth, Thirteenth, and Thirty-Third Affirmative Defenses
is GRANTED without leave to amend.
-             
The
Sixth and Thirtieth Affirmative Defenses are not actually defenses, but either:
(1) a denial of paragraphs 17 and 18 of the Complaint, which allege Plaintiff’s
compliance with the Tort Claims Act, or (2) a denial of nonexistent allegations
of reliance. Therefore, the motion is also GRANTED without leave to amend as to
these defenses. 
-             
The
Ninth and Twentieth Affirmative Defenses allege that this action is barred by
the applicable statute of limitations. Code of Civil Procedure section 458
specifically provides that a statute of limitations affirmative defense may be
pleaded without any accompanying facts. 
Therefore, the motion as to the Ninth and Twentieth Affirmative Defense
is DENIED.
-             
The
Fifth and Twenty-Second Affirmative Defenses cite to various statutes in the
Government and Vehicle Codes as grounds for immunity. Defendants have
adequately pleaded their defenses based on statutory immunity by citing the applicable
statutes. The motion as to the Fifth and Twenty-Second Affirmative Defenses is DENIED.

-             
The
remaining defenses fail to state any facts to constitute an affirmative defense;
some of them are even duplicative of each other. These defenses refer to third parties,
acts of comparative fault, superseding causes, laches, estoppel, assumption of
risk, mitigation of damages, justification, unclean hands. However, Defendants
do not identify any facts, such as the identity of these nonparties or any act
or omission, which would support these defenses. The motion as to the First,
Second, Third, Eighth, Tenth, Eleventh, Twelfth, Thirteenth, Fourteenth,
Fifteenth, Sixteenth, Seventeenth, Eighteenth, Nineteenth, Twenty-First,
Twenty-Third, Twenty-Fifth, Twenty-Sixth, Twenty-Seventh, Twenty-Eighth, Twenty-Ninth,
Thirty-First, and Thirty-Second Affirmative Defense is GRANTED with leave to
amend. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED without leave to amend with respect to Affirmative Defense
Nos. 4, 6, 13, 30, 33.
Plaintiff’s
motion is DENIED as to Affirmative Defense Nos. 5, 9, 20, and 22.
Plaintiff’s
motion is GRANTED with 20 days’ leave to amend with respect to Affirmative
Defense Nos. 1-3, 8, 10-19, 21, 23, 25-29, 31-32. 
Dated
this 15th
day of November, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 