 Case Number:  23AHCV01139    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES (SET TWO);
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (SET TWO); MOTION FOR AN ORDER DEEMING THE
TRUTH OF THE MATTERS SPECIFIED IN REQUEST FOR ADMISSION (SET ONE); AND REQUEST
FOR MONETARY SANCTIONSI.         INTRODUCTION
            This is a
personal injury case. On May 18, 2023, Plaintiff Armando Dominguez, represented
by counsel, filed this general negligence action against Michael’s Stores, Inc.
Plaintiff, now representing himself, alleged that on September 21, 2021, Defendant’s
negligently placed stock items fell on him causing physical injuries. 
            On or
around January 23, 2024, Defendant propounded the following discovery requests
on Plaintiff by U.S. mail, containing:
1.     
Form
Interrogatories (Set Two); 
2.     
Request
for Production of Documents (Set Two); and 
3.    
Requests
for Admission (Set One)
Plaintiff’s responses were due on
or before February 27, 2024.  Defendant
received no responses. Defendant’s counsel sent Plaintiff a meet and confer
text message reminding Plaintiff of the requests and asking about a potential
settlement. (Motion, Exh. D.) Plaintiff did not respond to that message.
            Defendant
then filed the instant motion on April 4, 2024, moving the Court to compel
responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set Two and Request for
Production of Documents, Set Two. Defendant also moves to compel an Order
deeming the truth of matters specified in Defendant’s Requests or Admission,
Set One. Defendant also seeks
monetary sanctions of $1,770.00 against Plaintiff for the
failure to respond to the discovery requests at issue. Defendant also
concurrently filed a Notice of the instant motion and the Declaration of Matthew
J.  Warren Esq. Defendant did not file a
Separate Statement or Proposed Order. 
            Plaintiff did
not file an Opposition to the instant motion. Plaintiff failed to appear at a
May 14, 2024 Case Status Conference to be heard on the instant motion. (5/14/24
Minute Order)
            The hearing
was continued for June 28, 2023.
To date, the Court is not aware of
any further meet or confer efforts or any further document production on behalf
of Defendant. The Court considers the instant motion on the understanding that
no further efforts have occurred and no further document production has been
received.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A.   
Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories
Code Civ. Proc. Section
2030.290 provides that when a party to whom interrogatories has been propounded
fails to serve a timely response, that party waives any objection to the
interrogatories; it further provides that the propounding party may move for an
order compelling a response to the interrogatory. Subdivision (c) provides for
monetary sanctions in connection with such motion. (CCP § 2030.290.)
B.   
Motion to Compel Further Production of Documents
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may move for
a further response to requests for production of documents where a statement of
compliance is incomplete or where a representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.  A motion to compel further response
to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
The Code of Civil Procedure contemplates three forms of
proper responses to a request for production:  a statement of compliance
in full or in part (CCP § 2031.220); a statement of inability to comply (CCP §
2031.230); and a partial objection coupled with a statement of compliance or
representation of inability to comply (CCP § 2031.240).   
A statement of compliance under section 2031.220 has two
parts: (1) the responding party “shall state that the production, inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed
either in whole or in part,” and (2) “that all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
and to which no objection is being made will be included in the production.” 
A representation of inability to comply under section
2031.230 has three parts: the statement must (1) affirm that a diligent search
and reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply, and (2) the
statement shall specify whether the inability to comply is because “the
particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been
lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party.”  The third part
comes into play if the responding party knows or believes someone else has
possession of the documents:  if so, “[t]he statement shall set forth the
name and address of any natural person or organization known or believed by
that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of
item.” 
Finally, California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires
that all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.  (Cal. Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3).)   
C.   
Request for Admissions
“Any party may obtain discovery . .
. by a written request that any other party to the action admit the genuineness
of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact, opinion
relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission may
relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”  CCP § 2033.010.  “Within 30 days after service of requests for
admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original
of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on
all other parties who have appeared . . . .” 
CCP § 2033.250(a).
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c).
D.   
Sanctions
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010.) 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.   
With regard to a motion to compel further responses to requests
for production, Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.310, subdivision (h)
provides that sanctions shall be awarded against any party, person or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further responses,
unless the Court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
sanctions unjust.           
III.      ANALYSIS 
A.    Procedural
Considerations
Defendant’s
motion was accompanied by a sufficient meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040. (CCP §2031.310(b)). Despite the fact the
instant motion was initially scheduled to be heard on May 14, 2024, and was
subsequently continued to June 28, 2024 (in order to allow more meet and confer
efforts), the instant motion remains on the calendar and no further update or
amendment to Defendant’s motion has been made. As such, the Court is unaware of
any subsequent further meet and confer efforts that may have occurred after the
May 14, 2024 hearing. Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.          
B.    Production
Request and Interrogatories
Defendant moves the Court to issue orders compelling the Plaintiff to
produce responses to Defendant Production Request and Interrogatories. As
discussed above, Defendant’s deadline to respond to the Production Request and
Interrogatories expired on February 27, 2024, at the filing of the instant
motion on April 4, 2024, Plaintiff had not yet served any responses. (Warren
Decl., ¶ 9.) As of Defendant’s March 14, 2024, meet and confer attempt, Plaintiff
had not served any responses. (Id.)
 
C.    Requests
for Admission
Defendant presents evidence that on
January 23, 2024, it served Plaintiff by mail service with Requests for
Admission, Set One. (Warren Decl., Exh. C.) Responses were due February 27,
2024. No responses were received by that date. No extensions have been granted
or requested. On March 14, 2024, Counsel for Defendant sent a meet and confer
letter inquiring after the discovery responses. (Warren Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. D.) As
of the date of the filing of this motion, no responses have been received. 
Based on the above evidence, Defendant
has established that Plaintiff was served a Set of Requests for Admission and
did not respond. Pursuant to CCP section 2033.280, the Court deems the matters
in Requests for Admissions, Set One deemed admitted.
D.    Sanctions
Sanctions are mandatory against the
party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a timely response to the
request necessitated the motion to deem request for admissions as admitted. CCP
§ 2033.280(c); see also Cal. Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) (the court can award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party seeking to compel
discovery even though no opposition was filed, the opposition was withdrawn, or
the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was
filed).
Defendant moves the Court to impose
monetary sanctions against Defendant in the total amount of $1,770.00 for
attorney’s fees and costs. Specifically, Defendant’s Counsel, a
California-licensed attorney, and associate of Clinton & Clinton, Matthew
J. Warren, Esq., states that the $1,770.00 amount is based on: (1) his hourly
rate of $285.00 being applied to: six hours to prepare the motion and appearing
at a hearing; and (2) the $60.00 filing fee. (Warren Decl. ¶ 10.) 
Defendant’s declaration requests
sanctions in the amount of $1,770.00 This request is based upon the following
calculations:



Mot. to Compel Preparation


4.0 hours at $285.00


$1,140.00




Hearing Preparation


2
  hours at $285.00


$570.00




Motion Reservation Fee


 


$60.00




 


TOTAL


$1,770.00



Defendant is entitled to monetary sanctions for reasonable
attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the motions.  Plaintiff failed to serve timely responses,
necessitating the filing of the motions and Plaintiff has still not served
responses.  The Court finds the time spent on these
motions and the billing rate to be reasonable. Accordingly, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of
$1770.00.  
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s instant Motion to Compel Responses
to Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request for Production of Documents, Set
Two.
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s instant motion to deem as
admitted Request For Admissions Set One.
Defendant’s request for sanctions against Plaintiff is
GRANTED in the amount of $1770.00. Sanctions are payable within 30 days of
service of this order.
The Court orders Plaintiff to comply with Defendant’s requests
within 30 days of this order. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated:  June 28, 2024                                    
                                                                                               JARED D. MOSES
                                                                                 JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT