  Case Number:  23AHCV01020    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE AND DENYING
PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTSI.         INTRODUCTION
This is a lemon law case. In November 2020, Plaintiff Debra K. Robinson (“Plaintiff”)
purchased a new 2019 Land Rover Range Rover Evoque VIN No. SALVR2RX2KH341534.
She alleges that her vehicle developed defects and brought this action against
the vehicle’s manufacturer, Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC (Jaguar), and
the dealership, Land Rover Pasadena (Pasadena), for not repairing or otherwise
repurchasing the vehicle.  
Procedural
Background
On May 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint alleging negligent repair
and violations under the Song-Beverly Act for breach of express warranty,
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability and violation of its Section
1793.2.
On July 12, 2023, Defendant filed its Answer.
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to its Request for Production, Set One, which was taken off calendar when
Defendant produced supplemental documents. (3/4/24 Minute Order)
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel the Deposition
of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK Deposition”) and Request for Production
of Documents concurrently with a proposed order, separate statement, and
supporting declaration.
On June 16, 2024, Defendant filed an Opposition and supporting
declaration.
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Reply.
On August 29, 2023, Plaintiff Debra K. Robinson served Defendant Jaguar
Land Rover North America LLC by electronic mail with:
1.    
Notice of Deposition
of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable containing 34 Matters for Examination
requested for December 15, 2023, and 
2.    
Requests for
Production of Documents containing 17 written requests for the PMK Deposition
On December 1, 2023, Defendant served objections to Plaintiff’s PMK
Deposition. (Motion to Compel, p. 1.)
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff served the instant motion before the court to
Defendant by electronic mail (Motion to Compel, p. 13.)
Trial for this case is set to begin on January 28, 2025. (Opp’n., p.1.)
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
A.    Law
Governing Depositions 
“If the deponent named is not a
natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable
particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the
deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent. (CCP § 2025.230.) 
Code Civ. Proc. Section 2025.450¿ 
(a) If, after service of a
deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿ 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a)
shall comply with both of the following:¿ 
(1) The motion shall set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.¿ 
(2) The motion shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or,
when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.¿ 
. . .¿ 
(g)(1) If a motion under
subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.¿
 
B.    Law
Governing Requests for Production
“Any party may obtain discovery by
inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or
other property, and electronically stored information in the possession,
custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (CCP § 2031.010.) “If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s
control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena,
the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that
answer or production.” (CCP § 2025.480(a).)
 
III.      ANALYSIS
A.   
Meet
and Confer 
Upon reviewing the letter electronically sent on December 6, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel clearly informs Defendant’s counsel that if alternative dates for the
PMK Deposition are not provided on or before January 5, 2023, Plaintiffs will
file a motion to compel. (Kohanoff Decl., Exh. 7.) On January 26, 2024, Defendant’s
counsel delivered an email stating that their PMK was available for deposition on
August 15, 2024. (Id. ¶ 22, Exh. 8.) Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond
to the email and filed this motion. (Opp’n., p. 1.)
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff has sufficiently met and conferred with
Defendant in an attempt to discuss the deposition of Defendant’s Person Most
Knowledgeable. Plaintiff attempted an informal resolution of this matter by
attempting to communicate regarding a suitable deposition date. 
The meet and confer requirement is therefore fulfilled.
 
B.   
 Production of Persons Most Knowledgeable for
Deposition and for Production of Documents
Plaintiff argues that it served a reasonable and necessary Deposition
Notice for Defendant Jaguar’s Person Most Knowledgeable which requested the
production of documents at the deposition. Plaintiff received objections to
this deposition notice and request for production of documents. Plaintiff
argues that the objections are merely boilerplate objections that are not code
compliant objections and Defendant should be compelled to present the person
most knowledgeable for deposition with the requested categories of
documents.  
Defendant argues that several relevant documents pertaining to
Plaintiff’s vehicle have been produced, pursuant to the prior Motion to Compel
Production of Documents. Defendant objects that this motion lacks a proper meet
and confer so the court should deny on procedural grounds.
Plaintiffs argue that meet and confer efforts were made, thus the motion
should not be denied on procedural grounds. Additionally, Plaintiffs argue that
the documents regarding Defendant’s handling of customer complaints and
documents regarding other vehicles are relevant to proving Defendant’s
knowledge of the defect before selling the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiffs and
Defendant’s intentionally failing to buy back the allegedly defective Subject
Vehicle, which would entitle Plaintiffs to additional civil penalties.
Plaintiffs also argue that Defendant has not demonstrated evidence of the undue
burden that producing the requested documents would allegedly cause.  
1)    
      Plaintiff
properly served a Notice of Deposition on Defendant
Counsel for Plaintiff declares that a Notice
of Deposition was served on Defendant on August 29, 2023. (Kohanoff Decl., ¶ 16,
Exh. 3.) The Notice of Deposition seeks to depose Defendant’s Person Most
Knowledgeable and Custodian of Records. (Kohanoff Decl., Exh. 3.) “If the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.) The Notice of Deposition sets out 34 specific
matters for examination. The matters for examination section is followed by a
request for production of 17 categories of documents to be produced at the
deposition. (Kohanoff Decl., Exh. 3.)
Because Plaintiff specifically identified
the matters for examination, the Notice of Deposition is proper.  
2)    
The
Court will compel the deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable 
Defendant served objections to the Amended
Notice of Deposition on or about December 1, 2023. (Kohanoff Decl., ¶ 17; Exh.
4.) Defendant objects to both the matters for examination as well as the
requests for production of documents. With respect to the matters for
examination, Defendant stated in its Opposition that they have already informed
Plaintiff that the Person Most Knowledgeable is available August 15, 2024.
(Opp’n., p. 1.) Because Defendant is willing to produce a Person Most
Knowledgeable, the Court will compel the deposition of Defendant’s Person Most
Knowledgeable on August 15, 2024. The Court will not rule on the matters for
examination as the Court will not undertake to limit the scope of deposition. If
counsel believes that questioning is improper, they may object during the
deposition.  
 
3)    
The
Court will not compel the Production of Documents
In Opposition, Defendant argues that they have complied with the
requested document, as highlighted in the March 4, 2024 Order where the
Plaintiff’s prior motion to compel the production of documents was taken off
the Court calendar. (Opp’n. p. 4.)
Plaintiff’s reply does not address how the prior request for documents
deviates from the requested documents in the instant motion. Plaintiff seeks
testimony and documents that establish Defendant’s knowledge of the same or
similar defects in other vehicles and internal policies and procedures to
establish its claims. (Reply, pp. 5-6.) Plaintiff also seeks the Court to
impose a 10 calendar-day timeline on Defendant to produce these documents.
(Reply, p. 9.)
The issue of sufficiency of the August 29, 2023 responses is no longer at
issue, as further responses were served February 20, 2024. The additional
responses are not attached to the opposition or before the Court. Accordingly,
the Court denies the motion to compel production of documents without prejudice.
 
C.   
Sanctions.

If the court grants a motion to
compel deposition and produce documents, “the court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the
party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with
whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd.
(g)(1).) 
Here, Plaintiff declined to request
sanctions. Therefore, the Court will not award any.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The Court rules as follows:
This Motion to Compel Deposition of
Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable and Production of Documents is GRANTED.
Defendant is compelled to produce the Person Most Knowledgeable for deposition
by August 15, 2024. 
Plaintiffs’ requests for Production
of Documents is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
Dated: June 28, 2024
 
 
                                                                        
                                                                                              JARED D. MOSES
                                                                                 JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT