 Case Number:  23TRCV01684    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
KEEP
  AMERICA SAFE AND BEAUTIFUL, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01684




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JANICO,
  INC., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 3,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Keep America Safe and Beautiful, Inc.
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Approve Proposition 65 Settlement
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  The court approves the Stipulated Consent
Judgment.
BACKGROUND
            On May 26, 2024, plaintiff Keep
America Safe and Beautiful, Inc. (“KASB”) filed a complaint against Janico,
Inc. and Aramsco, Inc. for civil penalties and injunctive relief under Proposition
65.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            The Safe Drinking Water and Toxic
Enforcement Act of 1986, known as Proposition 65, was passed as a ballot
initiative by the California voters, and was designed to prevent the
contamination of drinking water with, and generally protect the public from unknowing
exposure to, harmful chemicals.  Health
& Safety Code §25249.7 governs the enforcement of Proposition 65.¿
Proposition 65 has both public and private enforcement mechanisms.  See Health & Safety Code §25249.7(c),
(d).¿ Violations are punishable by injunction (Health & Safety Code
§24259.7(a)) and civil penalty (Health & Safety Code §24259.7(b)).¿ In the
case of private enforcement actions, parties may also recover attorney’s fees,
pursuant to the provisions in CCP §1021.5, governing actions concerning
important rights affecting the public interest.¿¿¿ 
            Health & Safety Code §24259.7(f)
governs the role of the Court in approving settlements and consent judgments
for private actions to enforce Proposition 65.¿ Section 24259.7(f)(4) provides,
in relevant part, that:¿ If there is a settlement of an action brought by a
person in the public interest under subdivision (d), the plaintiff shall submit
the settlement, other than a voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is
received from the defendant, to the court for approval upon noticed motion, and
the court may approve the settlement only if the court makes all of the
following findings:¿ 
(a)   The warning that is required by the
settlement complies with this chapter.¿ 
(b) The award of attorney’s fees is
reasonable under California law.¿ 
(c) The penalty amount is
reasonable based on the criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).
The plaintiff has the burden of
producing sufficient evidence to sustain each required finding.  Health & Safety Code §25249.7(f).
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
Keep America Safe and Beautiful (“KASB”) requests that the court approve the
proposed Stipulated Consent Judgment between it and defendants Janico, Inc. and
Aramsco, Inc. pursuant to Health & Safety Code §25249.7(f)(4).
The
complaint alleges that it is
brought by plaintiff in the public interest of the People of the State of
California to enforce their right to be informed of the presence of chemicals
listed by the State of California, pursuant to the Safe Drinking Water and
Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986, codified at Health & Safety Code §25249.6,
et al. (“Proposition 65”), including di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP).  Complaint, ¶1.  Plaintiff seeks to remedy defendants’ failure
to warn citizens of California, in violation of Proposition 65 about the
presence of DEHP (“Listed Chemical”) in defendants “Janico, Replacement Vinyl
Bag for 1050 Janitor Cart” offered for sale throughout California
(“Products”).  Id., ¶2.  Defendant’s Products contain the Listed
Chemical and consumers of Products in California are exposed to the Listed
Chemical through dermal exposure and ingestion of the Products.  Id., ¶3. 
Plaintiff attaches a copy of the 60-Day Notice, dated March 10, 2023,
which plaintiff alleges it sent to defendants, California’s Attorney General,
every District Attorney in the state, and to the City Attorneys of every
California city with a population greater than 775,000.  Plaintiff alleges that attached to the 60-Day
Notices were Certificates of Merit attesting to the reasonable and meritorious
basis for this action, Certificates of Service attesting to service of the
letters on each entity, and a description of Proposition 65 prepared by the
California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment.  Further, factual information sufficient to
establish the basis of the Certificates of Merit were enclosed with the 60-Day
Notices sent to California’s Attorney General. 
Id., ¶5.  After receiving the
claims in the 60-Day Notice, the public enforcement agencies identified in
paragraph 5 have failed to commence and diligently prosecute a cause of action
against defendant under Proposition 65. 
Id., ¶6.
Plaintiff explains that on March 6,
2023, plaintiff confirmed, through third-party laboratory testing, that the
Covered Product contained DEHP at levels actionable pursuant to Health &
Safety Code §25249.9.  Settlement
discussions spanned several months and included exchange of laboratory testing
data, potential means of compliance with Prop 65, requests for data concerning
the magnitude of sales of such Products in California, information on
defendant’s role in the chain of commerce and relationships with upstream and
downstream entities.  The parties
finalized the terms of the settlement and executed a stipulated consent
judgment on September 19, 2023. 
Plaintiff submitted to the Attorney General a reporting form of the
settlement.  See Joseph Manning, Jr.
decl., Exh. B.
Warning’s Compliance 
Health & Safety Code §25249.6
provides, “No person in the course of doing business shall knowingly and
intentionally expose any individual to a chemical known to the state to cause
cancer or reproductive toxicity without first giving clear and reasonable
warning to such individual, except as provided in Section 25249.10.” 
Title 27, California Code of
Regulations §25601 provides:  “Whenever a
clear and reasonable warning is required under Section 25249.6 of the Act, the
method employed to transmit the warning must be reasonably calculated,
considering the alternative methods available under the circumstances, to make
the warning message available to the individual prior to exposure.  The message must clearly communicate that the
chemical in question is known to the state to cause cancer, or birth defects or
other reproductive harm.  Nothing in this
section shall be construed to preclude a person from providing warnings other
than those specified in this article that satisfy the requirements of this
article, or to require that warnings be provided separately to each exposed
individual.” 
            The regulations set forth the
transmission and warning messages that are deemed clear and reasonable.  See 27 CCR §25603.
            The Consent Judgment provides that
“[a] clear and reasonable warning for any Covered Product shall consist of a
warning affixed to the packaging, label, tag, or directly to each Covered
Product shipped for Sale in California by Janico that contains one of the
following statements:
(A) WARNING:  This product can expose you to
Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP) which is known to the State of California to
cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm.  For more information go to
www.P65Warnings.ca.gov. 
(B)  WARNING:  Cancer and Reproductive
Harm—www.P65Warnings.ca.gov.”
 
This language is consistent with
the sample warning language in 27 CCR §§25603.2 and 25603.3.  Sections 3.2, 3.4, and 3.5 of the Consent
Judgment sets forth additional requirements to ensure that a clear and
reasonable warning is provided that is compliant with the relevant regulations.

            The court finds that the proposed
warning required by the Consent Judgment complies with Proposition 65.
                        Reasonableness of
Award of Attorneys’ Fees and Costs 
The Consent Judgment requires defendant
to reimburse plaintiff for attorneys’ fees, expert fees, investigation fees, and
costs incurred in prosecuting this action in the amount of $18,000.
This motion is accompanied by a
declaration from plaintiff’s counsel supporting the amount of the attorneys’
fees award.  Manning, Jr. decl., ¶¶15-21.  A summary of fees and costs which details the
legal work performed is attached to the declaration.  Id., ¶16, Exh. F. 
The court finds that the amount
allocated for attorneys’ fees and costs in the Consent Judgment is reasonable. 
                                    Reasonableness
of Penalty Amount 
The Consent Judgment provides that defendant
will pay civil penalties in the amount of $2000.  In compliance with Health & Safety Code
§25249.12, the Consent Judgment provides that 75% of the civil penalty shall be
disbursed to the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment and 25% shall
be paid to plaintiff.  
            Any civil penalty assessed under
§25249.7(b) must take into consideration certain factors including the
following: 
(A) The nature and extent of the
violation. 
(B)  The number of, and severity of, the
violations. 
(C)  The economic effect of the penalty
on the violator. 
(D) Whether the violator took good
faith measures to comply with this chapter and the time these measures were
taken.
(E)  The willfulness of the violator's
misconduct. 
(F)  The deterrent effect that the
imposition of the penalty would have on both the violator and the regulated
community as a whole. 
(G) Any other factor that justice may
require. 
Health
& Safety Code §25249.7(b)(2).
The Proposition 65 regulations
state that “a settlement with little or no penalty may be appropriate.”  11 CCR §3203(a).  Plaintiff addresses the above factors as to why
the $1800 penalty is appropriate.  See Manning,
Jr. decl., ¶¶11-13.  
Plaintiff asserts that after
receiving plaintiff’s notices, defendants immediately took action to resolve
the claim and make sure that going forward that there was no question that it
complies with Prop 65.  Further,
plaintiff states, defendant’s attention to the notices, its engagement with
KASB’s counsel, and agreement to reformulate and/or place a warning label on
Products in compliance with Prop 65 “speaks to its good faith and lack of
willful conduct.”
The court finds that the civil
penalty amount provided for in the Consent Judgment is reasonable.
            In
consideration of the above factors and the court’s findings, the motion is
GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is GRANTED.  The court approves
the Stipulated Consent Judgment.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.