  Case Number:  21STCV35400    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MARK
  BULLARD, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
21STCV35400




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
LAIBCO,
  LLC,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 3, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Mark Bullard
Responding
Party:                  Defendant Laibco, LLC
Motion
to Reinstate Action to Active List and or Allocate Cost of Arbitration
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED in part.  The hearing is CONTINUED to ______ to allow
for defendant to choose whether (1) to pay plaintiff’s share of the arbitration
costs and to remain in arbitration or (2) to decline to pay plaintiff’s share
of the arbitration costs, waive its rights to arbitration, and have the case proceed
in court.  Defendant is ordered to file a
declaration as to its choice by ____________.
BACKGROUND
            On September 24, 2021, Mark Bullard
filed a complaint against Laibco LLC dba Las Flores Convalescent Hospital for
professional negligence/medical malpractice based on wrongful death.
            On January 6, 2023, defendant filed
a motion to compel arbitration.
            On February 24, 2023, the court
(Dept. 28) granted the motion to compel arbitration and stayed the case.
            On May 9, 2023, the court granted
plaintiff’s request to waive court fees and costs.
            On July 17, 2023, plaintiff filed a
motion reinstating action to active list and/or allocating cost of arbitration.
            On September 14, 2023, at the
direction of Dept. 1, Dept. 28 ordered that the case be transferred from the PI
Hub to an IC court.
            On March 4, 2024, plaintiff re-filed
his motion.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
requests that the court order that the case be reinstated to its active list
and/or for an order allocating the costs and fees associated with the
court-ordered arbitration to defendant.
            Plaintiff
contends that defendant has taken no steps to initiate arbitration and thus has
waived its right to arbitration. 
Plaintiff also asserts that as to allocation of costs, plaintiff is
indigent, cannot afford the cost of arbitration, and defendant has not agreed
to bear the cost of the arbitration. 
Plaintiff cites to the order as to waiver of costs and fees dated May 9,
2023 as evidence of his indigency.
            In
opposition, defendant argues that it did not waive its right to
arbitration.  Defendant also contends
that plaintiff voluntarily entered into the subject contract, which contains a
clear and unambiguous share of cost clause calling for the parties to share in
the cost of arbitration.  Defendant
argues that plaintiff has not shown that he cannot afford the cost of his share
of arbitration costs.  Defendant also
asserts that the FAA governs the arbitration agreement.
            In
reply, plaintiff argues that defendant’s contractual arguments have been
rejected by the courts and that he has shown his indigency through the waiver.
            The
court rules as follows:  As an initial
matter, the court finds that defendant has not waived its right to arbitration
based on its purported failure to initiate the arbitration.  Plaintiff does not cite to any applicable
authority that defendant has done so.
            As
to either reinstating the case to the active list or allocating the costs of
arbitration to defendant, CCP §1284.2 states: 
“Unless the arbitration agreement otherwise provides or the parties to
the arbitration otherwise agree, each party to the arbitration shall pay his
pro rata share of the expenses and fees of the neutral arbitrator, together
with other expenses of the arbitration incurred or approved by the neutral
arbitrator, not including counsel fees or witness fees or other expenses
incurred by a party for his own benefit.” 

Under
Gov. Code §68630, “[t]he Legislature finds and declares . . . (a) That our
legal system cannot provide ‘equal justice under law’ unless all persons have
access to the courts without regard to their economic means.  California law and court procedures should
ensure that court fees are not a barrier to court access for those with
insufficient economic means to pay those fees. . . .”
            The
court notes that neither the arbitration agreement nor arbitration procedures
allow for a party to obtain a fee waiver or reduction. 
            In Roldan
v. Callahan & Blaine, the court stated that “[t]he only issue before us
is whether plaintiffs, each of whom was subsequently granted permission to
proceed in forma pauperis in the trial court, could likewise be excused from
the obligation to pay fees associated with arbitration.  We conclude they could.”  219 Cal. App. 4th 87, 95.  The court further stated that “[i]f, as
plaintiffs contend, they lack the means to share the cost of the arbitration,
to rule otherwise might effectively deprive them of access to any forum for
resolution of their claims against [the defendant].”  The court noted that it could not order the
arbitration forum to waive its fees and it did not have the authority to order
the defendant to pay the plaintiffs’ share of those fees.  Rather, the court gave the defendant a
choice:  “if the trial court determines
that any of these plaintiffs is unable to share in the cost of the arbitration,
[the defendant] can elect to either pay that plaintiff’s share of the
arbitration costs and remain in arbitration or waive its right to arbitrate
that plaintiff’s claim.”  Id. at
96.  “Specifically, the trial court must
estimate the anticipated costs of the arbitration proceeding previously
ordered, and then determine whether [the plaintiff is] able to pay their pro
rata share of that cost.  If the court
determines that [the plaintiff] is unable to do so, it must issue an order
specifying that [the defendant] has the option of either paying plaintiff’s
share of the arbitration cost or waiving its right to arbitrate [the
plaintiff’s case] and allowing the case to proceed in court.”  Id. 

            See
also Aronow v. Superior Court (2022) 76 Cal. App. 5th 865,
881-82, in following Roldan, the appellate court stated that, “[w]e have
no doubt that we strike the balance—between enforcing the language of the
arbitration provision and [the plaintiff’s] changed financial
circumstances—consistent with the indigent litigant jurisprudence [Jameson v.
Desta (2018) 5 Cal. 5th 594] recounts.”  The Aronow court determined that
“trial courts are well equipped to analyze a litigant’s ability to pay
arbitration fees.”  Id. at
883.  “We . . . conclude that the trial
court should decide the issue of arbitrator fee payment and it should be
resolved before commencement of the arbitration.  We do not prescribe a singular procedure, but
. . . suggest various alternatives . . . .” 
Id.  “[I]n forma pauperis
status is not a prerequisite; however, the procedures for that determination
provide a ready template should the trial court decide to employ it.”  Id. 
“[A] litigant who claims financial inability to pay the arbitrator’s fee
could submit the Judicial Council application form and the financial statements
prescribed by” Gov. Code §68633.  Id.  “Where a party seeking relief from paying the
arbitrator’s fee is one of the persons enumerated in Government Code section
68632’s list of persons eligible ‘to proceed without paying court fees and
costs,’ the decision would be ministerial.”  Id. at 884.  In conclusion, the appellate court
stated:  “Supported by a wealth of
jurisprudence, we conclude the trial court has jurisdiction to address [the
plaintiff’s] request and, if he demonstrates financial inability to pay the
anticipated arbitration costs, to require [the defendant] either to pay [the
plaintiff’s] share of the arbitrator’s fee or to waive the right to
arbitration.”  Id. at 885.
            In
this case, plaintiff had obtained a waiver of costs, and thus, was determined
to be “indigent.”  In its discretion, the
court considers the forma pauperis and determines that plaintiff is unable to
pay any share of the costs of the arbitration. 
Defendant, thus, has the choice of paying plaintiff’s share of the
arbitration costs and remaining in arbitration or declining to do so and allowing
the case to proceed in court.
            The
motion is thus GRANTED in part and the hearing is CONTINUED to allow defendant to
submit a declaration as to which option it chooses.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED in part.  The hearing is CONTINUED to ______ to allow
for defendant to choose whether (1) to pay plaintiff’s share of the arbitration
costs and to remain in arbitration or (2) to decline to pay plaintiff’s share
of the arbitration costs, waive its rights to arbitration, and have the case
proceed in court.  Defendant is ordered
to file a declaration as to its choice by ____________.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of ruling. 
            Moving
party [or prevailing party] is ordered to give notice of ruling.