 Case Number:  22TRCV00181    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
5901
  CENTURY OWNER, LLC, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00181




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
FESTIVAL
  MANAGEMENT CORPORATION,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 3, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Festival Management Corp.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff 5901 Century Owner, LLC
Motion
for Relief from Judgment or Order
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply and surreply papers.
RULING
            The motion is DENIED as to vacating
the court’s January 5, 2024 order.
BACKGROUND
On March 10, 2022, plaintiff 5901
Century Owner, LLC filed a complaint against defendant Festival Management
Corporation for unlawful detainer. 
On April 21, 2022, plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint. 
On May 9, 2022, a stipulation for
judgment was granted.
On October 26, 2022, plaintiff
filed a Second Amended Complaint for breach of lease. 
On November 22, 2022, defendant
filed a cross-complaint for breach of lease against plaintiff. 
On July 1, 2023, the court granted
plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses to written discovery and
awarded sanctions against defendant Festival Management Corp.
On January 5, 2024, the court
granted plaintiff’s motion for sanctions. 
The court struck defendant Festival Management’s cross-complaint,
ordered defendant to pay monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,381, and ordered
that the truth of any matters specified in plaintiff’s Requests for Admission,
Set One be deemed admitted.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            CCP §473
“The court may, upon terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.  The court shall,
whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of fault, direct
the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing
counsel or parties.”  CCP § 473(b).
            Requests for Admission
Under CCP §2033.300, (a) A party
may withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission
only on leave of court granted after notice to all parties. 
            (b) The court may permit withdrawal
or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the admission was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and that the party who
obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced in maintaining that
party’s action or defense on the merits. 
            (c) The court may impose conditions
on the granting of the motion that are just, including, but not limited to, the
following: 
                        (1) An order that the
party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery
related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended admission. 
                        (2) An order that the
costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party
withdrawing or amending the admission.” 
After a “deemed admitted order” has
been entered, the party in default may seek relief from waiver by filing a
motion to withdraw or amend the “deemed admission” under section 2033.300.  Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal.
4th 973, 979 (applying former 2033(m)). 
“The trial court’s discretion in ruling on a motion to withdraw or amend
an admission is not unlimited, but must be exercised in conformity with the
spirit of the law and in a manner that serves the interests of justice.  Because the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 2033.300 must be
resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. 
Accordingly, the court’s discretion to deny a motion under the statute
is limited to circumstances where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence,
or neglect was inexcusable, or where it is clear that the withdrawal or
amendment would substantially prejudice the party who obtained the admission in
maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.”  New Albertson’s Inc. v. Superior Court
(2008) 168 Cal. App. 4th 1403, 1420.   
DISCUSSION
            Citing
to CCP §473, defendant requests an order vacating the court’s January 5, 2024 order
imposing terminating sanctions by striking defendant’s cross-complaint and
deeming requests for admissions admitted. 
Defendant seeks relief based on “attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and/or excusable neglect.”  In
the memorandum of points and authorities, defendant also cites to CCP §2033.300,
which is the applicable statute for relief as to the requests for admission.   
            A
recitation of the procedural history is necessary.  On July 21, 2023, the court granted
plaintiff’s motions to compel further responses, including as to the requests
for admission, set one.  The court
ordered defendant to respond further within ten days.  In the motion, plaintiff explained that
defendant had been served with written discovery on December 19, 2022, and that
responses were due on January 20, 2023. 
Plaintiff’s counsel had given numerous extensions to respond, and on
March 17, 2023, defendant served objections only to each of the discovery
requests.  On numerous occasions, defense
counsel indicated that defendant would serve supplemental responses.  The motions to compel further responses were
filed on June 1, 2024, and defendant filed a limited opposition stating that it
would serve substantive responses before the hearing date.  Defendant did not serve supplemental
responses by the hearing date and the court granted plaintiff’s motions,
ordering defendant to respond further within ten days. The court also ordered
monetary sanctions against defendant.
            On
October 11, 2023, plaintiff filed a motion for sanctions because defendant had
violated the court order by failing to serve supplemental responses and to
produce documents to plaintiff’s written discovery.  Plaintiff noted that defendant paid the
sanctions.  The hearing on the motion was
scheduled for November 22, 2023.  On
October 30, 2023, the court sent notice that the hearing was continued to
November 29.  At the hearing on November
29, the court found that defendant had not served verified responses.  The court considered oral argument and
continued the hearing, suggesting that counsel meet and confer.  At the hearing on December 11, due to the
court’s unavailability, the hearing was continued to January 5, 2024.  On January 5, the court granted plaintiff’s
motion for sanctions, including deeming the truth of any matters specified in
plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted.
            Defendant
argues that relief is warranted based on defendant’s “attorney’s material
failures.”  See Walter Pena decl.  Attorney Pena declares that he did not inform
defendant Festival of plaintiff’s motion to compel responses, the order
compelling responses, the motion to compel further responses, and the motion
for sanctions.  He states that Festival
did not know about them until January 4, 2024, the day before the hearing on
the motion for terminating sanctions.  He
explains that he was hired as an associate in November 2019 with the
expectation that he would transition and assume the senior partner’s (Ernie
Zachary Park) practice; Park postponed his retirement because of “Covid
situation”; in December 2022, he was assigned to work on the herein litigation
and requested multiple extensions to respond to the discovery served in
December 2022; and he prepared and served objections in May 2023.  He further states that he does not have an
excuse for his failure to timely prepare the subject discovery and “offers[s]
up an explanation that I had a great deal of work and simply did not timely
address this discovery.”  He discusses
trial preparation that he was involved in in late July 2023 into August 2023 in
two cases; he worked on an opposition brief for a motion for summary judgment;
he had Covid-19 in August; and he worked on trial preparation for a few other
cases through October.  He states also
that by late October 2023, he “had a very large backlog of tasks for numerous
matters that I had not worked on because of the number of trials I had to
prepare for in prior two months.”  He was
aware of the hearing continuances on the motion for terminating sanctions.  On the morning of January 4, 2024, he
“realized that the hearing on the sanctions motion was set for the following
day” and acknowledging to attorney Park that he had not reviewed the draft
responses to discovery with the client, he sent an email to the client as to
the draft responses.  Park stated in an
email, “I am really confounded why, at this late juncture, there has not been
any communication with [defendant] knowing how sensitive this one is to
them.”  Defendant asserts that it served
supplemental responses on January 4, 2024, before the hearing on the motion for
terminating sanctions.
            In
opposition, plaintiff argues that defendant is not entitled to mandatory relief
under CCP §473 because the motion is not in proper form and Pena’s declaration
raises “questions of fact as to whether Festival was aware of the discovery
dispute and its obligations to provide responses.”  Plaintiff contends that although defendant
served responses, they do not “substantially comply.”  Plaintiff asserts that Festival had
represented that it would produce documents in batches, but only produced one
batch of documents and that “responses to interrogatories are hastily thrown
together, consist of generalized accusations and legal conclusions made in
their stricken Cross-Complaint, and cannot be characterized as a good faith
effort to comply with the requirements of the Discovery Act.”  Plaintiff provides several examples where
defendant’s responses are not code-compliant. 
As to whether the neglect is solely attributable to attorney Pena,
plaintiff argues that although Pena claims to have never told Festival about
the motions to compel, the court order, and motion for sanctions, Pena does not
state whether Festival knew they had been served with discovery and had an
obligation to respond.  Plaintiff argues
that “[i]t is simply untenable for Festival or [Pena] to argue that Festival
was wholly unaware of its discovery obligations.”  
            Plaintiff
further argues that defendant is not entitled to relief under the discretionary
provision of CCP §2033.300(b) because defendant has not shown “excusable
neglect.”  Also, plaintiff contends, it
would be severely prejudiced.  Plaintiff
requests attorney’s fees incurred to oppose the motion in the amount of
$4,787.50.  Plaintiff does not cite to
authority for attorney’s fees. 
            In
reply, defendant contends that plaintiff has not met and conferred over any
purported deficiencies in the supplemental responses served on January 4,
2024.  The court notes that it was
defendant’s burden to serve substantially compliant response, and not
plaintiff’s burden to meet and confer. 
In any event, defendant argues, the relevant test is whether the party
requesting relief has demonstrated a willingness and ability to comply.  Defendant also asserts that on February 21,
2023, it produced an additional 558 pages of documents and on March 25,
defendant produced two other responsive documents.  Defendant further reiterates that its failure
to serve responses is solely attributable to its attorney.
The court rules as follows:  As for relief from terminating sanctions
(dismissal of the cross-complaint), the court notes that it appears that the
motion was brought under the discretionary relief provision because the notice
cites to “excusable neglect.”  It also
appears that defendant seeks mandatory relief, which it argues in the
memorandum.  As for discretionary relief,
excusable neglect exists where counsel or the party acted as a reasonably
prudent person would under the circumstances. 
See Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal. App. 4th 1193, 1206.  Attorneys’ negligence amounting to conduct
falling below the standard of care in the profession is imputed to their
clients, and does not constitute excusable neglect in support of relief under CCP
§473.  See Hopkins & Carley v.
Gens (2011) 200 Cal. App. 4th 1401, 1415. 
The court finds that defense counsel’s conduct does not fall under
excusable neglect.  See below for further
explanation.  Although courts favor order
granting relief under section 473, to effectuate the policy favoring trial on
the merits, that policy does not unilaterally prevail over competing interest;
“[w]hen inexcusable neglect is condoned even tacitly by the court, they
themselves unwitting become instruments undermining the orderly process of the
law.”  Id.  The court DENIES discretionary relief.
Mandatory relief under section
473(b) encompasses a dismissal entered as a terminating sanction for discovery
abuse.  Rodriguez v. Brill (2015)
234 Cal. App. 4th 715, 719, 725-26. 
Here, the court had ordered dismissal of defendant’s
cross-complaint.  An application for
mandatory relief under section 473(b) is in proper form only if both of the
following criteria are met:  (1) verified
discovery responses are delivered to opposing counsel before the hearing on the
application for relief and (2) the content of those responses substantially
complies with applicable requirements.  Id.
at 719-20.  As for mandatory relief, the
court finds that defendant’s application for relief is not in proper form as
defendant’s responses and production of documents does not substantially comply
as detailed by plaintiff.  Thus, the
court DENIES mandatory relief.
As for relieving defendant of the
deemed requests for admission, the motion is DENIED.  Under CCP §2033.300(b), “[t]he court may
permit withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.”  Defendant has not met its burden to meet the
requisite showing, especially that the defense counsel’s conduct was excusable
neglect.   Counsel admittedly failed to communicate with
his client until the day before the January 5, 2024 hearing on terminating
sanctions.  Defendant had several months
and numerous extensions and opportunities to serve supplemental responses.  Of note, at the hearing on November 29, the
court heard oral argument on the motion for terminating sanctions, indicating
that verified responses had not been served, and continued the motion, and yet
defendant still did not serve responses.
The Court notes that the multiple
failures by Defendant’s counsel are far to many to characterize those failins
as the product of “mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect.”  On the contrary, the history recited above is
such that the Court concludes that the conduct became intentional.  (Perhaps there was a belief by counsel that at
the end of the day he could fall on his sword and remedy any significant
adverse consequences to his client.)  In
any event, the court shall not relieve the party and attorney of the consequences
of this long history of discovery abuse.
 
ORDER
            The
motion is DENIED as to vacating
the court’s January 5, 2024 order.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.
            Moving
party [or prevailing party] is ordered to give notice of ruling.