 Case Number:  22TRCV01089    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
LAVALE
  GRAHAM, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV01089




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PINNACLE
  TECHNICAL RESOURCES, INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          April 3,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiff Lavale Graham, on
behalf of the State of California, as private attorney general
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion for Order
Approving Payment of Civil Penalties to the California Labor and Workforce
Development Agency of Settled Case
 
            The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  See Order and Judgment Approving PAGA
Settlement.
BACKGROUND
            On October 28, 2022, plaintiff
Lavale Graham, on behalf of the State of California, as a private attorney
general, filed a PAGA representative action complaint against Pinnacle
Technical Resources, Inc. 
            On August 9, 2023, defendant filed a
joint notice of settlement.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Labor Code §2699 states:  “(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, any provision of this code that provides for a civil penalty to be
assessed and collected by the Labor and Workforce Development Agency or any of
its departments, divisions, commissions, boards, agencies, or employees, for a
violation of this code, may, as an alternative, be recovered through a civil
action brought by an aggrieved employee on behalf of himself or herself and
other current or former employees pursuant to the procedures specified in
Section 2699.3. . . .
(g) 
Except as provided in paragraph (2), an aggrieved employee may recover
the civil penalty described in subdivision (f) in a civil action pursuant to
the procedures specified in Section 2699.3 filed on behalf of himself or
herself and other current or former employees against whom one or more of the
alleged violations was committed.  Any
employee who prevails in any action shall be entitled to an award of reasonable
attorney’s fees and costs, including any filing fee paid pursuant to
subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (a) or subparagraph (B) of
paragraph (1) of subdivision (c) of Section 2699.3. . . .
(i) 
Except as provided in subdivision (j), civil penalties recovered by
aggrieved employees shall be distributed as follows:  75 percent to the Labor and Workforce
Development Agency for enforcement of labor laws, including the administration
of this part, and for education of employers and employees about their rights
and responsibilities under this code, to be continuously appropriated to
supplement and not supplant the funding to the agency for those purposes; and
25 percent to the aggrieved employees.
(l) . . . . (2) The superior court
shall review and approve any settlement of any civil action filed pursuant to
this part. The proposed settlement shall be submitted to the agency at the same
time that it is submitted to the court.  (3)
A copy of the superior court’s judgment in any civil action filed pursuant to
this part and any other order in that action that either provides for or denies
an award of civil penalties under this code shall be submitted to the agency
within 10 days after entry of the judgment or order.”
Labor Code §2699.3 states:  “A civil action by an aggrieved employee
pursuant to subdivision (a) or (f) of Section 2699 alleging a violation of any
provision listed in Section 2699.5 shall commence only after the following
requirements have been met:
(1) 
(A) The aggrieved employee or
representative shall give written notice by online filing with the Labor and
Workforce Development Agency and by certified mail to the employer of the
specific provisions of this code alleged to have been violated, including the
facts and theories to support the alleged violation.
 
(B) A notice filed with the Labor
and Workforce Development Agency pursuant to subparagraph (A) and any employer
response to that notice shall be accompanied by a filing fee of seventy-five
dollars ($75). The fees required by this subparagraph are subject to waiver in
accordance with the requirements of Sections 68632 and 68633 of the Government
Code.
 
(C) The fees paid pursuant to
subparagraph (B) shall be paid into the Labor and Workforce Development Fund
and used for the purposes specified in subdivision (j) of Section 2699.
 
(2) 
(A) The agency shall notify the
employer and the aggrieved employee or representative by certified mail that it
does not intend to investigate the alleged violation within 60 calendar days of
the postmark date of the notice received pursuant to paragraph (1). Upon
receipt of that notice or if no notice is provided within 65 calendar days of
the postmark date of the notice given pursuant to paragraph (1), the aggrieved
employee may commence a civil action pursuant to Section 2699.
 
(B) If the agency intends to
investigate the alleged violation, it shall notify the employer and the
aggrieved employee or representative by certified mail of its decision within
33 calendar days of the postmark date of the notice received pursuant to paragraph
(1). Within 120 calendar days of that decision, the agency may investigate the
alleged violation and issue any appropriate citation. If the agency, during the
course of its investigation, determines that additional time is necessary to
complete the investigation, it may extend the time by not more than 60
additional calendar days and shall issue a notice of the extension. If the
agency determines that no citation will be issued, it shall notify the employer
and aggrieved employee of that decision within five business days thereof by
certified mail. Upon receipt of that notice or if no citation is issued by the
agency within the time limits prescribed by subparagraph (A) and this
subparagraph or if the agency fails to provide timely or any notification, the
aggrieved employee may commence a civil action pursuant to Section 2699.
 
(C) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, a plaintiff may as a matter of right amend an existing
complaint to add a cause of action arising under this part at any time within
60 days of the time periods specified in this part.
 
(D) The time limits prescribed by
this paragraph shall only apply if the notice required by paragraph (1) is
filed with the agency on or after July 1, 2016. For notices submitted prior to
July 1, 2016, the time limits in effect on the postmark date of the notice
shall apply. . . . 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff Lavale Graham requests court approval of a
settlement pursuant to PAGA on behalf of all current and former aggrieved
employees who worked for defendant Pinnacle during the period August 9, 2021 through
April 16, 2023.
            The complaint alleges that defendant
provides information technology service management and staffing/workforce
solutions.  Complaint, ¶5.  Plaintiff was employed by defendant in
California from April 2022 to June 2022 and was classified by defendant as a
non-exempt employee, paid on an hourly basis, and entitled to the legally
required meal and rest periods and payment of minimum and overtime wages due
for all time worked.  Id., ¶6.
            Plaintiff asserts that on July 13,
2023, the parties engaged in an all-day mediation session before Mediator
Walsh, “a respected and experienced mediator knowledgeable of both the wage and
hour laws and representative claims at issue in this action.”  Kyle Nordrehaug decl., ¶3.
The court finds that the settlement
was reached after arm’s length and good faith negotiations.  
            Defendant estimates approximately
394 Aggrieved Employees who worked a total of 7,339 pay periods during the PAGA
Period.
The parties agreed to a settlement
as follows:
-         
non-reversionary
Gross Settlement Amount - $392,500
-         
Settlement
Administrator Fee and Costs - $7,000
-         
Attorney’s
Costs - $11,000
-         
Attorney’s
Fees - $130,833
-         
Net
Settlement Amount (“NSA”) - $243,667
-         
LWDA
payment (75% of NSA) - $182,750.25
-         
Distribution
to Aggrieved Employees - $60,916.75
-         
Amount
per pay period - $53 (based on Gross PGA Settlement Amount)
 
Plaintiff contends that with the
assistance of an expert, plaintiff calculated the maximum amount of statutory
PAGA civil penalties was potentially $733,900. 
Nordrehaug decl., ¶6.
The court finds that plaintiff has
complied with the pre-filing requirements and has submitted the proposed
settlement to the LWDA pursuant to Labor Code § 2699(l)(2).  
As for the Settlement Administrator
(ILYM Group) fees and expenses of $7000, the court finds that the amount is supported.  Nordrehaug decl., ¶14.
As for attorney’s costs, plaintiff
incurred $11,079.13, and the requested capped costs award of $11,000 is less
than the actual costs incurred.  Nordrehaug
decl., ¶9.
As for attorney’s fees, plaintiff
requests approval of $130,833, representing a third of the Gross PAGA
Settlement Amount.  Plaintiff states that
PAGA Counsel’s current loadstar is $152,645 (based on 205 hours of work and
does not include time incurred after billing was finalized and time spent
managing the completion of the settlement.); thus, the requested award is less than
the loadstar.  See Nordrehaug decl., ¶8.  The court finds that the amount requested is
reasonable in light of the hours expended, the experience, reputation, and
ability of counsel, and results achieved.
The court finds that the settlement
is fair, reasonable, and adequate.
            The motion is GRANTED.
 
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  See Order and Judgment Approving PAGA
Settlement.
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.