 Case Number:  22STCV37215    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL SUPPLEMENTAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 10/11/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV37215 JEFFREY VEGAS vs
PROMENADE TOWERS LTD et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Promenade Towers 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL SUPPLEMENTAL RESPONSES ARE MOOT;
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
On July 19, 2024,
Defendant Promenade Towers served supplemental discovery requests on Plaintiff regarding
its first set of interrogatories and requests for production. After not
receiving any responses, Defendant sent a letter to Plaintiff’s attorney on
August 28, 2024, attempting to meet and confer but received no response. On
August 30, 2024, Defendant called Plaintiff’s counsel to further meet and
confer, but no one answered. As of September 6, 2024, the date this motion was
filed, Defendant had not received any responses to the supplemental discovery
requests, nor any communication from Plaintiff’s counsel.
Plaintiff filed an
opposition, stating that supplemental responses were served on September 17,
2024. In its Reply, Defendant did not dispute that the supplemental responses
had been served. Thus, the present motions are moot, but the issue of sanctions
remains.
Plaintiff’s counsel
explains that due to an administrative error, all emails related to the case
were inadvertently misdirected into a "Follow-Up" folder created by
her former assistant, Yuliana Vargas, who left the firm abruptly in early July 2024.
This error caused counsel to be unaware of communications from Defendant’s
counsel, including those concerning supplemental discovery requests. As a
result, Plaintiff missed the response deadline of August 28, 2024. The error
was discovered later while auditing the trial calendar, and once identified,
counsel took immediate action, serving the supplemental responses.
The Court accepts
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration regarding the administrative error, as no
evidence has been provided to suggest otherwise. Nonetheless, sanctions are
intended, in part, to compensate parties for having in having to incur attorney’s
fees in filing such motions. Given the untimely response and the lack of
communication, Defendant was forced to file the motion to obtain supplemental
responses. 
Accordingly, the Court
grants sanctions. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $1,481 for each
motion.  The Court reduces the requested sanctions
because (1) the motions are largely duplicative and do not warrant the same
amount of sanctions for each motion; and (2) Plaintiff's counsel promptly took
corrective action after discovering the error. The Court awards sanctions for
Defendant in the reasonable amount of $1,500 payable by Plaintiff’s counsel only
(sanctions are imposed against counsel only because the failure to respond to
the discovery requests resulted from an internal administrative error within
counsel’s office, over which Plaintiff had no control) within 20 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 