  Case Number:  20STCV12995    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY
ADJUDICATION
Hearing Date: 10/11/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV12995 MASON BREAUX vs
CARMINITA CORPORATION, et al.
Moving Party: Defendants Gore
Bros and 4301 Beverly
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED AS TO DEFENDANT GORE BROS
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS DENIED AS TO DEFENDANT 4301 BEVERLY
 
Background
This case involves an
accident that occurred on May 1, 2018, in which Plaintiff, while working for
Astromic, LLC ("Astromic"), was struck by a piece of concrete that
fell from the ceiling of a basement located at 4317 Beverly Boulevard, Los
Angeles, California. Defendant Gore Bros owns the property and leased it to
Defendant 4301 Beverly on July 15, 2016. Defendant 4301 Beverly then sublet the
property to Astromic on December 22, 2017. Defendants Gore Bros and 4301
Beverly contend that they conducted a reasonable pre-lease inspection of the
premises and found no defects in the basement celling where the concrete
allegedly fell. Defendants now move for summary judgment or in the alternative
summary adjudication based on their contention that they did not breach any
duty to Plaintiff and did not contribute to the subject incident.
Legal Standard 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has
no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of
action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the
cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry
its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied. (See Id.;
see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454,
468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting evidence can be in
the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to
interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely
rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing
the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary
function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.] Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v.
Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true. [Citation.] Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
 
Evidentiary Ruling 
The Court overrules
Plaintiffs’ Objection Numbers 1-15.
Undisputed Facts
·       Plaintiff
Mason Breaux claims that on May 1, 2018, he was struck by a piece of concrete
that fell from the ceiling of the basement of a building located at 4317
Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles, California
·       On
July 15, 2016, 4301 Beverly, as tenant, entered into a lease agreement (the
"Master Lease") with Gore Bros., Inc., the owner, for the property
located at 4305 and 4311-4325 and 4327 Beverly Boulevard, Los Angeles,
California.
·       The
portion of the Premises located at 4315 Beverly Boulevard (which is also known
as 4317 Beverly Boulevard) (the "Subject Property"), includes a
basement area (the “Basement”) where plaintiff alleges he was injured by the
piece of falling concrete.
·       For
more than two months prior to the commencement date of the Master Lease on July
15, 2016, representatives of Gore Bros. and 4301 Beverly conducted multiple
joint pre-lease inspections of the Premises, including the Subject Property and
Basement (“pre-lease inspections.”)
·       The
pre-lease inspections were conducted, in part, to determine, whether any unsafe
conditions or dangerous conditions that needed to be remedied existed.
·       On
December 22, 2017, 4301 Beverly, as Sublandlord, entered into a Sublease
agreement (hereinafter "Sublease") with Astromic, LLC, as subtenant,
·       From
November 2017 through March 2018, representatives of 4301 Beverly and Astromic
conducted multiple joint pre-sublease or sublease related inspections of the
Subject Property, including the Basement. 
·       Aside
from the pre-sublease inspection process, once the Astromic sublease commenced,
neither Gore Bros. nor 4301 Beverly had independent access to the Basement area
of the Subject Premises.
·       The
pre-sublease inspections were conducted, in part, to determine, whether any
unsafe conditions or dangerous conditions that needed to be remedied existed.
·       Astromic
did not inform 4301 Beverly of any dangerous condition in the basement ceiling
between the pre-sublease inspection to the time of the incident.
Law on Lessor/Landlord Liability
Lessors of property
need only make sure the property is safe at the beginning of a tenancy and thereafter
repair any hazards about which it later learns. (Stone v. Center Trust
Retail Properties, Inc. (2018) 163 Cal.App.4th 608, 611-13.) Because a
lessor relinquishes possessory interest in the land, his duty of care to third
parties is attenuated compared with that of the tenant, who retains possession
and control. (Id.) Before liability can be imposed on a lessor for a
third party’s injury from a dangerous condition on the land, the plaintiff must
therefore show that the lessor had actual knowledge of that condition and the
right and ability to cure it. (Id.) In addition, a commercial lessor's
duty with respect to inspections conducted immediately before the tenancy
begins are limited; as with a residential landlord, a commercial lessor's duty
to inspect charges the lessor "only with those matters which would have
been disclosed in a reasonable inspection." (Becker v. IRM Corp.
(1985) 38 Cal.3d 454, 469.) Public policy therefore precludes imposing
liability on a lessor for a dangerous condition which came into existence on
the premises after possession passed to a tenant. (Garcia v. Holt (2015)
242 Cal.App.4th 600, 604.) This rule is based on the principle that the
landlord has surrendered possession and control of the land to the tenant and
has no right even to enter without permission, and hence no power, opportunity,
and ability to eliminate the dangerous condition. It would not be reasonable to
hold a lessor liable if the lessor did not have the power, opportunity, and
ability to eliminate the dangerous condition. (Id.)
The central issue in
this case is a factual one: whether the lessor conducted a reasonable
inspection and should have discovered the alleged defect that caused Plaintiff's
injuries.
Defendants’ Initial Burden
During the 2016
pre-lease inspections, representatives of 4301 Beverly and Gore Bros. carefully
inspected the building, including the basement ceiling, but detected no unsafe
or dangerous conditions. Nothing suggested that any portion of the ceiling or
concrete might fall. (Weinstock Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.)
From November 2017 to
March 2018, representatives of 4301 Beverly, BB&H Engineering (4301
Beverly’s concrete contractor), and Astromic conducted multiple inspections of
the property, including the basement, to identify any unsafe conditions. These
inspections were comprehensive, especially due to BB&H’s work involving
concrete and rebar installation between the first floor and basement. No unsafe
conditions were observed in the basement ceiling during these inspections.
(Weinstock Decl., ¶¶ 13-17.)
Once Astromic’s
sublease began, neither Gore Bros. nor 4301 Beverly had independent access to
the basement. (Weinstock Decl., ¶ 21.) Astromic never notified Defendants of
any issue with the basement ceiling prior to the incident. (Weinstock Decl., ¶
25.)
Defendants have met
their initial burden. Gore Bros. and 4301 Beverly conducted a thorough
pre-lease inspection in 2016 and found no defects in the basement ceiling. In
2017-2018, 4301 Beverly, its concrete contractor BB&H Engineering, and
Astromic conducted multiple pre-lease inspections and found no dangerous
conditions in the basement ceiling. Evidence shows that Defendants had no
actual or constructive notice of the alleged defect during the pre-lease
inspections and no defects were reported to them after the property was
subleased to Astromic.
Plaintiff argues that
the inspection was insufficient because it was not performed by a general
contractor licensed by the American Concrete Institute, and BB&H did not
participate in the January 15, 2018, final walk-through. The Court is
unpersuaded by these arguments. A landlord is only required to conduct a
reasonable inspection. Defendants conducted thorough inspections of the
basement ceiling and the floor above in both 2016 and 2018, with no unsafe
conditions observed, nor any indication that any portion of the ceiling or
concrete might fall. Defendants are not required to exceed what is reasonably
expected of them.
Even if BB&H did
not participate in the final walk-through, they inspected the ceiling around
the same time and found no dangerous defects. The fact that BB&H did not
join the final walk-through does not undermine the argument that both Astromic and
4301 Beverly, who conducted the walk-through, found no defects. Accordingly, Defendants
have met their initial burden.
Triable Issue of Fact
Plaintiff introduced a
photograph taken on the date of the incident of the portion of the concrete
ceiling where segments of concrete allegedly fell on Plaintiff, showing various
holes in the ceiling and missing or loose segments of concrete about to break
off. (Plf's Exhibit 3.) Plaintiff’s expert, after examining the photograph,
opines that the area of the basement ceiling depicted shows clear evidence of
dangerous and unacceptable conditions, indicating concrete failure. The
photograph documents exposed rebar, loose segments of concrete likely to fall
and large holes in the ceiling, suggesting that sections had already fallen
prior to when the photograph was taken. (Hughes Decl., ¶ 11.) The most likely
cause of the exposed rebar, loose segments of concrete, and large ceiling holes
seen in photograph Exhibit 3 is either from: a) years-long process of the
concrete deteriorating over time, b) due to direct construction such as cutting
away the concrete, or a combination of the two. However, if these defects were
created as the result of construction, any reasonable contractor would have
repaired and/or removed the defects at the conclusion of their work. If these
conditions were caused by natural deterioration of the concrete, this would
constitute years-long process that would not have occurred over a period of
only four (4) months. (Hughes Decl., ¶ 15.) Absent exceptional circumstances,
such as a large earthquake or additional massive loading of the structure
affecting the basement, there is essentially no possibility that the conditions
seen in Exhibit 3 could have developed in only four-to-five months. (Hughes
Decl., ¶ 16.) The condition depicted in the photograph (Exhibit 3) is more
likely than not to reflect the condition of the ceiling as it existed at the
time of the January 15, 2018 final walk-through. (Hughes Decl., ¶ 17.) Any
proper, adequate, and reasonably thorough inspection of the premises should
have detected the defective condition. If the conditions seen in this
photograph existed at the time of a proper inspection, they should have been
detected and remedied or properly cordoned off. (Hughes Decl., ¶ 14.) 
The Court finds
Plaintiff’s expert’s reasoning persuasive. The photographs taken at the time of
the incident show significant deterioration of the ceiling, including cracks
and holes, which Plaintiff’s expert opines would have occurred either naturally
over a span of years, not merely four months, or as a result of construction.
If the construction work performed by BB&H created the defect, then 4301
Beverly should have detected it during the final walk-through before turning
over the premises to Astromic. An inference therefore can be drawn that the
defect existed at the time of the January 15, 2018, walk-through, but Defendant
4301 Beverly either overlooked it or ignored it.
Aside from Mr.
Weinstock’s declaration and the inspection check list, no other evidence
contradicts the expert's opinion. Although Defendant introduced one wide-angle
photograph of the basement (Def's Ex. 8), it does not provide sufficient detail
to determine whether the defects depicted in Plaintiff’s photograph (Plf's Ex. 3)
were visible during the January 2018 inspection. Despite claims that more
photographs were taken during the walk-through, no additional photos were
introduced into evidence. Furthermore, there is no indication that any
construction work or natural disaster occurred between January 2018 and May
2018 that could have caused the defect.
Defendant 4301 Beverly,
in its reply, disputes Hughes' opinion that by failing to detect the defective
conditions, Defendant fell below the standard of care in the construction
industry. Defendant contends that, as a commercial landlord and not a construction
professional, the standard described by Hughes does not apply to them. However,
upon reviewing the condition of the concrete (Plf's Exhibit 3), it is clear
that one does not need to be an expert in construction or concrete to recognize
that large holes in the ceiling, exposed rebar, and falling concrete pose a
clear safety risk. Any reasonable person would have either repaired the
condition or provided a warning, but 4301 Beverly did not do so, contributing
to Plaintiff’s injury. Moreover, Mr. Weinstock, who conducted the final
inspection in January 2018, testified that the holes depicted in the
photographs are exactly the type of defects he would have inspected for in the
concrete ceiling. (Weinstock Depo., 57:4-8.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiff
raised a triable issue of fact and 4301 Beverly’s MSJ and MSA[1] is
DENIED.
The bulk of Plaintiff’s
argument in the opposition and supporting evidence is primarily directed at
4301 Beverly and the 2018 inspection. For instance, Plaintiff argues that
"the defective conditions seen in Exhibit 3 existed at the time of the
January 2018 final walk-through" or that "the conditions seen in
Exhibit 3 were present four months prior when Defendants conducted the final
walk-through inspection on January 15, 2018."
There are little to no
arguments made regarding the existence of the defect during the 2016
inspection. While Plaintiff’s expert opines that the condition depicted in the
photograph would not have developed over a period of only four months and was
the result of a years-long process, Mr. Hughes stops short of concluding that
the crack existed during the 2016 inspection. This is reasonable given that
cracks could have formed during the two-year time period between the 2016
inspection and the 2018 incident. Aside from the expert testimony, Plaintiff
did not produce any other evidence relevant to the 2016 inspection. Thus,
Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of fact as to that inspection, and thus
the motion for summary judgment as to Gore Bros. is granted.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 


