 Case Number:  24PSCV01221    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  G Defendants Yuning Su and Plus & Beyond Express,  LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint   Respondent: Plaintiffs Dynatrans, Inc, and Shaoyue Li   TENTATIVE  RULING   Defendants Yuning Su and Plus & Beyond Express,  LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in  Department G (Pomona).   Defendants Yuning Su and Plus & Beyond Express, LLC’s  Counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiffs Dynatrans, Inc, and  Shaoyue Li’s Counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental  declaration describing such meet and confer efforts, including whether the  attempts were made by telephone, video conference, or in person, at least  nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.   BACKGROUND  This is an action for fraud and conversion. In 2017,  Plaintiff Dynatrans, Inc, (Dynatrans) hired Defendant Yuning Su. From 2022 to  2023, Dynatrans alleges Su mishandled and embezzled Dynatrans’ funds. After Su  quit in November 2023, Su allegedly attempted to steal Dynatrans’ business for  Defendant Plus & Beyond Express, LLC (P&B).   On April 16, 2024, Dynatrans and Shaoyue Li filed a  complaint against Su, P&B, and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes of  action: (1) actual interference with contractual relations, (2) intentional  interference with prospective economic advantage, (3) negligent interference  with prospective economic relations, (4) conversion, (5) Penal Code section  496, (6) breach of loyalty pursuant to Labor Code sections 2860 and 2863, (7)  intentional misrepresentation, (8) concealment, (9) false promise, (10) negligent  misrepresentation, and (11) cancellation of instrument. On September 12, 2024,  the court sustained Su and P&B’s demurrer to the Complaint in part with  leave to amend.   On October 14, 2024, Dynatrans and Li filed a First Amended  Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.   On November 15, 2024, Su and P&B filed the present  demurrer. A hearing on the present demurrer is set for January 15, 2025, along  with a case management conference.   ANALYSIS   Su and P&B demur to Dynatrans and Li’s seventh cause of  action (intentional misrepresentation), tenth cause of action (negligent  misrepresentation), and eleventh cause of action (cancellation of instrument). For  the following reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and  confer.   Legal Standard   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of  the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and  identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  430.41, subd. (a)(1).)   While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision  (a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a  demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer  process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or  concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it  retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with  an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a  demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas  v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355  & fn. 3.)   Discussion   In  this case, Su & P&B’s counsel provided a declaration stating counsel met and conferred  with Dynatrans and Li’s  counsel on October 31, 2024 by sending a detailed email. (Gross Decl., ¶ 3.) Because  an email is not a code-compliant means of meeting and conferring, the court  finds a continuance of the hearing on the demurrer is appropriate for parties  to further meet and confer.   CONCLUSION   Based on the foregoing, Su and P&B’s demurrer is CONTINUED to a  date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).   Su and P&B’s counsel is  also ordered to meet and confer with Dynatrans and Li’s counsel regarding the present  demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer  efforts, including whether the attempts were made by telephone, video  conference, or in person, at least nine (9) court days before the next  scheduled hearing on the demurrer.