 Case Number:  24PSCV00350    Hearing Date:   January 15, 2025    Dept:  G Plaintiff Ana Massiel
Garcia Castro’s Demurrer to Amended Answer to Second Amended Complaint
Respondent: Defendants Marvin
Antonio Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce Co. Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Ana Massiel
Garcia Castro’s Demurrer to Amended Answer to Second Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED
IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the third, seventh, and
eighth affirmative defenses and OVERRULED IN PART on all other grounds.
BACKGROUND
This
is a personal injury action arising from a motor vehicle collision. In May 2022,
Plaintiff Ana Massiel Garcia Castro was involved in a motor vehicle collision
with Defendant Marvin Antonio Hernandez on Azusa Avenue near State Route 60.
On
February 2, 2024, Garcia Castro filed a complaint against Hernandez, Westrux
International, Inc. (Westrux), and Does 1-20, alleging causes of action for (1)
motor vehicle negligence and (2) general negligence.
On
June 7, 2024, Garcia Castro filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against
Hernandez; Westrux; L.A. Specialty Produce Co. Inc. (L.A. Specialty Produce),
doing business as Vesta Foodservice; and Does 1-50, alleging the following
causes of action: (1) negligence, (2) negligent entrustment, and (3) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision. On August 21, 2024, the court granted
Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce’s motions to strike portions of the FAC
with leave to amend.
On
August 30, 2024, Garcia Castro filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against
Hernandez, L.A. Specialty Produce, and Does 1-50, alleging the same causes of
action. On October
29, 2024, the court denied Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce’s motion to
strike portions of the SAC.
On November
8, 2024, Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce filed an answer to the SAC. After
Garcia Castro demurred to the answer, Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce
filed a First Amended Answer (FAA) on November 18, 2024.
On November
22, 2024, Garcia Castro filed the present demurrer.
Prior to filing the present demurrer on November 19, 2024, Garcia Castro’s counsel attempted to
telephonically meet and confer with Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce’s
counsel. (Soofer Decl., ¶ 10.)
A
hearing on the present demurrer is set for January 15, 2025, along with an IDC
on February 5, 2025, and a CMC/status conference re: ADR on April 2, 2025.
ANALYSIS
Garcia
Castro demurs to Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce’s affirmative defenses
numbered 2 through 40. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to affirmative
defenses 3, 7, and 8, and OVERRULES the demurrer as to all other affirmative defenses
for Garcia Castro’s failure to adequately address them in the demurrer.
Legal Standard
An
answer to a complaint must include “[t]he general or specific denial of the
material allegations of the complaint controverted by the defendant” and “[a]
statement of any new matter constituting a defense.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
431.30, subd. (b).) The same pleading of ultimate facts rather than mere legal
conclusions required in a complaint is also required in pleading an answer. (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashimi (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.) Defenses
must be separately stated and refer to the causes of action they answer to.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (g).)
A
plaintiff can demur to an answer on the ground that “[t]he answer does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20,
subd. (a).) “Generally speaking, the determination whether an answer states a
defense is governed by the same principles which are applicable in determining
if a complaint states a cause of action.” (South Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal. App. 2d 725, 732.) “The determination of the sufficiency of the
answer requires an examination of the complaint because its adequacy is with
reference to the complaint it purports to answer.” (Id., at p. 733.)
Discussion
In
demurring to Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce’s FAA, Garcia Castro argues the
second through fortieth affirmative defenses constitute “boilerplate” defenses
that lack sufficiently alleged facts. However, Garcia Castro’s demurrer then
proceeds to only address and analyze the third, seventh, and eighth affirmative
defenses. Thus, the court’s analysis will be limited to these three affirmative
defenses as Garcia Castro failed to adequately develop an argument with respect
to the other defenses.
Active and Passive Conduct (Third Affirmative Defense)
Garcia
Castro argues there are no facts alleged to support Hernandez and L.A.
Specialty Produce’s third affirmative defense of active and passive conduct.
(Demurrer, p. 9:22-23.) The court agrees this defense is insufficiently pled. While
it alleges Garcia Castro or other’s conduct was tortious, active, and primary,
this allegation is devoid of any supporting allegations. (FAA, ¶ 4.) In
opposition, Hernandez
and L.A. Specialty Produce argue these allegations are sufficient to place Garcia
Castro on notice that they intent to introduce evidence that their actions were
not the substantial factor in causing Garcia Castro’s injuries. (Opp., p. 15:22-25.)
These allegations do not, however, place the court or Garcia Castro on notice
of anything other than the fact that Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce
assert this defense since there are no facts alleged to establish on what basis
they believe Garcia Castro or others engaged in tortious conduct that was the
substantial cause of Garcia Castro’s injuries.
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to this affirmative defense with leave to amend.
Failure to Mitigate (Seventh Affirmative Defense)
Garcia
Castro next contends Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce’s seventh affirmative
defense of failure to mitigate fails to allege any supporting facts. (Demurrer,
p. 10:16-18.) The court agrees it is insufficiently pled. Although this defense
is based on the allegation that Garcia Castro failed to mitigate, minimize, or
avoid the damages alleged in the SAC, it fails to include any allegations
establishing how Garcia Castro failed to do so. (FAA, ¶ 8.) In opposition, Hernandez
and L.A. Specialty Produce contend these allegations are sufficient as ultimate
facts. (Opp., p. 10:21-22.) But these are not ultimate facts; they are legal
conclusions as they make the conclusory allegation that this defense applies to
Garcia Castro without alleging any facts to support its application. (Cf.
O’Grady v. Merchant Exchange Productions, Inc. (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 771,
777 [holding courts do not accept legal conclusions as an appropriate form of
pleading].)
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to this affirmative defense with leave to amend.
Waiver and Estoppel (Eighth Affirmative Defense)
Garcia
Castro last maintains Hernandez and L.A. Specialty Produce’s eighth affirmative
defense of waiver and estoppel also fail to allege any supporting facts.
(Demurrer, p. 11:16-18.) The court agrees it is insufficiently pled. Although
this defense alleges Garcia Castro knowingly and voluntarily agreed to relieve Hernandez
and L.A. Specialty Produce of liability and engaged in conduct and activities
sufficient to constitute waiver, they do not allege a single fact to support
these defenses. (FAA, ¶ 9.)
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS the demurrer to this affirmative defense with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Garcia
Castro’s demurrer to Hernandez and L.A.
Specialty Produce’s FAA is SUSTAINED
IN PART with twenty (20) days leave
to amend as to the third, seventh, and eighth affirmative defenses and OVERRULED IN PART on all other grounds.