 Case Number:  22STCV03821    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  January 31, 2022, Plaintiff Iris Alcala (“Plaintiff”)  filed this action against Defendants Super Center Concepts, Inc., Superior  Grocers, Inc., and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.  On  September 2, 2022, Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba Superior Grocers  (“Defendant”) filed an answer.  On  February 13, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for protective order and for  sanctions to be heard on April 19, 2024. On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an  opposition.  On April 12, 2024, Defendant  filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for June 24, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to allow Plaintiff to inspect Defendant’s premises only between  7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on a Monday, Tuesday, Thursday or Friday.  Defendant also asks the Court to impose sanctions  on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Defendant.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060 provides in  part:  “(a) When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling  of documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has  been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other  party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion  shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.  “(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any  order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from  unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and  expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more  of the following directions:  * * *  “(4) That the inspection, copying, testing, or  sampling be made only on specified terms and conditions.  * * *  “(h) Except as provided in subdivision (i), the court  shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or  opposes a motion for a protective order, unless it finds  that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or  that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  “(i) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (h), absent  exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or  any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored  information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as the result  of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system.  “(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter  any obligation to preserve discoverable information.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060,  subds. (a), (b)(4), (h), (i).)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff  alleges that on November 16, 2020, she slipped and fell on a slippery substance  near the checkout line of Defendant’s premises, sustaining injuries.  (Complaint p. 6.)  On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff served an  amended request to inspect Defendant’s premises, including “testing,  inspecting, measuring, and/or photographing and videotaping the surface of the [premises],”  on December 13, 2023 at 12:00 p.m.  According  to Defendant, Plaintiff wishes to inspect Defendant’s premises at 11:00 a.m.,  which is a busy time for the store.   Defendant argues that the inspection would involve placement of a liquid  hazard on the floor, barricades, and redirection of traffic, drawing customer  attention. Defendant has asked Plaintiff to conduct the inspection before the  store opens or soon after it opens to minimize disruption.  The parties have met and conferred in an  attempt to resolve this dispute, without success.  Therefore, Defendant asks the Court to issue  a protective order allowing Plaintiff to inspect Defendant’s premises only between  7:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on a Monday, Tuesday, Thursday or Friday.  Plaintiff  responds that Defendant has failed to demonstrate that an inspection at 11:00 a.m. or afterward  would impose unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue  burden and expense on Defendant.   Plaintiff also argues that “inspections generally occur during business  hours to replicate the environment at the time of the incident.”  According to Plaintiff, the accident occurred  at 7:00 in the evening.  The  Court finds good cause and grants Defendant’s motion.  Plaintiff has not shown that an inspection during  the time frame Defendant requests will deprive Plaintiff of discovery to which  she is entitled.  Sanctions  are mandatory under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060, subdivision (h),  absent a finding that that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.  Defendant has not  explained how it calculated the amount of the sanctions it is requesting  ($707.50).  The Court therefore finds  that it would be unjust to grant Defendant’s request for sanctions.  CONCLUSION  The Court  GRANTS Defendant Super Center Concepts, Inc. dba Superior Grocers’s motion for  a protective order.  Plaintiff Iris Alcala’s inspection of Defendant’s premises will  take place between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00  a.m. on a Monday, Tuesday, Thursday or Friday. The Court denies both parties' requests for sanctions.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.