 Case Number:  24CHCV00362    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  F51 DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 24CHCV00362    Demurrer filed: 5/23/24   MOVING PARTY: Defendants Michael J. Doubet; and  Carter R. Taylor (collectively, “Defendants”) RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff  Jamie Mahjobi, in pro per (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants  demur to Plaintiff’s entire first amended complaint (“FAC”).   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30  days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    Plaintiff alleges that Defendants,  attorneys who represent nonparty David Fermelia in an underlying case, “intrude[d]  into [the] private record of plaintiff such as medical, personal, financial and  other privileged and private information” on an unspecified date. (FAC ¶ 1.)   On 2/6/24, Plaintiff filed her  original complaint against Defendants, alleging the following causes of action:  (1) Intrusion into Privacy; and (2) Harassment. On 4/17/24, Plaintiff filed her  FAC, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Invasion  of Privacy; (2) Aiding and Abetting Invasion of Privacy; (3) Intentional and  Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Harassment; (5) Defamation; (6)  Violation of Civil Rights; and (7) Conspiracy to Interfere with Civil Rights.   On 5/23/24, Defendants filed the  instant demurrer and request for judicial notice. On 8/28/24, Plaintiff filed her  opposition and objections thereto. On 9/3/24, Defendants filed their reply. // // // ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning  “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and  (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153  Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,  747.)   Here, Defendants  demur to the entire FAC on the bases that it is uncertain and that Plaintiff fails¿to  allege facts sufficient to state any cause of action therein.   A.    Meet-and-Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, Defendant’s counsel declares that he sent Plaintiff a  meet and confer letter on 3/14/24 discussing the issues raised in Defendant’s  demurrer and special Anti-SLAPP motion to strike against Plaintiff’s original  complaint. (Decl. of Michael J. Doubet, ¶¶ 45–47.) However, counsel fails to  make any showing of any meet and confer efforts regarding defects in  Plaintiff’s FAC. Nevertheless, “a determination by the court that the  meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or  sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)   B.      Litigation Privilege   As a  preliminary matter, Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s causes of action are  barred by the litigation privilege enumerated under Civil Code section 47.”  (Dem. 16:9–10.) Civil Code section 47 makes privileged any publication or  communication made “in any (1) legislative proceeding, (2) judicial proceeding,  (3) in any other official proceeding authorized by law, or (4) in the  initiation or course of any other proceeding authorized by law.” (Civ. Code ¶  47, subd. (b); Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212 [“The usual  formulation is that the privilege applies to any communication (1) made in  judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants  authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that  have some connection or logical relation to the action.”].)   Here,  Defendants argue that the instant action is based on their representation of  nonparty David Fermelia in an underlying medical malpractice action filed by  Plaintiff, Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 20STCV36767, namely that Defendants  served document subpoenas to obtain Plaintiff’s medical records in the  underlying action. Defendants argue that “it is clear that any cause of action  in the FAC, as claimed by Plaintiff, is in relation to the basic discovery  relative to the underlying lawsuit and the conduct of Moving Defendants made  within their capacity as attorneys in the underlying lawsuit. Moving Defendants  have had zero contact or interactions with Plaintiff outside of the  aforementioned conduct, and therefore Plaintiff’s allegations fit squarely  within the litigation privilege.” (Dem. 18:1–5.)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that the litigation privilege set forth under Civil Code  section 47 is inapplicable because “this is not about anything that was  communicated in court. This is about a plan by defendants and their clients to  intrude, abuse, defame , intimidate the plaintiff into submission.” (Pl.’s Opp.  4:11–14.) Looking to the allegations made in the FAC, the Court observes that  Plaintiff generally alleges that Defendants “invade and intruded into  plaintiff’s privacy, in that intrude into private record of plaintiff such as  medical, personal, financial and other privileged and private information  including Department of Social Services and transmitted that information to  third parties.” (FAC ¶ 1.) While the Court agrees with Defendants that the  litigation privilege protects Defendants’ discovery efforts in the underlying  action from being challenged in the instant action, this argument hinges on  matters extrinsic to the four corners of the FAC, which makes no direct reference  to discovery or the subject subpoenas. However, as set forth below, Plaintiff  has not sufficiently alleged facts to constitute any of the causes of action in  her FAC.   C.     Invasion of Privacy   Plaintiff’s  first cause of action alleges Invasion of Privacy, and her second cause of  action alleges Aiding and Abetting Invasion of Privacy. “An actionable claim  [for invasion of privacy] requires three essential elements: (1) the claimant  must possess a legally protected privacy interest; (2) the claimant’s  expectation of privacy must be objectively reasonable; and (3) the invasion of  privacy complained of must be serious in both its nature and scope.” (County  of Los Angeles v. Los Angeles County Employee Relations Commission (2013)  56 Cal.4th 905, 926.)   Patients  have a right to privacy in their medical information under the California  Constitution, although this right is not absolute. Invasion of a privacy  interest is not a violation of the California constitutional right to privacy  when the invasion is justified by a competing interest. (Fett v. Medical Bd.  of Cal. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 211, 221.) Matters that would otherwise be  protected by the constitutional right to privacy are discoverable only if they  are directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to a fair  resolution of the action. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d  833, 842.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that she holds a right to privacy under the California  Constitution, and that Defendants “invade and intruded into plaintiff’s  privacy, in that intrude into private record of plaintiff such as medical,  personal, financial and other privileged and private information including  Department of Social Services and transmitted that information to third  parties.” (FAC ¶ 1.)   Defendants  argue that “here, Plaintiff’s medical records from various medical providers  are relevant to this instant action for they contain information about injuries  and subsequent medical treatment as a result of the injuries Plaintiff is suing  for in the underlying lawsuit.” (Dem. 19:12–14.) “Despite the fact that  Plaintiff herself has placed her physical and mental condition at issue,  Plaintiff now supposedly contends that moving Defendants violated her privacy  rights by virtue of seeking her medical records and medical billing records in  a lawsuit, voluntarily filed, alleging medical negligence.” (Id. at 19:20–23.)  “The Court in the underlying lawsuit ruled that her medical records and medical  billing records are subject to discovery, and that Defendants, acting in  capacity as attorneys representing a Defendant in the underlying lawsuit, were  permitted to obtain Plaintiff’s medical and billing records. … the Court in the  underlying lawsuit has already ruled that Plaintiff’s medical conditions are at  issue and are discoverable.” (Id. at 20:1–6.)   In  opposition, Plaintiff argues that “here, the primary issue Is not only  malicious subpoenas but actions taken ‘Outside the scope of the subpoenas’ to  obtain private and confidential information.” (Pl.’s Opp. 5:19–20.) The Court  again notes that the FAC contains no specific allegations concerning the  discovery efforts taken by Defendants to obtain Plaintiff’s medical records in  the underlying medical malpractice action. However, to the extent that  Plaintiff disagrees with Judge Long’s substantive rulings on discovery matters  in the underlying LASC Case No. 20STCV36767, this Court lacks the jurisdiction  to interfere with those rulings. (Elsea v. Saberi (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th  625, 631 [“one department of the superior court cannot enjoin, restrain or  otherwise interfere with the judicial act of another department in the same  court.”].) To the extent that Plaintiff argues that Defendants invaded her  privacy through any other act or omission, such conduct is not sufficiently  alleged in the FAC.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action for Invasion of Privacy or Aiding and Abetting  Invasion of Privacy. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained against Plaintiff’s  first and second causes of action.   D.     Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress   Plaintiff’s  third cause of action alleges against Defendants Intentional and Negligent  Infliction of Emotional Distress. “The negligent causing of emotional distress  is not an independent tort, but the tort of negligence. The traditional  elements of duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages apply. Whether a  defendant owes a duty of care is a question of law.” (Spates v. Dameron  Hosp. Ass’n (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 213.)    “The  elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of  emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant  with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of  causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme  emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional  distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must  be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized  community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) “In  order to avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with ‘great[ ]  specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all  bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Yau v. Santa  Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160–161.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that “by reckless and malicious intrusion in to plaintiff’s  privacy, defendants caused and knew that that their action would cause  plaintiff mental and emotional injuries.” (FAC ¶ 8.) “Defendant’s action was  with malice, outrageous and was known to named defendants as attorneys to  violate plaintiff’s Constitutional right of privacy, and did so with careless  disregard of their sworn duties.” (Id. at ¶ 9.)   Defendants  argue that “the alleged conduct stems from a protected activity, the conduct of  Moving Defendants made within their capacity as attorneys in the underlying  lawsuit (See Code of Civil Procedure section 47(b)), and the alleged conduct  cannot meet the requite intention to either inflict injury or engage in conduct  with the realization that injury will result.” (Dem. 21:6–9, citing Christenson  v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903 [“The defendant must have  engaged in ‘conduct intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the  realization that injury will result.’”].)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that “the conduct is by definition outrageous , violation  of constitution rights , that is known to lead to mental and emotional  distress.” (Pl.’s Opp. 6:11–12.) However, the Court notes that Plaintiff cites  to no legal authority standing for her proposition that “the conduct is by  definition outrageous.” (Ibid.) Indeed, the Court reiterates that  despite Plaintiff’s failure to allege that her action stems from Defendants’  discovery efforts in the underlying action, to the extent that it does, this  Court may not disturb Judge Long’s rulings on those discovery matters. To the  extent that Plaintiff argues that Defendants engaged in any other extreme or  outrageous conduct through any other act or omission, giving rise to a cause of  action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, such conduct is not  sufficiently alleged in the FAC. Nor has Plaintiff pled the requisite elements  of a cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.     Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that  Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for  Intentional and Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress. Accordingly, the  demurrer is sustained against Plaintiff’s third cause of action.   E.      Harassment   Plaintiff’s  fourth cause of action alleges against Defendants Harassment. Civil harassment  includes “a knowing and willful course of harassing conduct directed at a  specific person that serves no legitimate purpose.” (CCP 527.6(b)(3).) Here,  Plaintiff alleges that “Defendant’s conduct which is continuing ,was and is  intended to harass , abuse defame, violate civil and conditional rights, cause  anguish , intimidate in to causing the plaintiff to relinquish her right to  take action against Fermelia in the malpractice action.” (FAC ¶ 11.)   Defendants  argue that “Plaintiff fails to identify any course of conduct, directed at a  specific person, that serves no legitimate purpose, that would cause a  reasonable person to suffer substantial emotional distress, which is not a  constitutionally protected activity.” (Dem. 22:4–7.) “Not only is the presumed  conduct done for a legitimate purpose, in defending Dr. Fermelia in the  underlying lawsuit and in the course of basic civil discovery, but the presumed  conduct is a constitutionally protected activity.” (Id. at 22:10–12.)   The Court  notes that at a demurrer proceeding, the Court does not weigh the merits of a  plaintiff’s factual allegations, but their sufficiency. Here, the Court  declines to make any finding regarding the legitimacy of Defendants’ conduct at  this stage. However, as set forth above, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not  sufficiently alleged the acts or omissions giving rise to the instant action.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action for Harassment. Accordingly, the demurrer is  sustained against Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action.   F.      Defamation   Plaintiff’s  fifth cause of action alleges Defamation against Defendants. The elements of a  cause of action for defamation are: “(1) a publication that is (2) false, (3)  defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a natural tendency to injure or  causes special damage. The defamatory statement must specifically refer to, or  be of and concerning, the plaintiff.” (John Doe 2 v. Superior Court  (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.)   Here,  Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants falsely ,with malice and to intrude and  obstruct due administration of justice and deprive the plaintiff of her right,  transmitted and continue to transmit false and malicious allegations that  plaintiff’s malpractice action against Fermelia is motivated by intend [sic] to  Abuse and Harass Fermelia.” (FAC ¶ 13.)   To the  extent that the alleged defamatory statements giving rise to Plaintiff’s cause  of action stem from Defendants’ representation of Dr. Fermelia in the  underlying action, the Court finds that these communications are protected by  the litigation privilege under Civil Code 47, as discussed above. However, to  the extent that the alleged defamatory statements are not within the scope of  the litigation in the underlying action, the Court agrees with Defendants that  Plaintiff has failed to sufficiently allege as such. “Without the precise  content of the communication, one cannot discern whether it was a statement of  fact, opinion, or hyperbole, nor whether it was true or false.” (Dem. 23:10–12.)   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action for Defamation. Accordingly, the demurrer is  sustained against Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action. // // // G.     Violation of Civil Rights   Plaintiff’s  sixth cause of action alleges Violation of Civil and Constitutional Rights  against Defendants, and her seventh cause of action alleges Conspiracy to  Interfere with Civil Rights, 42 U.S.C. 1985. Here, Plaintiff alleges that  Defendants acted to prevent Plaintiff from retaining an attorney. (FAC ¶¶  16–19.)   As  Defendants observe, “Plaintiff’s cause of action for Violation of Civil Rights  has no reference to any statute or case law. Based on the allegations contained  within the FAC, the only statute implicated is 42 U.S.C. Section 1985, as it is  cited in Plaintiff’s cause of action of conspiracy to interfere with civil  rights.” (Dem. 23:26–28.) Defendants further argue that “Plaintiff has merely  made conclusory allegations that a conspiracy existed and has failed to plead  facts in support of her claim.” (Id. at 24:11–12.)   Plaintiff  argues in opposition that “directing defendant Fermelia to sign a declaration  known to be Perjury and other actions that may rise to the intimidation for  personal gain to interfere with due administration of justice, does in fact  violate Civil rights and constitute a conspiracy.” (Pl.’s Opp. 7:15–17.)  However, the Court notes that Plaintiff fails to cite to any legal authority  supporting this contention. Furthermore, the Court agrees with Defendants that the  FAC is uncertain as to which civil or Constitutional rights Defendants  allegedly violated, or what acts or omissions constituted any such violations.   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action for Violation of Civil and Constitutional  Rights or Conspiracy to Interfere with Civil Rights. Accordingly, the demurrer  is sustained against Plaintiff’s sixth and seventh causes of action.   H.     Leave to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).¿    Here, the  Court notes that this is the first demurrer heard in this action, and Plaintiff  explicitly seeks leave to amend her FAC “if for any reason the court finds that  any cause of action is deficient.” (Pl.’s Opp. 8:7–9.) Accordingly, under the  Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, the Court grants Plaintiff  30 days leave to amend the complaint to cure the defects set forth above.    Plaintiff  is cautioned that to the extent that she intends to amend the FAC to allege any  wrongdoing within the scope of the underlying case (LASC Case No. 20STCV36767)  her claims are barred by the litigation privilege set forth by Civil Code  section 47, and this Court also lacks any jurisdiction to disturb Judge Long’s  rulings in the underlying action. Plaintiff is therefore cautioned that  “following an order sustaining a demurrer … with leave to amend, the plaintiff  may amend his or her complaint only as authorized by the court’s order. … The  plaintiff may not amend the complaint to add a new cause of action without  having obtained permission to do so, unless the new cause of action is within  the scope of the order granting leave to amend.” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019)  33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456.)   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend.