  Case Number:  21BBCV01025    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
paul baskaron,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
calibliss llc,  
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  21BBCV01025
 
  Hearing Date:  March 15, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Demurrer
 



 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Paul Baskaron (“Plaintiff”) commenced
this action on December 8, 2021.  He filed
the first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Calibliss LLC (“Calibliss”)
for dissolution and sale of the LLC on December 9, 2021.  
Paul Baskaron alleges that he, John
Mikhael, and Andrew Mekhail are each a member of Calibliss and they each hold a
1/3 interest in the LLC.  Paul Baskaron alleges
that the only asset Calibliss has is a conditional permit from the City of Palm
Springs to operate a marijuana dispensary on the land.  He alleges that Calibliss has no money to set
up the store and has done nothing to maintain the permit.  He alleges that the LLC business has been
abandoned.  Paul Baskaron alleges that
there are other entities that want to buy the permit for at least $2 million,
but Andrew Mekhail refuses to sell the permit. 
Thus, Paul Baskaron seeks dissolution of Calibliss under Corporation
Code, § 17707.03 and for an order that the marijuana license be sold. 
On January 20, 2022, the default of
Defendant Calibliss LLC was entered. 
B.    
Complaint-in-Intervention 
On October 7, 2022, Intervenor and Real
Party in Interest Andrew Mekhail filed a Complaint in Intervention.  
C.    
Cross-Complaint
On January 22, 2024, Andrew Mekhail (a
self-represented litigant) filed a cross-complaint against Paul Baskaron and
St. Paul Trading, LLC for: (1) tortious interference; (2) fraud and
misrepresentation; (3) declaratory relief; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5)
breach of contract; (6) negligent interference with prospective economic advantages;
and (7) declaratory and injunctive relief. 

D.   
Motions on Calendar 
On February 8, 2024, Cross-Defendants Paul
Baskaron and St. Paul Trading, LLC (“Cross-Defendants”) filed a demurrer to the
complaint and a motion to strike portions of the complaint.  
On March 8, 2024, Cross-Complainant Andrew
Mekhail filed an untimely opposition brief.  That same day, Cross-Defendants filed a notice
of non-opposition, stating that they were not in receipt of an opposition brief
by March 4, 2024, the due date of the opposition brief.  
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            With the demurrer
papers, Cross-Defendants
request judicial notice of Exhibit A,
which attaches Andrew Mekhail’s complaint filed on April 30, 2021 in the action
Andrew Mekhail v. Paul Baskaron et al., in the Superior Court of the
County of Riverside, Case No. CVSW2103528 (“Riverside Action”).  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
DISCUSSION RE
DEMURRER
            Cross-Defendants demur to the
complaint on the grounds that another action is pending and there is a failure
to join indispensable parties.  
First, Cross-Defendants argue that there
is an identical action pending in Riverside County as the cross-action filed by
Andrew Mekhail in this action.  CCP § 430.10(c) states that a party against
whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurer to the pleading on the
ground that there is another action pending between the same parties on the
same causes of action. This is also known as
a plea in abatement and in determining whether the causes of action are the
same, the rule is that such a plea may be maintained only where a judgment
in the first action would be a complete bar to the second action.  (Plant
Insulation Co. v. Fibreboard Corp. (1990) 224 Cal. App. 3d 781,
787-788.)  The rule of exclusive jurisdiction is that when two or
more tribunals in this state have concurrent jurisdiction, the tribunal first
assuming jurisdiction retains it to the exclusion of all other tribunals in
which the action might have been initiated.  (Stearns v. Los
Angeles City School Dist. (1966) 244 Cal. App. 2d 696, 708.)  Thereafter another tribunal, although it
might originally have taken jurisdiction, may be restrained by prohibition if
it attempts to proceed.  (Id.)  This rule avoids
unseemly conflict between Courts that might arise if they were free to make
contradictory decisions or awards at the same time or relating to the same
controversy.  (Id.)  Further, it protects litigants
from the expense and harassment of multiple litigation.  (Id.)  
The complaint in the Riverside Action is
alleged by Andrew Mekhail against Paul Baskaron and St. Paul Trading, LLC for:
(1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) intentional misrepresentation; (5)
conversion; (6) intentional interference with contractual relationships; (7)
negligent misrepresentation; (8) unjust enrichment; (9) accounting; and (10)
declaratory and injunctive relief.  In
the Riverside Action, Andrew Mekhail (in pro per) alleges that he is involved
in the cannabis dispensary business and formed Calibliss.  (Riverside Action Compl., ¶7.)  He alleges that he and his partner John Mikhael
pursued financing, real estate, and dispensary opportunities in the course of
their partnership.  (Id.)  Andrew Mekhail alleges that Paul Baskaron and
St. Paul Trading, LLC were impressed by Calibliss and proposed forming a
partnership to purchase a commercial real estate property and equally divide
costs of a dispensary.  (Id.,
¶8.)  Andrew Mekhail alleges that he
moved toward the acquisition of property suitable for the needs of the
partnership/business such that the parties agreed on December 11, 2019 to
purchase 560-562 S Indian Canyon Drive in Palm Springs, which was held in the
title of St. Paul Trading, LLC, but collectively owned by the 3 partners. (Id.,
¶9.)  Andrew Mekhail alleges that he and
John Mikhael agreed to grant Paul Baskaron 100% of the tax benefit from the
purchase of the property, but things changed when Andrew Mekhail and John
Mikhael found out that Paul Baskaron was actively planning on and pursuing
collateralization of the subject property without notice or authorization.  (Id., ¶11.)  Andrew Mekhail alleges that Paul Baskaron refuses
to correct the title.  (Id.,
¶12.)  
In the cross-complaint filed in this
action, Andrew Mekhail alleges causes of action for: (1) tortious interference;
(2) fraud and misrepresentation; (3) declaratory relief; (4) breach of
fiduciary duty; (5) breach of contract; (6) negligent interference with
prospective economic advantages; and (7) declaratory and injunctive relief.  He alleges that the parties agreed to
designate 560 S Indian Canyon Drive in Palm Springs as the business premises
and they agreed to designate St. Paul Trading, LLC as the titleholder for tax
purposes but with the intention to reassign the title to Andrew Mikhael after
completing the purchase.  (XC, ¶¶9, 11.)  Andrew Mekhail alleges that Paul Baskaron and
St. Paul Trading, LLC defaulted on this commitment and that they were engaged
in negotiations to utilize equity in the property for a separate gas station
business venture.  (Id.,
¶13.)  
            The allegations of the Riverside
Action complaint and the cross-complaint in this action are based on
essentially the same set of facts and include the same parties.  The Riverside Action complaint by Andrew Mekhail
was filed on April 30, 2021.  The
cross-complaint in this action was filed by Andrew Mekhail on January 22, 2024.  Judgment in the Riverside Action (the earlier
filed pleading) would have a res judicata effect on the cross-complaint in this
action.  
            In opposition, Andrew Mekhail argues
that the Riverside Action involves real property while his cross-complaint in
this action address the adverse effects of Paul Baskaron and St. Paul Trading,
LLC’s actions on his business.  (He also
argues that discovery in the Riverside Action is now closed and has been since
August 15, 2023, and that pre-trial exhibits have been exchanged.)  However, the allegations of the
cross-complaint in this action are based on the same set of facts and
circumstances as the complaint in the Riverside Action.  In addition, Andrew Mekhail is able to allege
his cross-claims in the Riverside Action complaint.  As such, the demurrer on this ground is
sustained.  
            Cross-Defendants also argue that a
third partner “John Doe” is alleged in the cross-complaint, but not identified
even though all parties know that this third party is John Mikhael.  Cross-Defendants this is another ground to
sustain the demurrer as he is an indispensable party to the
cross-complaint.  However, as discussed
above, there is already a sufficient ground to sustain the demurrer based on
the plea in abatement doctrine.  
DISCUSSION RE
MOTION TO STRIKE
Cross-Defendants move to strike the
cross-complaint in its entirety, arguing that the allegations in the
cross-complaint are identical to the facts alleged in another action pending in
Riverside County, which Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants have recently marked as
related.  
            In
light of the ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is taken off-calendar
as moot. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Cross-Defendants Paul Baskaron and St.
Paul Trading, LLC’s demurrer to Andrew Mekhail’s cross-complaint is sustained
without leave to amend. The cross-complaint is hereby dismissed with prejudice.

Cross-Defendants Paul Baskaron and St.
Paul Trading, LLC’s motion to strike is taken off-calendar as moot. 
Cross-Defendants shall provide notice of this
order.
 
 
DATED: March 15, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 