 Case Number:  23BBCV02555    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
adriana
  alvarado, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
lyft, inc., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  23BBCV02555
 
  Hearing Date:  March 15, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel arbitration 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Adriana Alvarado (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on September 8, 2023, she was a passenger in Defendant Ernie “Doe’s” white
GMC Terrain vehicle, which she hired through Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s (“Lyft”)
ride-share app.  Plaintiff alleges that
Ernie Doe drove dangerously, recklessly, and without regard for her safety by
running several red lights and driving at excessive speeds.  Plaintiff believes that Ernie Doe was
intoxicated by drugs or alcohol. 
Plaintiff alleges that while she was being driven by Ernie Doe, Ernie
Doe’s vehicle collided with the rear of another vehicle.
The complaint, filed October 31, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) motor vehicle; (2) general negligence; (3)
common carrier negligence; and (4) negligent hiring, supervision, and retention.
B.    
Motion on Calendar
On February 13,
2024, Lyft filed a motion to compel arbitration against Plaintiff.   
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice
of non-opposition stating that she does not object to the Court entering an
order compelling the parties to arbitrate the case.   
DISCUSSION

            Lyft moves to compel Plaintiff to
arbitrate her claims based on the Terms of Service in the Lyft App and pursuant
to the FAA.  
Lyft argues that
arbitration is proper based on Lyft’s Terms of Service, which Plaintiff
affirmatively accepted through the Lyft App on multiple, separate occasions before
the subject accident.  Lyft argues that
Plaintiff accepted the Terms of Service (and updates thereto), which included
an arbitration clause, on November 5, 2016 (September 30, 2016 Terms of
Service), November 3, 2019 (August 26, 2019 Terms of Service), April 18, 2021 (December
9, 2020 Terms of Service), and on February 4, 2023 (December 12, 2022 Terms of
Service, which were in effect at the time of the subject accident on September
8, 2023).  (McCachern Decl., ¶¶12-15;
Mot. Exhibits at Exs. 2-8.)  
The December
12, 2022 Lyft Terms of Service states in relevant part at section 17, entitled
“DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND ARBITRATION AGREEMENT”:
YOU AND LYFT MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE
RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN A COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE
TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY ARBITRATION, as set forth below.  …
Except as expressly provided below, ALL DISPUTES AND
CLAIMS BETWEEN US (EACH A “CLAIM” AND COLLECTIVELY, “CLAIMS”) SHALL BE
EXCLUSIVELY RESOLVED BY BINDING ARBITRATION SOLELY BETWEEN YOU AND LYFT. These
Claims include, but are not limited to, any dispute, claim or controversy,
whether based on past, present, or future events, arising out of or relating
to: this Agreement and prior version thereof …, the Lyft Platform, the
Rideshare Services, … any other goods or services made available through the
Lyft Platform, your relationship with Lyft, …. 
(Mot. Exhibits, Ex. 8 [12/12/22 Terms of
Service] at pp. 22-31.)  The arbitration
clause states that the agreement to arbitrate is governed by the FAA, includes
the rules governing arbitration, and has terms about arbitration fees and
awards.  (12/12/22 Terms of Service, §
17(a), (d), (e).)  
            Plaintiff’s
claims are regarding a motor vehicle accident and negligent conduct on the part
of Lyft’s driver that caused injuries to Plaintiff while she was riding in a
Lyft/rideshare vehicle.  According to the
arbitration clause, claims subject to arbitration include rideshare services,
such that Plaintiff’s claims would fall within the scope of the arbitration
agreement. 
            In
her notice of non-opposition, Plaintiff states that she does not object to the
Court issuing an order to compel the parties to arbitration.  She states that she offered to enter into a
stipulation to arbitrate her claims against Lyft, but Lyft’s proposed
stipulation was overbroad and did not preserve her right to arbitrate her
claims against Lyft.  (Non-Opp. at Exs.
A-B.)  As Plaintiff does not oppose this
motion, the matter will proceed to arbitration. 
There is no objection by Plaintiff regarding the enforceability and
scope of the arbitration clause, whether she signed the arbitration agreement,
or unconscionability. 
Accordingly, the
Court finds there is an enforceable agreement to arbitrate the claims asserted
in the complaint and the scope of the arbitration provisions are sufficiently
broad to cover the claims in this action between Plaintiff and Lyft.  Thus, the motion to compel arbitration is
granted.
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s
motion to compel arbitration is granted. 
Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant Lyft, Inc. shall proceed to
arbitration and the remainder of the claims alleged against Defendant Ernie
“Doe” shall be stayed pending the outcome of the arbitration.  
The Case Management Conference set for March
15, 2024 is taken off-calendar.  
The Court sets a Status Conference re:
Status of Arbitration for September 18, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.  
Defendant shall provide
notice of this order.
 
 
DATED: March 15, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 