 Case Number:  23BBCV01804    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
ramon
  enrique marquez mendez, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
walgreen co., et al.,  
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01804
    
  Hearing Date:  March 15, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to compel deposition of person
  most qualified  



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Ramon Enriquez Marquez Mendez
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that on February 2, 2022, Plaintiff was shopping inside Defendants
Walgreen Co., Walgreen National Corporation, Walgreen Boot Alliance, Inc., and Walgreens
Store #9491’s business at a Walgreens store in North Hollywood.  He alleges that there were multiple stacked
plastic crates filled with merchandise that fell and struck Plaintiff, injuring
his eye and causing orthopedic injuries. 
Plaintiff alleges that the Walgreens store’s premises was managed by
Defendant Stephanie Martinez.  
The complaint, filed August 7, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) general negligence; and (2) premises
liability.   
On August 30, 2023, the dismissal without
prejudice of the complaint filed against Defendants Walgreen National
Corporation and Walgreen Boot Alliance Inc., only was entered.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel the deposition of the person most qualified (“PMQ”) for Walgreen
Co.  Plaintiff requests $8,385 in
sanctions.  
            On March 4, 2024, Defendants Walgreen
Co. and Stephanie Martinez filed an opposition brief.  
On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief.    
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves to compel the
deposition of Walgreen Co.’s PMQ regarding corporate policies and procedures pursuant
to the notice served on November 13, 2023, and as amended on December 22,
2023.  (Mot. at Exs. 1 and 8; Opp., Ex. D
[Deposition Notice of Def.’s PMQ].)  Plaintiff
states that the latter deposition notice was intended to separate out issues,
matters, and policies and procedures into 2 separate PMQ deposition notices:
one related specifically to Store #9491 (which Defendant designated manager
Stephanie Martinez to testify on behalf of the store) and the other on corporate
policies and procedures in relation to Store #9491.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant produced Martinez
as the PMQ regarding Store #9491, but did not designate a corporate PMQ.  At Martinez’s deposition, Plaintiff argues
that Martinez was unable to testify about many topics as she was not qualified
to do so.  (Mot. at p.5; Mot., Ex. 9.)  
            In opposition, Defendant argues that
it produced Martinez as its PMQ and also produced for depositions a Shift Lead,
Angel Espinoza, who assisted Plaintiff after the incident and employee Kelly
Ramirez who spoke with the police after the incident.  Defendant argues that Martinez was deposed on
January 9, 2024, in her individual capacity, as well as in her capacity as the
PMQ.  It argues that Martinez is the
proper PMQ about Store #9491 and that a corporate witness to discuss policies
and procedures about all stores in the country is not relevant to this action.[1]  Defendant argues that Martinez was able to
testify about 21 different categories of deposition topics, though Defendant
acknowledges that her testimony about the purchase and installation of the
store security cameras was not complete. 
(Opp. at pp.8-9.)  
The deposition notice includes 16
categorical topics regarding which Plaintiff intended to depose the PMQ.  The separate statement addresses the
deposition categories and the requests for production of documents (“RPD”), but
does not include a request to seek a further response from Martinez regarding
her specific deposition answers.  At her
deposition, Martinez was able to testify about how to look for updates of
Defendant’s policies and procedures in her geographical region, how to use
Defendant’s StoreNet/Compass programs, general policies and procedures about
the specific store at issue, etc. 
However, to the extent that she was unable to answer deposition
questions or defense counsel objected, Plaintiff has not sought further
responses to these deposition questions. 
(Plaintiff highlighted certain questions, objections, and responses in
the deposition transcript, but they were not raised in the separate
statement.  [See Mot., Ex. 8.]  It does not appear that Plaintiff is seeking
to compel the continued deposition of Martinez by way of this motion.)  As such, the Court will only focus on the
categories and RPDs as listed in the separate statement. 
            The Court has reviewed the
categories at issue.  For example,
Category #1 asks about all of Defendant’s policies and procedures regarding the
use of security video surveillance cameras and monitors.  Category #2 asks about all policies and
procedures related to training Defendant’s employees.  Category #3 asks about all policies and
procedures regarding the hiring, training, supervision, and staffing of
managers and/or persons in a supervisory capacity at Defendant’s stores.  Category #4-#10 similarly seek to depose a
PMQ regarding Defendant’s policies and procedures generally and not limited to
the specific store at issue (as they refer to Defendant’s “stores”).  Category #11-16 are specifically regarding
Store #9491, the subject incident, and Martinez.  Defendant objected that the deposition
categories were not described with reasonable particularity and were vague and
overly broad.  
Based on the Court’s review, the
deposition topics are overbroad in scope. 
Category #1-#10 are not limited to the store where Plaintiff’s alleged
injury occurred or even to the State of California.  The categories refer to Defendant’s “stores”
without specification or geographical limitation.  While the proposed deposition categories are
generally and reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, they should be more narrowly tailored to information regarding the
geographical region where the injury occurred. 
The Court will designate this geographical area as Los Angeles and
Ventura Counties. This will aid Defendant’s PMQ in preparation so that he, she,
or they can focus on the topics and specific policies and procedures based on
the proper geographical location (as laws may and do differ across different
states), etc.  While it may be that
Martinez is the only PMQ that Defendant has and that it can and will designate to
testify regarding the subject store, it is evident that a corporate level
witness is necessary to discuss policies more broadly.  Based on the categories as written as to
Category #1-10, the motion to compel the PMQ deposition is granted, though the
scope of knowledge of those PMQ’s is narrowed to policies in effect in Los
Angeles and Ventura County.  The Court
denies the motion as to Category #11-#16 as Martinez was already produced to
speak about topics specific to the store and incident.   
            With respect to the RPDs, the motion
is granted, though the topics will be narrowed to correspond to the
geographical limitation above.  Defendant
must provide a written response in compliance with the Code of Civil Procedure
and must provide a privilege log if any documents are withheld on the basis of
privilege. The parties should meet and confer and cooperate in producing
documents to allow for production prior to the continued deposition.  Plaintiff argues that Defendant only produced
5 pages of documents total, bringing the full count of documents produced by
Defendant to 6 pages.  (Mot. at
p.6.)  It is apparent that documents
exist based on Martinez’s deposition testimony that Defendant updates its
policies and procedures on its internal programs and websites.  To the extent that the documents contain
proprietary information, Defendant should either produce a privilege log or the
parties should enter a protective order to preserve the confidentiality of any
proprietary/trade secret information. Moreover, as pointed out above,
Defendants must delineate the extent of their compliance with responses that
comply with the Code of Civil Procedure.  
            Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
granted in the total amount of $4,500.  
Defendant did not request sanctions. 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER  
Plaintiff Ramon
Enriquez Marquez Mendez’s motion to compel the deposition of the person most
qualified for Defendant Walgreen Co. regarding corporate policies and
procedures is granted.  Defendant Walgreen
Co. must produce a witness with knowledge of the corporate policies and
procedures in Los Angeles and Ventura Counties and must provide proper
responses to the document demands as limited to those counties, together with a
privilege log if documents are withheld on the basis of privilege.  Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is granted
in the amount of $4,500. 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: March 15, 2024                                           ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court 


