  Case Number:  20STCV19088    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV19088




MOTIONS:  


Compel
  Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Three 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Ulrike Zillner




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Maple Street Burbank Homeowners Association



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Ulrike Zillner (“Plaintiff”)
moves to compel Defendant Maple Street Burbank Homeowners Association (“Defendant”)
to respond to Form Interrogatories, Set Three, number 17.1. Plaintiff seeks monetary
sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, on March 31, 2023, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories, Set
Three on Defendant. Plaintiff granted extensions until May 30, 2023.
(Salumbides Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. A.) On May 30, 2023, Defendant served objections to
the discovery. (Id. ¶ 10, Exh. D.) Plaintiff argues the objections are
baseless and asks the Court to order Defendant to serve complete and verified
responses to the discovery. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues Plaintiff should have filed a motion
to compel further responses, and that Plaintiff also failed to follow the
procedures in the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. Defendant further
argues that its objections were valid.
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues a motion to compel is appropriate since
Defendant did not verify the responses. 
 
Unverified
discovery responses are tantamount to no response at all, and are subject to a
motion to compel responses (rather than a motion to compel further responses).¿
(Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-36.)¿¿However,
“[t]he party to whom the interrogatories are directed shall sign the response
under oath unless the response contains only objections.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.250(a) [emphasis added].) Here, because Defendant’s response
contains only objections, a verification is not required. Therefore, a motion
to compel is not appropriate, but rather a motion to compel further under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.300, which requires the moving party to meet
and confer, schedule and attend an informal discovery conference, and file a separate
statement. Moreover, even if the Court were to excuse the procedural defects,
Plaintiff has not included a copy of the RFAs to which Form Interrogatory 17.1
refers, nor has sufficiently addressed Defendant’s objections.
 
Therefore, the motion to compel is denied. Plaintiff’s request for
monetary sanctions is also denied. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Set Three
is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 