 Case Number:  23STCV00440    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  39 Francisco Coyt
Zavala v. General Motors, LLC
Case No.
23STCV00440
Motion to Compel
Further Responses
 
            NOTICE:  The Court will hear this motion at 10:30 a.m.
(not 8:30 a.m.)
 
Plaintiff Francisco Coyt Zavala (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act against General
Motors, LLC (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff
moves to compel further responses to requests for production of documents.  The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.  The Court orders Defendant to
produce the following documents, except those involving communications between
Defendant and counsel, to the extent it has not done so already within sixty
(60) days:
 
1.         Purchase
and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle.
 
2.         Repair
orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.
 
3.         Communications
with dealer, factory representative and/or call center concerning the subject
vehicle.
 
4.         Warranty
claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject
vehicle.
 
5.         Any
Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the date the
subject vehicle was purchased to the present.
 
6.         Any
internal analysis, investigation, and/or communications regarding the same defects
claimed by plaintiff in vehicles of the same year, make and model as the
subject vehicle which were sold within the State of California.
 
7.         Any
customer complaints regarding the same defects claimed by plaintiff in vehicles
of the same year, make and model as the subject vehicle which were sold within
the State of California.
 
8.         All
policies and/or procedures used to evaluate customer requests for repurchase
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, from the date of purchase
to the present.
 
9.         Technical
Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices regarding the same defects claimed by
plaintiff in vehicles of the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle
which were sold within the State of California.
 
10.       Any
documents supporting plaintiff’s claim for incidental and/or consequential
damages.
 
11.       All
documents concerning the decision whether to repurchase Plaintiff’s
vehicle.  
 
            The Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions (though Plaintiff may seek attorney’s
fees for the motion if she prevails). 
Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the
Court.            
 
 
 