  Case Number:  20STCV29154    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
James Chen and Eugenia Hsu,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV29154




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Yi Hu and Quishi Liang,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February
22, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Attorney’s Fees, Costs and Prejudgment Interest
Moving Party: Plaintiffs
James Chen and Eugenia Hsu 
Responding
Party: Defendants Yi Hu, Quishi Liang, Agape Home Health Serves, Inc.
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS/CROSS-DEFENDANTS
MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES, COSTS AND PREJUDGMENT INTEREST IS GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFFS/CROSS-DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 22, 2020, Plaintiffs James Chen and Eugenia Hsu filed a
first amended complaint against Defendants Yi Hu and Quishi Liang, asserting
causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) conversion; (3) accounting;
(4) constructive trust; and (5) misrepresentation. Plaintiffs sold Agape Home
Health Services, Inc. to Defendants in March 2020. Plaintiffs allege that the
sale did not include accounts receivable for services performed prior to March
2020. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants failed to pay Plaintiffs for all
receivables prior to the sale.
 
On October 24, 2023, the Court issued its statement of decision
following a bench trial. The Court found in favor of Plaintiffs on the causes
of action in the second amended complaint. The Court found in favor of
Defendants/Cross-Complainants on the cross-complaint's claim for conversion and
found in favor of Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants on the remaining claims. The
Court awarded Plaintiffs $291,732.85,
offset by $44,000 in preclosing accounts payable, and $56,000 in Agape checks
that the Court found were wrongfully converted by Plaintiffs, for a net award
of $191,732.85.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The prevailing party in “any action on a contract” shall be awarded
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred to enforce that contract where the contract
specifically provides for attorney’s fees.  (Civ. Code § 1717(a).)
 
A. Prevailing
Party
 
Plaintiffs assert they are
the prevailing parties because they received the net monetary recovery and
prevailed on most claims against Defendants/Cross-Complainants. In opposition,
Defendants argue Plaintiffs are not the prevailing party because they recovered
less than what was prayed for in the pleadings. 
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
the prevailing parties in this action. Plaintiffs received a net monetary
recovery and prevailed on a significant majority of claims against Defendants. 
 
B. Reasonableness of Fees
 
Plaintiffs move for $719,402.40 in attorney’s fees and $22,341.31 in remaining costs which were not
included in their Memorandum of Costs. Plaintiffs’ counsel Theodora Oringher PC
and Practus LLP billed 1,652.01 total hours through January 24, 2024. Counsel’s
hourly rates ranged from $250.00 to $800.00 per hour. Defendants assert
counsel’s hours are unreasonable and counsel’s hourly rates are excessive. The Court does not take issue with
counsel’s hourly rates nor finds counsel’s billing entries excessive. This
action lasted approximately four years, required complex discovery and
investigation, and culminated in a five-day trial. Counsel’s fees are
reasonable. The Court notes that counsel discounted rates and provided certain
courtesy discounts.
 
The Court declines to apportion fees among the various claims. The
claims of each side were intertwined, involving a common core of facts. 
 
C. Prejudgment
Interest
 
Plaintiffs move for prejudgment interest against Defendants and Cross Complainants Yi Hu and
Qiushi Liang in the amount of $68,761.77 and against Defendant Agape in the
amount of $48,131.93. The Court awarded prejudgment interest in its statement
of decision. Defendants do not oppose this aspect of the motion.
 
Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants
motion for attorney’s fees, costs and prejudgment interest is GRANTED.


 