 Case Number:  23STCV09776    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Lawana Denise Redman, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case 
No.:
 


 
23STCV09776




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Centre of Positive Essentials, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: February 22, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Centre of Positive
Essentials, Inc., Jeanne Steen, individually and as administrator of the Estate
of Mary B. Steen
Responding Party: Plaintiff Lawana Denise Redman
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. 
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE.  
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers
and opposition. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 27, 2023, Plaintiff Lawana
Denise Redman filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants
Centre of Positive Essentials, Inc., and Jeanne Steen, asserting causes of
action for (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing; (3) fraud; (4) negligence; (5) UCL violations; and (6)
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
 
Plaintiff, a former tenant of
Defendants, alleges Defendants unlawfully charged Plaintiff excess rent and
then threatened to evict Plaintiff.
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice
is GRANTED.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken
to the whole complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.
App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat
as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law. 
(Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
Defendants demur to the entire
complaint on the ground that Plaintiff failed to file a creditor’s claim
against the Estate of Mary B. Steen. Defendants assert that the subject rental
premises was an estate asset, barring all of Plaintiff’s claims against all
Defendants. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants Steen and Center of
Positive Essentials are being sued in their individual capacities for wrongs
they committed. Plaintiff alleges the named Defendants acted as property
managers, and Center of Positive Essentials is named as a party to the lease.
This is sufficient to allege claims against Defendants Steen and Center of
Positive Essentials.
 
Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
B. Motion to Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.) 
 
Punitive damages are available in noncontract cases where the defendant
is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civil Code § 3294(a).) 
Conclusory allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive
damages.  (See, e.g., Fisher v. San
Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 590, 620.)  However, “the stricken language must be read
not in isolation, but in the context of the facts alleged in the rest of
petitioner's complaint.”  (Perkins v. Superior
Court (1981) 117 Cal. App. 3d 1, 6.)
 
Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s
prayer for punitive damages on the ground that she has failed to allege malice,
oppression, or fraud with the requisite specificity. Plaintiff alleges
Defendants charged her excess rent and threatened her with eviction if she did
not pay. This is sufficient to allege malice, oppression, or fraud. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 