  Case Number:  24STCP02040    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  49 Jonathan Menlo v. Tzvi Fleischmann (1) PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD(2) PETITION TO CORRECT AND/OR VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD(3) MOTION TO DISMISS PETITION TO CORRECT AND/OR VACATE ARBITRATION AWARD MOVING PARTY: (1) Rampart Village Plaza LLC and Jonathan Menlo; (2) MCBY26, LLC and Tzvi Fleischmann; and (3) Rampart Village Plaza LLC and Jonathan MenloRESPONDING PARTY(S): (1) MCBY26, LLC and Tzvi Fleischmann; (2) Rampart Village Plaza LLC and Jonathan Menlo; and (3) MCBY26, LLC and Tzvi FleischmannSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: This matter arises following arbitration of a dispute before the Union of the Rabbinical Council of California between Rampart Village Plaza LLC and Jonathan Menlo (together, “Menlo”), on one hand, and MCBY26 LLC and Tzvi Fleischmann (together, “Fleischmann”), on the other. On June 6, 2024, the Arbitrators issued the Award in favor of Menlo and against Fleischmann in the amount of $2,872,050.01. There are three related matters before the court. First, Menlo moves to confirm the arbitration award. Second, Fleischmann moves to correct or vacate the award. Third, Menlo moves to dismiss Fleischmann’s petition to correct or vacate. Each petition/motion has been opposed and replied to.TENTATIVE RULING:Menlo’s Petition to Confirm the Arbitration Award is GRANTED. Fleischmann’s Petition to Correct or Vacate the Arbitration Award is DENIED.Menlo’s Motion to Dismiss Fleischmann’s Petition to Vacate is DENIED and/or MOOT.Menlo is ordered to file and serve a [Proposed] Judgment within 15 days incorporating the Arbitrator’s Award, and as consistent with this ruling.Menlo is ordered to give notice, unless waived.  DISCUSSION:Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award; Petition to Vacate AwardI. Request for Judicial NoticePursuant to the request of each party, the court takes judicial notice of Fleischmann’s Petition to Correct and/or Vacate the Arbitration Award filed in case no. 24STCP02743, as well as the resulting dismissal of that Petition. Pursuant to Fleischmann’s request, the court takes judicial notice of Exhs. A through O.II. Objections to EvidenceFleischmann has submitted objections to the declaration of Jacob Unger. This court is unaware of any legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)] or a special motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2)); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.)As such, this court respectfully declines to rule on these objections.  This court is well aware of the rules of evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the proposed evidence.III. Legal Standard  Any party to an arbitration may petition the court to confirm an arbitration award. (CCP § 1285.) If a petition to confirm an arbitration award is duly served and filed, the court must confirm the award as made, unless the court corrects or vacates the award pursuant to a response to the petition or a petition to correct or vacate the award. (CCP § 1286; Valsan Partners Limited Partnership v. Calcor Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 809, 818 [no authority to alter terms of award absent petition to correct].) A petition to confirm an arbitration award must set forth the substance of or attach the arbitration agreement, include the name of the arbitrator, and attach a copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrator, if any. (CCP § 1285.4.) The petition must be served no earlier than 10 days, but no later than 4 years, after service of the award on the petitioner. (CCP §§ 1288, 1288.4.)  The petition, written notice of the time and place of the hearing on the petition, and any other papers upon which the petition is based must be served in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for service of such petition and notice. (CCP § 1290.4(a).) If the arbitration agreement does not specify the required manner of service and the person being served has not yet appeared in the proceeding and has not yet previously been served, then service of the petition within the State must be made in the same manner as service of a summons and complaint pursuant to CCP section 415.10 et seq. (CCP § 1290.4(b)(1).) At least 10 days’ notice of the date set for the hearing on the petition must be given. (CCP §1290.2.) Service outside the state must be made by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested. (CCP § 1290.4(b)(2).) The proof of service must show such mailing together with the return receipt signed by the person served. (Id.) If service is made by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, the hearing on the petition may not be held until at least 30 days after the date of such notice. (Id.)As to arbitration awards, “[o]nly limited judicial review is available; courts may not review the merits of the controversy, the validity of the arbitrator’s reasoning, or the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the award.” (Shahinian v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 987, 999–1000.) “Thus, with ‘narrow exceptions,’ an arbitrator's decision is not reviewable for errors of fact or law.” (Ibid.) “This is so even if the error appears on the face of the award and causes substantial injustice.” (Ibid.)  IV. AnalysisMenlo moves to confirm the arbitration award. Fleischmann concurrently moves to vacate the award. Because the issues raised by the petitions are the same, the court addresses them together. A. BackgroundOn or about March 18, 2021, Rampart Village Plaza, LLC entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Vicino Limited Partnership. (Amended Petition, ¶ 1.) The loan was secured by property located at 329-335 South Rampart Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90057 (“Property”). (Id.) The Loan and Security Agreement contained an arbitration clause requiring execution of an Arbitration and Waiver of Right to Jury Trial Agreement. The agreement states:Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Disputes. The Parties agree that any Claim, defined below, involving the Loan, including, but not limited to claims arising from the origination, documentation, disclosure, servicing, collection or any other aspect of the Loan transaction or the coverage or enforceability of this Agreement, shall be resolved exclusively by binding arbitration under the terms of this Agreement. This Agreement shall also be binding on the agents, successors and assigns of the parties and the Loan.(Young Decl., Exh. B).On or about May 30, 2023, Rampart Village Plaza, LLC sold the Property to MCBY26, LLC. (Amended Petition, ¶ 2.) MCBY26, LLC allegedly breached the agreement for sale of the Property by defaulting on their payment obligations. (Id.) Accordingly, on or about September 21, 2023, Rampart Village Plaza, LLC filed a Demand for Arbitration with the Rabbinical Council of California. (Id.)On January 2, 2024 and March 18, 2024, the Arbitrators held hearings on the matter. (Id. ¶ 4.) On June 6, 2024, the Arbitrators issued the Award in favor of Menlo and Rampart Village Plaza LLC and against Fleischmann and MCBY26 LLC in the amount of $2,872,050.01. (Petition ¶ 5, Young Decl., Exh. E.)B. Timing of Petition and ResponseThe court begins with the following timeline: The arbitration award was served on Fleischmann on June 10, 2024. (Petition to Vacate, Attachment 8(c), p. 2). On June 24, 2024, Menlo filed the instant petition to confirm the arbitration award in this case, case no. 24STCP02040. Then, on August 27, 2024, Fleischmann filed a standalone petition to correct or vacate the arbitration award in a separate case, MCBY26, LLC, et al. v. Rampart Village Plaza, LLC, et al., case no. 24STCP02743. About a month later, on September 30, 2024, Fleischmann dismissed that petition. On October 3, 2024, Menlo filed the Amended Petition to confirm arbitration award. On December 6, 2024, Fleischman filed a second petition to correct or vacate the arbitration award, this time in the instant action. On December 19, 2024, Fleischmann filed a “response” to Menlo’s petition to confirm the award. The first issue raised is whether Fleischmann timely sought to vacate the award, either by a “response” to Menlo’s petition to confirm, or by a standalone motion to correct or vacate. “A request to vacate [an arbitration award] may be made either in a petition to vacate or in a response to the petition to confirm.” (L. Fin. Grp., LLC v. Key (2023) 14 Cal. 5th 932, 946, internal citations omitted.) Under the plain terms of sections 1288 and 1288.2, a party challenging an arbitration award has 100 days from the service of the final award to request that the arbitration award be vacated, and may do so via a standalone petition to vacate or via a response to a petition to confirm the award. (L. Fin. Grp., LLC v. Key (2023) 14 Cal. 5th 932, 946.) “[W]hile a petition to confirm an award may be served and filed within four years, the petition to vacate or correct an award must be served and filed within 100 days after the service of the award on the petitioner. [Citations.] The same 100–day limitation applies when vacation or correction of the award is sought by response…. To this latter rule there is only one exception. When the party petitions the court to confirm the award before the expiration of the 100–day period, respondent may seek vacation or correction of the award by way of response only if he serves and files his response within 10 days after the service of the petition (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1290.6).” (Oaktree Capital Management, L.P. v. Bernard (2010) 182 Cal. App. 4th 60, 66-67.)It is well settled that the above-stated rules are jurisdictional.  (Ibid.)Here, the arbitration award was served on Fleischmann on June 10, 2024. (Petition to Vacate, Attachment 8(c), p. 2.) He had 100-days from this date to respond, which falls on September 18, 2024. Thus, there can be no doubt that Fleischmann’s August 27, 2024, petition to vacate the award filed in the separate action was timely. Notably, however, Fleischmann voluntarily dismissed that petition.   As a result of that voluntary dismissal, it is as if that petition had never been filed in the first instance.  [FN 1]Using the same 100-day deadline, both Fleischmann’s “response” to the petition and standalone petition to vacate filed in the instant case are untimely on their face. Fleischman effectively concedes this point. However, Fleischmann contends that the time to respond should be “equitably tolled.” In support of equitable tolling, he asserts in his declaration that he dismissed his initial (timely) petition in the separate case for two reasons:“First, on filing of my Petition and at the request of the instant Petitioner, the Rabbinical Council threatened to have me excommunicated from the Jewish religious community, in which I am and have been an active member. Such excommunication would deeply affect my family, my relationships within the community, and would prevent me from leading prayer groups. It would be devastating to my life.” (Fleischmann Decl., ¶ 7.) “Second, I also agreed to dismiss my Petition based on an understanding with the opposing party that there would be no enforcement of the judgment until the lender involved in the underlying property debt determined the final amount owed following the upcoming property sale. Simultaneously the parties were working toward a global resolution of the entire matter. In reliance on this understanding, Respondents dismissed the Petition, with the belief that judgment enforcement would be held off until a conclusive assessment of the debt. Had this assurance not been provided, Respondents would not have dismissed the Petition. Therefore, equitable tolling should apply, as the dismissal was contingent on circumstances beyond Respondents' control, and the Petition would not have been abandoned absent this agreed-upon arrangement.” (Id. ¶ 8.)To evidence this “understanding,” Fleischmann also provides a declaration from his attorney, David. P. Beitchman. Beitchman provides emails exchanged between himself and former counsel for Menlo, Jacob Unger. (Beitchman Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. G.) The email chain begins with a discussion of Menlo’s attempt to increase the amount of the arbitration award. (See Beitchman Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. G.) On September 27, 2024, Beitchman wrote to Menlo’s former counsel Unger, in relevant part:Good morning Jacob- following on our discussions concerning the Beis Din matter, and in light of the agreement that there will be no enforcement efforts of the Judgment until such time as Vicino has determined a final amount owing, if any (based on the upcoming sale of the subject property), Mr. Fleischmann has decided to dismiss his Petition to Set Aside now pending in the LA Superior Court. That dismissal will be filed today, and you will be e-served with a copy of that dismissal. I will also transmit a conformed copy to the Beis Din once received.(Id.)That same day, Attorney Unger responded:We are very happy with this development and hope that Mr. Fleischmann resolves the outstanding balance with the Lender shortly, but we must object to the implication that there was any kind of agreement regarding the enforcement of the judgment. As I've mentioned in the past, we're amenable to an agreement in which we will hold off on enforcement of the judgment provided that Fleischmann executes an indemnification agreement in favor of Menlo secured by a deed of trust encumbering real estate with equity (in such amount and form as acceptable to Menlo in his sole discretion), but no such agreement has yet been reached.(Id., emphasis added.)In his declaration, Beitchman contends these emails “substantiate the understanding by the parties that no enforcement of the judgment would proceed until the lender determined the final amount owed based on the upcoming sale of the property. Based on this understanding, Respondents decided to dismiss his Petition, with the understanding that judgment enforcement would be paused during this determination process. Subsequently, it was determined that those representations were false.” (Id. ¶ 3.) He continues that “[t]his understanding was a crucial factor in Respondents’ decision to dismiss the Petition,” and [h]ad Respondents known that enforcement of the judgment would not be held in abeyance, he would not have dismissed the Petition.” (Id. ¶ 4.) He therefore “believe[s] that equitable tolling should apply, as the dismissal was based on a reasonable expectation induced by communications with opposing counsel.” (Id. ¶ 5.)Equitable tolling has been applied to the deadlines to challenge an arbitration award. In L. Fin. Grp., LLC v. Key (2023)14 Cal. 5th 932, Law Finance Group, LLC prevailed in arbitration against Sarah Plott Key and moved to confirm the award. (Id. at 941.) Key filed a response seeking vacatur of the award, but did so outside of the 100-day deadline. (Id.; see also CCP § 1288.2 [“A response requesting that an award be vacated…shall be served and filed not later than 100 days after the date of service of a signed copy of the award…”].) The issue before the Court was whether section 1288.2’s 100-day deadline was jurisdictional and, if not, whether the deadline is subject to the equitable doctrine of tolling and estoppel.As to the first question, the Court held that section 1288.2 does not limit a court’s “fundamental jurisdiction.”  “[W]e presume,” the Court concluded, “that the Legislature did not intend to limit the fundamental jurisdiction of the courts by enacting the 100-day deadline to challenge an arbitral award under section 1288.2.” (Id. at 951.) To the second question, the Court held that section 1288.2’s 100-day deadline does not preclude court’s from applying “traditional principles of equity,” and therefore, “section 1288.2 is subject to both equitable tolling and claims of equitable estoppel.” (Id. at 956.) The court also noted that equitable tolling “is not a cure-all for an entirely common state of affairs but instead applies only in carefully considered situations to prevent the unjust technical forfeiture of causes of action…” (L. Fin. Grp., LLC, supra, 14 Cal. 5th at 954–55, emphasis added [cleaned up].) For these reasons, “tolling of the 100-day period for seeking vacatur will be the exception, not the norm.” (Id.)“Equitable tolling is a judge-made doctrine ‘which operates independently of the literal wording of the Code of Civil Procedure’ to suspend or extend a statute of limitations as necessary to ensure fundamental practicality and fairness.” (California State Univ., Fresno Assn., Inc. v. Cnty. of Fresno (2017) 9 Cal. App. 5th 250, 268–69.) Generally, equitable tolling applies when three elements are present: “[(1)] timely notice, and [(2)] lack of prejudice, to the defendant, and [(3)] reasonable and good faith conduct on the part of the plaintiff.” (Saint Francis Mem'l Hosp. v. State Dep't of Pub. Health (2020) 9 Cal. 5th 710, 724–25.) These requirements are designed to “balanc[e] the injustice to the plaintiff occasioned by the bar of his claim against the effect upon the important public interest or policy expressed by the [operative] limitations statute.” (Id.) Here, considering the totality of the circumstances, equitable tolling is unavailable because Fleischmann has not established his “reasonable and good faith conduct.” (Saint Francis Mem'l Hosp., supra, 9 Cal. 5th at 724–25.) The emails provided by Fleischmann undoubtedly demonstrate that the parties might negotiate the terms of enforcing the judgment (or perhaps, that those negotiations were underway). Perhaps this could affect the need for the petition confirming or vacating an award.However, in the most recent email provided by Fleischmann, Menlo’s former counsel Unger expressly “object[ed] to the implication that there was any kind of agreement regarding the enforcement of the judgment.” (Beitchman Decl., Exh. G.) Unger continued that Menlo was “amenable to an agreement” to hold off on enforcement of the judgment, but reiterated that “no such agreement has yet been reached.” (Id.) This directly cuts against Fleischmann’s contention that there existed any “understanding” with Menlo that enforcement of the judgment would be postponed. It demonstrates just the opposite.Thus, despite the unambiguous representation on September 27 that no agreement had been reached regarding enforcement of the judgment, Fleischmann inexplicably proceeded to dismiss his initial petition to vacate days later on September 30, 2024. This court appreciates that Fleischmann’s dismissal of the petition might have been an effort to extend an olive branch. But while it might evince good faith, it was not reasonable to do so under the circumstances, at least for purposes of invoking equitable tolling. Were it otherwise, a party could equitably toll a statute of limitations any time the parties are negotiating matters underlying a pending deadline. Such a rule would effectively eviscerate any timeline or statute of limitations. “[T]he statutes make clear that” a motion to vacate an arbitration award “must be made promptly to promote the timely final resolution of the matters submitted to arbitration.” (L. Fin. Grp., LLC, supra, 14 Cal. 5th at 947.) Therefore, Fleischmann has not adequately demonstrated that equitable tolling applies, and his attempts to vacate the award, either by petition or response, are untimely. C. There are No Grounds to Vacate the Award Assuming in the alternative that Fleischmann had timely responded to the petition, or, that equitable tolling applies, the court addresses the Petitions on their merits. In support of vacating the award, Fleischmann advances three primary arguments. (See Petition to Vacate and Response to Petition to Confirm.) Each is addressed in turn.1. Denial of Continuance to Obtain CounselFirst, Fleischmann first argues that his rights were “substantially prejudiced” when the Rabbinical Council refused him a continuance to obtain counsel. Fleischmann states in his declaration:During the Arbitration, I wrote emails to the Rabbinical Council on at least March 18, 2024 and on or around June 5, 2024 saying that I wanted to retain an attorney before further hearing(s) would be conducted or a decision rendered. To the best of my understanding, I was never granted a continuance nor was a response by the Rabbinical Council provided to me on the issue of a continuance as there was no prejudice to either Rampart Village Plaza, LLC based on the facts of the case…(Fleischmann Decl. ¶ 4.) “Subject to Section 1286.4, the court shall vacate the award if the court determines…[t]he rights of the party were substantially prejudiced by the refusal of the arbitrators to postpone the hearing upon sufficient cause being shown therefor…” (CCP 1286(a)(5).)Here, Fleischmann has not established “sufficient cause” for the postponement or the denial thereof. When Fleischmann signed the agreement to submit to binding arbitration, he expressly agreed that “[a] party’s lack of legal or other representation shall not require delay or adjournment of the arbitration.” (Fleischmann Decl., Exh. A) (emphasis added.) In addition, Fleischman has failed to demonstrate that he ever actually requested or was denied a continuance to obtain counsel. The emails provided do no such thing. (See Fleischmann Decl., Exhs. E & F.) Rather, they merely demonstrate that he contemplated retaining counsel and recognized that he might be in over his head in defending the action. But this is not sufficient grounds to vacate the award.2. Party to Arbitration AgreementSecond, Fleischmann argues he was not a party to the arbitration agreement, and therefore, it was improper for the Council to render any award against him individually. For this point, he relies on CCP § 1287.2, which provides: “The court shall dismiss the proceeding under this chapter as to any person named as a respondent if the court determines that such person was not bound by the arbitration award and was not a party to the arbitration.” He also cites to Ikerd v. Warren T. Merrill & Sons (1992) 9 Cal. App. 4th 1833 for the proposition that an arbitration award cannot be confirmed against a party not served with the arbitration demand or made a party to the arbitration proceeding. Here, however, Fleischmann’s authorities are inapposite because he clearly was a party to, and actively participated in, the arbitration.  He actually signed the arbitration agreement in which he consented to same. Fleischmann’s argument is really about the arbitration agreement and not the arbitration itself. Fleischmann was a party to the arbitration agreement in his individual capacity. And in any event, whether Fleischmann was a proper party to the arbitration agreement in his individual capacity would appear to be a question of fact or law. It is settled that a reviewing court’s ability to correct or vacate an award is limited. “[A]n arbitrator's decision is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or law, whether or not such error appears on the face of the award and causes substantial injustice to the parties.” (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase¿(1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 6.) “Arbitrators do not exceed their statutory powers merely by rendering an erroneous decision on a legal or factual issue, so long as the issue was within the scope of the controversy submitted to the arbitrators.” (Roehl v. Ritchie (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 338, 348.) “So long as an arbitrator has . . . the power to decide that issue, his decision thereon cannot exceed his powers….” (Creative Plastering, Inc. v. Hedley Builders, Inc. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1662, 1666.) Therefore, this argument fails. 3. Arbitrators’ Failure to Disclose Purported ConflictsFinally, Fleischmann argues the arbitrators failed to disclose that the Rabbinical Council’s office where the arbitration hearings were taking place was owned and managed by Jonathan Menlo’s family, the managing member of Rampart. Under CCP § 1281.9, a neutral arbitrator “shall disclose all matters that could cause a person aware of the facts to reasonably entertain a doubt that the proposed neutral arbitrator would be able to be impartial, including…(6) [a]ny professional or significant personal relationship the proposed neutral arbitrator…has or has had with any party to the arbitration proceeding or lawyer for a party.” Thus, to the extant an arbitrator’s “relationships are substantial and involve financial considerations creating an impression of possible bias, they must be disclosed.” (Benjamin, Weill & Mazer v. Kors (2011) 195 Cal. App. 4th 40, 73.) An arbitrator’s failure to make the necessary disclosures “warrants vacation of his or her award.” (Id.; CCP § 1286.2.)In support of this argument, Fleischmann states in declaration:At the commencement of the Arbitration, I was not aware that the offices of the Rabbinical Council were located in offices owned by Jonathan Menlo’s family, who is the Managing Member of Rampart Village Plaza, LLC. The Arbitration Agreement listed the Rabbinical Council’s office as 3780 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 420, Los Angeles, California 90010, yet the hearings took place at 4221 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 390, Los Angeles, California 90010. Likewise, neither at the commencement of the Arbitration nor any time during the Arbitration were any disclosures provided to me by the Rabbinical Council nor any of the three Arbitrators who were presiding over the hearing of any kind. When I became aware of this item during the pendency of the Arbitration, I promptly objected. Additionally, when I brought up the issue of the lack of disclosures concerning this issue, no direct response was provided to me by the Arbitrators and no action on the topic was taken other than stating the Arbitration would then proceed without me. (Fleischmannn Decl. ¶ 3.) Here, as far as this court can tell, Fleischmann has presented no compelling evidence that there existed any actual conflict (e.g., that the arbitration was held at a location owned by a company affiliated with Menlo). Additionally, in opposition, Menlo presents evidence from his former counsel that the arbitrators did address the existence of possible conflicts at the first arbitration hearing. (Unger Decl. ¶¶ 5, 6.) Despite that, Fleischmann elected to proceed with the arbitration anyway. (Id.) On these facts, Fleischmann has not established this as a sufficient ground to vacate the award. Accordingly, Fleischmann’s Petition to Correct or Vacate the Arbitration Award is DENIED.D. The Arbitration Award is ConfirmedPetitioners have provided the arbitration agreement, the name of the arbitrator, and the Arbitration Award. (CCP § 1285.4.) The petition has also been served no earlier than 10 days, but no later than 4 years, after service of the award on the petitioner. (CCP §§ 1288, 1288.4.)  As discussed supra, Menlo has not established sufficient grounds to vacate or correct the award.Accordingly, Menlo’s Petition to Confirm the Arbitration Award is GRANTED. Menlo is ordered to file and serve a [Proposed] Judgment within 15 days incorporating the Arbitrator’s Award, and as consistent with this ruling.Menlo is ordered to give notice, unless waived.  Motion to Dismiss Petition to VacateMenlo has moved to dismiss Fleischmann’s petition as untimely. The timeliness of the petition was discussed in this ruling supra, and the court incorporates that discussion by reference here. While the court ultimately agrees that the petition was untimely, Menlo has cited no authority stating that a court should “dismiss” an untimely petition. Instead, that position has been duly considered.In any event, this is effectively a moot point. Fleischmann’s petition to vacate is denied as untimely and on its merits. Accordingly, Menlo’s Motion to Dismiss Fleischmann’s Petition to Vacate is DENIED and/or MOOT.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   January 17, 2025 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - Of course, Fleischmann was free to file a new petition to vacate, as he did, so long as that new petition was also filed within the 100-day period and/or within 10 days after the petition to confirm was filed.  There is no automatic tolling during the time the initial petition to vacate was pending. Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.