 Case Number:  22STCV02193    Hearing Date:   October 27, 2023    Dept:  30 WILSON BANEGAS vs NVARD YERVAND, et al.Motion to Compel Responses to Form InterrogatoriesMotion to Compel Responses to Special InterrogatoriesMotion to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted TENTATIVEDefendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Form Interrogatories (Set Two) is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ORDERED to serve verified responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set Two) within 30 days of Notice of Ruling. Defendants’ request for sanctions is DENIED. Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Special Interrogatories (Set Two) is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ORDERED to serve verified responses, without objection, to Defendants’ Special Interrogatories (Set Two) within 30 days of Notice of Ruling. Defendants’ request for sanctions is DENIED.Defendants’ motion to deem admitted Defendants’ Requests for Admission (Set One) to Plaintiff is GRANTED. The truth of the matters specified in Defendants’ Requests for Admission are deemed ADMITTED. Defendants’ request for sanctions is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $410. Plaintiff is ORDERED to pay a total of $585 to Defendants within 30 days of the issuance of this order.Moving party to provide notice.DISCUSSION Defendants served Form Interrogatories, Set Two, Special Interrogatories, Set Two, and Requests for Admission to Plaintiff on February 20, 2023. (Declarations of Leon A. Victor ISO FROGs, SROGs, ¶ 2, Ex. “A”; Declaration of Leon A. Victor ISO RFA, ¶ 5, Ex. “A.”)After granting Plaintiff multiple extensions, the final due date for the discovery requests was April 24, 2023. (Victor Decl. ISO FROG, SROGs, ¶ 6, Ex. “C”; Victor Decl. ISO RFA, ¶ 6, Ex. “B,””C.”) To date, no responses have been received. (Victor Decl. ISO FROG, SROGs, ¶ 7; Victor Decl. ISO RFA, ¶ 6.) A non-responding party waives the right to make any objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a); 2033.280, subd. (a).) Accordingly, Defendants are entitled to an order compelling responses to the following discovery, without objections: Form Interrogatories, Set Two, and Special Interrogatories, Set Two. Defendants are further entitled to an order deeming Requests for Admissions (Set One) admitted.For the Form and Special Interrogatories requests, the Court declines to impose sanctions on pro per Plaintiff who did not offer any opposition. However, sanctions under section Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.280, subdivision (c) are mandatory. In this instance, there are no circumstances that would make the imposition of sanctions unjust against Plaintiff. The Court grants Defendants’ request for sanctions but in the amount of $585 (3 hours incurred at hourly rate of $175, plus filing fee of $60).