  Case Number:  23AHCV01012     Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  X DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S IME    Plaintiff, a minor at the time of the incident, alleges he sustained a traumatic brain injury (TBI) and other cognitive, emotional, and psychological injuries because of an auto-versus-bicycle accident involving a DoorDash delivery driver.  Plaintiff testified to ongoing cognitive and emotional difficulties, including memory loss, vocabulary and problem-solving issues, depression, anxiety, and social challenges.  (Rothmeyer Decl., Exh. B.)  A Life Care Analysis report (produced during mediation) opines that Plaintiff will need future care, treatment, and intervention.  (Rothmeyer Decl., Exh. D., p. 5.)   Defendant moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to an independent medical examination with defense-retained expert Dr. Jo, to evaluate Plaintiff’s neuropsychological functioning, on the grounds that Plaintiff has put his mental and emotional condition in controversy.    Tentative Ruling  Defendant DoorDash, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to Appear for an Independent Medical Examination with Dr. Mi-Yeoung Jo is granted.  The IME shall take place within 30 days on a date and time to which the parties agree, at Dr. Jo’s office, located at 15335 Morrison Street, Suite 205, Sherman Oaks, California 91403.  Legal Authority and Analysis  If the defendant wants to obtain discovery by a mental examination, the defendant must obtain leave of court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (a).)  The motion for a mental examination, like the demand for a physical examination under section 2032.220, “shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).)  Section 2032.320 governs the order granting a motion for a mental examination.  To protect the plaintiff’s privacy interests from unnecessary intrusion, the mental examination may be ordered only upon a showing of good cause.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (a); see Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840 [former § 2036]; Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 427-428 [former § 2032, subd. (d)].)  In addition, the court in its order must set forth certain details of the examination: “An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (d).)   Defendant seeks to compel Plaintiff to undergo a neuropsychological examination with Dr. Jo, asserting that Plaintiff’s mental and emotional condition is in controversy and that good cause exists for the examination.  Defendant argues that the examination is necessary to independently evaluate Plaintiff’s claims and prepare its defense for trial.   Plaintiff opposes the motion, contending that the proposed IME is unnecessary, overly invasive, and biased.  While Plaintiff does not dispute the relevance of his mental condition in the case or Defendant’s right to a medical exam, he contests the selection of a biased examiner in a specialty where he has not sought treatment.  Plaintiff asserts that Defendant’s only evidence for potential treatment is derived from a confidential life care analysis produced during mediation, which the Plaintiff argues should not be considered.   Further, the opposition argues Plaintiff has already agreed to submit himself to examinations with specialists in neurology and psychology, which Defendant has declined.  Plaintiff has agreed to a medical examination by a physician within the same medical field relevant to his treatment, highlighting that the Defendant’s motion does not provide sufficient justification for the specific neuropsychological examination requested.  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s mental and emotional condition is in controversy.  Plaintiff has alleged significant cognitive, emotional, and psychological injuries resulting from the accident, including TBI, depression, anxiety, memory loss, vocabulary and problem-solving issues.  Plaintiff’s deposition testimony and discovery responses underscore the centrality of these claims to the litigation.  (The Court does not consider the Life Care Analysis report to the extent that it was produced during mediation and Plaintiff does not waive any mediation privilege.)  Plaintiff raises concerns about the potential bias of Dr. Jo and the intrusiveness of the proposed examination.  While the proposed examination may be lengthy and detailed, the scope of the examination is justified given the complexity of Plaintiff’s injury claims.  Plaintiff’s willingness to undergo examinations with a neurologist and psychologist does not negate Defendant’s ability (under the facts of this case) to select an expert in neuropsychology, a field directly relevant to the injuries alleged.   Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.020, subdivision (c) provides that, “[a] mental examination ...shall be performed by a licensed physician, or by a licensed clinical psychologist who holds a doctoral degree in psychology and has had at least five years of post-graduate experience in the diagnosis of emotional and mental disorders.”  Defendant provides Exhibit D, the curriculum vitae of Dr. Jo, which sets forth her education, experience and qualifications, and indicates that she is board certified in clinical neuropsychology with a subspecialty in pediatric neuropsychology.     Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (d) goes on to provide: “An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249 held that “the plain meaning of section 2032.320 is that the trial court must ‘specify the … diagnostic tests and procedures’ of the mental examination by naming the tests and procedures to be performed.”  (Id., at pp. 261-262.)  In the Notice of Motion, Defendant describes the diagnostic tests and procedures to be used in the proposed examination:  Dr. Jo will evaluate Plaintiff’s neuropsychological functioning which will include a clinical interview where questions about his history and current functioning will be asked.  Dr. Jo will also administer standardized test measures appropriate for Plaintiff’s age in the areas of intelligence, attention, processing speed, executive functioning, verbal and visual memory, language, visual-spatial skills, fine motor skills, and mood/emotional functioning.  Possible test measures to be used include the Adaptive Behavior Assessment System, Beck Youth Inventory, Behavior Assessment System for Children, Behavior Rating Inventory of Executive Function, California Verbal Learning Test for Children, Child and Adolescent Memory Profile, Children’s Category Test, Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Continuous Performance Test, Delis-Kaplan Tests of Executive Functioning, Expressive One-Word Picture Vocabulary Test, Finger Tapping, Grooved Pegboard Test, NEPSY, Performance Validity measures, Personality Assessment Inventory-Adolescent, Rey Complex Figure, Test of Visual Motor Integration, Tower of London, Trail Making Test, Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Woodcock-Johnson Tests of Achievement, and Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales.  Additional measures may be added or substituted depending on Plaintiff’s presentation on the day of the evaluation.  The evaluation will also include a parent interview regarding Plaintiff’s history and functioning, and completion of standardized parent/caretaker questionnaires.  (Motion, p. 2.)  The description of the techniques to be implemented by the examiner is sufficient.  As Defendant has demonstrated good cause for the requested neuropsychology examination, the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel.


PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL ANSWERS TO DEPOSITION QUESTIONS  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant improperly instructed its PMQ, Samuel Spencer, not to answer certain questions, while Defendant argues that its objections were proper and that Plaintiff failed to meet and confer in good faith prior to filing this motion.  Plaintiff moves to compel further deposition testimony from Defendant’s PMQ regarding unanswered questions during his deposition on September 26, 2024.   Tentative Ruling  Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel is GRANTED in granted in part and DENIED in part.  Unless otherwise agreed to by the parties, Defendant DoorDash, Inc., shall produce its PMQ, Samuel Spencer, to answer the questions to which objections have been overruled.  Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j); Mattco Valley Forge v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1437 [court’s discretion to deny sanctions upon mixed results].)  Legal Standard and Analysis  “Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.  Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §2017.010.)  “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.  The person deposed may be a natural person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership, an association, or a governmental agency.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  “If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(a); see Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1015, n. 3 [the only proper basis to instruct a deponent to not answer a question is an objection based upon a privilege or manifestly irrelevant questions or questions designed to harass.])  “If the court determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480(i).)  First, regarding Defendant’s argument on Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts, the Court determines that Plaintiff’s efforts are acceptable under the circumstances in this case.    Second, as to the merits of the motion, Plaintiff argues that the questions posed to Defendant DoorDash’s PMQ were relevant and within the scope of the deposition notice (DeSantis Decl., Exh. A), which identified 23 categories, including policies and procedures related to onboarding a new dasher, deactivation of dasher drivers for failure to properly operate their vehicle while engaged in delivery, policies and procedures regarding dasher acceptance rates, training, background checks and drug testing of Driver Dews.  Plaintiff contends that the unanswered questions sought information critical to the claims and defenses in this case and did not invade any privilege, privacy, or otherwise protected communications.  Further, Plaintiff argues Defendant should have instead sought a protective order to limit the scope of the questioning, rather than instructing the PMQ not to answer.  In response to Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant counters that several questions were outside the scope of the deposition notice, improperly sought legal contentions, or required the PMQ to speculate on matters not reasonably known to him.  Defendant also asserts that some questions potentially implicated attorney-client privilege.  As set forth below, Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part and denied in part.    Question: Assuming lying to a reporting police officer in his investigation of a collision is against the law, DoorDash would not want one of its Dashers to do that; correct? Objection:  Calls for legal conclusion, speculation, lacks foundation. Ruling:  Sustained.  Question:  What about any knowledge that you have outside of your personal involvement that it [the start up process of becoming a Dasher] should be modified in some way? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, calls for speculation, vague and ambiguous. Ruling:  Overruled.  Question:  Are you aware of DoorDash ever contemplating making its quote/unquote training of the potential Dasher more expansive? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, calls for speculation. Ruling:  Overruled.   Question:  Are you aware of DoorDash ever contemplating adding a multiple-choice question/answer that the Dasher had to respond to prior to being granted access to the application to dash? Objection: Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, calls for speculation. Ruling:  Overruled.    Question:  Has DoorDash contemplated whether or not a Dasher is competent to understand the safety course it requires the potential Dasher to agree to? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, calls for speculation. Ruling:  Overruled.   Question:  Would you agree that DoorDash’s business creates inherent risks of increased car collisions that would not happen but for DoorDash’s application? Objection:  Calls for legal conclusion, lacks foundation, argumentative. Ruling:  Sustained as to legal conclusion.  Question:  Does DoorDash’s application increase the risk of car collisions occurring on the roadway? Objection:  Calls for expert opinion. Ruling:  Sustained as to legal conclusion.  Question:  You would agree, sir, that it’s foreseeable for DoorDash that a Dasher gets involved in a collision and that collision would not occur but for DoorDash’s platform, correct? Objection:  Improper legal contention question. Ruling:  Sustained as to legal conclusion.  Question:  If DoorDash did not give Mr. Dews the opportunity to pick up and deliver that order to a DoorDash customer, this subject collision involving 14-year-old Alex Ancheta does not occur; correct? Objection:  Calls for speculation, improper hypothetical, legal conclusion, expert opinion. Ruling:  Overruled.  Question:  The subject collision does not occur if DoorDash did not communicate with Mr. Dews regarding this DoorDash order; correct? Objection:  Vague and ambiguous, unintelligible, calls for speculation. Ruling:  Overruled.  Question:  There is no subject collision if DoorDash did not communicate with Mr. Dews where it needed him to drop off the items to the DoorDash consumer; correct? Objection:  Vague and ambiguous, calls for speculation. Ruling:  Overruled.  Question:  Are you aware of officials in Boston, New York, and Washington, D.C., cracking down on DoorDash by issuing them warning letters? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, lacks foundation, calls for speculation. Ruling:  Overruled.  Question:  Are you aware of a survey of delivery drivers, including but not limited to DoorDash in New York City, finding that 49 percent of the drivers surveyed had been in an accident while working? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, lacks foundation. Ruling:  Overruled.  Question:  Are you aware of how much money DoorDash spent on Prop. 22 in California? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, irrelevant. Ruling:  Sustained.    Question:  Are you aware of DoorDash responding to the UN’s inquiries regarding this letter? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, irrelevant. Ruling:  Overruled.    Question:  Regarding the misclassification of Dashers? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, improper legal contention question. Ruling:  Sustained as to the legal conclusion.  Question:  Are you aware of San Francisco city opening up a formal investigation into DoorDash in 2019 after media reports reported the company was using customer tips to subsidize workers base pay? Objection: Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, irrelevant. Ruling:  Overruled.  Question:  Are you aware of San Francisco city alleging DoorDash was violating San Francisco’s health care benefit and paid sick leave laws by misclassifying workers as independent contractors, rather than employees? Objection:  Outside the scope of the notice of deposition, improper legal contention question. 
Ruling:  Overruled.  