 Case Number:  23SMCV05095    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff John Oursland’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.Plaintiff John Oursland to give notice. REASONINGCode of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), allows a Court to reconsider a prior order as follows:When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.Plaintiff John Oursland (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order reconsidering its May 29, 2024 order granting Defendants Joseph W. Sherman and Catherine Bampoky (“Defendants”)’s Motion to Be Relieved from Admissions (CCP §2033.300(a)) on the ground that the service address for Defendants was incorrect based on a misspelling of the word terrace, and the Court found Defendants’ testimony credible. Plaintiff argues in the present motion that it was unable to brief this issue because it was not included in Defendants’ opposition, but after review of the situation, newly discovered facts show that Defendants received the paperwork on December 13, 2023. Plaintiff states he recovered FedEx envelope slips for the discovery requests, and the FedEx database confirms that the envelopes were delivered to Defendants’ residence. (Mot., Gerber Decl. ¶ 7.) The Court has reviewed the subject exhibits and notes that they only show delivery to an address, not delivery to Defendants’ specific address, and there was no signature required such that the Court can confirm this is Defendants’ address.Plaintiff also argues that Defendants filed non-code compliant responses to interrogatories on December 18, 2023, but this does not conclusively show that the requests for admission were received. Plaintiff also points to a request in response to interrogatories that the Court deny monetary sanctions as proof that the requests for admission were received, but many parties include such a request even where no sanctions have been requested as a way to cover all the bases. Plaintiff also argues that no mail was returned as undeliverable, but the Court is not prepared to rely on this fact as evidence that the mail was delivered to Defendants’ address. Finally, the fact that there is not an address of 6 Seaview Terrance does not show that the mail could have been delivered only to 6 Seaview Terrace, as the Court cannot determine conclusively that the mail was able to make it through each stage of the postal office process without issue when the address was incorrect. For these reasons, Plaintiff John Oursland’s Motion for Reconsideration is DENIED.