 Case Number:  21STCV40755    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
November 4, 2021, Plaintiff Gregory Horatio Sheran (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Prashanthi Manoharan (“Defendant”) and Does 1-25 for negligence. 
On
December 13, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed motions to compel
Defendant’s response to request for production, set one, special
interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one, to be heard on March
11, 2024.  On February 27, 2024,
Defendant filed an opposition. 

Trial
is currently scheduled for April 12, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to compel Defendant to serve verified code compliant responses,
without objections, to request for production, set one, special
interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one.  Plaintiff also asks the Court to impose
sanctions on Defendant. 
Defendant
asks the Court to deny the motions and sanctions requests.
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Inspection demand 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides: 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent exceptional
circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or any attorney
of a party for failure to provide electronically stored information that has
been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of the routine, good
faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
B.   Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides: 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling answers, the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that sanction,
the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff
asserts that he served request for production, set one, special interrogatories,
set one, and form interrogatories, set one, “on or around February 2023.”  Plaintiff’s counsel has submitted declarations
stating that the request for production, special interrogatories, form
interrogatories, and meet and confer correspondence with Defendant’s counsel
are attached as exhibits to counsel’s declarations.  They are not.  
On
February 5, 2024, Defendant served verified responses to the request for
production, special interrogatories, and form interrogatories.  Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s motions are therefore moot and the Court should deny Plaintiff’s requests
for sanctions.  Plaintiff did not file a
reply. 
Absent any response from Plaintiff disputing receipt
of Defendant’s discovery responses, the Court denies the motions as moot.  Because the Court denies the motions,
sanctions are not available.  (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c) [authorizing award of sanctions against party
who “unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling” (emphasis added); Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c) [authorizing award of sanctions against party
who “unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to interrogatories” (emphasis added].) 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES as moot Plaintiff Gregory Horatio
Sheran’s motion to compel Defendant Prashanthi Manoharan’s responses to request
for production, set one. 
The Court DENIES as moot
Plaintiff Gregory Horatio Sheran’s motion to compel Defendant Prashanthi
Manoharan’s responses to special interrogatories, set one. 
The Court DENIES as moot Plaintiff Gregory Horatio
Sheran’s motion to compel Defendant Prashanthi Manoharan’s responses to form
interrogatories, set one. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff Gregory Horatio Sheran’s requests
for sanctions. Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days. 