  Case Number:  21STCV18585    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  May 18, 2021, Plaintiff Rose Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against  Defendant Forever Caring and Does 1-50 for general negligence.  On  October 19, 2021, Defendant Graceful Senescence Adult  Day dba Forever Caring Adult Day Health Care (“Defendant”) filed an answer.  On November 17, 2021, Defendant filed a notice of errata stating its correct  name is Graceful Senescence Adult Day Health Care, Inc. dba Forever Caring  Adult Day Health Care.  On  December 11, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for protective order re: demand for  exchange of expert witness information.   Plaintiff did not file an opposition.  On  March 5, 2024, the Court granted Freddie Haffner’s request to be appointed  successor-in-interest to Plaintiff, who passed away in 2022.  No trial  date is currently scheduled.  PARTY’S REQUEST  Defendant  asks the Court either (1) to declare invalid the demand to exchange expert witness  information served by counsel for the deceased Plaintiff or (2) to relieve  Defendant from the obligation to comply with the demand.  Defendant also asks the Court to impose  sanctions on counsel for the deceased Plaintiff.  LEGAL STANDARD            Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.250 provides in part:   “(a) A party who has been served with a demand to  exchange information concerning expert trial witnesses may promptly move for a  protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer  declaration under Section 2016.040.  "(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any  order that justice requires to protect any party from unwarranted annoyance,  embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense. The protective order  may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:  “(1) That the demand be quashed because it was not  timely served.  “(2) That the date of exchange be earlier or later  than that specified in the demand.  “(3) That the exchange be made only on specified terms  and conditions.  “(4) That the production and exchange of any reports  and writings of experts be made at a different place or at a different time  than specified in the demand.  “(5) That some or all of the parties be divided into  sides on the basis of their identity of interest in the issues in the action,  and that the designation of any experts as described in subdivision (b) of  Section 2034.210 be made by any side so created.  “(6) That a party or a side reduce the list of  employed or retained experts designated by that party or side under subdivision  (b) of Section 2034.210.  “(c) If the motion for a protective order is denied in  whole or in part, the court may order that the parties against whom the motion  is brought, provide or permit the discovery against which the protection was  sought on those terms and conditions that are just.  “(d) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under  Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or  attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a protective order  under this section, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted  with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition  of the sanction unjust.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2034.250.)   DISCUSSION  Plaintiff  passed away on May 9, 2022.  On November  20, 2023, the deceased Plaintiff’s counsel served a demand for exchange of expert witness information  which set December 11, 2023 as the date for exchange.  On March 5,  2024, the Court granted Freddie Haffner’s request to be appointed  successor-in-interest to Plaintiff. Defendant  asserts that when Plaintiff died, the action “cease[d]” until the Court  appointed a successor in interest.  To  support this assertion, Defendant cites Herring v. Peterson (1981) 116  Cal.App.3d 608, 612, in which the Court of Appeal relied on a statute which “recognizes  that “upon the defendant’s death the court is deprived of jurisdiction  to try the case in its status quo.”   (Emphasis added.)  Defendant cites  no statute (or other California authority) that deprives the Court of jurisdiction  when the plaintiff dies.  Assuming  that the Court maintained jurisdiction while counsel for the deceased Plaintiff  determined whether a successor-in-interest for Plaintiff would substitute into  the case, the question becomes whether Defendant is obligated to comply with a demand  to exchange expert witness information that the deceased Plaintiff’s counsel  served before the Court appointed a successor-in-interest.  The Court concludes that counsel for the deceased  Plaintiff acted appropriately in preserving the rights of any prospective successor-in-interest  to proceed with the case.  Defendant would have been justified in asking the Court to extend the  time to respond to the demand to exchange expert witness information pending the  Court’s decision whether to dismiss the case (if no successor-in-interest came  forward) or to appoint a successor-in-interest.  However,  as Defendant’s motion explains, the deceased Plaintiff’s counsel asked  Defendant’s counsel to agree to continue the deadline for exchange of expert  witness information.  Defendant’s counsel  refused.  As a result, counsel for the  deceased Plaintiff faced the risk of waiving any successor-in-interest’s rights  if counsel did not serve the demand for exchange of expert witness information by  the statutory deadline.  (See Code Civ.  Proc., § 2024.220 [party must make demand for exchange of expert witness information  “no later than the 10th day after the initial trial date has been set, or 70  days before that trial date, whichever is closer to the trial date”].)   The Court denies the motion but, on its own motion, extends the time for the parties to exchange expert witness information. CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant Graceful Senescence Adult Day Health Care, Inc. dba Forever Caring Adult Day Health Care’s motion for a protective order and  request for sanctions.  The  Court orders Defendant Graceful Senescence Adult Day Health Care, Inc. dba Forever Caring Adult Day Health Care and Successor-In-Interest Freddie Haffner to comply with the demand  for exchange of expert witness information served by counsel for deceased  Plaintiff Rose Martinez no later than 50 days before the next trial date the Court schedules.            Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.