  Case Number:  20STCV43833    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




felisa dee richards

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
gregory funding llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


20STCV43833




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   26, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s renewed motion for determination
  of good faith settlement
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendant Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A. (joined by plaintiff Felisa Dee Richards on January 3, 2024)
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants Gregory Funding, LLC, and Ajax
Mortgage Loan Trust 2018-G
Renewed Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
The court
considered the moving, joinder, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with this motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants Gregory
Funding, LLC, and Ajax Mortgage Loan Trust 2018-G’s request for judicial
notice.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(d).) 
DISCUSSION
Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“Settling Defendant”) moves the
court for an order determining that the settlement agreement entered into by
and between it and plaintiff Felisa Dee Richards (“Plaintiff”) was made in good
faith pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 877 and 877.6.  Defendants Gregory Funding, LLC, and Ajax
Mortgage Loan Trust 2018-G (“Non-Settling Defendants”) contend that the
settlement was not made in good faith. 
“[Code
of Civil Procedure] Section 877.6 was enacted by the Legislature in 1980 to
establish a statutory procedure for determining if a settlement by an alleged
joint tortfeasor has been entered into in good faith and to provide a bar to
claims of other alleged joint tortfeasors for equitable contribution or partial
or comparative indemnity when good faith is shown.”¿ (IRM Corp. v. Carlson
(1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 94, 104.)¿ Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6,
subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part, that, on noticed motion, “[a]ny
party to an action wherein it is alleged that two or more parties are joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on
the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff . . .
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors . . . .”¿ “The party
asserting the lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof on that
issue.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d).)¿¿¿ 
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499, the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors
courts are to consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under
section 877.6:¿ “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’ total recovery and the
settlor’s proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the
allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a
settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable
after a trial.¿ Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions
and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling
defendants.”¿¿The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is
required to “be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement.”¿ (Id. at p. 499.)¿ “‘[A] defendant’s settlement figure must
not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.’
[Citation.]”¿ (Ibid.)¿ 
Pursuant to
the “Amended Settlement Agreement and Release” (the “Settlement Agreement”) entered
into by and between Settling Defendant, on the one hand, and Plaintiff, on the
other hand (collectively, the “Settling Parties”), Settling Defendant has
agreed to settle this action with Plaintiff for the total amount of
$400,000.  (Supp. Dineen Decl., Ex. A,
Settlement Agreement, p. 6, ¶ 4.1.) 
The Settling Parties reached agreement to settle this action following their
attendance at a mediation before Richard Copeland.  (Supp. Dineen Decl., ¶¶ 3, 6.)  The Settling Parties executed an original
settlement agreement, but thereafter agreed to revise that agreement upon the
objections of the non-settling defendants regarding the non-disparagement
clause.  (Supp. Dineen Decl., ¶¶ 6-8.)  The Settlement Agreement that is the subject
of this motion does not include the non-disparagement clause with which the
non-settling defendants took issue. 
(Supp. Dineen Decl., ¶ 8.) 
The court
finds that (1) the Settlement Agreement satisfies the factors set forth in Tech-Bilt,
and (2) Non-Settling Defendants have not met their burden to demonstrate that
(i) the Settlement Agreement “is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in
relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives
of the statute[,]” or (ii) that there exists fraud, collusion, or tortious
conduct aimed to injure their interests. 
(Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at pp. 499-500; Code
Civ. Proc., §¿877.6, subd. (d).)  
Non-Settling
Defendants contend that the settlement reached by the Settling Parties was the
result of collusion aimed to injure the interests of Non-Settling
Defendants.  They point to the following
provision that was included in the original settlement agreement and has since
been removed: Plaintiff “may need to take positions on factual issues in the
Actions that [Settling Defendant] does not agree with; however, [Plaintiff]
will covenant to do so in a manner that maximally protects [Settling Defendant]
and maintains the integrity of the settlement agreement without prejudicing her
ability to prosecute her claims[.]” 
(Opp., p. 1:6-10 [quoting from original settlement agreement]; Supp.
Freeling Decl., ¶ 4; Supp. Dineen Decl., Ex. A, Settlement Agreement, p.
6, ¶ 3.20 [stating that Settling Parties “now wish to amend their
settlement to remove all provisions related to non-disparagement”].) 
First, the
court finds that the language quoted above, which was included in the original
settlement’s provision titled “Non-Disparagement,” does not show the existence
of collusion.  
As conceded
by Non-Settling Defendants, upon objection of the other parties, the Settling
Parties amended the Settlement Agreement to exclude that language.  Moreover, Settling Defendant’s counsel has
explained that (1) the purpose of the clause “was to address speech on social
media and other similar platforms completely outside of the court proceedings
in this case[,]” and (2) it was not Settling Defendant’s intent to impact
witness testimony or to restrict Plaintiff’s speech in this action.  (Supp. Dineen Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)  This is consistent with the language of the
full non-disparagement provision, in which the objectionable language was
included, which provided that Plaintiff would refrain from making disparaging
comments about Settling Defendant publicly and online.  (Supp. Freeling Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Thus, the
court finds that Non-Settling Defendants have not met their burden to show the
existence of collusion based solely on the since-excluded language set forth
above.   
Second, the
court finds that the Settlement Agreement satisfies the Tech-Bilt factors.[1] 
Settling
Defendant has presented argument supporting its defense of Plaintiff’s claims
to show that the $400,000 settlement amount is proportional to the approximate amount
that Plaintiff could have recovered at trial. 
Further, the court (1) notes that Plaintiff is the only plaintiff in
this action and will therefore recover the entire settlement amount; (2)
recognizes that Settling Defendant, as a settlor, should pay less in settlement than it would if
it were found liable after trial; and (3) finds relevant that settlement was
reached following arms-length negotiations during a mediation with third party
Richard Copeland.  (Tech-Bilt, Inc., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499; Supp.
Dineen Decl., ¶¶ 3, 6-7.)  The court
finds that these factors weigh in favor of finding that the Settlement
Agreement was made in good faith. 
For
the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Non-Settling Defendants have
not met their burden to show that the Settlement Agreement was not made in good
faith.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §§¿877, 877.6, subd. (d).)  Thus,
the court determines that the Settlement Agreement was made in good faith and therefore
grants Settling Defendant’s motion.
ORDER
The court grants defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.’s renewed motion for
determination of good faith settlement. 
The court finds that the “Amended Settlement Agreement and Release”
entered into by and between plaintiff Felisa Dee Richards, on the one hand, and
defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., on the other hand, is in good faith within
the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6, subdivision
(a).  
The court orders that all other joint tortfeasors or co-obligors are
barred from any further claims against defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. for
equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based
on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§¿877.6, subd. (c).)  
The court orders defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 26, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


