  Case Number:  20STCV47123    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  49 Vista Land, LLC v. EIJ, Inc. et al.DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO ENFORCE AUTOMATIC STAY MOVING PARTY: Defendants David Robinson, Raymond G. Robinson, and R&R Real Properties, LLC (“The Robinson Defendants”)RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant/Cross-Complainant Frank SillmanSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:  This action arises out of the sale of real property located at 5529 Vanalden Street in Tarzana, California.  Plaintiff Vista Land (“Vista”) alleges it purchased the real property after being the highest bidder at a Trustee’s foreclosure sale on September 8, 2020, where it purchased the Second Deed of Trust on the property.  Thereafter, Plaintiff alleges Defendants, who owned the First Deed of Trust on the property, engaged in a conspiracy to defraud Plaintiff. Plaintiff obtained a TRO on January 7, 2021, enjoining any non-judicial foreclosure action against the property.  It is further alleged that on October 6, 2021, Defendant AWBCO recorded a notice of Assignment of the Deed of Trust to R&R Real Properties, LLC (“R&R.”)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant AWCBO’s attorney of record, Raymond Robinson (“Robinson”) is the Managing Member of R&R and incorporated the company.  R&R allegedly conducted a nonjudicial foreclosure of the property on October 21, 2021, and then entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Frank Sillman (“Sillman.”) Accordingly, Plaintiff filed a Supplemental Complaint on February 23, 2022, containing an eleventh cause of action for Embezzlement against EIJ, a twelfth cause of action for wrongful foreclosure against Robinson and eighteen other Defendants, and a thirteenth cause of action for Criminal extortion against Robinson and four other defendants.  That operative pleading is now the Verified Third Amended Complaint and Second Amended Supplemental Complaint.On May 31, 2023, this court awarded Plaintiff’s former counsel, Vip Bhola, attorney’s fees in the amount of $61,875.00 against Defendants Greg Royston and Raymond Robinson, jointly and severally. This award arose from a proceeding finding these Defendants guilty of contempt. Then, in a related lawsuit, 23STCV25484, Vipan Kant Bhola v. Gregory T. Royston, et al., Bhola alleged that Defendant Royston had made a fraudulent transfer in attempts to avoid action on the attorney’s fee award and obtained a lis pendens on Royston’s property. Upon motion by Royston to extinguish the lis pendens, this court found Bhola could not establish the probable validity of the claim. Thereafter, this court awarded Defendant Royston $16,500 in attorney’s fees and $1,223.12 in costs for successfully moving to extinguish the lis pendens.The Robinson Defendants now move for an application to enforce an “automatic stay” of the case pending completion of Defendant David Robinson’s appeal of the denial of his special motion to strike. Defendant and Cross-Complainant Sillman filed an opposition.  No other parties filed a formal response thereto.TENTATIVE RULING:The Robinson Defendant’s Motion to Enforce Automatic Stay is GRANTED.The case is ordered STAYED in its entirety, pending further order of this Court.  The FSC and Trial dates are ADVANCED and VACATED.  The pending MSJ hearing date is also ADVANCED AND VACATED.  Those dates will be rescheduled upon the lifting of the stay in this case.Moving party is ordered to give notice to all interested parties.DISCUSSION:Motion to Enforce Automatic Stay A. BackgroundOn September 29, 2022, Plaintiff Vista Land filed its Verified Second Amended Complaint and First Amended Supplemental Complaint (“SAC”). Defendant Robinson was named in all ten causes of action of the SAC except for the Seventh Cause of Action for negligence and the Eighth Cause of Action for forcible detainer. (See SAC.) On January 31, 2023, Defendant David Robinson filed a special motion to strike the eight causes of action in which he was named from the then operative SAC. (See 01/31/2023 Special Motion to Strike; see also 09/29/2022 Verified Second Amended Complaint.) On May 31, 2023, this court denied Defendant Robinson’s special motion to strike in full. (See 05/31/2023 Final Ruling and Minute Order.) Thereafter, Robinson appealed that ruling, which remains pending. B. AnalysisThe Robinson Defendants move for an order enforcing the automatic stay of the trial court proceedings.  [FN 1]Generally, “the perfecting of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order.” (CCP § 916(a).) The “automatic stay does not suspend trial court proceedings on the remaining components of the litigation, for example, claims against other parties…not resolved by the judgment or order under appeal.” (Hedwall v. PCMV, LLC (2018) 22 Cal. App. 5th 564, 580, fn. 11.) Thus, the perfecting of an appeal from the denial of a special motion to strike “automatically stays all further trial court proceedings on the merits upon the causes of action affected by the motion.” (Varian Med. Sys., Inc. v. Delfino (2005) 35 Cal. 4th 180, 186.)The Robinson Defendants explain that discovery has been proceeding among other parties in this matter. They also assert that its exclusion from the discovery is “deeply prejudicial” and thus, all discovery should be stayed while the anti-SLAPP appeal is pending. The only party to file a response to the motion was Defendant/Cross-Complainant Sillman. The substance of Sillman’s brief stated the following: Sillman takes no position on the legal issue of whether a stay is appropriate, but if the Court has any discretion in the determination of whether to grant or deny the stay, Sillman respectfully requests that the Court deny the stay and that the trial proceed on October 28, 2024.(Sillman Brief Re Defendant’s Motion to Enforce Automatic Stay, 2: 1-3.)Here, there is an overlap among the factual allegations affected by the special motion to strike that makes it difficult to separate any one Defendant from another. Thus, all Defendants are in some way affected by the special motion to strike and resulting appeal. Additionally, the only cause of action in the operative Third Amended Complaint not directly subject to appeal is the seventh cause of action for negligence, because Defendant Robinson is not named in that cause of action. (See 06/30/2023 TAC.) However, because of the overlap in that cause of action and the ones subject to appeal, it too is affected by the motion. Therefore, the entire Complaint can be considered “affected by” the special motion to strike now under appeal. Moreover, Because no party has filed an opposition demonstrating any authorities against imposing a stay, nor how they would be prejudiced by a stay, the court concludes a stay is appropriate. Accordingly, the Robinson Defendant’s Motion to Enforce Automatic Stay is GRANTED.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   August 15, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - The Robinson Defendants initially filed this motion ex parte. At the July 5, 2024 hearing on the ex parte, the court set the motion for hearing with a briefing schedule. (See July 5, 2024 Minute Order.)  Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.