 Case Number:  23STCV22497    Hearing Date:   October 7, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ 1525 COLORADO, LLC, Plaintiff(s), vs. MANIBEN CORP., et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV22497 Hearing Date: October 7, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff 1525 Colorado, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this quiet title action against Maniben Corp., et al. regarding the property commonly known as 1525 Colorado Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90041. The verified complaint sets forth five causes of action for (1) To Quiet Title To Express Easement; (2) To Quiet Title To Equitable Easement; (3) For Enforcement Of Easement Pursuant To CC § 809; (4) Nuisance; and (5) Declaratory Relief. On July 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed motions to compel defendants Maniben Corp. (“Maniben”) and Girish R. Patel (“Patel”) (collectively, “Defendants”) to provide further responses to Request for Production of Documents (“RPDs”), Set One, in addition to seeking monetary sanctions. On September 23, 2024, Defendants filed an omnibus opposition. On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.  II. PROCEDURAL Meet and Confer Requirement¿ A motion¿to compel further responses “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.”¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2).)¿ The declaration must state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented in the motion.¿(Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.) The Court finds that Plaintiff met the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(2). Separate Statement¿ A motion to compel further responses requires a separate statement. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)¿¿ The Court finds that Plaintiff properly filed a separate statement for each motion to compel further responses. Informal Discovery Conference Pursuant to this Court’s department rules, the parties are expected and encouraged to informally resolve disputes. If an informal resolution is not reached after meeting and conferring, then either party may request that the court conduct an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) for the purpose of discussing discovery matters in dispute between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.080.) On August 23, 2024, the parties participated in the IDC, wherein the following were established: (1) the Court’s ruling will be limited to RFAs 12-16, and (2) Defendants to provide full and complete responses to all RFAs (except 12-16) and to all RFPs (except 19-25) by September 9, 2024. (Min. Order, Aug. 23, 2024.)  III. DISCUSSION CCP § 2031.310(a) states, “On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:¿(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.¿(2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” CCP § 2031.310(a) states, “On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” Here, Defendants were to provide full and complete responses to all RFPs except for Nos. 19-25. There being no arguments concerning non-compliance, the Court presumes that any disputes unrelated to Nos. 19-25 are now moot. The Court therefore limits its review to Nos. 19-25 only. The call of the requests and Defendants’ responses are identical. The Court will therefore address them collectively. Request No. 19: “Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any hearings the East Los Angeles Planning Commission held that RELATE TO the PROJECT.” Defendants’ Response to No. 19: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Defendant will produce any non-privileged responsive documents that exist and are in its possession.” Request No. 20: “Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATING TO the Letter of Determination, RELATING TO the PROJECT, issued by the East Los Angeles Planning Commission on or about August 27, 2019.” Defendants’ Response to No. 20: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Defendant will produce any non-privileged responsive documents that exist and are in its possession.” Request No. 21: “Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATING TO the Los Angeles City Council that RELATE TO the PROJECT.” Defendants’ Response to No. 21: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Defendant will produce any non-privileged responsive documents that exist and are in its possession.” Request No. 22: “Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any prior California Superior Court action that RELATE TO the PROJECT.” Defendants’ Response to No. 22: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Defendant will produce any non-privileged responsive documents that exist and are in its possession.” Request No. 23: “Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any prior writ of mandate that RELATE TO the PROJECT.” Defendants’ Response to No. 23: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Defendant will produce any non-privileged responsive documents that exist and are in its possession.” Request No. 24: “Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any proceeding in the Courts of Appeal of the State of California that RELATE TO the PROJECT.” Defendants’ Response to No. 24: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Defendant will produce any non-privileged responsive documents that exist and are in its possession.” Request No. 25: “Any and all DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any City of Los Angeles – Department of Building and Safety “Application for Building Permit and Certificate of Occupancy” that RELATE TO the PROJECT.” Defendants’ Response to No. 25: “Objection: Relevance; the subject matter of the request is neither relevant not likely to lead to any relevant evidence and therefore is not the subject of discovery. Defendant will produce any non-privileged responsive documents that exist and are in its possession.” Plaintiff avers that despite Defendants having agreed to produce documents related to these requests, Defendants have not produced any of those documents. Defendants argue that the requests are not relevant, and that the City’s decision has no impact on an easement dispute between landowners. Here, in terms of Defendants’ objections on the grounds of relevance, the Court has reviewed the complaint in this action and cannot say that the requests are wholly irrelevant. “[A]ny party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) Defendants, according to their responses, had agreed to produce any responsive non-privileged documents that exist and are in their possession and should therefore do so, if the documents have still yet to be produced.    IV. CONCLUSION Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendants to provide further responses to RPDs, Set One, as to Nos. 19-25 are GRANTED. Defendants are ordered to provide further responses to these requests within twenty (20) days. Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2031.310(h).)¿Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions, but fails to provide his rate, support for the rate, or any calculation for the Court to determine whether the request for monetary sanctions is reasonable. Simply stating the time spent and the total amount sought is insufficient; the Court declines to award any uncalculated or unsupported requests for sanctions.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: October 4, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 