 Case Number:  23STCV13148    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JESUS HERMAN
  ALVAREZ-SOLANO, an
individual; and
  SARA ANNE COLEMAN, an individual,   
 
                         Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC; et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV13148
 
  Hearing Date:  January 31, 2024
 
       [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
MOTION to compel deposition of defendant
  GM’s person most knowledgeable




 


 



 
Background
            Plaintiffs JESUS HERMAN ALVAREZ-SOLANO and SARA ANNE
COLEMAN (Plaiintiffs) commenced this action against Defendant General Motors,
LLC (GM) on June 8, 2023.  The Complaint
asserts causes of action for violations of the Song Beverly statute.  Plaintiff’s claims arise from his purchase of
a 2022 Chevrolet Tahoe (Vehicle).
DISCUSSION
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s discovery to be overly broad and unduly burdensome. If
Defendant has not done so already, the Court rules that the following documents
are to be provided to plaintiff:     
1.    
Defendant
shall produce the “Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant
and provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of
California, for the period of date of purchase of the subject vehicle to present.  
2.    
Defendant
shall produce any Recall Notices and Technical Service Bulletins regarding defects
alleged in plaintiff’s complaint for vehicles for the same year, make, and
model of the subject vehicle.  Defendant
is not required to do a search of emails. 
3.    
Defendant
shall produce all documents evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate
customer requests for repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act, for the period of date of purchase of the subject vehicle to present.

4.    
Defendant
shall produce all repair orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle.
5.    
Defendant
shall produce all communications with dealer, factory representative and/or
call center concerning the subject vehicle.
6.    
Defendant
shall produce all warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant
concerning the subject vehicle.
7.    
All
other requests for further production are DENIED.
8.    
Defendant
shall provide supplemental responses in compliance with this order within 45
days of this order.     
9.    
The
Court does not award sanctions as it finds both sides acted with substantial
justification.