  Case Number:  22STCV30025    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
ASIA THOMPSON,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LA PETITE ACADEMY INC.,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV30025
  Hearing Date:  January 31, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ motion to stay proceedings 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On September 14, 2022, Plaintiff
Asia Thompson filed this PAGA action against Defendants La Petite Academy Inc.
and Learning Care Group (MI), Inc. 
            On January 25, 2023, the Court
granted Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration as to Plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claims but deferred ruling on Defendants’ request to dismiss the
representative PAGA claims pending the California Supreme Court’s decision in Adolph
v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104. The Court stayed the
representative PAGA claims. The Supreme Court subsequently ruled in Adolph
that a plaintiff does not lose standing to pursue representative claims simply
because her individual claims are compelled to arbitration. Plaintiff
thereafter sought to continue litigation on her representative claims.
            On December 15, 2023, Defendants
filed the instant motion to maintain the stay as to the representative PAGA
claims after Plaintiff attempted to conduct discovery on those claims. Plaintiff
filed her opposition on January 17, 2024. Defendants filed their reply on
January 24, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
 “If
a court . . . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court . . . the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration
is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as
the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) Additionally, “[c]ourts have
inherent authority to control their own calendars and dockets . . . .” (Walker
v. Superior Court (1991) 53 Cal.3d 257, 267.) This includes “the inherent
power to stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency.” (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
1484, 1489.)
DISCUSSION
Initially, the Court notes that Plaintiff propounded
discovery and attempted to continue litigating the representative PAGA claims even
though the stay has not been lifted. This represents a violation of the Court’s
order on the motion to compel arbitration. Plaintiff only argues after the
fact, in her opposition to this motion, that “the Court should lift the stay.”
(See Opp. 3:5-8.) However, Plaintiff should have filed a separate motion to
lift the stay before propounding discovery in the first place. In any case, for
the reasons articulated below, the Court agrees with Defendant that the stay
should remain in place.    
“[T]he trial court may exercise its
discretion to stay the non-individual claims pending the outcome of the
arbitration.” (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104,
1123.) Such a stay is warranted because an arbitrator’s findings may have
preclusive effect on the litigation of the representative claims, particularly
on the issue of Plaintiff’s standing as an “aggrieved employee.” (See id.
at p. 1124; see also Rocha v. U-Haul Co. of California (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 65, 77-78.) “Because the issues subject to litigation under the
PAGA might overlap those that are subject to arbitration of [Plaintiff’s] individual
claims, the trial court must order an appropriate stay of trial court
proceedings.” (Franco v. Arakelian Enterprises, Inc. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 947, 966.) “The stay's purpose is to preserve the status quo until
the arbitration is resolved, preventing any continuing trial court
proceedings from disrupting and rendering ineffective the arbitrator's
jurisdiction to decide the issues that are subject to arbitration.” (Ibid.)

Here, a stay is justified to prevent duplicative
litigation and inconsistent findings. Because the individual and representative
claims arise from similar alleged violations, there will be numerous
overlapping issues of law and fact, including Plaintiff’s standing as an “aggrieved
employee.” As Defendants point out, the findings in arbitration may have a
dispositive effect on Plaintiff’s representative PAGA claims. Although the representative
claims cannot be dismissed outright simply because the individual claims are
compelled to arbitration, the representative claims should still be stayed for
the foregoing reasons.  
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ motion to stay is
GRANTED. Litigation on the representative PAGA claims remains stayed pending
the outcome of arbitration. 
 
 