  Case Number:  22SMCV00785    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2023    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Catalan Don v.
W.I. Simonson et al., Case No. 22SMCV00785
Hearing Date
October 3, 2023 
Defendants Sonic
Santa Monica, Watkins and Bland’s Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Plaintiff Catalan
Don alleges a mechanic at defendants’ repair shop removed and replaced a radar
sensor and grille from Don’s truck during a service visit. Defendants move for
summary judgment, arguing the theft never occurred, and the sensor and grille were
never removed.
 
Evidentiary Objections OVERRULED.
 
A
court determining a summary judgment motion applies a three-step process: (1)
identifying the issues, (2) determining whether moving party made an adequate
showing that negates the opponent’s claim, and (3) determining whether the
opposing party raised a triable issue of fact. Bostrom v. County of San
Bernardino (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1654, 1662. A defendant moving for summary
judgment has the initial burden to show one or more elements of a cause of
action cannot be established or an affirmative defense exists. If defendant
makes that showing, the burden shifts to plaintiff to show a triable issue of
fact. Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 763, 768.
 
Defense exert
Timothy Saurwein, automotive forensic expert and Master Certified Automotive
Technician, inspected the vehicle and concludes the original grille and radar
sensor were present and had never been removed. Saurwein declaration ¶¶1, 5-10.
He presents a photograph of the radar sensor attached to the vehicle, and
photographs before and after his inspection. All claims are based on allegations
that the grille and sensor were stolen, Saurwein’s opinion defeats all claims.
The burden shifts to plaintiff to show an issue of material fact.
 
Plaintiff’s expert
Thomas Lepper, expert automotive vehicle consultant with memberships in various
professional organizations, opines the grille is different from the one present
before the car was left with defendants. Lepper declaration ¶4. He opines the
Toyota insignia on the current grille is different from the one photographed
before defendants took possession of the car. Lepper declaration Exhibits A, B.
Additionally, he detected small marks or scratches near the radar sensor,
suggesting the unit had been replaced and changed. Lepper declaration at ¶¶6-7.
 
The expert
testimony is in conflict as to whether the parts were removed and replaced,
raising a question of material fact. DENIED. 