 Case Number:  23STCV08305    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  73 12/20/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KENT TRAN v. UTOMO TANI, et al. (23STCV08305)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants/moving
party:  Sally Chan (West Themis Law, PC)
Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainant/opposing
party: T. Randolph Catanese (Catanese and Wells)
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS’ Demurrer AND MOTION TO STRIKE
PORTIONS OF THE SECOND AMENDED CROSS-complaint (filed 11/19/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Cross-Defendants’ Demurrer to the
Second Amended Cross-Complaint’s first, second and third causes of action is
OVERRULED.
 
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike is
DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kent Tran
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendants Utomi Tani aka Jimmy Tani
(“Jimmy”); Yong Sook Kim; Jimmy Tani, Jr.; Lan Sam; Goodland Global Farm Inc.;
JT and KT Development LLC; Maie JT & KT Development LLC; True Garlic, Inc.;
Goodland Global Mining, Inc.; and nominal Defendant Golden Partner Global
Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (“collectively Defendants”). 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: 
1)     
Intentional misrepresentation/fraud 
2)     
Conversion/embezzlement
3)     
Declaratory relief
4)     
Partition by sale
5)     
Violation of Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15600 et seq – Financial Elder Abuse
6)     
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress
7)     
Breach
of fiduciary duty
8)     
Conspiracy
9)     
Fraudulent
transfer/constructive fraud
10)  Negligent misrepresentation/fraud
11)  Fraud by concealment 
12)  Breach of written contract
13)  Breach of oral contract
14)  Inspection of records 
15)  Accounting
16)  Unjust enrichment
17)  Involuntary dissolution of
corporations
18)  Fraudulent transfer
19)  CA Penal Code Section § 496(A)
20) 
Cancellation
of instrument pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
The SAC alleges the
following. In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed several companies,
including Goodland Global Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), JT and KT Development LLC, and Maie JT and KT Development LLC. Plaintiff and Jimmy had
agreed to own the companies equally as partners. Plaintiff and Jimmy also
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei
Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in fraud and
falsely misrepresented to Plaintiff, among other things, that Plaintiff owned 50% of the
Companies when he actually did not, that the Companies were in need of loans
and not profitable in order to induce Plaintiff to obtain personal loans, for
Plaintiff to sign documents that were related to taking out loans in 2021, and
that Plaintiff needed to vacate and sell his home to save the Companies. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants (“Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and
Wai Hung Szeto (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).
 
On September 19, 2024, Cross-Complainants
filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) alleging the following causes
of action:
1)     
Equitable Indemnity and Contribution
2)     
Indemnity
3)     
Declaratory relief
 
Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendants and Plaintiff are shareholders of NBC Seafood Restaurant. The SACC
alleges that that any
liability held against them pertaining to Plaintiff’s allegations, is due to
the negligence, carelessness, acts, or omissions of Cross-Defendants. Cross-Complainants
are seeking indemnification and contribution for any loss suffered and damages
awarded to Plaintiff. Cross-Complainants also seek a declaration that Jimmy has
not violated the Bylaws of Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc., and that his
actions or omissions were ratified and consented to by Cross-Defendants.
 
On November 19, 2024, Cross-Defendants filed a
Demurrer and Motion to Strike to the SACC, arguing:
·      
The
SACC fails to state sufficient facts as to the first and second causes of
action for indemnity, and the third cause of action for declaratory relief. The
SACC is also uncertain.
·      
Cross-Defendants
reiterate that there is a pending contentious case in Department 19 between
TANI and LIN, CHEN, ZHENG, and SZETO regarding TANI’s embezzlement of NBC funds
and other allegations of fraudulent wrongdoing under Case No. 22STCV30356.
Despite TANI's attempts to consolidate the cases, he failed to establish a
sufficient relationship between his claims and the actions of the
Cross-Defendants. Hon. Judge Stephanie Bowick, in a Minute Order dated June 22,
2023 (Exhibit E), held that the Cross-Complaint and Complaint against TANI in
Tani v. Lin et al., Case No. 22STCV30356, and Tran v. Tani et al., Case No.
23STCV08305, are not related.
·      
Motion
to Strike
o  
The
SACC alleges that Cross-Complainant Tani acquired a 19.4% interest in NBC
Seafood Restaurant in 2021, which contradicts prior allegations in Case No.
22STCV30356, where Tani claimed a 41.67% ownership since 2008. This
inconsistency remains unexplained and renders the 2AXC a sham pleading under
California law.
o  
SACC
paragraphs 18-30 incorporate vague and unsupported claims of “unity of
interest” and alter ego liability without specific facts to establish
Cross-Defendants’ fault or liability. Such generalized assertions fail to meet
pleading standards and do not provide sufficient grounds for equitable
indemnity or contribution, as previously ruled by the Court.
 
Cross-Complainants filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
The
SACC contains new specific factual allegations to address the Court’s previous
order sustaining the prior Cross-Complaint.
·      
Cross-Complainants allege that all acts or omissions by TANI or
the other Cross-Complainants as alleged in the Second Amended Complaint were
consented to and ratified by the Cross-Defendants and therefore
Cross-Defendants are liable to the Cross-Complainants under causes of action
for Equitable Indemnity and Contribution, Indemnity, and Declaratory Relief as
pled in the SACC. 
·      
Motion to Strike
o   Cross-Defendants list three
"grounds" for the Motion in their notice: (1) Sham Pleading; (2)
Failure to State Specific Facts; and (3) Inconsistency with Prior Court
Rulings. The SACC is not a "sham" pleading. Further, "Failure to
State Specific Facts" and "Inconsistency with Prior Court
Rulings" are not proper grounds for a motion to strike.
 
Cross-Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·       The SACC
fails to state valid causes of action for equitable relief. 
·       The SACC
lacks specific allegations of fault by the Cross-Defendants, fails to establish
joint legal obligation or resulting damages attributable to Cross-Defendants. 
·       Cross-Defendants
maintain the Motion to Strike should be granted. 
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be apparent on the face
of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone,
and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th
at p. 747.) 
 
B.     
Meet
and Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a).)  
 
Here,
counsel for Cross-Defendants assert the parties held a meet and confer call with counsel
for Cross-Complainants on October 15, 2024. The Court finds the moving party
has satisfied its meet and confer obligation.
 
C.      First and
Second Causes of Action for Equitable Indemnity and Contribution; and Indemnity
 
Cross-Defendants argue that
the SACC fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute the equitable indemnity
and contribution; and indemnity causes of action.
“To state a claim for equitable indemnity, a
defendant must allege the same harm for which he may be held liable is properly
attributable—at least in part—to the cross-defendant.”  (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real
Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439, 1445, fn.7.)
 
Cross-Defendants
argue the SACC lacks specific allegations of fault, contractual duty and
resulting damages. A valid claim
of indemnity requires that there must be a showing of fault on the part of the indemnitor
and resulting damages to the indemnitee for which the indemnitor is
contractually or equitably responsible. (Bailey v. Safeway, Inc., (2011)
199 Cal. App. 4th 206.)
 
In opposition, Cross-Complainants assert that the SACC
sufficiently alleges Cross-Defendants ratified and consented to the transfer of
Plaintiff KENT’s shares and the payment of dividend payout to TANI. Specifically,
the SACC alleges the following:
 
“[T]he SAC allege that TANI wrongfully acquired TRAN's 19.4%
equity interest in GOLDEN PARTNER.” (SACC, ¶ 21.)
 
“The transfer
of TRAN's 19.4% equity interest in GOLDEN PARTNER to TANI and TANI' s
acquisition of those shares was consented to and ratified by the
Cross-Defendants by means of Cross-Defendants' execution of GOLDEN PARTNER
corporate minutes dated January 1, 2021, which approved the transfer of TRAN's
19.4% ownership of GOLDEN PARTNER to TANI.” (SACC, ¶ 22.)
 
“[T]he SAC
alleges that TANI embezzled KENT's expected 2021 shareholder dividend payout of
$552,900 by creating fake corporate meetings claiming that KENT, LIN, CHEN,
SZETO and ZHENG approved of JIMMY taking KENT's entire 19.4% of NBC in a
non-existent NBC meeting on January 1st, 2021." (SACC, ¶ 23.)
 
“The payment
of a shareholder dividend payout of $1,168,500 to TANI for year 2021 was
consented to and ratified by the Cross-Defendants by means of Cross-Defendants'
execution of GOLDEN PARTNER corporate minutes dated January 1, 2021, approving
the transfer of TRAN's 19.4% ownership of GOLDEN PARTNER to TANI.” (SACC, ¶ 24.)
 
“In addition
to the above, all Cross-Defendants received K-1s from GOLDEN PARTNER's
certified public accountants and bookkeepers reflecting their relative equity
holdings in GOLDEN PARTNER based upon the transfer of TRAN's 19.4% equity
interest to TANI and consented to and ratified this activity as they accepted
financial compensation based upon these equity holdings and did not object at
any time. Cross-Defendants knew of, consented to and ratified the information in
GOLDEN PARTNER tax reporting documents such as K-1s which identified the
payments to TANI from GOLDEN PARTNER identified in the SAC by TRAN as illegal.”
(SACC, ¶ 25.)
 
“In regular meetings of the
shareholders of GOLDEN PARTNER (including TANI, TRAN, and all Cross-Defendants
as well as GOLDEN PARTNER's financial advisors) the shareholders of GOLDEN
PARTNER discussed the relative stock positions held by each shareholder, how
each shareholder's share of the income of GOLDEN PARTNER should be allocated
and reflected on K-1 statements issued by GOLDEN PARTNER, and how payments
should be made to the shareholders pursuant to the K-1 statements.” (SACC, ¶ 26.)
 
Cross-Complainants contend that equitable
indemnity “requires no contractual relationship,” and “ ‘is premised on a joint
legal obligation to another for damages’ ”; it is “subject to allocation of
fault principles and comparative equitable apportionment of loss.” (C.W. Howe Partners
Inc. v. Mooradian, (2019) 43 Cal. App. 5th 688, 700.) Cross-Complainants also contend the SACC contains new
allegations explaining how each Cross-Complainant has standing.
Cross-Complainants argue that the SAC ties the alleged conduct of TANI to all
the other Cross-Complainants by means of alter ego and conspiracy allegations
(citing to paragraphs 20, 21, 131, 132, and 133 of the SAC). Therefore, because
the SAC alleges that all Cross-Defendants are liable for the alleged actions of
TANI and seeks damages from all Cross-Defendants, Cross-Defendants have
standing to bring the SACC. Cross-Complainants also contend the SACC was
amended to show how Cross-Defendants’ specific actions
caused the damages claimed, alleging that “Cross-Defendants' actions in
executing the January 1, 2021, GOLDEN PARTNER corporate minutes approving the
transfer of TRAN's ownership in GOLDEN PARTNER to TANI caused the damages
alleged by TRAN in the SAC." (SACC, ¶ 22.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the SACC alleges sufficient
facts. Accordingly,
the demurrer to the first and second cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
D.     Third Cause
of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
An action for declaratory relief
lies when there is an actual bona fide dispute between parties as to a legal
obligation arising under the circumstances specified in CCP §1060 and, in
addition, the controversy must be justiciable - i.e., presents a question as to
which there is more than one answer. (Western Motors Servicing Corp. v. Land
Development & Inv. Co. (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 509.). “Actual
controversy” is a controversy which admits of definitive and conclusive relief
by judgment within the field of judicial administration, as distinguished from
an advisory opinion on a particular or hypothetical state of facts. The
judgment must decree, not suggest, what the parties may or may not do. (Selby
Realty Co. v. San Buenaventura (1973) 10 Cal.3d 110.) A mere difference of
opinion is not an “actual controversy” within §1060. The summary judgment
procedure is appropriate in declaratory relief actions since ‘The propriety of
the application of declaratory relief lies in the trial court's function to
render such a judgment when only legal issues are presented for its
determination.’ (Spencer v. Hibernia Bank, 186 Cal.App.2d 702, 712.)
 
The
SACC states: “An actual
controversy has arisen and now exists between Cross-Complainant TANI and
Cross-Defendants concerning their respective rights and duties under the Bylaws
of GOLDEN PARTNER. Plaintiff TRAN has alleged in the SAC that TANI has violated
various provisions of the Bylaws of GOLDEN PARTNER. TANI is informed and
believes, and based thereon alleges that all acts or omissions by him were
ratified and consented to by the Cross-Defendants in their role as directors,
officers and shareholders of GOLDEN PARTNER.” (SACC, ¶ 40.)
“Cross-Complainant TANI desires
a judicial determination of his rights and obligations under the Bylaws of
GOLDEN PARTNER and a judicial declaration that TANI has not violated the Bylaws
of GOLDEN PARTNER and that that all acts or omissions by him were ratified and
consented to by the Cross-Defendants in their role as directors, officers and
shareholders of GOLDEN PARTNER.” (SACC, ¶ 41.)
 
As stated
above, the Court finds that the SACC states
sufficient allegations at this stage as to Cross-Complainants alleged
ratification of Tani’s actions. While Cross-Defendants argue the SACC “does not
provide any evidence that Cross-Defendants ratified or endorsed Tani’s actions”
(Motion, p. 21.), at this stage, Cross-Defendants are not required to provide
evidence. The Court finds Cross-Complainants have alleged an actual
controversy. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
E.      Motion to
Strike
 
a.     
Legal
Standard
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
b.     
Discussion
 
Cross-Defendants
request the Court to strike portions of the SACC as
follows:
1.      Paragraphs
18-30
2.      Paragraphs
23-27 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue Paragraphs 18-30 of the SACC should be stricken because “these paragraphs
incorporate vague and unsupported claims of “unity of interest” and alter ego liability
without specific facts to establish Cross-Defendants’ fault or liability. Such
generalized assertions fail to meet pleading standards and do not provide
sufficient grounds for equitable indemnity or contribution, as previously ruled
by the Court.” (Motion, p. 3.) However, the Court does not find these arguments
as proper grounds for a Motion to Strike and instead are arguments better
suited for a demurrer. Further, as stated above, the Court finds that the
Cross-Complainants additional allegations sufficient at this time to support
its causes of action for indemnity and contribution. 
 
Next, Cross-Defendants argue
Paragraphs 23-27 of the SACC should be stricken because they are sham
pleadings. A subsequent complaint is considered a “sham”
pleading if the amendment contains allegations that contradict the earlier
pleading or that omit previously pled facts that rendered the initial complaint
deficient. (Owens v. Kings Supermarket (1988) 198 Cal.App.3d 379,
383-84.) Cross-Defendants argue that these
allegations are contradictory to allegations made in the Complaint in the case Tani
v. Lin, et al., LASC Case No. 22STCV30356. Specifically, the Complaint in
the Tani v. Lin, et al. case states that “Shares of common stock have
been issued by the Company as follows: TANI - 37,500 shares; LIN - 37,500
shares; CHEN - 5,000 shares; ZHENG - 5,000 shares; and SZETO - 5,000
shares." (Motion, p. 9.) The Court does not find the allegations are
inconsistent, as the allegations in the Tani v. Lin, et al. Complaint does
not specify that the TANI’s shares were issued at that amount at the time of
the company’s inception. 
 
Based on the foregoing,
Cross-Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIED.
 
III.
DISPOSITION 
Cross-Defendants’
Demurrer to the Second Amended Cross-Complaint’s first, second and third causes
of action is OVERRULED.
 
Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Strike is DENIED.