 Case Number:  23STCV25804    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  73 12/20/24
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
DAVIS v. STARS BEHAVIORAL HEALTH
GROUP, INC., et al. (23STCV25804)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party: Geoffrey Lyon (Lyon Law)
Counsel for
Defendants/opposing party:  David Hoiles,
Jr. (Jackson Lewis PC)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES TO DEFENDANT STARS BEHAVIORAL GROUP, INC.,
SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS (filed 11/22/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories
to Defendant Star Behavioral Group, Inc., Set One, Nos. 6 and 11 is GRANTED in
part. Defendants are ordered to provide a Belaire notice to the employees
identified, and, as to all those that do not opt out, to further provide the
relevant contact information to Plaintiff. Request for sanctions is DENIED. 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
October 23, 2023, Plaintiff Anita Davis filed this action against Defendants Stars
Behavioral Health Group, Inc. and Donte Kelley.  
 
Plaintiff
alleges the following causes of action:
1.     
Wrongful termination in violation of public policy
2.     
Family leave retaliation
3.     
Paid sick leave discrimination
4.     
Paid sick leave retaliation
5.     
Family leave discrimination
6.     
Retaliation for requesting and using accommodations for
disabilities
7.     
Failure to engage in the interactive process
8.     
Failure to reasonably accommodate
9.     
Disability discrimination
10. 
Discrimination based on race
11. 
Sex discrimination
12. 
Harassment based on race
13. 
Sexual harassment 
14. 
Retaliation for opposing FEHA violations
15. 
Failure to prevent and stop harassment, discrimination and
retaliation
16. 
Whistleblower retaliation
 
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was employed by Defendants from approximately
October 11, 2021, through Plaintiff’s termination on or about May 8, 2023.
Plaintiff’s job title was “Peer Advocate Coordinator.” Plaintiff’s
responsibilities included supervising a team of subordinates who interacted
directly with patients, advising the subordinates on the proper care to
administer. Plaintiff worked under immediate supervisor Director of Peer and
Parent Partners Donte Kelley. Employer is a mental health and social services
care provider that connects patients with care coordinators to provide
specialized treatment. Plaintiff alleges multiple FEHA and Labor Code
violations, including harassment by Kelley and retaliatory termination. 
 
On November 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 6 and 11; and request for
sanctions. 
·      
Special Interrogatory No. 6 seeks Identities of Employees Similar
to Plaintiff Who Took Leave and Were Terminated
·      
Special Interrogatory No. 11 seeks Identities of Employees Who
Were Terminated After Taking Disability Leave
·      
The information is relevant and discoverable.
·      
Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $1760.
 
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s
interrogatories are procedurally improper because they contain subparts and are
compound in direct contravention of Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.060.
·      
Plaintiff’s
interrogatories are substantively improper as they seek irrelevant, private
information regarding third party employees’ identities, medical information,
contact information, and personnel information. The interrogatories are also
completely overbroad as to time (i.e., five years) and are ambiguous as to what
Plaintiff refers to as, “intermittent FMLA, CFRA, pregnancy disability leave,
or reasonable accommodation disability leave” and “more than 2 continuous weeks
of medical leave.”
 
Plaintiff filed a reply, arguing:
·      
“Me
too” Evidence of Medical Discrimination Against Third-Party Employees
Discoverable With Notice and Opportunity to Opt Out
·      
The
Interrogatories are Not Compound According to Caselaw Permitting “Me Too”
Discovery
·      
The
Interrogatories are Not Overbroad Under Cases Addressing Temporal Proximity
Between Protected Conduct and Adverse Employment Actions
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
A motion to compel further discovery responses
must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2);
2016.040.)¿ 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that the parties met and
conferred telephonically and exchanged emails regarding alleged deficiencies in
the discovery responses. (Lyon Decl., Exs. 4-8.) The Court finds that counsel
has satisfied the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.      Legal
Standard
 
“Unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) 
 
A motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories may be brought based on: (1)
incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).) 
 
It is not
necessary for the motion to show that the material sought will be admissible in
evidence. “Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts
show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to
prevent surprise at trial. (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court
(1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588; see also Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2017.010,
2019.030(a)(1) (Information is discoverable if it is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence and it is not unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is
obtainable from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or
less expensive.); Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599,
1611-1612 (noting a party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence).) 
  
If a timely
motion to compel has been filed, the burden is on the responding party to
justify any objection or failure fully to answer. (Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses
to interrogatories]; see also Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
Furthermore,
to the extent there is any doubt in whether these records should be
discoverable, California’s liberal approach to discovery provides that doubt
should be resolved in favor of permitting discovery. (Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2 Cal.3d 161, 173.) 
 
C.      Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves
to compel Defendant Stars
Behavioral Health Group, Inc. to serve further responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 6 and 11.
 
The
interrogatories at issue are as follows:
 
Special Interrogatory No. 6:
“IDENTIFY all of YOUR employees with the same job title as PLAINTIFF who in the
last five years took intermittent FMLA, CFRA, pregnancy disability leave, or
reasonable accommodation disability leave, or more than 2 continuous weeks of
medical leave, and were terminated within three months of taking such leave.”
 
Defendant’s Response to
Special Interrogatories No. 6:
“Respondent objects to this Interrogatory on the grounds: it is premature and
employed in a manner or to an extent that causes unwarranted annoyance or undue
burden and expense in light of the fact the Propounding Party’s prosecution of
the pending action in state court violates her agreement to submit her claims
to binding arbitration before a neutral arbitrator; it violates Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.060(f) in that it contains subparts or is a compound
question; it is vague and ambiguous as to the phrases “same job title as
PLAINTIFF who in the last five years had delays in providing medical
certification for paid time off,” and “subsequently terminated or subjected to
any resultant discipline,” requiring Respondent to speculate as to its intended
meaning and the scope of the Interrogatory; it is overly broad as to time and
scope; it calls for a legal conclusion; and it exceeds the permissible scope of
discovery to the extent it seeks information protected from disclosure by
third-party privacy rights.”
 
Special
Interrogatory No. 11: “IDENTIFY all current and former
employees, from rank and file, to supervisors, working under Director of Peer
and Parent Partners Donte Kelley, Employee Services Manager Claudia Constancio,
Administrator Tina Binda, and/or Human Resources Manager Jin Choi, who in the
last five years were terminated within three months of taking more than two
consecutive weeks of disability leave.”
 
Defendant’s Response to
Special Interrogatories No. 11: “Respondent objects to this
Interrogatory on the grounds: it is premature and employed in a manner or to an
extent that causes unwarranted annoyance or undue burden and expense in light
of the fact the Propounding Party’s prosecution of the pending action in state
court violates her agreement to submit her claims to binding arbitration before
a neutral arbitrator; it violates Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.060(f)
in that it contains subparts or is a compound question; it is vague and
ambiguous as to the term and phrases “rank and file,” “working under Director
of Peer and Parent Partners Donte Kelley and Employee Services Manager Claudia
Constancio,” and “terminated within three months of taking more than two
consecutive weeks of disability leave,” requiring Respondent to speculate as to
its intended meaning and the scope of the Interrogatory; it is overly broad as
to time and scope; it calls for a legal conclusion; and it exceeds the
permissible scope of discovery to the extent it seeks information protected
from disclosure by third-party privacy rights.”
 
Plaintiff asserts these interrogatories are directed toward
obtaining comparator or “me too” evidence, for other persons whose employment
have been terminated for the same or similar circumstances as Plaintiff. In a
FEHA retaliation claim, “[e]vidence that an employer treated ‘similarly
situated’ employees outside the plaintiff's protected class ‘more favorably’ is
probative of the employer's discriminatory or retaliatory intent.” (Gupta v.
Trustees of California State University¿(2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 510, 519.)
The data must be directed at showing disparate treatment between employees
similarly situated to the plaintiff in all relevant respects, including having
similar jobs and displaying similar conduct. (See id. at 519-20.) As such, the sought discovery may serve as evidence on
Plaintiff’s case with respect to FEHA claims, to support that the proffered
reasons for discipline and termination were a pretext for discriminatory and
retaliatory animus. (See Iwekaogwu v. City of Los Angeles (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 803, 816.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant first argues the interrogatories are
compound, overbroad and ambiguous. 
 
However,
the Court does not find the interrogatories improperly compound. An
interrogatory is only compound if covers multiple subject matters. Questions regarding the same
subject should be allowed although they include an `and' or `or. (Clement v.
Alegre (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1277, 1292). Identification of responding
party using question such as State your first name, middle name and last name,
and your current address and telephone number is not compound
because it only involves one subject matter of an individual's identity. (Id.) Here, the
interrogatories cover one subject matter. The Court also does not find the
interrogatories are ambiguous or overly broad, as the scope of time is limited
to five years.
 
Defendant next argues the sought discovery is
violative of the right of privacy for those employees whose information is
sought. The court applies the framework of Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn.¿(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35-40, as articulated in Pioneer
Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court: (1) the claimant must possess a
“legally protected privacy interest”; (2) the privacy claimant must possess a
reasonable expectation of privacy under the particular circumstances; (3) the
invasion of privacy complained of must be “serious” in nature, scope, and
actual or potential impact to constitute an “egregious” breach of social norms;
and (4) the court balances that interest against other competing or
countervailing interests in a balancing test. ((2007) 40 Cal.4th 360, 370-71.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff
seeks the contact information for specific former or current employees of
Defendant who took medical leave. The information falls under the rubric of
personnel information, as this information would presumably be confidential and
contained in personnel files. “[T]he balance will favor privacy for
confidential information in third party personnel files unless the litigant can
show a compelling need for the particular documents¿and that the information
cannot reasonably be obtained through depositions or from nonconfidential
sources.” (Life Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court¿(2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 640, 652,¿disapproved of on other grounds by¿Williams v.
Superior Court¿(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531 (party seeking discovery of private
information need not always establish a compelling interest or compelling need
without regard to other considerations articulated in Hill; only obvious
invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a
compelling interest).) The foregoing requests thus go beyond the mere listing
of contact information for all of Defendant’s former employees within the
listed timeframe.
 
The court
finds that privacy concerns under the circumstances would require employees
whose information is sought to be given prior notice and an opportunity to
resist disclosure of the information.
 
Based on
the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 6 and 11 is GRANTED in
part. Defendants are ordered to provide a Belaire notice to the employees
identified, and, as to all those that do not opt out, to further provide the
relevant contact information to Plaintiff.
 
D.     Sanctions
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in the notice of
motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom the sanction is
sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of motion shall be
supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a
declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction
sought.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) 
 
Sanctions
may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery
constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section
2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court
may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a
motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed.  
 
Here, both
parties request sanctions. The Court does not find that the parties engaged in
the misuse of the discovery process and declines to impose sanctions. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories to Defendant Star
Behavioral Group, Inc., Set One, Nos. 6 and 11 is GRANTED in part. Defendants
are ordered to provide a Belaire notice to the employees identified, and, as to
all those that do not opt out, to further provide the relevant contact
information to Plaintiff. Request for sanctions is DENIED.   