 Case Number:  23STCV29602    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  73 12/20/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MAJMA v. WHITE OAK ENCINO HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION,
et al. (23STCV29602) 
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party: Robert
Bisno (Law Offices of Robert Bisno)
Counsel for Defendants/opposing
party:  Eurus Cady (Law Offices of Scott Stratman) 
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT (filed 11/20/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion For Leave to File First Amended Complaint.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On December
4, 2023, Plaintiff Safoura Majma filed this action against Defendants White Oak
Encino Homeowners Association aka White Oak Encino HOA; Ryan Moorman; Joseph
Barker; Sam Bronshteyn; Jordan Ceglia; Sonia Garibay and SF Valley Management,
Inc.
 
The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: (1) Breach of CC&Rs; (2) Breach
of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Breach of Statutory Duty to Maintain Common Area (Civ.
Code § 4775); (4) Negligence; (5) Declaratory Relief; and (6) Injunctive
Relief.
 
The Complaint alleges the following. White
Oak Encino HOA is a homeowners association that is required to maintain the
common area of the common interest development located at 17711 Margate Street
in Encino, California (the “Project”), pursuant to both the applicable
Covenants, Conditions, and Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) for the Project and
applicable law (see, e.g., Civ. Code § 4775). Plaintiff owns and resides in
Unit #106 within the Project (“Plaintiff’s Unit”). White Oak Encino HOA and the
Directors, and SF Valley Management, have failed and refused to repair and
maintain the roof of the building within the Project where Plaintiff’s Unit is
located, despite Plaintiff’s multiple requests that they do so. As a result,
water has intruded through the roof of said building and ultimately into
Plaintiff’s Unit, causing significant damage.
 
On
November 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Leave to File First
Amended Complaint, arguing:
·      
The
proposed FAC adds 3 additional Plaintiffs, all members of Plaintiff’s family
living in the property, 1 additional defendant, a contractor working under
Defendants or some of them and 4 causes of action, Fraud/Fraudulent
Concealment/Fraud in the in the Inducement, Violation of Penal Code 496, Aiding
and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duty and Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress.
·      
This
lawsuit was filed in December 2023 and attorney Robert H. Bisno substituted in
as counsel on August 30, 2024.
·      
Trial
in this matter should not be delayed by the FAC as Defendants have not yet
filed Responses to Plaintiff’s discovery.
·      
The
additional causes of action and parties will enable Plaintiffs to seek complete
relief, have a trial on the merits based upon all known facts and legal
theories tried in one lawsuit. The Statute of Limitations has not yet run on
Defendants transgressions and for Plaintiffs to bring a new lawsuit for the
proposed additional causes of action would result in a waste of Court resources
and attorney time.
 
Defendant’s filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff’s motion is untimely in that
the 3 new Plaintiffs are all members of the original Plaintiff’s family living
in the subject property. Clearly their claims were known, or should have been
known, and could have been and should have been filed as part of the original
Complaint. While Plaintiff’s new counsel may not have been dilatory, the new
Plaintiffs themselves have been dilatory and unreasonably delayed the assertion
of their claims to the prejudice of the Defendants.
·       Defendants are
prejudiced by the proposed amendments.
 
Plaintiff filed a reply maintaining that the motion should be granted. 
 
II.
DISCUSSION
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(a)(1) provides, in
relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any
terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by
adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the
name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just,
an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon
like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.” 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in
favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend
a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. 
Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must
accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why
the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.
The Court
finds that Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend complies with Rules 3.1324(a)
and (b) of the California Rules of Court. Plaintiff included a copy of the
proposed First Amended Complaint, and has identified the proposed amendments to
be added. (Bisno Decl., Ex. A, p. 24.) Plaintiff also provided a separate
declaration specifying the effect of the amendments, why they are necessary and
proper, and the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Bisno
Decl., ¶¶¿10-14.) Plaintiff’s counsel
asserts: “After reviewing the file when I took over the case, on or about
August 30, 2024, visiting the Property several times, speaking with Plaintiff
and her husband, Hamid Majma, seeing Plaintiff’s children, Kayeh Majma and
Kamia Majma, reviewing information provided by Plaintiff, a contractor and an environmental
consultant, I determined that the 4 additional causes of action sought in the
FAC were factually and legally supportable and would permit a full litigation
of all matters between the parties.” (Bisno Decl., ¶ 14.) 
 
Defendants
argue in opposition that they will be prejudiced because the scope of
litigation will be expanded by the proposed amendments and trial in this matter
is set for June 2025. 
 
The Court
does not find Defendants’ arguments persuasive. As Plaintiff argues, the case
is still in its early stage as Defendants have not yet filed responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery. Further, if a plaintiff wants to expand the scope of a
complaint to add additional legitimate legal theories, it is proper to do so and
discovery is still open. 
 
Based
on the foregoing and the judicial policy favoring amendment, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s
Motion For Leave to File First Amended Complaint.
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion For Leave to File First Amended Complaint.