 Case Number:  24STCV03507    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  73 12/20/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
GONZALEZ v. DEL TACO, LLC (24STCV03507)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff:  Giuliano Dorian (Levin &
Nalbandyan, LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Andrew Satenberg (Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP)
 
DEFENDANT’S motion to compel arbitration (filed 10/04/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. Pursuant to CCP section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending
the outcome of arbitration. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff Guadalupe
Gonzalez filed this action against Defendant Del Taco, LLC.
 
The Complaint alleges the following causes of
action:
1.     
Discrimination in violation of the California Family Rights
Act
2.     
Retaliation in violation of the California Family Rights Act
3.     
Failure to reinstate in violation of the California Family
Rights Act
4.     
Disability discrimination in violation of FEHA
5.     
Failure to provide reasonable accommodations in violation of
FEHA
6.     
Failure to engage in a good faith interactive process in
violation of FEHA
7.     
Retaliation in violation of FEHA
8.     
Sex and gender discrimination in violation of FEHA
9.     
Failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation in
violation of FEHA
10.  Failure to reinstate in violation of Pregnancy
Disability Leave Law
11.  Failure to provide reasonable accommodations in
violation of Pregnancy Disability Leave Law
12.  Retaliation in violation of Pregnancy Disability
Leave Law
13.  Wrongful termination in violation of public
policy
 
The Complaint alleges the following. On
or about June 18, 2015, Plaintiff began her employment with Defendant as a
general manager. In or around April 2023, Plaintiff found out she was pregnant
and proceeded to notify her employer of her pregnancy. Plaintiff’s doctor
placed her on work restrictions of no standing for long periods of time and
frequent breaks whenever possible. However, these restrictions were rarely
accommodated because Defendant’s corporate location was understaffed, requiring
Plaintiff to attend to the restaurant’s customers on the store floor and ensure
that employees were completing tasks. In or around the middle of April 2023,
Plaintiff submitted documents requesting Family and Medical Leave Act leave to
Defendant’s Human Resources Personnel. Defendant’s Human Resources approved
Plaintiff’s leave to begin on April 29, 2023, with an expected return to work
date of July 22, 2023. On or about July 23, 2023, Plaintiff extended her leave
to bond with her baby. Defendant approved Plaintiff’s baby bonding leave and
her new expected return to work date was September 19, 2023. On or about July
24, 2023, Plaintiff was terminated, while she was still on leave.
 
On
October 4, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant Motion to Compel Arbitration arguing:
·      
Defendant
brings this Motion on the grounds that Plaintiff consented to various versions
of the Arbitration Agreement no less than six times during her employment with
Defendant.
·      
Plaintiff
electronically signed the operative, superseding version of the Arbitration
Agreement on August 24, 2022.
·       The Arbitration Agreement requires, to
the maximum extent allowed by law, that all disputes between the parties be
resolved through binding arbitration. The Arbitration Agreement is expressly
governed by the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. (the “FAA”),
covers all of Plaintiff’s claims in her Complaint for Damages (the
“Complaint”), and is valid, enforceable, and not unconscionable.
·       The
Court should compel Plaintiff to attend arbitration and stay proceedings.
 
On
December 13, 2024, Defendant filed a Notice of Non-Opposition:
·      
Defendant
states that on December 4, 2024, counsel for
plaintiff advised Del Taco’s counsel that they did not intend to oppose the
Motion and would be initiating the arbitration process.
·       Therefore, Defendant requests that the
Court grant the Motion in its entirety
 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal Standard
 
A written
agreement where the parties agree to arbitration is valid, enforceable and 
irrevocable
unless there is a contract defense. (C.C.P. § 1281.) “On petition of a party to
an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel
arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation
of the agreement.”¿¿(C.C.P. § 1281.2.)  
¿ 
“[T]he
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence…”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire
Personnel, Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)¿¿“In determining
whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the court may
examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the party refusing
arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect to the parties'
intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the contractual
language and the circumstances under which the agreement was made.”¿¿(Weeks
v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.) “To determine whether a
contractual arbitration clause requires arbitration of a particular
controversy, the controversy is first identified and the issue is whether that
controversy is within the scope of the contractual arbitration clause.”¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.) “Doubts as to whether an arbitration
clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor of sending
the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate unless it
is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover the
dispute.”¿(California Correctional Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142
Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
There is
strong public policy in favor of both arbitration of disputes and resolving any
doubts concerning the scope of arbitrable disputes in favor of arbitration.¿(Moncharsh¿v.¿Heily¿&¿Blase¿(1992) 3
Cal.4th 1, 9.) Arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question.¿¿(Vianna¿v. Doctors’ Management Co.¿(1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)¿ 
 
B.      Existence of
an Agreement to Arbitrate
 
The party
moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) 
 
Defendant presents an executed
arbitration agreement (“the Agreement”) that is applicable to Plaintiff’s
claims. (Brogdon Decl., Ex. A.) The Agreement states, in relevant part, “[t]o the
maximum extent allowed by law, [Defendant] and [Plaintiff] mutually consent to
the resolution by binding arbitration of all claims or causes of action … that
[Defendant] may have against [Plaintiff], or that [Plaintiff] may have against
[Defendant]….” (Brogdon Decl., at ¶ 8, Ex. A, “Claims Covered by this
Agreement.”)
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges various causes
of action for violations of the FEHA, CFRA and Pregnancy
Disability Leave Law. The
Agreement
encompasses all of Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant, including “claims
for discrimination or harassment, including, but not limited to … sex … medical
condition, disability … pregnancy … claims for retaliation … claims for
violation of … the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the California
Family Rights Act and the California Labor Code.” (Id., Ex. A, “Claims
Covered by this Agreement.”). Accordingly, Defendant has met its burden of
showing that a valid agreement to arbitrate exists between the parties. 
 
Plaintiff
did not file an opposition. Arbitration can be denied only where the party
objecting to arbitration proves a defense to enforcement of the parties’
agreement to arbitrate, such as unconscionability. The objecting party bears
the burden of proving that the arbitration agreement is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass'n v. Pinnacle
Market Dev. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 235.) In fact, Defendant filed a notice
of non-opposition, stating that on December 4, 2024, counsel for Plaintiff
advised defense counsel that they did not intend to oppose the Motion and would
be initiating the arbitration process.
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion
to compel arbitration. Pursuant to
CCP section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of
arbitration. 
 
C.     
Conclusion
 

For
these foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration. Pursuant to CCP section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending
the outcome of arbitration. 