  Case Number:  21STCV38979    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cohen v. Frye,
et al.
CASE NO.:                21STCV38979
MOTION:                  Motion
for Sanctions
HEARING DATE:   3/12/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Misuse of the discovery process is
conduct subject to sanctions. (CCP § 2023.010.) A “misuse of the discovery
process” includes, among other things, failing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response to a discovery
request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery; and making or opposing,
unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial justification. (Id.) Possible
sanctions include a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. (CCP § 2023.030(a).) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
are OVERRULED.
 
Plaintiff Daniela Cohen moves for
an order requiring Defendant Richard Jordan Frye and his counsel of
record—Natalie Keshishian, Chantalle Zakarian, Robyn S. Hosmer, and Law Offices
of Robyn S. Hosmer— to pay, jointly and severally, the sum of $7,611.50 in attorney’s fees and costs, for scheduling
and then refusing to proceed with the deposition of Paul Frye.
 
Plaintiff provides that on August
30, 2023, counsel electronically served notice of unavailability which included
the date of September 15, 2023. (Moghadam Decl. ¶ 3; Ex. A.) An hour later, the
defense gave notice of deposition for “PAUL FRYE”, scheduling it for 9/15/23 (a
Friday) at 10 am. (Moghadam Decl. ¶ 4; Ex. B.) On September 14, 2023, Defendant’s
court reporter confirmed the deposition of “PAUL FRYE.” (Id., Ex. D.) On
September 14, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel made a remote appearance while “on the
road.” (Id., ¶ 8.) Defense counsel arrived 10 minutes late. (Id., ¶ 9.) After
waiting another 15 minutes, Plaintiff’s counsel requested to proceed with the
deposition, and asked for the whereabout of Mr. Frye. (Id.) Defense counsel
cancelled the deposition in response. (Id.) Defense counsel refused to let
Plaintiff’s counsel make a record with the court reporter. (Id.) On September
18, 2023, the court reporter indicated that her licensing authority had ruled
that Plaintiff’s counsel should have been given an opportunity to go on the
record and allowed counsel to make a record. (See Id., Ex. E.)
 
Defendant argues that counsel
refused to proceed with the deposition because the notice had a clerical error.
Defendant intended to depose Plaintiff, not Paul Frye. Defendant explains that
this would have been the sixth notice for Plaintiff’s deposition. (See
Keshishian Decl., Exs. 2-8.) Defendant asserts that the August 30, 2023, notice
was properly served, except for the clerical error. Defendant also contends
that Plaintiff was aware of this error because the August 30, 2023, email
notice stated “Please find the Amended Deposition Notice of Plaintiff continued
to September 15, 2023”, that the notice was an “AMENDED NOTICE” of taking
deposition as opposed to a new notice, and that counsel was apparently aware of
the issue based on his behavior at the deposition. (Id., ¶¶5-7.)  
 
Here, the Court does not find serious
discovery abuse by Defendant. The record suggests that Defendant’s notice was a
mistake and that Plaintiff’s counsel was likely aware of this mistake. Of
course, Plaintiff’s counsel was not under any obligation to inform Defendant of
this apparent error. Further, defense counsel improperly refused to make a
record of the issue at the deposition, wasting counsel and the court reporter’s
time. Ultimately, defense counsel’s negligence in issuing the notice was the
cause of this dispute. Defense counsel noticed a deposition, failed to produce
their own witness, and then refused to go forward with the deposition at all,
even to make a brief record. Thus, some monetary sanctions are justified.
 
Plaintiff requests $7,611.50 in
sanctions for a claimed 15.5 hours of work related to this dispute. However,
the claimed amount of time spent on this issue is unreasonable. Reviewing the
entirety of the record, and considering the severity of the conduct, the Court
concludes that a reasonable sanction in this matter would be $1,064.00,
inclusive of costs, for fees incurred due to the mis-noticed deposition.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED. Sanctions are imposed only against
Defendant’s counsel of record, Natalie Keshishian. Sanctions are to be paid to
Plaintiff’s counsel of record within 30 days.