 Case Number:  23AHCV01622    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ZIXUAN AN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
AMERICAN
   FRANCHISE REGIONAL CENTER, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01622
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April 15,
  2024




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On July 14, 2023, plaintiff Zixuan An
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants American Franchise Regional
Center, LLC (“American Franchise”), Americana Hesperia Retirement Funding LLC
(“Ameriana Hesperia”), Agnes Sinclair aka Agnes Yen, John Deyong Hu, Hu &
Associates, LLC, Sylvia Young, and Universo Holdings, Inc. 
On January 19, 2024, the Court
sustained the demurrer filed by American Franchise, Yen, and Americana Hesperia
(collectively, “Defendants”). The demurrer was sustained without leave to amend
on the grounds that Plaintiff’s action was barred by the statute of
limitations. 
On January 30, 2024, the Court entered
a judgment of dismissal.
On February 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion. The caption page states that this is a motion for leave to amend
the complaint, but the notice of motion states that it is brought pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). 
The Court lacks jurisdiction to
consider Plaintiff’s motion. On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a notice of
appeal. Unless a listed exception applies, “the perfecting of an appeal stays
proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon
the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the
judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 916, subd. (a), emphasis added; see Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v.
Delfino (2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 198 [“[S]ection 916, as a matter of logic
and policy, divests the trial court of jurisdiction over the subject matter on
appeal—i.e., jurisdiction in its fundamental sense”]; In re Anna S.
(2010) 180 Cal.App.4th 1489, 1499 [The “filing of a notice of appeal deprives
the trial court of jurisdiction of the cause and vests jurisdiction with the
appellate court until the reviewing court issues a remittitur”].)
The notice states that it is an appeal
from the judgment of dismissal after an order sustaining a demurrer. To
consider Plaintiff’s motion would require the Court to consider whether to
relieve Plaintiff of the same order that is currently pending on appeal. Therefore,
the motion asks the Court to consider matters which are squarely encompassed by
Code of Civil Procedure section 916. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court
continues the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for six months and sets a status
conference for October 15, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra
Courthouse. The parties are to submit a joint statement no later than 5 days
before the hearing informing the Court about the status of the appeal. 
 
Dated
this 15th
day of April, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 