 Case Number:  23AHCV01683    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SHANNON HUERTA, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
LOS
   ANGELES COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01683
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT LOS ANGELES COUNTY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY’S DEMURRER
   AND MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
April
   15, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
         On July 24,
2023, plaintiff Shannon Huerta (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendants Los Angeles County Development Authority (“Defendant”) and Keandre
Butler (“Butler”). On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting six causes of action relating to her employment
with Defendant and subsequent resignation. These causes of action include
gender discrimination, retaliation pursuant to the Fair Housing and Employment
Act (“FEHA”), retaliation pursuant to Labor Code section 1102.5, sexual
harassment and failure to prevent sexual harassment, and wrongful
termination/constructive termination in violation of public policy and FEHA. 
          On
December 12, 2023, Defendant filed this demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third Cause of
Action for retaliation pursuant to Labor Code section 1102.5 and Plaintiff’s
Sixth Cause of Action for wrongful termination/constructive termination in
violation of public policy and FEHA. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ claims
are barred for failure to comply with the Government Claims Act. Defendant also
argues that it is immune from a claim for wrongful/constructive termination in
violation of public policy and FEHA as a government entity. 
          Defendant
also moves to strike Plaintiff’s requests for punitive damages on the grounds
that it is statutorily immune from punitive damages.
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A.  
Demurrer
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed. [Citation.]” (Mitchell
v. California Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be
liberally construed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations,
the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or
limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd
764, 769.) 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
          Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither
pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a
demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to
strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.  
Demurrer
Prior to filing a suit against a public
entity, a plaintiff must comply with the Government Claims Act, which states,
in part: “no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public entity
on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented . . . until
a written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has been
acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the board
. . .”  (Gov. Code, § 945.4.) The
“failure to allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim
presentation requirement subjects a claim against a public entity to a demurrer
for failure to state a cause of action.” (State of California v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1237.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claims
are barred because she does not allege that she complied with the claim
presentation requirements of the Government Claims Act. In opposition,
Plaintiff states that she was not required to file such a claim and was only
required to file a complaint with the Department of Fair Employment and
Housing. Plaintiff cites to Garcia v. Los Angeles Unified School District
(1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 701 for this proposition but her reliance is misplaced. (Opp.,
p. 5.) The Garcia court held that only a claim brought under FEHA is
exempt from the claim presentation requirements of the Government Claims Act. (Garcia,
supra, 173 Cal.App.3d at p. 710-711.) The causes of action attacked by
Defendant are not brought pursuant to FEHA; they are claims pursuant to Labor
Code section 1102.5 and a common law claim for wrongful/constructive
termination. Therefore, the Defendant’s grounds for demurring are sound.
Plaintiff was required to allege compliance or reasons to be excused from the
claims presentation requirement. For this reason, Defendant’s demurrer in its
entirety is SUSTAINED. 
The Court additionally expresses
agreement with Defendant’s second argument against the Sixth Cause of Action,
which is a common law claim. Government Code section 815 abolishes common law
tort liability for public entities. (Miklosy v. Regents of the Univ. of
California (2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899.) A claim for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy is also known as a Tameny claim. In Miklosy,
the California Supreme Court held that the plaintiffs’ common law Tameny claims
were invalid even if they were predicated on different statutes. (Miklosy,
supra, 898-899.) The Supreme Court plainly stated that “[Government
Code] section 715 bars Tameny actions against public entities.” (Id.
at p. 900.) Therefore, the Miklosy plaintiffs were limited to the
statutory claims. 
B.  
Motion
to Strike
Because the Court sustains the
demurrer, Defendant’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for statutory
penalties and interest is MOOT. Plaintiff only requests statutory penalties
under her Third Cause of Action under Labor Code section 1102.5; this claim, as
discussed above, is barred by her failure to comply with the Government Claims
Act. 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s
reference to punitive damages. Plaintiff concedes that the claims of punitive
damages are an oversight. Therefore, Defendant’s motion to strike the request
for punitive damages is GRANTED. 
 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Plaintiff requests leave to amend the
FAC. However, the time to submit a claim expired a year after accrual of the
claim. (Gov. Code, § 911.2.) Therefore, it does not appear that Plaintiff can
successfully amend the allegations to plead compliance with the Government
Claims Act. Also, as stated above, a public entity is immune from a common law
claim for wrongful/constructive termination in violation of public policy.
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety. 
Defendant’s motion to strike the
requests for punitive damages is GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to give notice.
 
 
Dated
this 15th
day of April
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 