 Case Number:  22STCV20298    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
June 21, 2022, Plaintiff Alec Enciso filed this action against Defendants
Michelle Gonzalez (“Defendant”) and Does 1-10 for motor vehicle tort and
general negligence. 
On
September 2, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
March 28, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication.  The
motion was set for hearing on September 19, 2024. 
On
April 22, 2024, the Court granted the parties’ stipulated request to continue
the trial from July 15, 2024 to November 25, 2024, with all trial-related
dates, including discovery cut-off and expert discovery, to be based on the new
trial date. 
On
August 21, 2024, Defendant filed a motion to continue the trial and related
dates for 30-45 days.  The motion was set
for hearing on September 26, 2024.  Plaintiff
has not filed an opposition. 
On
September 19, 2024, the Court on its own motion continued the hearing on Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication to
November 15, 2024.  The Court also
continued the trial from November 25, 2024 to December 18, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to continue the trial and related dates for 30-45 days after the
trial previously scheduled for November 25, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Motion to continue trial 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides: 
“(a) Trial dates are firm 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain. 
“(b) Motion or application 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered. 
“(c) Grounds for continuance 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include: 
“(1)  The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
“(2)  The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(3)  The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
“(4)  The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
“(5)  The
addition of a new party if: 
“(A)  The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or 
“(B)  The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case; 
“(6)  A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
“(7)  A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial. 
“(d) Other factors to be considered 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include: 
“(1)  The
proximity of the trial date; 
“(2)  Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
“(3)  The length
of the continuance requested; 
“(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
“(5)  The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
“(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
“(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
“(8)  Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
“(9)  Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
“(10)  Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
“(11)  Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332.) 
B.   Motion to continue or reopen discovery 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides: 
“(a) Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to
have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the
date initially set for the trial of the action. 
“(b) Except as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or
postponement of the trial date does not operate to reopen discovery
proceedings.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides: 
“(a) On
motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the
initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.
This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. 
“(b) In
exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take
into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to, the following: 
“(1) The
necessity and the reasons for the discovery. 
“(2) The
diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the
hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not
completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier. 
“(3) Any
likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will
prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere
with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party. 
“(4) The
length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date
presently set, for the trial of the action. 
“(c) The
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.050.) 
DISCUSSION 
Defendant
asks the Court to continue the trial and related dates for 30-45 days after the
trial previously scheduled for November 25, 2024.  According to Defendant, a continuance of 30-45
days from November 25, 2024 would ensure that Defendant’s neuropsychologist has
sufficient time to conduct a mental examination, analyze the raw data, develop
opinions, prepare a report, exchange the raw data generated, and appear for
deposition before trial. 
The
Court finds good cause and continues the trial to December 26, 2024 or the next
available date.  In addition, the Court
has considered the factors listed in Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050
and rules that discovery deadlines and related dates will be based on the new
trial date. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Michelle Gonzalez’s a
motion to continue the trial and related dates for 30-45 days and continues the
trial to December 26, 2024 or the next available date.  The final status conference, discovery, and
related dates will be based on the new trial date. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.