 Case Number:  23STCV01518    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  28 Having considered the moving, opposition, reply, and supplemental papers, the Court rules as follows. BACKGROUND On January 24, 2023, Plaintiff Brandon Figueroa (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Michael Mellenthin (“Defendant”) and Does 1-100 for negligence. On September 29, 2023, Defendant filed an answer. On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to quash/motion for protective order regarding Defendant’s subpoena of Plaintiff’s medical records from Chino Valley Medical Center.  The motion was set for hearing on August 20, 2024.  On August 6, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition. On August 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. On August 20, 2024, the Court issued a tentative ruling, heard argument, and continued the hearing to September 26, 2024. On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental declaration.  On September 19, 2024, Defendant filed a supplemental declaration.  On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed an objection to Defendant's supplemental declaration. Trial is currently scheduled for November 6, 2024. PARTIES’ REQUESTS Plaintiff asks the Court to quash the subpoena for medical records served on Chino Valley Medical Center or issue a protective order. Defendant asks the Court to deny the motion and impose sanctions on Plaintiff. LEGAL STANDARD Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 provides: "(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. "(b) The following persons may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. (2) A witness. (3) A consumer described in Section 1985.3. (4) An employee described in Section 1985.6. (5) A person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an underlying action involving that person’s exercise of free speech rights." (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) Code of Civil Procedure section 1985.3, subdivision (g), provides in part: “(g)  Any consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for improper release of records. * * * “No witness or deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer . . . except upon order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (g).) Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, subdivision (a), provides: “(a) Except as specified in subdivision (c), in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section 1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).) For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) “ ‘[W]hile the filing of a lawsuit may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of one’s constitutional right of associational privacy, the scope of such “waiver” must be narrowly rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their private associational affiliations and activities.’ [Citation.] Therefore, . . . an implicit waiver of a party’s constitutional rights encompasses only discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff’s claim and essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.” (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842; see ibid. [“On occasion [a party's] privacy interests may have to give way to [the] opponent's right to a fair trial. Thus courts must balance the right of civil litigants to discover relevant facts against the privacy interests of persons subject to discovery”].) “[A]lthough in seeking recovery for physical and mental injuries plaintiffs have unquestionably waived their physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient privileges as to all information concerning the medical conditions which they have put in issue, past cases make clear that such waiver extends only to information relating to the medical conditions in question, and does not automatically open all of a plaintiff's past medical history to scrutiny.” (Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 [trial court erred by placing “absolutely no limit on defendant's efforts to obtain wholesale disclosure of each plaintiff's lifetime medical history”].) “[P]laintiffs are ‘not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific [physical,] mental or emotional injury’; while they may not withhold information which relates to any physical or mental condition which they have put in issue by bringing this lawsuit, they are entitled to retain the confidentiality of all unrelated medical or psychotherapeutic treatment they may have undergone in the past.” (Id. at p. 864, fn. omitted.) “Even when discovery of private information is found directly relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically allowed; there must then be a careful balancing of the compelling public need for discovery against the fundamental right of privacy. [Citation.] The scope of any disclosure must be narrowly circumscribed, drawn with narrow specificity, and must proceed by the least intrusive manner. [Citation.]” (Davis v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014.) DISCUSSION A.   The complaint The complaint alleges the following: On February 24, 2021, Defendants negligently entrusted, managed, maintained, drove, operated, controlled and supervised the operation of a motor vehicle, causing a collision with Plaintiff’s vehicle and injuring Plaintiff.  Plaintiff prays for damages including general damages, medical expenses, loss of earnings and earning capacity, and property damages. B.   The subpoena for medical records On July 5, 2024, Defendant served a deposition subpoena on Chino Valley Medical Center asking for: “Complete documents, pertaining to [Plaintiff’s] head, neck, back, shoulders, upper extremities, and lower extremities, from 02/24/2011 to present, including but not limited to any records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or electronically: All forms/questionnaires completed by, or on behalf of, the patient, documents, correspondence, correspondence from the patient or patient's attorney, intake forms, medical reports, doctor's entries, nurse's notes, medication administration records, office notes, progress reports, cardiology reports, radiology reports, x-ray reports, MRI reports, CT reports, myelogram reports, lab reports, pathology reports, monitor strips, physical therapy records, occupational therapy records, case history, emergency records, outpatient records, diagnosis and prognosis documentation, admit and discharge records, and notation(s) on any file folder. All emails between physicians and the patient regarding physical complaints, symptoms., and treatment, including secure messages.” C.   Plaintiff’s motion to quash or for protective order Plaintiff asks the Court to quash the subpoena, arguing it is overbroad and violates his privacy rights because it seeks records involving body parts that are not at issue.  According to Plaintiff, his interrogatory response identifying his affected body parts as “low back and neck, migraines” prevents Defendant from issuing a subpoena for records involving other body parts. In addition, Plaintiff argues the subpoena is overbroad in time because it seeks records from February 24, 2011 to the present. D.   Defendant’s opposition Defendant argues that the subpoena is based not only on Plaintiff’s interrogatory response but also on medical records showing that, after the February 24, 2021 accident: (1)  In April 2021, Plaintiff complained of headaches, anxiety, neck pain, upper/mid back pain, low back pain, left ribcage pain, and left shoulder pain (Opposition p. 4); (2)  In June 2021, Plaintiff complained of neck pain, headaches, lower back pain, and associated muscle spasms and radicular pain into the buttocks and thighs, and then traveling down into the legs and knees (Opposition p. 5); (3)  In September 2021, Plaintiff complained of continuing lower back pain and also that neck “pain is achy in nature and also causes occasional tingling sensations [in the] left upper extremity” (Opposition p. 5); and (4)      In June 2022, Plaintiff complained of “Lower back pain with radiating pain, numbness and paresthesia in the left lower extremity” (Opposition p. 5). Defendant argues the subpoena is “limited . . . to those body parts plaintiff has placed at issue in this lawsuit including plaintiff’s head, neck, back, shoulders, upper extremities, and lower extremities.” In addition, Defendant contends that Plaintiff waived any privacy objection by failing to object to a similar “discovery subpoena” served on Chino Valley Medical Center on January 24, 2024.  According to Defendant, Chino Valley Medical Center complied with this subpoena in March 2024. E.   Plaintiff’s reply In reply, Plaintiff argues that medical records showing Plaintiff complained of injuries in addition to those which he has placed at issue in this case do not authorize Defendant to subpoena medical records about body parts that he has not placed at issue.  Plaintiff also argues that he did not waive his objections to the subpoena by not objecting to the previous “discovery” subpoena because the scope of discovery is broader than the scope of admissible evidence.  F.    Supplemental submissions The Court has carefully reviewed the parties' supplemental submissions.  The Court overrules Plaintiff's objection to Defendant's supplemental declaration. Plaintiff's supplemental declaration acknowledges that the records which Plaintiff produced to Defendant "confirm that Plaintiff suffered from radiculopathy, which, as a symptom of a back or neck injury, is associated with causing pain, numbness, or weakness radiating to the extremities."  Plaintiff asserts that these documents "were not attached or referenced in response to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatory Responses defining the injuries placed at issue as low back, neck, and migraines (head), nor [were] they specifically identified as responsive to any single particular Request for Production." Defendant responds that, as Plaintiff asserts that he suffered from radiculopathy as a symptom of the back or neck injuries he has placed at issue, Defendant should be allowed to conduct discovery about Plaintiff's radiculopathy symptoms, including pain in his extremities prior to the accident. G.    Analysis The Court has considered the parties' arguments and weighed Plaintiff's privacy rights against Defendant's right to seek discoverable information.  The Court concludes that (1) Plaintiff did not waive his objections to the subpoena by failing to object to the previous "discovery" subpoena and (2) the subpoena is overbroad to the extent that (a) it requests documents concerning Plaintiff's "shoulders" rather than left shoulder and (b) it requests records from February 24, 2011 to February 23, 2014.  The Court modifies the subpoena to replace the word "shoulders" with "left shoulder" and to replace the phrase “from 02/24/2011 to present” with “from 02/24/2014 to present.”  In all other respects, the Court denies the motion. The Court denies Defendant’s request for sanctions. CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS in part Plaintiff Brandon Figueroa’s motion to quash/motion for protective order regarding Defendant Michael Mellenthin’s subpoena of Plaintiff’s medical records from Chino Valley Medical Center:  ·       The Court modifies the subpoena to replace the word "shoulders" with "left shoulder."·       The Court modifies the subpoena to replace the phrase “from 02/24/2011 to present” with “from 02/24/2014 to present.” In all other respects, the Court DENIES the motion. The Court DENIES Defendant Michael Mellenthin’s request for sanctions. Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within five days.