Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24VECV03787
Plaintiff's Name: 6701 Matilija Ave LLC
Defendant's Name: Todd Edwards and Rae Edwards
People: Todd Edwards, Rae Edwards
Company Names: 6701 Matilija Ave LLC
Places: Matilija Ave, Los Angeles
Dates: August 8, 2024, September 18, 2024
Events: Unlawful detainer action, Demurrer to the complaint
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to evict Defendants; Defendants seek to dismiss complaint
Facts: Plaintiff served a three-day notice to pay rent or quit; notice was posted only
Disputes: Proper service of notice, compliance with Los Angeles Just Cause Ordinance
Acts: Plaintiff filed complaint; Defendants demurred; Judge issued tentative ruling
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) ยง1162, California Civil Code section 1946.2
Case Citations: Attenello v. Basilious (2022) 88 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1
Statutes: Los Angeles Just Cause Ordinance, CCP ยง1162, Civil Code section 1946.2
Roles:
  - Judge: issuing tentative ruling
  - Plaintiff: 6701 Matilija Ave LLC, filing complaint
  - Defendant: Todd Edwards and Rae Edwards, filing demurrer
Significant Statements:
  - The court agrees that the allegation of service is deficient and unclear.
  - The court disagrees that the complaint fails to allege compliance with City of Los Angeles Just Cause Ordinance.
```

And here is the summary in English text:

The Court has issued a tentative ruling in the case of 6701 Matilija Ave LLC v. Todd Edwards and Rae Edwards. The case is an unlawful detainer action, where the Plaintiff seeks to evict the Defendants. The Defendants have filed a demurrer to the complaint, arguing that the Plaintiff has failed to properly serve the notice to quit and that the complaint does not comply with the Los Angeles Just Cause Ordinance.

The Court has sustained the demurrer with leave to amend, meaning that the complaint is dismissed, but the Plaintiff has the opportunity to re-file it. The Court agrees with the Defendants that the allegation of service is deficient and unclear, as it only alleges posting of the notice, without attempting personal or substitute service first. The Court also disagrees with the Plaintiff's argument that the tenancy is not subject to the City of Los Angeles Just Cause Ordinance, as the complaint fails to allege compliance or a specific exemption.

The Court has cited California law and case precedent, including Attenello v. Basilious (2022) 88 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1.