 Case Number:  24VECV03787    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  W 6701 MATILIJA AVE LLC V. TODD EDWARDS, et al.
 
demurrer
to the complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        September 18, 2024                         Trial
Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        24VECV03787
 
Moving Party:            Defendants Todd Edwards and Rae
Edwards 
Responding Party:     No opposition 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is an unlawful detainer action. On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff 6701 Matilija Ave
LLC filed a complaint against Defendants Todd Edwards and Rae Edwards.
Plaintiff allegedly served a three-day notice to pay rent or quit. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendants
Todd Edwards and Rae Edwards’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants
Todd Edwards and Rae Edwards demur to Plaintiff’s complaint on the grounds
Plaintiff fails to allege proper service of the notice to quit and either
compliance or exemption from the Los Angeles Just Cause Ordinance. 
 
Defendants
first argue the complaint does not allege proper service. Specifically,
Defendants contend if the tenant is not available to be personally served with
the 3-day notice, substituted service may be made if “he or she is absent from
the commercial rental property” or “at the time of attempted service, a person
of suitable age or discretion is not found at the rental property through the
exercise of reasonable diligence”. (CCP § 1162(b)(2), (3).) Here, however, the
allegation of service is via posting only. Accordingly, because the only
allegation of service is deficient, there is no cause of action for unlawful
detainer.
 
The
court agrees, as alleged, it is unclear whether Plaintiffs first properly
attempted personal service or leaving the Notice with someone else who is of
appropriate age before posting the copy. (See CCP §1162(b).) Section 1162
requires to attempted personal and substitute service prior to posting and
mailing the Notice. 
 
Next,
Defendants argue Plaintiff has failed to allege that Defendants’ tenancy is
subject to the applicable City and State Eviction Control Protections. “To
plead a valid unlawful detainer claim, the complaint must allege that the
tenancy was terminated for ‘just cause.’” (Attenello v. Basilious (2022)
88 Cal.App.5th Supp. 1.) Defendants contend the property at issue in this case
is located in the City and County of Los Angeles and thus, Plaintiff must
allege compliance with City of Los Angeles Just Cause Ordinance or allege a
specific exemption. Plaintiff fails to do so.
 
The
court disagrees. Section 7 of the complaint alleges the tenancy is not subject
to Civil Code section 1946.2, the statewide rent control and just cause
eviction statute that went into effect in 2020, and states it is exempt Section
1946.2(e)(8)(A). 
 
Because
the complaint fails to allege proper service, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer
with leave to amend. 