 Case Number:  22STCV30750    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the petitioning papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 20, 2022, Plaintiffs Alida Decoute, Carmen Cruz, Christina Cruz
(“Christina”), Eswin Cruz (“Eswin”) and Victoria Cruz (“Victoria”) filed this
action against Defendant Rita Gopez Najoan (“Defendant”) for motor vehicle tort
and general negligence. 
On
July 28, 2023, Petitioner Carmen Cruz (“Petitioner”) filed petitions to approve
minor’s compromises for Christina, Eswin, and Victoria to be heard on September
20, 2023. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Petitioner
asks the Court to approve the compromises of the pending claims of Christina,
Eswin, and Victoria. 
DISCUSSION 
Petitioner
has submitted proper applications, ready for Court approval. Petitioner
requests that the net balances be paid to Petitioner, to be placed into blocked
accounts. The Court orders the net balances so distributed. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the petition to approve the
compromise of minor Christina Cruz’s action filed by Petitioner Carmen Cruz.
The Court orders that the net balance be paid to Petitioner, who is to place
the funds in a blocked account for the minor. 
The
Court GRANTS the petition to approve the compromise of minor Eswin Cruz’s
action filed by Petitioner Carmen Cruz. The Court orders that the net balance
be paid to Petitioner, who is to place the funds in a blocked account for the
minor. 
The
Court GRANTS the petition to approve the compromise of minor Victoria Cruz’s
action filed by Petitioner Carmen Cruz. The Court orders that the net balance
be paid to Petitioner, who is to place the funds in a blocked account for the
minor. 
The
Court sets a OSC Re: Deposit of Net Settlements into Blocked Accounts on
November 30, 2023, at 8:30 a.m., in Department 28 of the Spring Street
Courthouse. 
 The Court sets a OSC Re:
Dismissal of Case (Settlement) on November 30, 2023, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Petitioner
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Petitioner
is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.