 Case Number:  21STCV37100    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 7, 2021, Plaintiff Farideh Davoudpour (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Jamie A. Goldstein (“Goldstein”),
Erica Gerard (“Gerard”), Erica Gerard Family Trust (“Trust”), and Does 1-50 for
personal injuries, strict liability (Civ. Code, § 3342), premises liability,
negligence, negligent infliction of emotional distress, and battery. 
On
August 24, 2023, Goldstein filed a demurrer and a motion to strike to be heard
on September 20, 2023.  Plaintiff has not
filed opposition. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Goldstein
requests that the Court sustain the demurrer to the causes of action for
negligent infliction of emotional distress and battery. Goldstein also requests
that the Court strike the punitive damage claim. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have
the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the same
parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it cannot
be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or
is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section
411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take judicial
notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)  
B.       Motion to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  “The
grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading of from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“Where the motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may
take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such
matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points
and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (Clauson).) 
“In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
C.
  Punitive damages 
          Civil Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
* * *
 “(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subds. (a), (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Demurrer 
1.    Negligent infliction of emotional distress 
Plaintiff
alleges that on October 11, 2019, Goldstein’s dog attacked and injured her.  Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress (NIED) asserts that Goldstein’s negligent
conduct in allowing the dog to attack Plaintiff caused her to suffer severe
emotional distress. 
To
support her demurrer to the NIED claim, Goldstein argues that “a ‘direct victim’
[NIED] case is one in which the plaintiff’s claim of emotional distress is
based on the violation of a duty that the defendant owes directly to the
plaintiff.”  (Demurrer p. 6.)  Indeed, “ ‘ “Direct victim’ cases are cases
in which the plaintiff's claim of emotional distress is not based upon
witnessing an injury to someone else, but rather is based upon the violation of
a duty owed directly to the plaintiff. ‘[T]he label “direct victim” arose to
distinguish cases in which damages for serious emotional distress are sought as
a result of a breach of duty owed the plaintiff that is “assumed by the
defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of
a relationship between the two.” [Citation.] In these cases, . . . . well-settled
principles of negligence are invoked to determine whether all elements of a
cause of action, including duty, are present in a given case.” ’ ” (Ragland
v. U.S. National Bank Assn. (2012) Cal.App.4th 182, 205-206, emphasis
added, quoting Wooden v. Raveling (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1038.) 
Goldstein
has not established that she owed no duty to Plaintiff as a matter of law based
on the facts alleged in the complaint. 
Goldstein
also asserts “[t]here are no facts in Plaintiff’s complaint that show[]
Plaintiff suffered the requisite ‘severe emotional distress’ that this cause of
action requires.  In addition, the facts
of this case clearly do not trigger a claim for negligent infliction of
emotional distress.”  According to Goldstein,
“outside of a conclusory allegation that Goldstein caused this distress,
Plaintiff’s Complaint does not contain a single fact or allegation about the
act on behalf of Goldstein.”  (Demurrer
p. 7.) 
The
demurrer admits the truth of all properly pleaded facts.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants’ failure to
control their dog caused the dog to attack and injure her.  Plaintiff also alleges she has suffered
severe emotional distress as a result of Defendants’ negligence.  The Court overrules the demurrer to this
claim. 
2.    Battery 
“The
elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) the defendant touched the
plaintiff, or caused the plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or
offend the plaintiff; (2) the plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3)
the plaintiff was harmed or offended by the defendant's conduct; and (4) a
reasonable person in the plaintiff's position would have been offended by the
touching.”  (Carlsen v. Koivumaki
(2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890.) 
Goldstein
argues “there are no facts within Plaintiff’s Complaint that show an intent on
the part of Goldstein to cause harm to Plaintiff.”  (Demurrer p. 6.)  
The complaint
alleges: “Defendants, and DOES 1 to 50, Inclusive, did the aforementioned acts
with the intent to cause a harmful or offensive contact with the body of
Plaintiff, or with a reckless disregard of the probability of causing such
offensive contact.”  (Complaint ¶ 49.)  Although this may be a “conclusory”
allegation as Goldstein contends (Demurrer p. 6), it suffices to allege a fact –
intent – about which Goldstein has superior knowledge.  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:121.5, p. 6-37 [“Less particularity is required in
pleading matters of which the defendant has superior knowledge; e.g., allegations
[about] [defendant’s] knowledge or notice or intent” (emphasis omitted
and added)]; ibid. [“the complaint will be upheld ‘so long as it gives
notice of the issues sufficient to enable preparation of a defense’” (quoting Doe
v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4 531, 549-550)].) 
The
Court overrules the demurrer to the battery claim. 
B.   Motion to strike punitive damage claim 
The first
amended complaint does not allege facts showing Goldstein acted with malice,
fraud or oppression.  Despite language in
the complaint that tracks the language of Civil Code section 3294, the
allegations are simply “legal conclusions in [the] pleading” and “‘irrelevant
matter,’ subject to motion to strike.” 
(California Practice Guide, supra, ¶
7:179, p. 7(l)-79.) 
The
Court grants the motion to strike the punitive damage claim. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES Defendant Jamie
A. Goldstein’s demurrer to Plaintiff Farideh Davoudpour’s claim for negligent
infliction of emotional distress. 

The Court OVERRULES Defendant Jamie A. Goldstein’s
demurrer to Plaintiff Farideh Davoudpour’s claim for battery. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Jamie A. Goldstein’s motion
to strike Plaintiff Farideh Davoudpour’s claim for punitive damages with 30
days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days of the date of the hearing.