 Case Number:  22STCV00677    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 7, 2022, Plaintiff Alfonso Leon Baltazar (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Flex Drive Services, LLC (“Flexdrive”), Lyft, Inc.
(“Lyft”), Lael Williams (“Williams”), and Does 1-50 for negligence and
negligence per se. 
On
February 14, 2022, Flexdrive and Williams filed an answer. On May 20, 2022,
Lyft filed an answer. 
On
August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Flexdrive’s person most
qualified to appear, testify, and produce documents at a deposition.  On September 7, 2023, Flexdrive filed an
opposition. On September 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently set for April 17, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court order Flexdrive to order its person most qualified to
appear, testify, and produce documents at a deposition.  Plaintiff also requests that the Court impose
sanctions of $2,250.00 on Flexdrive. 
Flexdrive
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,
or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section
2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails
to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order
compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
* * *
“(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. 
“(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by
attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in
the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the
deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subds. (a), (b), (g).)
DISCUSSION 
A.   Notice 
Flexdrive
argues that Plaintiff provided improper notice because the motion was e-served
on Flexdrive on August 28, 2023. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, a
motion must be served and filed 16 court days prior to the hearing on the
motion. If service is effectuated electronically, the motion must be served an
additional 2 court days earlier.  According to Flexdrive, Plaintiff should have served the motion on August 24, 2023. 
Even
assuming Plaintiff did not provide proper notice, the Court will exercise its
discretion to address the motion on the merits because Flexdrive has not shown
it was prejudiced.  B.   Person most qualified deposition 
1.    Chronology 
On
March 21, 2023, Plaintiff served a notice scheduling the deposition of Flexdrive’s
person most qualified and production of documents on April 21, 2023. 
On
April 18, 2023, Flexdrive served objections, saying (among other things) Plaintiff
noticed the deposition unilaterally and Flexdrive’s counsel and potential
persons most qualified were not available on April 21. 
On
May 3, 2023, Plaintiff served an amended notice scheduling the person most
qualified deposition and document production on June 2, 2023. 
On
May 4, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed Defendants’ counsel a proposal for continuing
the trial in return for scheduling mediation and depositions.  Plaintiff’s counsel proposed: “PMQ for Flex Drive
as currently noticed or by July 15, 2023.” 
(Exh. 7 to Perry Dec.)  The next day, counsel for a different
defendant (Williams) responded: “I can agree to this.” (Exh. 7 to Perry Dec.) 
On
May 30, 2023, Flexdrive served objections, saying (among other things) Plaintiff
set the date unilaterally and Flexdrive’s counsel and potential persons most
qualified were not available on June 2. 
On June
7, 2023, Plaintiff served a second amended notice scheduling the person most
qualified deposition and document production on August 3, 2023.  On July 31, 2023, Flexdrive served objections
to the unilateral setting of the deposition and other asserted defects. 
2.    Analysis 
Plaintiff
complains that Flexdrive has failed to provide alternative dates for the
deposition or produce the requested documents.  Plaintiff, however, does not appear to have
made a meaningful attempt to meet and confer with Flexdrive to choose a
mutually agreeable date or resolve Flexdrive’s objections.  “It is good practice to confer with other
counsel in the case before setting depositions. 
(Indeed, this courtesy is required under ‘Codes of Professionalism’
adopted by many bar associations and courts; see list of guidelines on civility
and professionalism available on the State Bar website (www.calbar.ca.gov).)”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶
8:506, p. 8E-30 (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
A
motion to compel “must be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing ‘a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.”  (Cal. Practice
Guide, supra, ¶ 8:811, p. 8E-147, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040, emphasis
omitted.)  Plaintiff has not provided a
meet and confer declaration that satisfies this requirement. 
At
the same time, Flexdrive should have provided alternative dates for the
deposition of its person most qualified when it rejected the dates Plaintiff
had noticed.  The Court expects Flexdrive
to work cooperatively with Plaintiff to schedule the deposition in a timely manner.  If Flexdrive wishes to seek a protective
order, it may do so as authorized by statute after a reasonable and good faith
effort to resolve the matter outside court. 
The Court
denies the motion without prejudice.  The
parties should meet and confer about deposition dates and Flexdrive’s
objections. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES without prejudice Plaintiff Alfonso Leon Baltazar’s motion to compel the deposition
of Defendant Flex Drive Services, LLC’s person most qualified and to produce documents. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.