  Case Number:  23VECV01643    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  W MARIA DEL
ROSARIO ALAS ALARCON v. COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATION 
 
Date of Hearing:        November
20, 2024              Trial
Date:       December 16, 2024
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23VECV01643
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Costco
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Maria Alarcon 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On April 14, 2023, plaintiff Maria
Alarcon filed a complaint against Costco Wholesale  Corporation, seeking damages for a slip and
fall she sustained at a Costco store.  Costco
answered on May 9, 2023.  On September 6,
2023, with counsel present, the court set the matter for trial on October 7,
2024.  The court set an FSC for September
26, 2024. Pursuant to the Local Rules and the Rules of this Department, the parties
were to file a joint witness list five court days prior to the FSC, or by September
30.  Defendant did so on September 19,
2024, but the documents were not jointly prepared.   To this date, plaintiff has yet to file any
of the required pre- trial documents, including a witness list. 
 
Ruling
 
Defendants Motion
in Limine to Preclude plaintiff from calling any expert witnesses at trial is
granted. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
In the instant case, defendant Costco
timely served a request for expert witness designation on June 28, 2024,
establishing the time for expert witness exchange for August 16, 2024.   Defendant provided the information about its
experts on the exchange date.  Plaintiff
did not designate any experts nor provide any information on the exchange
date.  Defendant now moves to exclude retained
or non-retained expert witnesses at the time of trial under C.C.P. Section
2034.210, et seq. 
 
“[T]he sanction of excluding testimony applies when a party
unreasonably fails to submit an expert witness declaration that fully complies
with Code Civ. Proc., § 2034, subd. (f)(2). Further, the statute envisions
timely disclosure so that parties may prepare for trial, and allowing new and unexpected
testimony at trial would frustrate this purpose. (Bonds v. Roy ((1999)
20 Cal. 4th 140, 142.) “The purpose of the expert witness discovery statute
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034) is to give fair notice
of what an expert will say at trial. This allows the parties to
assess whether to take the expert's deposition, to fully explore the relevant
subject area at any such deposition, and to select an expert who can respond
with a competing opinion on that subject area. Late disclosure of experts
frustrates the very purposes of the discovery statutes and should be permitted,
with appropriate safeguards and
limits, only when absolutely necessary to avoid a miscarriage of
justice.” Id. [Emphasis added.])
 
Plaintiff argues that it did provide notice of its expert witnesses,
but no declaration is attached or exhibit provided to support this
assertion.   Defendant denies that any
such designation was made or that they were informed by email of the intent to
call these experts.  
 
Accordingly, the court grants defendant’s motion to preclude
plaintiff from calling any expert witnesses at the time of trial.  Whether plaintiff can establish causation
through her treating physicians cannot be decided at this juncture.  If a treating physician as part of their
diagnosis and treatment plan evaluated causation and determined that causation
was informative or critical to their ultimate treatment, the court would not
preclude a treating physician from testifying to their findings regarding causation.   (See Schreiber v. Estate of Kiser
(1999) 22 Cal.4th 31.) 
Kalaba v. Gray (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 1416, 1423.)  
 
However, in this case, another obstacle is presented before
plaintiff can call these treating physicians. 
Plaintiff did not file a witness list within the time provided by the Local
Rules or this department.  Plaintiff has
still not filed a witness list, or any of the pretrial documents.   These witnesses have never been identified or
made available for deposition to defendant. 
The court agrees with defendant that to allow plaintiff to conceal the
identity of the doctors it intends to call as experts and then to allow them to
testify as unidentified percipient witnesses is a classic example of
sandbagging that is prejudicial to defendant and thwarts the orders of this
court.  Accordingly, the court precludes
plaintiff from calling any of these doctors in support of its case at
trial.  Plaintiff may testify to her
injuries at the time of trial.  Whether
that is sufficient to establish causation is another matter.   
 