  Case Number:  19STCV40504    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  57  Pending before the Court is the motion of Defendant Liberty Mutual Fire Insurance Company (“Liberty”) for relief under Code of Civil Procedure Section 473(b) from the Court's entry of a default against Liberty on April 30, 2024.  The Court entered the default when granting  Plaintiff's motion for terminating sanctions against Liberty.  The Court granted the Plaintiff's motion for terminating sanctions based on the Court's conclusion that Liberty had willfully disregarded discovery orders in this case, including, as most pertinent here, an October 18, 2023 discovery order.  Prior to the initial hearing on Liberty's Section 473(b) motion, the Court issued a tentative decision to grant Liberty's motion.  In the tentative ruling the Court stated that, based on its review of the motion and the accompanying declaration of counsel for Liberty, the Court had determined that (1) Liberty's action that ran counter to the October 18, 2023 order was not the product of a willful disregard of the order, but rather, was rooted in a mistaken interpretation of it and (2) accordingly, Liberty is entitled to relief from the default under Section 473(b).  During the hearing on Liberty's Section 473(b) motion, however, the Court expressed concern as to whether it had jurisdiction to hear the motion in light of Liberty's notice of appeal from the order imposing terminating sanctions against Liberty, which led to the entry of Liberty's default.  Based on that concern, the Court did not issue a final ruling on Liberty's Section 473(b) motion.  Instead, the Court continued the hearing on the motion to September 11, 2024 and ordered the parties to file supplemental briefs on the Court's jurisdiction to hear the motion.   The supplemental briefs on jurisdiction correctly present the issue as whether Liberty has perfected its appeal of the Court's ruling granting Plaintiff's terminating sanctions motion, which, in turn, is all about whether Liberty's notice of appeal was timely filed.  Liberty is telling the Court of Appeal that the notice of appeal was timely and that the Superior Court clerk's office simply made a technical error that raised a question about the timeliness of the appeal that the Court of Appeal should correct.   At the same time, Liberty is telling this Court that it has jurisdiction to decide the Section 473(b) motion to set aside the ruling granting Plaintiff's terminating sanctions motion because the appeal has not been perfected.  Liberty cannot have it both ways.  In this Court's view, what Liberty is telling the Court of Appeal is right.  The notice of appeal was timely and thus has been perfected.  The Superior Court clerk's office was wrong.  The Court of Appeal has taken no action to suggest anything to the contrary.     A timely-filed appeal is pending.  As a result, this Court lacks jurisdiction to decide Liberty's Section 473(b) motion.   And for hat reason, the Court is denying the motion without prejudice.  If the Court of Appeal dismisses the appeal on the ground that it was never perfected, Liberty may refile its Section 473(b) motion.