 Case Number:  24CMCV00472    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  A 
24CMCV00472 Kimberly Watson v. City of Los Angeles, City of Compton,
 Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, County of Los Angeles, and State of
 California
 
Thursday,
 May 30, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING
 DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT BY DEFENDANT, CITY OF COMPTON
 
I.       
BACKGROUND       
       The complaint
alleges Plaintiff helped her child exit her vehicle from the passenger side
when she stepped over a sewage cap that broke, causing her to fall into a hole.
Plaintiff alleges one cause of action for dangerous condition of public property.

II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Defendant,
City of Compton (“Compton”) demurrers to the complaint on grounds of misjoinder
of parties. Compton contends that it did not own, operate, lease, or control
the public property where the accident allegedly occurred, which is within the
jurisdiction of the City of Los Angeles. 
       In
opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel argues that he requested Compton’s counsel to
hold off from filing this demurrer with Plaintiff’s counsel received an answer
from the City of Los Angeles. Defendant wasted the court’s time. Plaintiff’s
counsel does not have a reason to doubt Compton’s contention.  The court, however, may not consider extrinsic
evidence. Alternatively, Plaintiff asks for leave to amend. 
       In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff acknowledged in writing that the
complaint wrongfully names “non-relevant” parties and acknowledged they should
be dismissed.       
III.   
LEGAL STANDARDS
       The
bases for demurrer are limited by statute and may be sustained for reasons
including failure to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and
uncertainty as well as for misjoinder of parties.(Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10 subd. (d).) A
demurrer “tests the sufficiency of a complaint as a matter of law and raises
only questions of law.” (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) 
       The
court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual allegations;
(2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3)
judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.)      
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       Plaintiff
alleges that the incident occurred at 816 East 118th Street in Los
Angeles. (Complaint ¶ 13.) The complaint asserts that the location of the
incident and specifically, the sewage cap, was owned, maintained, and/or
controlled by Compton among other public entity defendants. (Complaint ¶ 13.)
       Compton
requests judicial notice of the Los Angeles County Assessor’s website showing
that the address where the incident occurred falls within the City of Los
Angeles. (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. B.) Judicial notice may be taken of facts not
reasonably subject to dispute and are “capable of immediate and accurate
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid.
Code, § 452 subd. (h).)  
       Compton
does not cite any authority that permits judicial notice of the contents of
government websites. While it is appropriate to take judicial notice of the
existence of the website, the truth of matters stated in such documents is not
subject to judicial notice. (Searles
Valley Minerals Operations, Inc. v. State Bd. of Equalization (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 514, 519.) 
Therefore, in Searles, the trial court
properly denied the request for judicial notice of contents in the website
pages of the American Coal Foundation and the U.S. Department of Energy. 
       Defendant
argues the website is subject to judicial notice as an official public record
of the State of California. (Evid. Code, § 452 (c).) However, while judicial notice
of official acts and public records is permitted by statute, the courts “do not
take judicial notice of the truth of all matters stated therein." (Mangini
v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1057, 1063.) 
 
V.     
CONCLUSION
       As
Compton has not demonstrated that the face of the complaint and matters
properly subject to judicial notice establish that Compton is not a proper
party to this action, Compton’s demurrer is OVERRULED. Defendant is ordered to
file an answer within 10 days. 