  Case Number:  21STCV05798    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  K Background    
Plaintiffs Ethan Bergeron (“Ethan”) and Victoria Bergeron (“Victoria”) (together,
“Plaintiffs”) allege as follows:
On February
16, 2019, and at all relevant times, Victoria and Defendant Andrea Salazar
(“Andrea”) worked at a BJ’s Restaurant. On February 16, 2019, Andrea was
babysitting Victoria’s 4-year-old son Ethan when, without Victoria’s knowledge,
she took Ethan to a party at a house owned by her brother, Defendant Adrian
Salazar (“Adrian”), and Adrian’s wife, Defendant Reina Guevara (“Guevara”). At
the party, Ethan “impacted” a sliding glass door, which shattered into large,
jagged pieces. One of these pieces pierced Ethan’s abdomen. Andrea pulled this
piece out of Ethan’s abdomen, which further ruptured his organs and muscles.
After the incident, Andrea physically and verbally harassed Victoria; although
Victoria complained, she was punished by having to change shifts to avoid
coming into contact with Andrea, which affected her time with Ethan.
On February 16, 2021, Plaintiffs filed a complaint, asserting causes of
action against Guevara, Adrian, Andrea, BJ’s Restaurants, Inc. (“BJ’s”) and
Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Premises
Liability
2.                 
Negligence
3.                 
Negligence
Per Se
4.                 
Product
Liability
5.                 
Harassment,
Assault and Battery
6.                 
Failure
to Prevent Harassment (Hostile Work Environment)
On October 14, 2021, Plaintiffs dismissed the fourth cause of action
against Guevara and Adrian only, without prejudice. On November 8, 2021,
Andrea’s default was entered.
On January 31, 2022, the court sustained BJ’s
demurrer to the second and sixth causes of action, with 30 days’ leave to
amend.
The Final Status Conference is set for October
31, 2023. Trial is set for November 14, 2023.
Legal Standard
“Before, during, or after a deposition, any party, any
deponent, or any other affected natural person or organization may promptly
move for a protective order. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd.
(a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice
requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)
“The court shall restrict the frequency or extent of use of a
discovery method provided in Section 2019.010 if it determines either of the
following: (1) The
discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable
from some other source that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less
expensive. (2) The selected method of discovery is unduly burdensome or
expensive, taking into account the needs of the case, the amount in
controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. (b)
The court may make these determinations pursuant to a motion for a protective
order by a party or other affected person. This motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2019.030, subds. (a) and (b).)
“(a) When an inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents, tangible things, places, or electronically stored information has
been demanded, the party to whom the demand has been directed, and any other
party or affected person, may promptly move for a protective order. This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires
to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment,
or oppression, or undue burden and expense . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.060,
subds. (a) and (b).)
Discussion
BJ’s moves the court for entry of a
protective order directing Plaintiffs to meet and confer in good faith on a
date and time for the deposition of BJ’s Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) and
striking Category No. 4 from Plaintiffs’ deposition notice for BJ’s PMK. BJ’s
also seeks sanctions against Plaintiffs’ counsel in the amount of $3,560.00.
BJ’s counsel Christopher Cianci
(“Cianci”) represents as follows:
On March 20, 2023,
Plaintiff served BJ’s with a “Notice of Deposition of Person(s) Most
Knowledgeable of BJ’s Restaurants, Inc.,” identifying therein 7 subject matters
of topics and 55 document production requests and noticing the deposition for
April 27, 2023 (Cianci Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) On April 20, 2023, BJ’s served an
objection thereto, which complained in part that the deposition had been
unilaterally scheduled. (Id., ¶ 3, Exh. 2.) On July 6, 2023, Plaintiffs’
counsel Kerry Zeiler (“Zeiler”) filed a declaration with the court, objecting
to the July 11, 2023 hearing on BJ’s Motion for Summary Judgment and declaring
therein that he was out of the country from June 3, 2023 with a return trip
scheduled for August 2023. (Id., ¶ 5, Exh. 3.) Zeiler requested that the
court continue the MSJ hearing date, which the court did. (Id., ¶¶ 5 and
6). On July 11, 2023, Zeiler emailed Cianci asking
Cianci for dates to schedule BJ’s PMK deposition and providing four dates he
(i.e., Zeiler) was available: July 24th, July 27th,
August 2nd and August 4th. (Id., ¶ 6, Exh. 4). On
July 12, 2023, Cianci responded that he was available on July 27th
and August 2nd, that he would determine whether those dates worked
for any of the deponents and that they would need to set up a time the
following week to go over and discuss the PMK categories. (Id.) On July
21, 2023, Plaintiff served a second “Notice of Deposition of Person(s) Most
Knowledgeable of BJ’s Restaurants, Inc.,” identifying therein the same 7
subject matters of topics and 55 document production requests as in the prior
notice and noticing the deposition for August 4, 2023 (Id., ¶ 7, Exh.
5.) On July 28, 2023, BJ’s served an objection thereto, which again complained
in part that the deposition had been unilaterally scheduled. (Id., ¶ 8,
Exh. 6.) Counsel were unable to resolve their differences via subsequent email
exchanges (Id., ¶ 9, Exh. 7), leading to the August 3, 2023 filing of
the instant motion. 
Additionally, BJ’s takes issue with
Category No. 4 of Plaintiff’s deposition notice, which seeks BJ’s PMK for
“[t]he management of the Region containing the City of Industry BJ’s Restaurant
and Brewhouse from 2018 through 2021.” BJ’s argues that this category is, inter
alia, irrelevant, overbroad, vague and burdensome.
Plaintiff, in turn, argues that
there was no legally cognizable deficiency in the notice of deposition and that
BJ’s simply did not want to proceed with its PMK’s deposition on August 4,
2023. Plaintiff seeks sanctions against BJ’s and its counsel in the amount of
$2,500.00.
Local Rule 3.26, Appendix 3.A
provides, in relevant part, that “[i]n scheduling depositions,
reasonable consideration should be given to accommodating schedules or opposing
counsel and of the deponent, where it is possible to do so without prejudicing
the client’s rights.” Here, after Zeiler communicated to Cianci that he was
available for deposition on July 24th, July 27th, August 2nd and August 4th, Cianci
advised that he was available on July 27th and August 2nd and that he would
determine whether those dates worked for any of the deponents. Cianci’s
response communicated that he was not available on August 4th, the date
Plaintiff thereafter scheduled the deposition of BJ’s PMK. It is true, from the
record set forth above, that Cianci did not thereafter communicate to Zeiler
the PMK’s availability for his/her deposition on either July 27th or August 2nd,
nor did he apparently provide Zeiler with any other information regarding the
PMK’s and/or his availability on other dates; however, the court accepts
Cianci’s explanation that “[i]n light of Mr. Zeiler’s prior representations
about being out of the country, [he] did not try to set a firm date, and left
the initiative with Mr. Zeiler, as a courtesy to accommodate Mr. Zeiler’s
vacation schedule.” (Cianci Decl., ¶ 6). On the other hand, the court
appreciates Zeiler’s need to depose BJ’s PMK as expeditiously as possible due
to the upcoming MSJ hearing.
The motion, then, is granted as to
BJ’s request that the parties be ordered to meet and confer in good faith on a
date and time for the PMK deposition; to that end, Cianci is instructed to come
prepared at the time of the hearing with at least three dates within the next
twenty days on which the PMK is available to be deposed. The motion is
otherwise denied as to BJ’s request to strike Category No. 4 from
Plaintiffs’ deposition notice for BJ’s PMK on the basis of lack of meet and
confer; nowhere in the communications attached to counsels’ respective
declarations do counsel appear to specifically confer on Category No. 4. The
court declines the parties’ respective requests for sanctions.