 Case Number:  22TRCV00890    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
BARBARA
  CLARK, by and through her guardian ad litem, KEVIN CLARK,  


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00890




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
PRIME
  HEALTHCARE CENTINELA, LLC DBA CENTINELA HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         December 12,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Parkwest
Rehabilitation Center, LLC dba Parkwest Healthcare Center
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Barbara Clark
(1)  
Demurrer to Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 20
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the 1st and 2nd causes of
action in the complaint and OVERRULED as to the 3rd cause of
action.  The motion to strike is GRANTED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the prayer under the 1st and 2nd
causes of action and DENIED as to costs. 
BACKGROUND
            On October 3, 2023, plaintiff
Barbara Clark, by and through her guardian ad litem, Kevin Clark, filed a
complaint against Prime Healthcare Centinela, LLC dba Centinela Hospital
Medical Center, Dignity Community Care dba Northridge Hospital Medical Center,
Parkwest Rehabilitation Center, LLC dba Parkwest Healthcare Center for (1)
elder abuse and neglect, (2) violation of Resident Rights under Health &
Safety Code 1430(b), and (3) negligence. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
The court may, upon a motion, or at
any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP §436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP
§436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant Parkwest Rehabilitation
Center, LLC dba Parkwest Healthcare Center (“Parkwest”) demurs to the 1st,
2nd, and 3rd causes of action in the complaint on the
ground that they fail to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action
and are uncertain.
            The complaint alleges that plaintiff
Barbara Clark was born on October 5, 1936. 
Complaint, ¶1.  In the fall of
2021, Clark was 85 years old and was living independently.  She had a history of atrial fibrillation and
latent tuberculosis but was otherwise mobile and alert.  On October 17, 2021, she suffered a stroke
and was admitted to Centinela Hospital. 
The stroke resulted in right sided hemiplegia, and she required a g-tube
and PEG placement for feedings.  Id., ¶29.  As a result of Clark’s physical condition,
while she was in the care and custody of Centinela Hospital, she required
skilled, medical, and custodial care in addition to assistance with all
activities of daily living, including maintaining her personal hygiene,
continence care, transferring, and repositioning in bed, transferring in and
out of bed and chair, eating, drinking, and managing her medication.  Id., ¶30. 
Centinela Hospital failed to effectively assess Clark’s care needs and
because of the failure to assess, Centinela Hospital failed to develop,
implement, and modify care plans designed to meet Clark’s individualized care
needs as to wound care, food and fluid, infection, and hygiene.  Id., ¶33. 
When Clark became a patient at Centinela Hospital, her skin was intact
and she was clear of skin breakdown. 
There is no documentation that Clark developed any skin breakdown during
her admission to Centinela Hospital.  Her
hospitalization was complicated as she also became septic, developed a urinary
tract infection, and pneumonia.  She also
had dysphagia status-post PEG placement. 
Id., ¶34.  
            The complaint further alleges that
on October 30, 2021, despite these complications, case managers at Centinela
Hospital decoded Clark was safe to be discharged to a skilled nursing facility
for continued rehabilitation.  It was
arranged for her to be transferred to Windsor Terrace Healthcare Center via
ambulance.  When she arrived, she was not
there for more than ten minutes as she had developed acute respiratory failure
and was hypoxic.  She was immediately
transferred to the nearest emergency room, Northridge Hospital.  Id., ¶35. 
Centinela Hospital knew, or should have known, Clark required 24-hour
hospitalization until she was stable from the stroke and related sequelae.  Instead of retaining her, they made the
financial decision to discharge her to a lower level of care at a skilled
nursing facility knowing she required a higher level of care.  As a result of the premature discharge, Clark
suffered needlessly as she developed acute respiratory failure and became
hypoxic enroute and had to be transferred immediately back to the hospital.  Id., ¶36. 
On admission to Northridge Hospital, it is documented for the first time
that Clark had a pressure injury on her right and left buttock, right elbow,
and left ankle.  Centinela Hospital
concealed the existence, nature, and severity of these wounds from Clark and
her family.  Id., ¶37.
            The complaint further alleges that
Clark was hospitalized at Northridge Hospital from October 30, 2021 to November
5, 2021, where, in addition to treatment for her acute respiratory failure and
hypoxia, she required would care treatment. 
Id., ¶39.  Northridge Hospital
failed to effectively assess Clark’s care needs and because of the failure to
assess, Northridge Hospital failed to develop, implement, and modify care plans
designed to meet Clark’s individualized care needs.  Id., ¶40. 
As a result, Clark’s wounds worsened. 
Id., ¶41.  On November 5, 2021,
case managers at Northridge Hospital decided Clark was safe to be discharged to
a skilled nursing facility for continued rehabilitation.  It was arranged for her to be transferred to
Lake Balboa Care Center via ambulance. 
She was at Lake Balboa Care for only a day before she had to be brought
back to the nearest hospital.  This time
she was transferred to Valley Presbyterian. 
Id., ¶42.  On November 6, 2021,
Clark’s oxygen saturation was down to 85%, she had a fever of 102 degrees, and
was documented as having “multiple pressure injuries” on admission.  The right and left buttock wound merged to
form a sacral wound that was at a State III. 
Her left and right ankle were classified as unstageable.  Id., ¶44. 

The complaint further alleges that
on December 1, 2021, Clark was transferred to Parkwest Healthcare who failed to
effectively assess Clark’s care needs and because of the failure to assess,
Parkwest Healthcare failed to develop, implement, and modify care plans
designed to meet Clark’s individualized care needs as to wound care, food and
fluid, infection, and hygiene.  Id., ¶46(a)-(d).
On December 7, 2021, Clark was
transferred to Northridge Hospital.  Her
son advocated for her transfer out of concern that she had pneumonia.  At the hospital, she was diagnosed with a
urinary tract infection and sepsis.  It
was also discovered Clark’s wounds had worsened.  She now had a left buttock that was
classified as a Stage IV and coccyx wound classified as a Stage IV.  Id., ¶47. 
Over the next several months, Clark had a series of transfers between
hospitals and skilled nursing facilities to attempt to heal her wounds.  The complications of these mismanaged wounds
further complicated her ability to recover from her respiratory
conditions.  Id., ¶48.
            1st cause of action
for elder abuse
In order to state a cause of action
under the Elder Abuse Act, “a plaintiff must allege conduct essentially
equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of punitive damages.” Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 771, 789.  
 “Neglect” is defined in section 15610.57 as
“(a). . . . (1) The negligent failure of any person having the care or custody
of an elder . . . to exercise that degree of care that a reasonable person in a
like position would exercise. . . .(b) Neglect includes, but is not limited to,
all of the following: . . . (2) Failure to provide medical care for physical
and mental health needs.”
“It is true that statutory elder
abuse includes 'neglect as defined in Section 15610.57,' which in turn includes
negligent failure of an elder custodian 'to provide medical care for [the
elder's] physical and mental health needs' (§ 15610.57(b)(2)). . . . '[N]eglect'
within the meaning of [section 15610.57] covers an area of misconduct distinct
from 'professional negligence.'  As used
in the Act, neglect refers not to the substandard performance of medical
services but, rather, to the 'failure of those responsible for attending to the
basic needs and comforts of elderly or dependent adults, regardless of their
professional standing, to carry out their custodial obligations.'  Thus, the statutory definition of 'neglect'
speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to
provide medical care.  Notably, the other
forms of abuse, as defined in the Act--physical abuse and fiduciary abuse
[§15657]--are forms of intentional wrongdoing also distinct from 'professional
negligence.'"  Covenant Care,
Inc., supra, at 783.
“[T]he facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.”  Carter
v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley (2011) 198 Cal. App. 4th
396, 407 (citing Covenant Care). 
“Allegations of misconduct directed against one defendant . . . do not
state a cause of action against another defendant against whom the allegations
of misconduct are not directed.”  Id.
at 410 (citation omitted).  “[W]hen a
plaintiff asserts a claim against a health care provider on a legal theory
other than professional negligence, courts must determine whether the claim is
nonetheless based on the health care provider’s professional negligence.”  Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc.
(2014) 230 Cal. App. 4th 336, 347 (citation omitted).  Citing to the content of the definition of
“neglect” in Welf. and Inst. Code 15610.57(b), the Supreme Court stated,
“[w]hat they each seem to contemplate is the existence of a robust caretaking
or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain party has
assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one or more of
an elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult would
ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.”  Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group, Inc.
(2016) 63 Cal. 4th 148, 58. 
“What seems beyond doubt is that the Legislature enacted a scheme
distinguishing between – and decidedly not lumping together – claims of
professional negligence and neglect.”  Id.
at 159.
            Defendant Parkwest argues that the
allegations fail to meet the heightened pleading requirement of specificity or
particularity as to moving defendant. 
Defendant contends that while the complaint provides a medical
chronology of plaintiff’s health conditions, the alleged wrongful conduct that
purportedly led to plaintiff’s health decline is described generally.  Further, defendant argues, the allegations
are insufficient to demonstrate egregious abuse or that defendant acted with
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice. 
Also, defendant argues, the complaint does not allege facts showing that
an officer, director, or managing agent of defendant was involved in the abuse,
authorized the abuse, ratified the abuse, or hired the person who did the abuse
with advance knowledge of the person’s unfitness. 
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the allegations are sufficient.
            The court finds that the allegations
(which are at para. 46 as to moving defendant) are insufficient to constitute a
cause of action for elder abuse against Parkwest.  The allegations are conclusory and are not
pled with the requisite particularity and do not support reckless neglect.  The allegations as to corporate ratification
are also insufficient.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND.
                        2nd cause
of action for violation of Residents’ Rights
            Under Health & Safety Code §1430(b)(1),
“A current or former resident or patient, or the legal representative, personal
representative, or successor in interest of a current or former resident or
patient, of a skilled nursing facility, . . . may bring a civil action against
the licensee of a facility who violates any rights of the resident or patient
as set forth in Section 72527 or 73523 of Title 22 of the California Code of
Regulations, or any other right provided for by federal or state law or
regulation. . . .”   Section 72527
provides a list of 26 specific rights.  
            Defendant argues that the
allegations are conclusory and “merely reference the regulations in boilerplate
fashion” and mirror the language in the statute rather than any fact.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the allegations are sufficient.
            The court finds that the allegations
are insufficient as plaintiff lists the alleged violations but not any facts in
support.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND.
                        3rd cause
of action for negligence
            Defendant argues that the complaint
fails to allege any facts demonstrating Parkwest’s conduct in connection to the
alleged worsening of Clark’s pressure sores and thus, defendant contends, it
fails to meet the element of causation.
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
the allegations are sufficient, including defendant’s failure to maintain
adequate nutrition, to turn and reposition Clark, and to use pressure relieving
devices.
            The court finds that the allegations
are sufficient to meet the elements as plaintiff has alleged the ultimate
facts.
            The demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
            Motion to Strike
            Defendant
Parkwest requests that the court under the 1st cause of action strike
the prayer for general damages (33:8), attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to
Welf. & Inst. Code §15657 (33:11-22), and exemplary damages (33:13-14) and
under the 2nd cause of action, injunctive relief (33:17-18), statutory
damages pursuant to Health & Safety Code §1430(b) (33:19-21), attorney’s
fees and costs pursuant to Health & Safety Code §1430(b) (33:22), and costs
of suit (34:2).
                        Punitive damages
Civil Code §3294 authorizes the
recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .”  The Court in Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894-95, found that “[s]omething more than the mere
commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages.  There must be circumstances of aggravation or
outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part
of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests
of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” 
“’Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” 
Civil Code §3294(c)(1).   
As the Court noted in College
Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 713, Section 3294 was
amended in 1987 to require that, where malice is based on a defendant’s
conscious disregard of a plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both
despicable and willful.  The Court in College
Hospital held further that “despicable conduct refers to circumstances that
are base, vile, or contemptible.”  Id.
at 725 (citation omitted).  In order to
be entitled to the heightened remedies set forth in the Elder Abuse Act,
Welfare & Institutions Code §15657, the plaintiff must establish
“recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse” by
“clear and convincing evidence.”
As defendant argues, the
allegations are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages as there
are no allegations that rise to the level of oppression, fraud, or malice as to
demurring defendant.
            Attorney’s
fees
In light of the ruling on the
demurrer as to the 1st and 2nd cause of actions, there is
no basis for an award of attorney’s fees.
            General
damages
            In light of the ruling on the
demurrer as to the 1st cause of action, there is no basis for
general damages under the 1st cause of action.
                        Injunctive relief
            As defendant argues, plaintiff is
not a resident of defendant and thus is not entitled to injunctive relief.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to prayer under the 1st and 2nd
cause of actions and DENIED as to costs. 
Moving defendant is ordered to give
notice of ruling.