 Case Number:  A23TRCV00434    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. M




 
DIEGO
  RODRIGUEZ BARRERA, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00434




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JOSE
  FUENTES VEGA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         December 12,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiffs Diego Rodriguez
Barrera and Yaneth Alexandra Rizzo Vergel
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Serve the Secretary of State
 
            The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.  See order.
BACKGROUND
On February 15, 2023, plaintiffs
Diego Rodriguez Barrera and Yaneth Alexandra Rizzo Vergel filed a complaint
against Jose Fuentes Vega and Alcocer, Inc. for motor vehicle negligence based
on an incident that occurred on December 28, 2021 at LAX near Terminal 7.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
As to
service on corporation through the Secretary of State, Corp. Code §1702
states:  
“(a) If
an agent for the purpose of service of process has resigned and has not been
replaced or if the agent designated cannot with reasonable diligence be found
at the address designated for personally delivering the process, or if no agent
has been designated, and it is shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court that process against a domestic corporation cannot be served with
reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in the manner provided
in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of
Section 415.30 of the Code of Civil Procedure or upon the corporation in the
manner provided in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) of Section 416.10 or
subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may
make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by
hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of
State’s office in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of the process
for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order authorizing
such service.  Service in this manner is
deemed complete on the 10th day after delivery of the process to the Secretary
of State.”
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiffs
Diego Rodriguez Barrera and Yaneth Alexandra Rizzo Vergel request an order directing
service of summons on defendant Alcocer, Inc. by delivery to the Secretary of
State.
            Plaintiffs
explain that they have been unable to find or serve the agent designated for
service on behalf of Alcocer, Inc. 
Plaintiffs assert that the Secretary of State website shows that the
address for the service of process of Alcocer, Inc. is 333 Hindry Avenue,
Inglewood.  The website shows the company
as active.  The agent for service of
process is designated as John E. Kindt. 
Plaintiffs attempted to serve defendant at the above address in May
2023.  The process server indicated:  “address provided is LAX CDJR-Chrysler, Dodge
Jeep and Ram.  I spoke with the manager
who said they just moved in two months ago.” 
Plaintiffs’ counsel then searched the Alcocer, Inc. LinkedIn profile and
other online sources and found additional addresses to attempt service—2535
Camino Del Rios, Suite 105, San Diego and 3595 Town Center Dr., Suite 106, Las
Vegas.  As to the Las Vegas address, the
process server stated:  “Unable to gain
access, doors locked.  Name on the
building is the Union.”  Plaintiff’s
counsel then attempted to send copies of the summons and complaint via
certified mail with return receipt requested but the certified mail was
refused.  Plaintiff’s counsel also hired
a private investigator to find John Kindt and located an address at 1419 Madrid
Avenue, Torrance, but that service was unsuccessful.  Plaintiffs further contend that defense
counsel also hired a private investigator to find Alcocer, Inc. but was
unsuccessful.  See Angel Silva decl.
            The
court finds that plaintiffs have shown by affidavit to the satisfaction of the
court that process against a domestic corporation Alcocer, Inc. cannot be
served with reasonable diligence upon the designated agent by hand in the
manner provided in CCP §415.10, §415.20(a), or §415.30(a) or upon the
corporation in the manner provided in CCP §416.10(a), (b) or (c) or §416.20(a).

Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED. 
Plaintiffs
are ordered to give notice of ruling.