  Case Number:  22TRCV00335    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  M 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
KORY
  KLEIN,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22TRCV00335




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
BEATA
  STYLIANOS,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                         December 12,
2023
 
Moving Parties:                      Jason M. Stone, Esq. and
Blake S. Slater, Esq. of Stone & Sallus, LLP, for defendant Beata Stylianos
Responding Party:                  None
Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel
 
The court considered the moving papers.
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.  The court orders that the attorneys are relieved
as counsel of record for defendant Beata Stylianos, effective upon the filing
of the proof of service of the signed “Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil” (Judicial Council form MC-053) upon the client.
BACKGROUND
On May 2, 2022, plaintiff Kory
Klein filed a  complaint against Beata
Stylianos for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment, (3) tortious breach of the implied warranty of habitability, (4)
contractual breach of the implied covenant of habitability, (5) negligence, and
(6) IIED.  Plaintiff alleges that he
rented 29 5th St., Hermosa Beach from defendant for one month
through VRBO from October 14, 2021 to November 15, 2021, for $8753.12.  Plaintiff began to reside at the property and
immediately encountered various defects. 
Defendant breached the rental agreement by failing to provide habitable
conditions at the property, including no box spring, failure to properly
maintain fireplace and chimney, failure to have the property cleaned before,
failure to maintain gas line to BBQ, and misleading plaintiff to believe that
her husband had not died in the property after plaintiff had been told he had
not.
Trial is set for April 25, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
The court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice.  See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal. App. 2d
398.
CRC Rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to
the client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and
without compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship
why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration
on all other parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order
relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)).
DISCUSSION
            Defendant’s attorneys of record, Jason
M. Stone and Blake S. Slater of Stone & Sallus, LLP, seek to be relieved as
counsel for defendant Beata Stylianos.
Counsel states in his declaration that
there has been an attorney-client relationship breakdown over the course of the
proceeding.  “Irreconcilable differences
have arisen between Defendant and counsel for Defendant which causes undue
delay to the proceeding” and that “counsel will be unable to continue
representing the Defendant without conflict.” 
The court finds that the attorney
submitted a declaration establishing that the service requirements of
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362, have been satisfied.  The court also finds that the attorney has
shown sufficient reasons why the motion to be relieved as counsel should be
granted.
The motion is GRANTED.
Moving counsel is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 