 Case Number:  20STCV28039    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is Defendant Michael
Paul Ramsey’s (“Paul”) motion for judgment on the pleadings on the sixth and seventh
causes of action in the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) of Toluca Plaza Partners
(“TPP”).  The sixth cause of action asserts
that Paul breached a contract that he entered into with TPP, the managing
partner of which is Paul’s brother Patrick Allen Ramsey (“Patrick”).  The contract at issue in the sixth cause of
action is a Property Management Agreement (“the PMA”). The seventh cause of
action asserts that Paul breached the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
that was implied in the PMA.  For the
reasons set forth below, the Court is granting Paul’s motion for judgment on
the pleadings as to sixth and seventh causes of action without leave to
amend.  
 
The TAC alleges that on January 1, 2017, Paul
entered into the PMA with TPP and agreed therein to manage certain property owned
by TPP.  The PMA is attached to the TAC.  As relevant here, the two key provisions of
the PMA are Section 3(a) and Section 12(d). 
   Section
3(a) provides that the PMA was to expire on December 31, 2017.  Section 12(d) is an integration clause.  Captioned “Entire Agreement,” it provides as
follows:
 
[The
PMA] (including exhibits or signed addenda hereto) contains the entire
agreement between Owner [TPP] and Manager [Paul], and no oral statements or
prior written matter not specifically incorporated herein shall be of any force
and effect.  No variation, modification
or changes hereof shall be binding on either party hereto unless set forth in a
document executed by such parties or a duly authorized agent, officer or
representative thereof. 
 
The TAC alleges that the December 31, 2017 expiration
date in Section 3(a) of the PMA “was modified by email correspondence between
Paul and Patrick on or about September 22, 2017 and September 23, 2017, whereby
it was thereafter understood by the parties that Paul would continue in the
role as TPP’s property manager for an unspecified, open-ended time, materially
altering by mutual agreement” the December 31, 2017 expiration date.  (TAC, ¶ 65.)  The TAC further alleges that Paul breached the
PMA in or about the late spring of 2018. (Id. ¶ 69.)  According to TPP, the PMA was still in effect
as of that time by dint of the extension beyond the December 31, 2017 that Paul
and Patrick agreed to in their email correspondence in September 2017.
 
Paul’s motion for judgment on pleadings on
the sixth cause of action for breach of the PMA rests on the proposition that
the allegations in Paragraph 65 of the TAC that Paul and Patrick agreed to extend
the PMA through their September 2017 email correspondence do not satisfy the
requirement of Section 12(d)’s integration clause that any modification to the
PMA must be set forth in a document executed by TPP and Paul.  In the Court’s view, that proposition is
correct.  The September 2017 email
correspondence between Paul and Patrick does not embody a modification to Section
3(a)’s December 31, 2017 expiration date of the PMA through a writing executed
by TPP and Paul.  In other words, the December
31, 2017 expiration date was never properly extended.  The upshot is that the PMA expired roughly six
months before the occurrence of Paul’s alleged breach of the PMA in or about
the  late spring of 2018.  TPP’s claim for breach of the PMA thus fails
as a matter of law. 
 
Because TPP’s seventh cause of action for
breach of the  covenant of good faith and
fair dealing that is implied in the PMA is derivative of the sixth cause of
action for breach of the PMA, the seventh cause of action fails as a matter of
law as well.  
 
Because both the sixth and seventh causes of
action fail as a matter of law, the Court is granting Paul’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings.  The Court is doing
so without giving TPP leave to amend. 
The Court granted with leave to amend two previous motions Paul filed for
judgment on the pleadings as to TPP’s claims for breach of the PMA and breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  TPP has now failed three times to plead those claims
adequately to withstand motions for judgment on the pleadings.  At this point, it does not appear to the Court
that it is reasonably possible that TPP can amend its pleading to state claims
for breach of the PMA and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing.  For that reason, the Court is
granting Paul’s motion for judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend. 
 