  Case Number:  19STCV43706    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  57 Pending before the Court is Plaintiff's unopposed amended motion for attorney's fees in the amount  of  $96,470.  The Court is granting the motion.  Following an uncontested bench trial, the Court found that Plaintiff prevailed on its claim against
Defendants Longnan Jin and Wenjie Guo for breach of a nondisclosure agreement ("the NDA").
In pertinent part, the NDA provided that "[i]n the event that any action, suit, or other proceeding
is instituted to remedy, prevent or obtain relief from a breach of this Agreement, or arising out of
a breach of this Agreement, the substantially prevailing party shall recover all of such party’s
attorneys’ fees incurred in each and every such action, suit or other proceeding, including any
and all appeals or petitions therefrom.” Because the NDA authorizes an award of attorney's fees
to the party that prevailed in an action on the NDA, and because the Court determined that
Plaintiff prevailed on its action for breach of the NDA, Plaintiff is entitled under Civil Code
1717(a) to reasonable attorney's fees it incurred to enforce to the NDA. (Section 1717(a) [“In any
action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorneys’ fees and costs,
which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing on the contract,
whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees in addition to other costs."].)
Plaintiff also prevailed after trial on a host of other claims against the Defendants. These were
tort and other non-contractual claims for which an award of attorney's fees is not authorized by
Section 1717 or any other statute.
As a general rule, when a claim based on a contract providing for an award of attorney fees to the
party that prevailed on an action to enforce the contract is joined with tort or other claims for
which an award of attorney’s fees is not authorized by statute, attorney’s fees are recoverable by
the prevailing party only as they relate to the contract claim; therefore, the trial court must
apportion the fees incurred by the prevailing party between the contract claim and the other
claims on which that party prevailed. (Reynolds Metals Co. v. Alperson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 124,
129. This rule gives away, however, when the contract claim is so intertwined with the other
claims that it is impracticable to apportion attorney time between work for which an award of
fees is authorized and work for which it is not. (Calvo Fisher & Jacob LLP v. Lujan (2015), 234
Cal.App.4th 608, 625-626; Bell v. Vista Unified School Dist. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 672, 687.)
On April 2, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff's original motion for attorney's fees on the ground that Plaintiff failed in the motion to address whether the $ 96,470 Plaintiff seeks is attributable just to the work done in connection with the Plaintiff’s successful
claim for breach of the NDA (for which an award of attorney’s fees is authorized under Section
1717(a)) or whether that amount also reflects work done in connection with Plaintiff’s other
successful claims (for which an award of attorney’s fees is not authorized under Section 1717(a)
or any other statute.) The Court stated that if it was the former, it would appear that the amount of fees that Plaintiff is
seeking is unreasonably high, given that the claim for breach of the NDA was just one of many
claims. The-Court further stated that if it was the latter, then the Plaintiff failed to show that the contract claims is so intertwined with the work on the contract claim that apportionment is
impractical.  The Court's order authorized Plaintiff to file an amended motion for attorney's fees to clarify its position. Plaintiffs amended motion makes the necessary clarification.  The amended motion states that the $96,470 in fees that Plaintiff is seeking reflects work by Plaintiff's lawyers on all of the claims that went to trial, across the board. And most critically, in the Court's view, the motion demonstrates that apportionment of the work and attendant fees between the claim for breach of the NDA and the other claims is impractical because the claims were intertwined.  The Court has determined that the $ 96,470 in fees that Plaintiff is seeking for the work on all the claims is reasonable.   in particular, the hourly billing rate of Plaintiff's attorneys is reasonable .  So too is the number of hours that the attorneys stated that they worked on the case. Plaintiff is to submit an amended proposed judgment reflecting the amount of attorney's fees the Court is awarding, on top of the amount of damages to which the Court determined following the trial that the Plaintiffs are entitled.