  Case Number:  23TRCV02446    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Party: Defendant Milender White Residential Socal Corp.Responding Party: NoneMOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY PROCEEDINGSThe court considered the moving papers. No opposition or reply has been filed.RULINGThe MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION is GRANTED. The court orders plaintiff BLF, Inc., a California corporation doing business as Larrabure Framing, and defendant Milender White Residential Socal Corp., a Colorado corporation, to arbitration. The court orders this action stayed as to those parties until the completion of arbitration.BACKGROUNDOn 7/28/2023, plaintiff BLF, Inc., a California corporation doing business as Larrabure Framing (“Plaintiff”), filed this action.On 8/25/2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Milender White Residential Socal Corp. (“Milender White” or “MWR”), Inglewood Market Gateway, LLC, Market D3, LLC, Fidelity and Deposit Company of Maryland, and Does 1 through 40, inclusive, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) common counts, (3) enforcement of claim on mechanics lien release bond, and (4) unjust enrichment.The FAC alleges the following. The construction project subject to this action is known as Inglewood Market Gateway (the “Project”), located at 213 and 215 East Regent Street and/or 204 N. La Brea Avenue, in Inglewood, CA 90301 (the “Property”). FAC, ¶ 9. On or about June 4, 2020, Plaintiff, MWR, and Does 1 through 10 entered into a standard subcontractor/vendor agreement for the Project (the “Contract”). FAC, ¶ 10. “Within the past four years, Defendants MWR and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, breached the Contract by failing to timely pay all amounts owing and due to BLF pursuant to the Contract.” FAC, ¶ 19. Pursuant to the Contract, Plaintiff’s dispute with MWR is to be resolved through arbitration. FAC, ¶ 12. However, “a Bond to Release the Mechanics Lien was obtained after this action was initiated, and [therefore] Plaintiff is filing this First Amended Complaint to preserve its statutory claims against the release bond upon the interests of the Defendants.” FAC, ¶ 13.On 10/20/2023, Millender White filed the instant motion to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay proceedings pending arbitration.As of 5/10/2024, no opposition to the motion has been filed.LEGAL STANDARD“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that:(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact . . . .”Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.“If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court specifies.” Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.DISCUSSIONMillender White moves to compel Plaintiff’s claims to arbitration, arguing the following. Plaintiff filed this action asserting claims against the defendant for (among other things) breach of Subcontract Number 190009-06020 dated June 1, 2020 (the “Subcontract”). Motion, pp. 3:9-11; 4:8-9. The Subcontract sets forth the general terms and conditions under which Plaintiffprovided labor, materials, and services to Milender White for the Project. Motion, p. 3:9-11. “Because BLF and Milender White agreed, in writing, to bind themselves to arbitrate any claims stemming from the Subcontract, including the present matter, the Court is divested of jurisdiction over this Action pending arbitration and shall compel BLF to arbitrate the claims it has against Milender White.” Motion, p. 4:17-21. Indeed, Plaintiff does not contest the validity of the arbitration clause. Motion, p. 4:10. To the contrary, the FAC (1) acknowledges arbitration is the appropriate venue to resolve the parties’ dispute, (2) seeks to preserve Plaintiff’s right to arbitrate, and (3) clarifies that Plaintiff filed this action to preserve its statutory lien rights while intending to arbitrate its claims. Motion, p. 4:8-14. “Nevertheless, without an accompanying stipulation to stay, proceeding before this Court in litigation effectively circumvents the arbitration clause set forth in the Subcontract.” Motion, p. 4:15-16. Accordingly, “Milender White requests this Court stay this matter and compel the parties to arbitrate all claims asserted because such claims fall directly within the scope of the parties’ Subcontract provision requiring arbitration of all disputes related to the Project.” Motion, p. 4:22-25.As Milender White points out, the FAC acknowledges that Plaintiff is bound and seeks to reserve its right to arbitrate its claims pursuant to the following arbitration provision in the Subcontract.Arbitration. Subcontractor/Vendor agrees to binding arbitration as the agreed form of dispute resolution for any claims arising under this Agreement. The arbitration shall be administered by the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) pursuant to the AAA’s Construction Industry Arbitration Rules then in effect, unless the parties agree otherwise.Subcontractor/Vendor agrees that if the Contractor is compelled to Arbitrate (or engage in another specified non-judicial method of resolution) under the Prime Contract, the Subcontractor/Vendor may be joined by Contractor in any such action or proceeding involving the project that is the subject of this Agreement.FAC, ¶ 12; Exhibit 1, Section 15.A; Motion, Exhibit 1, Section 15.A.Accordingly, the court grants the request to compel Plaintiff’s claims against Milender White to arbitration.Milender White asks for an order staying this action pending the arbitration proceeding.To the extent the defendant is seeking a stay of the entire action, that request is denied as there has been no showing that other named defendants have a written arbitration agreement with Plaintiff.Accordingly, the court will stay this action as to Plaintiff and Milender White only pending those parties’ arbitration.The motion to compel arbitration and stay action is GRANTED as follows. The court orders plaintiff BLF, Inc., a California corporation doing business as Larrabure Framing, and defendant Milender White Residential Socal Corp., a Colorado corporation, to arbitration. The court orders this action stayed as to those parties until the completion of arbitration.