 This is a lemon law action.  Plaintiff Hannah Dominick seeks to compel further responses to her requests for production, set one, special interrogatories, set one, and form interrogatories, set one, from Defendant General Motors LLC.Documents Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses as to request for production nos. 9, 13, 17, 37-48, 51, and 56-58. The Motion is granted as to request nos. 9 (recall documents), 13 (statements taken), 17 (repair directives), 51 (repairs), 56 (repair procedures), 57 (diagnostic procedures), and 58 (investigation documents).  These requests are relevant, and the objections lack merit.  Further responses and documents are to be provided within 30 days. The Motion is denied as to request nos. 37-48, which seek complaints and other related documents pertaining to other vehicles.  This is overbroad and overburdensome. In sum, the Motion is granted in part as set forth herein.Special Interrogatories Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses as to her special interrogatories (“SI”), nos. 14, 40-43, 45 and 75. The Motion is granted as to SI no. 14, which seeks the identity of technicians that performed repairs on the subject vehicle.  A reference to CCP § 2030.230 is not appropriate or necessary and the reference to documents is not particularly specific.  The Motion is granted as to SI no. 40, which seeks supervisor identities—however, the response can be narrowed simply to those individuals somehow involved with, connected to, or responsible for the subject vehicle. The Motion is granted as to SI no. 41 (how individuals perform their duties) because the objections lack merit. The Motion is granted as to SI no. 42 (explanation as to investigation) because the response provided is vague and insufficient. The Motion is granted as to SI no. 43 (identity of those investigated) because the response is insufficient. The Motion is granted as to SI no. 45 (identity of those who decided not to repurchase) because the response was insufficient. The Motion is granted as to SI no. 75 (time vehicle was out for repairs) because the response was insufficient. In sum, the Motion is granted.  Further responses are to be provided within 30 days.Form Interrogatories  Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to her form interrogatories (“FI”), nos. 15.1 and 17.1. The Motion is granted as to FI no. 15.1, which seeks information and witnesses that support Defendant’s denials and affirmative defenses.  The response is insufficient.  Something must be provided at this juncture, even if discovery is ongoing.  The result is the same for FI no. 17.1, which seeks information for Defendant’s denials for requests for admission.  Something must be provided at this juncture. In sum, the Motion is granted.  Further responses are due within 30 days.Moving party to give notice.