 Case Number:  22SMCV00916    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  I The matter is here for an FSC.  The court gave the FSC order on April 25,
2023.  At that time, the court told the
parties to be familiar with the court’s FSC and trial rules and also that they
should start meeting and conferring two or three months before the FSC in order
to get everything done on time.  On
November 20, 2024, defendant submitted the following documents: (1) Witness
List.  There are 3 witnesses with 23
hours of testimony.  (2) Jury
Instructions.  They are all CACI, but
there is no indication as to whether plaintiff agrees.  (3) Exhibit List.  There are 13 exhibits, all for the defense,
and no indication as to whether there is a stipulation as to authenticity or
admissibility.  (4) Special Verdict.  It is limited to fraud.  (5) Statement of the Case.  It appears limited.  On November 25, 2024 (today) plaintiff filed
the following materials: (1) Exhibit List containing 19 exhibits for plaintiff
and 13 for the defense, but no information as to whether there is a stipulation
as to authenticity or admissibility.  (2)
Witness list.  25 witnesses are named,
including a large number of cast and crew. 
The expected time of testimony is 48 hours.  It is not clear if defendant agrees with this
list.  (3) Special Verdict Form.  It is 17 pages but it is a good start.  That said, it is not clear if the defense
agrees.  (4) Short Statement of the
Case.  This looks appropriate if both
parties agree.
 
The court has not seen: (1) Jury Instructions from
plaintiff.  (2) Trial Briefs (but they
are optional).  (3) Updated estimate of
total trial time.  (4) Statement of
Unusual Issues.  (5) Deposition Chart
(although that is not needed if no one intends to use deposition testimony
other than for impeachment).  (6) Jury
Questionnaire (although that is not required if no one wants the jury to fill
one out).
 
The court will inquire as to whether the documents submitted
are joint or not joint.  If they are not
joint, then the matter is NOT READY FOR TRIAL. 
If they are joint, the court will inquire as to when the jury
instructions will be forthcoming and when the parties will have met and
conferred on exhibits.  The court notes
that it is currently engaged in a trial and the trial might well not have
concluded by December 2.  If the case is
ready for trial, the court will inquire whether the parties would prefer to
trail that case or re-set the trial date. 
If the case is not ready for trial, the court will vacate the trial
date.  Normally, in that case, the court
would issue sanctions against the parties and counsel for the failure to
complete the work ordered.  However,
because there is a good chance that the court will be engaged in trial on
December 2, 2024, no purpose would be served by imposing sanctions other than
raising money, which is not really a good reason.  If the trial date is re-set, the discovery cut
offs remain tied to the prior trial date unless there is an agreement by the
parties to change those dates. 