  Case Number:  19SMCV00133    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  I The court set this OSC re: sanctions because of the failure
to follow the court’s orders regarding the prior FSC.  At the prior hearings, the court was
disappointed because the work had not been done and the parties were
essentially blaming each other for the failure to complete the work and took
essentially no responsibility (with the exception of counsel for Beverly Hills,
who took some responsibility).  At the
most recent hearing, the court was left with the impression that essentially no
one (other than counsel for Beverly Hills) really thought they had done
anything wrong or problematic, but that the other parties had acted poorly such
that it was their fault.  That is what
led the court to issue the order that it did. 

 
Since that time, all parties have submitted supplemental
declarations.  In each, counsel states
that she or he accepts responsibility for the failure to file appropriate FSC
materials in a timely way.  While all
give explanations, all are also careful to state that the explanations are more
for context than to say that the declarant has no responsibility for the
issue.  Further, counsel for WCA states
that the firm has put into a place a more general system to calendar upcoming
FSC’s and ensure that work begins on that hearing well in advance of the
hearing.
 
The purpose of the OSC seems to have been accomplished.  The court was, frankly, more than a little
bit disappointed that at the prior hearing many counsel spent the bulk of the
time explaining why the problem was the fault of the other parties and
minimizing each counsel’s own role in the issue.  The court did not, and does not, see it that
way.  Rather, for whatever reasons, no
one took the court seriously when it set the trial date and warned the parties
that they could not get the work done in a week or two, but rather needed to
meet and confer two or three months in advance. 
The result was a comedy of errors in which essentially nothing was done
in a timely fashion or done right.  That
is disrespectful to the court, but more importantly to the jury.  We ask venires to spend a day or two through
the voir dire process at $15/day, many of whom then get sent home.  We ask jurors and alternates to sit through a
trial—and this one could last for a while—again at $15/day.  Jurors are entitled to respect if they are
going to volunteer their time.  That
means making the trial as efficient as possible, and that is the point of the
FSC and making sure that problems are front-loaded and resolved before the jury
is called.  Where the parties do not
complete a good faith process regarding the FSC, the trial looks like amateur
hour, with too many breaks, too many side bars, and too many problems.  The jury’s precious time is wasted and the
jurors are left with the feeling that this branch of government functions
poorly and that our system of justice is broken.  There is always room for improvement and no
trial runs perfectly, this court will not allow counsel to cause jurors to view
the court system in that way nor will the court allow counsel to waste the
jurors’ time because they did not bother to do what the court ordered be done.
 
In any event, the declarations suggest that counsel now
shares the court’s understanding of the importance of working to get the case
ready for trial in a timely way and cooperatively.  
 
That leaves the question of sanctions.  The court will take counsel at their
collective words.  Assuming such to be
the case, the question is whether the sanctions serve any legitimate purpose or
whether they are really a form of contempt citation without the due
process.  Here, the court does not
believe that the sanctions are needed to change behavior going forward or to
ensure that the matter will be well and truly ready for trial on the new trial
date of April 7, 2025.  Nor did the court
suffer a monetary injury that is best addressed by a monetary sanction.  While the court’s calendar was affected (as
it turns out, the court was available to try the case on the scheduled date),
payment of money will not change that now. 
Rather, the sanctions would be imposed for the sole purpose of
punishment.  Punishment has its place,
but the court is slow to issue a sanction for sanction’s sake alone.  The court therefore believes that imposition
of monetary sanctions, even against just the law firms generally and not
individual counsel or clients, is not needed to change behavior and does not
really “compensate” anyone.  It might
well drive home the court’s position, but the court will accept counsel for the
professionals that they are and view the “drive home” justification as
unnecessary.
 
Because it appears to the court’s satisfaction that the
conduct in question will not repeat—in this case or any other—the court
believes that there is no valid purpose served in imposing sanctions and the
court therefore declines to do so.  The
OSC is DISCHARGED.