 Case Number:  22SMCV00398    Hearing Date:   November 25, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion for a protective order brought by the
defense.  Plaintiff’s further opposition,
filed 11/20/24 is STRICKEN because it is not authorized and it is overlong. 
 
The motion is GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART.
 
Defendants seek an order of the court directing plaintiff to
communicate only using a civil tenor and tone. 
Defendants contend, and have submitted documentary support showing, that
plaintiff has used profanity and the like in her communications with them.  And it appears to the court that plaintiff
has indeed done just that.  The court has
seen no communications from the defense using a similar tenor or tone.
 
The court well understands that plaintiff is
self-represented.  The court also
understands that plaintiff claims that her apartment is not habitable for
various reasons and claims that defendants are engaging in discovery abuse that
she asserts has injured her health dramatically to the point where she has had
to seek emergency medical attention.  The
court also understands plaintiff’s frustration to the extent that she has properly
sought insurance information that has not been provided.
 
The fact remains, though, that although plaintiff is
self-represented, she still must follow the Code of Civil Procedure, the
California Rules of Court, and the Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules.  Those rules demand that the parties
communicate professionally, and this court intends to insist on that.  (It also specifies the way in which papers
must be filed, including format and length.) 
Plaintiff has not followed those rules. 
Her submissions to the court have not followed format, although the
court has overlooked that for now other than the most recent unauthorized
submission.  But more importantly, she
has included name-calling and inappropriate language furthering personal
attacks on counsel.  That is not
permitted and it will not lead to a resolution of this case, either through
settlement or trial.  It must stop, and
it must stop now.
 
The request for a protective order is therefore GRANTED as
follows.  From this point forward, all
communications between the defense and plaintiff will be in writing and all
communications will be civil in tenor and tone. 
The only exception to the written communication rule will be court
hearings and depositions, but even oral communications must be civil.
 
The request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.  While the court agrees that plaintiff’s
language has been inappropriate, the court does not believe that sanctions at
this point will accomplish anything.  But
plaintiff should be aware that if this order is violated, sanctions will be
imposed.  The sanctions may start as
monetary sanctions, but could well get to the point of terminating sanctions if
the offending behavior continues.  That
said, the court is confident that plaintiff will adhere to this order in letter
and spirit going forward.  One suggestion
would be for plaintiff not to address any email communications until the
communication is fully written and is ready to go.  Even then, plaintiff might want to let it
stand for some number of hours and then read it again to ensure that it meets
this court’s requirements.  Sometimes
hitting “send” on the spur of the moment means that the communications are not
as carefully thought out as they ought to be.
 
Plaintiff has a series of issues with the defense that
appear to be on calendar for 12/9/24. 
The court will deal with those then.
 
Defendants also complain that plaintiff has reported defense
counsel to the Bar.  The court will not
punish that behavior.  Reporting conduct
to the Bar is privileged and the court is more than a little bit slow to impose
a sanction for that conduct.  No one
should assume that the court’s decision in that regard is the reflection of any
view that such a complaint has merit or was proper; it is only to say that
reports of that type are privileged under the law and that punishing a party
for making a complaint in this way would not, in the court’s view, be proper.
 
The court also reminds the parties that the final status
conference is set for December 23, 2024, and the trial is set for December 30,
2024.  Those dates are fast
approaching.  The court has already
instructed the parties to comply with the court’s FSC and trial orders.  That still holds.  Because the parties will not be meeting in
person or telephonically, they will need to work extra hard to ensure that the
materials are timely completed and sent. 
The court also reminds the parties that this is a mutual obligation; it
is not merely plaintiff’s duty or defendants’ duty.
 
The court hopes that no more will need to be said on this
subject.  But if more is needed, the
court notes that it has plenty of tools in its toolbox to deal with the
situation.
 
A short word on the papers filed on 11/20/24.  Plaintiff’s request that the court order that
there be no communications at all unless defendants give plaintiff a settlement
check is frivolous and in obvious bad faith. 
Plaintiff needs to understand that before she will recover, either
defendants must agree to settle or she must persuade a jury of her case,
meaning that she has complied fully with the court’s FSC and trial orders and
tried the matter to the point where the jury is willing to render a verdict in
her favor.  Of course, defendants must
also comply with the court’s FSC and trial orders.
 