 Case Number:  24TRCV00320    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered plaintiffs’ motion and the associated exhibits thereto, the court rules as follows: The motion for leave to serve Defendant Evanliana LLC by delivery to secretary of state is GRANTED.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn January 30, 2024, Plaintiffs Jane Lizza and Liana Argento (“Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Evanliana LLC (“Evanliana”), Tina Georgoulis (“Georgoulis”) (collectively “Defendants”), and DOES 1 to 20, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; and (2) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability.On February 9, 2024, the Court set an Order to Show Cause Hearing for August 7, 2024 in Department P of this Court as to why sanctions should not be imposed for dismissal for failure to file proof of service, failure to prosecute, and failure to file case management conference statement. (02/09/24 Notice of Order to Show Cause Hearing.)Also, on February 9, 2024, the Court issued a Notice of Case Management Conference, which indicates that a Case Management Conference is scheduled for August 7, 2024 in Department P of this Court.On April 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed and served the instant Motion for Leave to Serve Defendant Evanliana by Delivery to Secretary of State. The motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiffs’ attempts to serve Defendant Evanliana and its agent for service of process have been unsuccessful despite numerous attempts at different addresses.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDPlaintiffs allege that Defendants breached their duties arising from the landlord-tenant relationship concerning a property located at 21004 Henrietta Street, Torrance, CA 90503 (the “Property”). (Complaint, ¶¶ 7, 15-16.)III. LEGAL STANDARD“A summons may be served by publication if upon affidavit it appears to the satisfaction of the court in which the action is pending that the party to be served cannot be reasonable diligence be served . . . and that either: (1) [a] cause of action exists against the party upon whom service is to be made or he or she is a necessary or proper party to the action . . . [or] (2) [t]he party shall be served has or claims an interest in real or personal property in this state that is subject to the jurisdiction of the court or the relief demanded in the action consists wholly or in part in excluding the party from any interest in the property.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a)(1)-(2).)If a summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be served on a domestic corporation “upon the designated agent by hand in the manner provided in Section 415.10, subdivision (a) of Section 415.20 or subdivision (a) of Section 415.30 of the California Code of Civil Procedure or upon the corporation in the manner provided in subdivision (a), (b), or (c) of Section 416.10 or subdivision (a) of Section 416.20 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the court may make an order that the service be made upon the corporation by delivering by hand to the Secretary of State, or to any person employed in the Secretary of State in the capacity of assistant or deputy, one copy of the process for each defendant to be served, together with a copy of the order authorizing such service.” (Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).) “Service in this manner is deemed complete on the 10th day of delivery of the process to the Secretary of State.” (Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).) A party must provide an affidavit showing that a domestic corporation cannot be served with reasonable diligence in order to warrant service upon the Secretary of State. (Corp. Code, § 1702, subd. (a).)Code Civ. Proc. § 415.10 outlines how to personally serve a party. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.20 sets forth the requirements for substituted service. Code Civ. Proc. § 415.30 addresses service by mail. Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10(a)-(b) indicates that a corporation may be served by delivering a copy of the summons and complaint to the person designated as an agent for service of process or to an individual such as the president, chief executive officer, secretary, or other person authorized by the corporation to accept service of process. Code Civ. Proc. § 416.10(c) addresses service of process on a corporation that is a bank. Code Civ. Proc. § 416.20 provides that where a corporation has forfeited its charter or right to do business, or has dissolved, service may beeffectuated by delivering a copy of the summons and the complaint to a person who is a trustee or the corporation and of its stockholders or members. (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.20, subd. (a).)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsThe Court should order service to be made by delivery to the Secretary of State.Responding Party’s OppositionNo opposition filed as of May 13, 2024.Moving Party’s ReplyNo reply filed as of May 13, 2024.Motion’s MeritsIn support of the motion, Plaintiffs’ counsel, Matthew L. Brinton (“Brinton”), provides a declaration stating the following: Plaintiffs have attempted to serve Defendant Evanliana for several months. (Brinton Decl., ¶ 2.) According to the California Secretary of State’s website, the agent for service of process for Defendant Evanliana is Defendant Georgoulis, located at 645 Paseo de la Playa #308, Redondo Beach, CA 90277. (Brinton Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. A.) Plaintiffs’ process server attempted service at the address listed on the Secretary of State’s website and ten separate attempts were unsuccessful. (Brinton Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. B.) Mr. Brinton ran a Lexis-Nexis search for Defendant Georgoulis and determined that she resided at 1501 Westerly Terrace, Los Angeles, CA 90026. (Brinton Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ process server attempted service there, but numerous attempts were unsuccessful. (Brinton Decl., ¶ 4; Exh. C.) Plaintiffs have thus been unable to serve Defendant Evanliana via its registered agent for service of process despite multiple attempts. (Brinton Decl., ¶ 5.)The Court finds that Plaintiffs have shown numerous attempts, with reasonable diligence, to serve Defendant Evanliana.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the Motion for Leave to Serve Evanliana LLC by Delivery to Secretary of State is GRANTED. Plaintiffs are to follow the procedures outlined in Corp. Code § 1702.Moving Party to give notice.The Motion for Leave to Serve Evanliana LLC by Delivery to Secretary of State filed by Plaintiffs Jane Lizza and Liana Argento on 4/15/2024 is granted.