 Case Number:  SC126387    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


November 8, 2023




CASE NUMBER


SC126387




MOTION


Motion for Hearing on Status of Parties




MOVING PARTY


Defendants
  Livinghomes, LLC; Steve Glenn; and Rethink Livinghomes, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Daniel Fawcett



 
BACKGROUND
 
            On September 9, 2016, Plaintiff Daniel
Fawcett (“Plaintiff”) brought suit, stemming from a dispute over a home
construction project.  On March 5, 2020,
the Court granted the parties’ stipulation submitting the parties’ claims to
arbitration.  Page 2 of that stipulation
provided “WHEREAS the Parties agree that the Court ordered written discovery
closed (depositions and expert discovery can continue); and the deadlines
associated with the trial date to file for Motions for Summary Judgment and
Motions for Summary Adjudication have passed.” 
(March 5, 2020 Stipulation and Order Submitting Claims to
Arbitration.)  The Court stayed this case
pending arbitration on March 16, 2020.  (See
March 16, 2020 Minute Order.)
 
            Neither Plaintiff nor Plaintiff’s
counsel appeared at the April 30, 2021 Post-Arbitration Status Conference.  (April 30, 2021 Minute Order.)  Plaintiff’s counsel also did not appear at
the July 13, 2022 Status Conference Re: Completion of Arbitration.  (July 13, 2022 Minute Order.)  The Court issued an Order to Show Cause Re:
Plaintiff’s counsel’s failure to appear. 
(Ibid.)
 
            Plaintiff apparently passed away on
or about July 16, 2022.  (Motion at p. 3;
Opp. at p. 1.)  On September 14, 2022,
Plaintiff’s counsel filed a Status Conference Statement on behalf of
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff’s counsel also
appeared at the September 16, 2022 Status Conference and at the July 13, 2023
Status Conference.  (See September 16,
2022 Minute Order and July 13, 2023 Minute Order.)  At no point did Plaintiff’s counsel represent
to the Court that Plaintiff had died.
 
            Defendants Livinghomes, LLC; Steve
Glenn; and Rethink Livinghomes, LLC (“Defendants”) now move for a Hearing on
the Status of Parties.  “Plaintiff”
opposes the motion  and Defendants reply.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Notwithstanding the apparent death of Plaintiff, “A pending action or
proceeding does not abate by the death of a party if the cause of action
survives.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
377.21.)  To that end, “A cause of action
that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action or
proceeding passes to the decedent's successor in interest, subject to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 7000) of Part 1 of Division 7 of the Probate Code, and
an action may be commenced by the decedent's personal representative or, if
none, by the decedent's successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.)  But
concerning counsel, the attorney-client relationship terminates upon the death
of a client.  (See Swartfager v. Wells
(1942) 53 Cal.App.2d 522, 528 [“The authority of an attorney necessarily ceases
with the death of the client, for no one can act for a dead man. After the
death of the client, his attorney therefore becomes a stranger to the
proceeding”]; see also Civ. Code, § 2356.)
 
Yet, “A client's death terminates a lawyer's actual authority (see
Restatement Second, Agency § 120). The rights of a deceased client pass to
other persons—executors, for example—who can, if they wish, revive the
representation. Procedural rules usually provide for substitution for the
deceased client in actions to which the client was a party. The lawyer for the
deceased client must cooperate in such a transition and seek to protect the
deceased client's property and other rights (see § 33). In extraordinary
circumstances, the lawyer may exercise initiative, for example taking an appeal
when the time for doing so would expire before a personal representative could
be appointed (see § 33, Comment b).” 
(Restatement (Third) of the Law Governing Lawyers § 31 (2000).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants contend, “Plaintiff’s counsel has continued to pursue this
litigation without the authority of the estate or identified representative of
the late Daniel Fawcett” in potential violation of Business and Professions
Code section 6104.  Section 6104
provides, “Corruptly or willfully and without authority appearing as attorney
for a party to an action or proceeding constitutes a cause for disbarment or
suspension.”  
 
Defendants further contend that Plaintiff’s counsel has continued to
object to discovery requests in connection with the Arbitration, and Defendants
did not learn of Plaintiff’s death until September 13, 2023, in connection with
a meeting between experts and parties. 
(Motion at pp. 3-4; KLR Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Defendants argue they have been prejudiced by the failure to disclose
Plaintiff’s death, because “Without the deposition of the Plaintiff there is no
means by why Defendants can examine the Plaintiff’s claims and assertions as
outlined in the Second Amended Complaint.” (Motion at p. 4.)  “Thus, Defendants are unduly prejudiced in
the preparation for mediation and arbitration of this matter because they do
not have any details of Plaintiff’s allegations against the remaining Defendants.”  (Ibid.)
 
“Plaintiff” opposes, indicating that following Plaintiff’s death in
2022, the bulk of his estate has been administered by his sister, Emily
Fawcett, as Trustee of the Daniel M. Fawcett Living Trust.  Emily is also the executor of Plaintiff’s
estate.  Plaintiff’s estate has
subsequently retained Plaintiff’s counsel to continue representing Plaintiff in
this case.  On August 20, 2023,
Plaintiff’s estate filed a Petition for Probate to Administer the Estate for
purposes of this action.  (Opposition at
p. 2.)  The Probate Court hearing is set
for November 13, 2023.
 
“Plaintiff” argues that (1) this court lacks jurisdiction, by virtue
of the order compelling the case to arbitration; (2) Plaintiff’s counsel will
seek amendment of the named parties to reflect the Estate, once the Probate
order issues on November 13; (3) Plaintiff is not obligated to waive the
attorney-client privilege; and (4) Defendants’ prejudice argument lacks merit
because all discovery, except expert discovery, was closed before the case was
compelled to arbitration.
 
In reply, Defendants emphasize that depositions were still allowed in
the arbitration proceedings, pursuant to the parties’ stipulation, and Plaintiff’s
counsel continued to substantively represent Plaintiff in the Arbitration
proceeding, despite the fact that Plaintiff’s sister did not file a Probate
petition until more than a year after Plaintiff’s death.  Defendants also point out that mediation is
scheduled for November 7, with no one having the legal authority to settle for
Plaintiff.  Any order from the probate
action will not issue until November 13 at the earliest.  On reply, Defendants request sanctions.
 
It is unclear exactly what relief Defendants seek by their
motion.  The Motion requests a “hearing
on status of parties” but addresses Defendants’ prejudice in the Arbitration
proceedings due to counsel’s failure to disclose Plaintiff’s death.  In any event, the March 16, 2020 Minute Order
stayed this case “pending binding arbitration as to the entire action.”  (March 16, 2020 Minute Order.)  
 
Therefore, this Court lacks jurisdiction to decide the issues
presented in the motion without a party first requesting to vacate the stay
order.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.
 
 
DATED:  November 8, 2023                          ___________________________
                                                                  Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                  Judge
of the Superior Court