 Case Number:  23TRCV02361    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 September 20, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02361   CASE NAME:                        Yadira Coleman v.  Aryana Hearod, et al.    ATTORNEY NAME:             James J. Kjar, Esq. & Kylie  Schofield, Esq., counsels of record for Defendants, Aryana Hearod and Devine  Drip Beauty Bar dba Devine Frame Natural Spa, LLC.   TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.   MOTION:                              (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.      I.                     Background     On  July 20, 2023, Plaintiff, Yadira Coleman (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint  against Defendants, Devine Drip Beauty Bar dba Devine Frame Natural Spa, LLC,  Ariyana Hearod (collectively, “Defendants”), and DOES 1 through 100. The  complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Premises Liability; (2) General  Negligence; and (3) products Liability.    On  June 18, 2024, Defendants’ attorneys, James J. Kjar, Esq. and Kylie Schofield,  Esq., (“Kjar” and “Schofield”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for  Defendants. On July 19, 2024, this hearing was continued to September 20, 2024.  Defendants’ attorneys refiled the moving papers on August 14, 2024.    Currently, trial has not yet been set.    II.                  Legal Standard & Discussion     Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that  “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment  or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and  attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either  client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc.  § 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would  cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in  this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior  (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)    In making a motion to be relieved as  counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of  Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of  Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil  (MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the  confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was  brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The  forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the  case.  (Ibid.)    Here, Defendants’ attorneys,  Kjar and Schofield, move the Court to relieve them as attorneys of record for Defendants.  Kjar and Schofield properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as  Counsel, Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court  3.1362. On June 18, 2024, all original forms for the pending motion were served  on Defendants personally. Further, on August 14, 2024, Kjar and Schofield  provided proofs of service that the motion was served on Defendants personally.  The attorneys indicate that they have been able to confirm within the past thirty  (30) days that Defendants’ address is current despite making the following  efforts: (1) by mail; (2) by telephone; (3) by conversation; and (4) on June 3,  2024, Kjar and Schofield note that Ms. Hearod confirmed her amil address over  the phone where she was served electronically, as well as by mail at home, and  by US Certified mail with a return receipt requested, and that the LLC was also  served with the last known address pursuant to a search of the Secretary of  State website, and that the home address was confirmed by her malpractice  insurance carrier.    In the declaration, Kjar and  Schofield note that: “There has been a fundamental breakdown in the  attorney-client relationship which makes it impossible to continue to represent  the clients in this matter. Under the circumstances, [Kjar and Schofield]  believe it is in the best interest of all concerned to terminate the  attorney-client relationship with the clients and [Kjar and Schofield’s] firm.  In [their] judgment, [their] ethical responsibilities preclude [them] with  providing any additional details. However, [Kjar and Schofield note] should  [this] Court desire further information, [they] will attempt to provide it in a  matter consistent with ethical considerations.” Kjar and Schofield note that  “[t]rial in this matter is not currently set. Therefore, [they assert]  withdrawal from this matter would not be prejudicial to the[ir] clients’ claims  or plaintiff’s.”   Since Defendants’ attorneys have  complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as  counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay  in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of James J. Kjar and Kylie Schofield as attorneys of record for Defendants, can be accomplished  without undue prejudice to their interests.      III.               Conclusion & Order    For the foregoing reasons, James J. Kjar  and Kylie Schofield’s, Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is GRANTED and the  Order will be signed at the hearing. “After the order is signed, a copy of the  signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that have appeared  in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion  will not be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on  Plaintiff and Defendant has been filed with the court.” (Id.)    Moving party is ordered to  give notice. 