 Case Number:  YC072873    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 16, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   YC072873
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Anna Mezheritsky v. Dorothy Kovich Klein,
et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendant,
LaToya S. Redd dba Redd Law 
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Cross-Complainant, Liberty
Mutual Insurance
 
TRIAL DATE:                        
Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer 
                                                (2) Motion to Strike
                                                (3) Motion for Order
of Interpleader Authorizing Deposit of the Funds with the Court
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)
, (2) Deny without prejudice to a meet and confer on the issues raised by the
intended ground for the Demurrer and Motion to Strike
                                                (3)
ARGUE. Is there precedent for a claimant, rather than the stakeholder, securing
an interpleader of funds held by the stakeholder? 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On
September 13, 2023, this Court granted a Motion to Enforce the Settlement
agreement the parties agreed upon during mediation. The Court ordered Dorothy’s
attorney, Marc S. Feldman, to contact the insurance carrier and request a
single cashier’s check in the amount of $200,000, to be payable to the
Plaintiff Anna Mezheritsky and each of the following lienholders: (1) Harris
Law; (2) Redd Law; (3) Robin Bernhoft, M.D.; (4) Los Angeles Superior Court;
(5) Medi-Cal; and (6) Medicare.
 
On
June 18, 2024, Plaintiff-in-Intervention, Liberty Mutual Insurance (“Liberty”)
filed a complaint in intervention against Defendants-in-Intervention, Harris
Law, Redd Law, Robin Bernhoft, M.D., Los Angeles County Superior Court,
Medicaid, Medicare, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint-in-intervention
alleges one cause of action for Declaratory Relief. 
 
Now,
defendant-in-intervention, LaToya S. Redd dba Redd Law (“Redd”) filed a
demurrer and motion to strike to the complaint in intervention. Redd also filed
a motion entitled, “Notice of Motion and Motion for Order of Interpleader
Authorizing Deposit of the Funds with the Court.”
 
 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On August 19, 2024, Redd, in pro per,
filed a Motion to Strike. On August 20, 2024, Redd, in pro per, filed a
demurrer to the complaint in intervention. To date, no opposition has been
filed. 
 
On August 21, 2024, Redd filed the Motion
for Order of Interpleader Authorizing Deposit of the Funds with the Court.  There has been no opposition to Redd’s request
for interpleader either.
 
¿II.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            
            With Redd’s moving papers, Redd requested this Court take
judicial notice of the following: 
 
1.     Exhibit
A - a true and correct copy of the Court’s June 7, 2024 Minute Order in the
above-captioned matter. 
2.     Exhibit
B - a true and correct copy of Declaration of LaToya S. Redd, Esq. Re:
Filing of Lawsuit Against Defendants and Their Counsel for Infringing Attorney
Lien. 
3.     Exhibit
C - a true and correct copy of Declaration of LaToya S. Redd, Esq. in Lieu
of Any Opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Enforce Settlement and Status of
Filing of Lawsuit Against Defendants and Their Counsel for Infringing Attorney
Lien. 
4.     Exhibit
D - a true and correct copy of Declaration of Christian F. Lamond Re:
Submitted Order Re: Defendants Dorothy Kovich Klein and Thomas Kovich’s Motion
to Enforce Settlement. 
5.     Exhibit
F - a true and correct copy of the Court’s July 14, 2023 Minute Order in
the above-captioned matter. 
6.     Exhibit
E - a true and correct copy of relevant portions of Tyson and Mendes, LLP’s
responses to LaToya S. Redd’s request for production of documents, set one, in
the case Redd v. Feldman, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
23STCV31118.
 
The Court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿¿  
 
A.    Demurrer
 
                                     
i.         
Legal
Standard
 
 A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all
material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co.
(1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain
if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A
demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims
renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is
supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
                                   
ii.         
Discussion
 
Redd demurs to the complaint in intervention on the
grounds they argue it was untimely and fails to allege sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action. 
 
1.    
Meet and Confer Requirement 
                       
The declaration of LaToya
S. Redd (“Redd Decl.”) is offered in support of compliance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41. Redd declares that representation were made by
defense counsel in the case that Redd Law was served with the
complaint-in-intervention. (Redd Decl., ¶ 2.) As she asserts that representation
of service was not true, Redd notes that she reached out to attorney, Brett
Hampton, to meet and confer regarding the alleged service of the
complaint-in-intervention. (Redd Decl., ¶ 2.) On July 19, 2024, Redd notes that
she discussed with attorney Hampton, in a phone call, the fact that the
complaint-in-intervention was filed late and that she was not properly served
with a summons and could not be served by mail as she was never a party to the
action. (Redd Decl., ¶ 2.) Redd asserts that attorney Hampton indicated, in the
phone call and via email to Redd, that a copy of the complaint-in-intervention
was a courtesy copy and was not service of the complaint-in-intervention as
there was no summons and service was not by personal service. (Redd Decl., ¶
2.)
 
In the phone call on
July 19, 2024, Redd asserts that attorney Hampton also indicated that he
disagreed with Redd’s assessments regarding the improper filing of the
complaint-in-intervention. Redd also notes that in the conversation, attorney
Hampton indicated that he wanted to interplead the settlement funds at issue in
the complaint-in-intervention. (Redd Decl., ¶ 3.) Redd clarifies that
representations were made regarding service of the complaint-in-intervention on
Redd Law, however, Redd herself asserts that she was not personally served with
the complaint-in-intervention. (Redd Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Further, on July 18,
2024 to July 23, 2024, Redd notes she wrote an email correspondence to attorney
Hampton to meet and confer in good faith, regarding the deficiencies in the
complaint-in-intervention. (Redd Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit A.) 
 
This Court notes that
Redd’s meet and confer efforts are insufficient. Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant
to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) Further, “[a]s part of the meet and confer process, the demurring party
shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it believes are
subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of the
deficiencies. The party who filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer
shall provide legal support for its position that the pleading is legally
sufficient or, in the alternative, how the complaint, cross-complaint, or
answer could be amended to cure any legal insufficiency.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).) 
 
In Redd’s moving
papers, the demurrer argues that Liberty’s first cause of action for
Declaratory Relief fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. However, the email correspondence between Redd and Hamilton only
discuss the possibility of Redd filing a motion to strike and/or motion to
quash based on the late filing against the Court’s order. The insufficiency of the
allegations in the complaint-in-intervention were never discussed; nor was the
potential filing of a demurrer. As such, the Court is inclined to OVERRULE the Demurrer
on procedural grounds, without prejudice, for Redd to file another demurrer after
she has attempted to meet and confer in good faith with Liberty’s counsel of
record. 
 
B.    Motion
to Strike 
 
                                     
i.         
Legal Standard 
 
Any party,
within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of
motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and
upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v.
Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) An
immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an
otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting
relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., §
431.10, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)¿¿ 
 
                                   
ii.         
Discussion 
 
The Court notes that
because Redd’s Motion to Strike Portions of the complaint-in-intervention, is
inherently intertwined with the demurrer, the Court also continues this motion
for similar reasons listed above. While the included “meet and confer” email
exchanges do discuss the potential filing of a Motion to Strike, the
communications did not discuss filing a Motion to Strike based on the reasons
listed in Redd’s motion. 
 
 
 
 
 
C.    Motion
for Order of Interpleader Authorizing Deposit of the Funds with the Court
 
1.    
Legal
Standard 
 
Section
572 of the Code of Civil Procedure provides: When it is admitted by the
pleadings […] that he or she has in his or her possession, or under his or her
control, any money […] which, being the subject of litigation, is held by him
or her as trustee for another party, or which belongs or which is due to
another party or which should, under the circumstances of the case be held by
the court pending final disposition of the action, the court may order the
same, upon motion, to be deposited in court or delivered to such party, upon
those conditions that may be just, subject to the further direction of the
court 
 
2.    
Discussion
 
Redd does not cite to or rely on Section 572 because she is not the
stakeholder; rather, she is a claimant for the stake being held by
another.  At oral argument, the Court
will be interested to see if Redd can identify a precedent for a claimant
rather than a stakeholder successfully seeking an interpleader of funds that the
moving party does not hold.  The Court’s
tentative ruling is to deny the motion, without prejudice to an interpleader by
the stakeholder rather than a claimant, or prosecution of the Complaint in
Intervention. 