  Case Number:  23TRCV00712    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 September 20, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00712  CASE NAME:                        Edwin Castanon v.  Alpa Brown, et al.    ATTORNEY NAME:             Timothy M. Ghobrial, Esq./Downtown  LA Law Group, counsel of record for Plaintiff, Edwin Castanon.   TRIAL DATE:                        Not  Set.   MOTION:                             (1) Motion to be Relieved as Counsel    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.      I.                     Background     On  March 9, 2023, Plaintiff, Edwin Castanon (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint  against Defendants, Alpa Brown, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges  causes of action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence.     On  July 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s attorney, Timothy M. Ghobrial, Esq. and Downtown LA  Law Group (“Ghobrial”) filed a Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff.   Currently, trial has not yet been set.    II.                  Legal Standard & Discussion     Code of Civil Procedure § 284 states that  “the attorney in an action…may be changed at any time before or after judgment  or final determination, as follows: (1) upon the consent of both client and  attorney…; (2) upon the order of the court, upon the application of either  client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.”  (Code Civ. Proc.  § 284; CRC 3.1362.)  The withdrawal request may be denied if it would  cause an injustice or undue delay in proceeding; but the court's discretion in  this area is one to be exercised reasonably.  (See Mandell v. Superior  (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 1, 4; Lempert¿v. Superior Court (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173.)    In making a motion to be relieved as  counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of  Court 3.1362.  The motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of  Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client – Civil  (MC-051); Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the  confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” reasons the motion was  brought (MC-052); and a Proposed Order (MC-053).  (Ibid.)  The  forms must be filed and served on all parties who have appeared in the  case.  (Ibid.)  Here, Plaintiff’s attorney, Ghobrial,  moves the Court to relieve him as attorney of record for Plaintiff.  Ghobrial properly filed a Notice of Motion, Motion to be Relieved as Counsel,  Declaration, and Proposed Order in accordance with Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362.  On July 8, 2024, all forms for the pending motion were served on Plaintiff via  mail at the Plaintiff’s last known address. However, Ghobrial indicates that he  has been unable to confirm that the address is current or to locate a more  current address for the client after making the following efforts: (1) calling  the client’s last known telephone number or numbers; (2) professional  investigative skip trace search service which produced three addresses, all of  which were served with notice via Ghobrial.   In the declaration, Ghobrial  notes that: “[a] breakdown in the attorney client relationship has arisen  pertaining to the case, which at this point, appears irreconcilable.”    Since Plaintiff’s attorney has  complied with all procedural requirements in filing a motion to be relieved as  counsel and because the withdrawal would not cause an injustice or undue delay  in proceedings, the Court finds that withdrawal of Timothy M. Ghobrial, Esq and Downtown LA  Law Group as attorneys of record for Plaintiff, can  be accomplished without undue prejudice to his interest.    III.               Conclusion & Order    For the foregoing reasons, Timothy M.  Ghobrial, Esq and Downtown LA Law Group’s Motion to Be Relieved As Counsel is  GRANTED and the Order will be signed at the hearing. “After the order is  signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all  parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).)  The Order on this Motion will not be effective “until proof of service of a  copy of the signed order on Plaintiff and Defendant has been filed with the  court.” (Id.)    Moving party is ordered to  give notice.          