 Case Number:  22STCV36359    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 



CHRISTOPHER DIXON
  
         vs.
 
26 CENTER DISTRIBUTION, LLC, et al.  


 Case
  No.:   22STCV36359
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:
  3.25.24



 
 
 
            Defendant Yassine
Amallal’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
            Background:
            
            On June 5, 2023, Plaintiff
Christopher Dixon filed suit against 26 Center Distribution, LLC dba “Dura Trucking” (“26 Center”), Simon Bouzaglou,
and Yassine Amallal, alleging: (1) whistleblower retaliation; (2) wrongful
termination; (3) non-payment of earned wages; (4) failure to reimburse business
expenses; (5) failure to pay overtime wages; (6) failure to provide duty-free
meal periods; (7) failure to provide duty free rest periods; (8) failure to
provide accurate itemized wage statements; (9) deficient pay penalties; and
(10) waiting time penalties.
 
            Amallal moved for summary judgment
on the grounds that he was not Plaintiff’s employer as a
matter of law and could not be held liable as an “other person acting on behalf of an
employer.” On November 22, 2023, the Court denied Amallal’s motion for summary
judgment. Specifically, the Court found that there “is a triable issue as to
whether [Amallal] exercised sufficient oversight or influence over 26 Center’s operations or
policy as to have risen to the level of an ‘other person acting on behalf of an
employer.’ There is also a triable issue of material fact as to whether or not
he exercised adequate discretion and authority to be said to have acted as a
managing agent.” (11-22-2023 Minute Order, p. 7.) 
 
            Party’s Request: 
 
            Defendant Amallal moves for
reconsideration of the Court’s November 22, 2023 order denying
Amallal’s motion for summary judgment.  
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008 provides, in pertinent part:¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
            “(a) When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make an application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were
made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be
shown.¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
            (e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to
applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous
motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or
court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the
previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any
order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or
court unless made according to this section.”¿¿¿ 
 
            Additionally, if a court believes
one of its prior interim orders was erroneous, it should be able to correct
that error no matter how it came to acquire that belief. (Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th
1094, 1108) (see also, In re Marriage of Barthold (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th
1301, 1303–04 [The “trial court’s inherent
authority to correct its errors applies even when the trial court was prompted
to reconsider its prior ruling by a motion filed in violation of section 1008.”].)
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant Amallal seeks
reconsideration of the November 22, 2023 Order denying his motion for summary
judgment. 
 
            Amallal contends that the Court
incorrectly determined there was a genuine dispute as to whether he was a “managing agent” of Defendant 26
Center. Amallal contends that to be a managing agent, an individual must be an
employee of the entity in question. Amallal contends that the Court found that
he met his burden of proving he was not an employee of 26 Center, yet
nevertheless found that a genuine dispute of fact still existed as to whether
he was a managing agent. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends
that reconsideration is not merited on procedural grounds. Plaintiff contends
Amallal simply seeks a different interpretation of the law than what the Court
determined on November 22, 2023. Plaintiff also contends that Amallal fails to
state new facts, circumstances, or law and by doing so fails to meet the
jurisdictional requirements for a motion for reconsideration. Plaintiff also
contends Amallal fails to include a declaration showing reasonable diligence by
providing a satisfactory explanation for not presenting the new or different
information at the first hearing. Substantively, Plaintiff contends
reconsideration is not merited because, as the Court determined on November 22,
2023, Plaintiff did submit evidence creating a triable issue of material fact
as to whether Amallal was an employee of 26 Center because he exercised control
over wages and hours. 
 
            In reply, on the procedural issue,
Amallal contends that Plaintiff fails to acknowledge the precedent of In re
Marriage of Barthold, where the California Supreme Court held that “the
trial court’s inherent authority to correct its errors applies even
when the trial court was prompted to reconsider its prior ruling by a motion
filed in violation of section 1008.” (In re Marriage of Barthold (2008)
158 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1303-04.) Amallal further contends that, at a hearing on
January 17, 2024, the Court indicated its willingness to reconsider this matter
based on Amallal’s motion. (Lauritsen Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A at
12-13.)
 
            The
Court will Consider the Motion for Reconsideration
 
            Procedurally, the Court finds that
it may properly consider Amallal’s motion for reconsideration based on the
Court’s inherent authority to correct erroneous rulings, pursuant to Barthold and Le Francois, supra. 
 
            The
Motion for Reconsideration is Denied
            
            Substantively, the Court finds that
there are insufficient grounds to reconsider or alter its denial of Amallal’s
motion for summary judgment on November 22, 2023. 
 
            Labor Code section
558.1 which was enacted in January of 2016, provides: 
•   
Any employer or
other person acting on behalf of an employer, who violates, or causes to be violated,
any provision regulating minimum wages or hours and days of work in any order
of the Industrial Welfare Commission, or violates, or causes to be violated,
Sections 203, 226, 226.7, 1193.6, 1194, or 2802, may be held liable as the
employer for such violation. 
•   
For purposes of
this section, the term “other person
acting on behalf of an employer” is limited to a natural person who is an
owner, director, officer, or managing agent of the employer, and the term “managing agent” has the same
meaning as in subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code.
•   
Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit the definition of employer under existing
law. 
 
            Civil Code section
3294(b) provides: “(b) An employer
shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of
an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of
the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge
and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression,
fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent
of the corporation.”             
 
            Amallal relies on the Supreme Court
of California case, White v.
Ultramar, Inc., which held that “the Legislature intended the term ‘managing agent’
to
include only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent
authority and judgment in their corporate decision making so that their
decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th
563, 567.) Amallal contends this means that the definition of “managing agent” has two elements: (1)
the person charged must be a “corporate employee”;
and (2) the person’s decisions must determine corporate
policy. Amallal contends there is no genuine dispute as to the first element.
 
            Amallal contends that in his attempt
to create a triable issue of material fact, Plaintiff provided no evidence to
rebut Amallal’s evidence that Amallal was never employed by 26 Center. Amallal contends
that while he submitted evidence that he did not sign Plaintiff’s checks, was
not a signatory on the 26 Center bank accounts, did not hire or fire Plaintiff,
and had no apparent role in the determination of Plaintiff’s work schedule or
pay rate, Plaintiff merely asserted vague generalities that do not rise to the
level of evidence, such as that Amallal was referred to as a “partner” or “jefe”.

            
            The Court disagrees with Amallal
regarding his characterization of Plaintiff’s evidence as vague generalities.
Plaintiff submitted evidence that Defendant not only approved the policy of
misclassifying Plaintiff as an independent contractor, but attempted to
convince Plaintiff to accept being an independent contractor on multiple
occasions and refused to give Plaintiff his most recent paycheck unless he signed
a release of his claims for unpaid wages and expense reimbursement per
Plaintiffs rights as an employee in California. (Dixon Decl. to MSJ, ¶¶ 8-13.) Plaintiff submitted
emails from employees like his supervisor at 26 Center who specifically asked
Amallal to approve Plaintiff’s payment of wages at different times throughout
his employment, and evidence that Amallal provided advice, support, and
oversight for 26 Center when he was meeting with Plaintiff to attempt to
influence Plaintiff into accepting his classification as an independent
contractor and release his claims against 26 Center, Bouzaglou, Pixior, Amallal
and Amallal’s other companies. (Dixon Decl. to MSJ, ¶ 13; Exhibits 4,
5, 23, and 24; Exhibit 8: Amallal Depo., 126:18-24.) 
 
            To employ “means: (a) to exercise control over
the wages, hours or working conditions, or (b) to suffer or permit to work, or
(c) to engage, thereby creating a common law employment relationship.” (Martinez
v. Combs (2010) 49 Cal.4th 35, 64.) Plaintiff’s evidence discussed above
demonstrates that Amallal excercised control over the wages, hours or working
conditions of Plaintiff. Thus, by the very authority Amallal relies on in its
motion, Plaintiff creates a triable issue of fact as to whether or not Amallal
was an employee. As the Court determined in the November 22, 2023 order, this
evidence supports a reasonable influence that Amallal was a corporate employee
of 26 Center, and, thus, a triable issue of material fact as to whether Amallal
was a managing agent.  
 
            Accordingly, Defendant Amallal’s
motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
Dated: 
March 25, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 