 Case Number:  23STCV03331    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California County  of Los Angeles   DEPARTMENT  17      DARIUSH EGHBALI, et al.             vs.   NADER RAFIEE, et al.      Case No.:   23STCV03331        Hearing Date: March 25, 2024                    Defendant Mehran Abshah’s motion for a protective  order is DENIED.               Background:                          On February 15, 2024, Plaintiffs  Dariush Eghbali, Dariush Eghbali Inc., and Boniad Ayeneh Inc. dba Ayenah  Foundation filed a complaint for defamation against Defendants Nader Rafiee,  Oitn, Mehran Abshah, IPN TV, and Does 1-100. Eghbali is a principal and sole  shareholder of Eghbali Inc. and the president of Ayenah. Oitn stands for Omid  Iran TV. Rafiee is a principal and officer of Oitn. Abshah is a principal and  shareholder of IPN. Eghbali is a Persian artist/vocalist and social activist.                Party’s Request:                Defendant Abshah moves for a  protective order confirming the automatic stay of all proceedings, including  discovery, as to Abshah, while the appeal of the anti-SLAPP motion is pending.    Legal Standard               Courts have  considerable discretion in granting and crafting protective orders. (Raymond  Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.)                “It is well established, in  California and elsewhere, that a court has both the inherent authority and  responsibility to fairly and efficiently administer all of the judicial  proceedings that are pending before it, and that one important element of a  court's inherent judicial authority in this regard is ‘the  power . . . to control the disposition of the causes on its docket with economy  of time and effort for itself, for counsel, and for litigants. How this can  best be done calls for the exercise of judgment, which must weigh competing  interests and maintain an even balance.’” (People v. Engram (2010) 50  Cal.4th 1131, 1146, citing Landis v. North American Co. (1936) 299 U.S.  248, 254-255.)                Code of Civil  Procedure section 916 states, “the perfecting  of an appeal stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order  appealed from or upon the matters¿embraced  therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the judgment or order,  but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter embraced in the action  and not affected by the judgment or order.”¿ (Code Civ.  Proc., § 916,¿subd. (a).)¿ An appeal from  an order denying an anti-SLAPP motion divests the trial court of jurisdiction  to conduct any “further trial  court proceedings on the merits upon the causes of action affected by the  motion.”¿ (Varian Medical Systems, Inc. v. Delfino¿(2005) 35 Cal.4th 180, 186.)¿                 Under California law,  trial court proceedings are to be stayed on all matters that are embraced in or  affected by an appeal. (Id. at p. 189.) “[A] proceeding affects the  effectiveness of the appeal if the very purpose of the appeal is to avoid the  need for that proceeding. In that situation, the proceeding itself is  inherently inconsistent with a possible outcome on appeal and therefore must be  stayed... ” (Id. at p. 190.)   Discussion                Defendant-Appellant  Mehran Abshah (“Abshah”) seeks a  protective order to preserve any waiver of objections as to discovery and to  confirm the automatic stay remains in place. (Motion, p. 3:11-12.)                Abshah filed an anti-SLAPP motion  staying all discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (g).) The anti-SLAPP  motion was denied. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 4.) Abshah filed a timely appeal on October  26, 2023. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.) The appeal has not been briefed and is  still pending decision. Notwithstanding the pendency of the appeal and  automatic stay of all proceedings as to Abshah, Plaintiffs have served written  discovery on Abshah. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 7.) Despite meet and confer efforts,  Plaintiffs refused to withdraw the discovery or acknowledge the stay. (Lewis  Decl., ¶ 8, Ex. 2.)  The appeal is likely  to conclude no earlier than the end of 2024. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 6.) On December 1,  2023, counsel for Eghbali served discovery requests to Abshah. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 7.)  On December 4, 2023, counsel for Abshah responded stating there was a stay on  all discovery pending the appeal and asked counsel for Eghbali to confirm in  writing that they would withdraw their discovery requests. (Lewis Decl., ¶ 8,  Ex. 2.) On December 4, 2023, Eghbali’s counsel replied requesting authority  that after denial of the anti-SLAPP motion, the appeal stays discovery. (Lewis  Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 2.) Counsel for Abshah responded that same day providing  authority for the proposition that the appeal stays discovery. (Lewis Decl., ¶10,  Ex. 2.) On December 8, 2023, counsel for Eghbali replied, “[w]e disagree  that this demonstrates that after denial of the anti-SLAPP motion, that an  appeal stays discovery.” (Lewis Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. 3.)               In opposition, Plaintiffs do not  dispute that the pendency of an appeal from the denial of an anti-SLAPP motion  stays “all further court proceedings,” as stated in Varian.  However, they contend that discovery does not  fall under the category of “all further court proceedings,” and that Plaintiffs  should be allowed to continue to conduct discovery while the appeal is pending.                 In reply, Abshah relies on language  from Varian, in which the Supreme Court of California stated that the  purpose of the stay of further proceedings in Section 916 “is to protect the  appellate court’s jurisdiction by  preserving the status quo until the appeal is decided.” (Varian, supra  at 189.) Abshah argues that a stay on discovery preserves the status quo until  appeal is decided, which is what the Varian Court sought to achieve.  Abshah further argues that it brought the anti-SLAPP in part to avoid the costs  of litigation and burdensome discovery.                Here, the Court agrees with  Plaintiffs that there is no authority to support staying discovery pending the  appeal of a denial of an anti-SLAPP motion. The parties both rely on Varian.  In Varian, the Court stated that “section 916 stays  all further proceedings on the merits during the pendency of an appeal from the  denial of an anti-SLAPP motion.” (Varian, supra, at 186.) Abshah  provides no authority for his position that discovery requests can be  considered “proceedings on the merits.” In Varian, the trial court held  trial and issued a judgment. Thus, whether discovery could proceed was not at  issue. Considering the lack of authority for Abshah’s request, the Court finds  that Abshah has not demonstrated good cause exists to issue a protective order  prohibiting discovery pending the appeal of Abshah’s anti-SLAPP motion.                Accordingly, Defendant Abshah’s  motion for a protective order is DENIED.         Dated:   March 25, 2024                                                                                                                                                  Hon. Jon R. Takasugi Judge of the Superior Court     Parties who intend to submit on  this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org  by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court  website at www.lacourt.org.   If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case  number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion  submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email  indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no  appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,  please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517.    