 Case Number:  23STCV08440    Hearing Date:   March 25, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty
of Los Angeles DEPARTMENT
17 


JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-RODRIGUEZ, et al.
  
         vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA), INC., et al.  


 Case
  No.:   23STCV08440
 
 
Res. ID: 595856969178
 
Hearing Date: March 25, 2024


             Specially Appearing
Defendant Stylenquaza LLC’s motion to quash service of summons and dismiss the
action for improper service and lack of personal jurisdiction is GRANTED.              Background:                        This is a toxic tort case arising
from Plaintiff Jose Guadalupe Soto-Rodriguez’ (Plaintiff) claim that he
developed silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working
with stone products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.             On February 2,
2024, Plaintiffs Jose Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed the operative first amended complaint against 39 Defendants,
alleging: (1) negligence; (2) strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict
liability—design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied
warranties; and (6) loss of consortium.             Party’s Request:              Specially appearing
Defendant Stylenquaza LLC moves for an order quashing service of summons and
dismissing the action as to Defendant.  Legal Standard             Cal Code of Civil
Procedure § 418.10(a)(1) states:  “(a) A defendant, on or before the last day of his or
her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause
allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following
purposes: (1)  To quash service of summons on the ground of
lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. (2)  To stay or dismiss the action on the ground
of inconvenient forum. (3)  To dismiss the action pursuant to the
applicable provisions of Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 583.110) of Title
8.”             Plaintiff bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that service was properly
accomplished.  “When a nonresident defendant challenges personal
jurisdiction the burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are
met. This burden must be met by competent evidence in affidavits and
authenticated documentary evidence. An unverified complaint may not be
considered as an affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Ziller Electronics
Lab Gmbh v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 1222, 1232-1233.) “In
the absence of a voluntary submission to the authority of the court, compliance
with the statutes governing service of process is essential to establish that
court's personal jurisdiction over a defendant.¿(§ 410.50.) When a defendant
challenges¿that jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash,¿the burden is on
the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia,
the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist Construction
Co.¿(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439–1440.) Discussion              Specially appearing
Defendant Stylenquaza LLC (“Defendant”) moves for an order quashing service of
summons and dismissing the action as to Defendant.             Defendant’s
Moving Argument and Declaration of An Nguyen             Defendant contends
that Plaintiffs are improperly attempting to drag Defendant into this
litigation even though Defendant is not subject to the Court’s personal
jurisdiction.              Defendant first contends that
Plaintiffs’ purported service on Defendant in California is invalid because
Defendant does not have a registered agent or other person authorized to accept
service in California.              Defendant next contends that, even
if Plaintiffs had properly served Defendant, it would be unconstitutional to
subject Defendant to jurisdiction in California as it would violate traditional
notions of fair play and substantial justice. Defendant submits the Declaration
of An Nguyen, the manager and co-owner of Defendant, as evidence that Defendant
is not subject to personal jurisdiction in California. According to the Nguyen
Declaration: •    Defendant is a Texas limited liability company with its
principal place of business in Dallas, Texas, where its registered agent and
main office are also located. It was established in Texas in December 2010, and
in 2011 opened a distribution center in Dallas, Texas. Defendant’s sole
business is to distribute quartz slabs supplied by a Vietnamese quartz
manufacturer. Defendant does business under the name “Vicostone USA.” (Para.
3.) •    None of Defendant’s owners are residents of California
(Para. 4.) •    The states Defendant primarily operates in do not include
California (para. 5.) •    Since 2008, another named defendant, Pental Granite and
Marble, LLC has been making Vicostone-made products on the West Coast, the
North East, Alaska, and Hawaii under the Pental brand name. Defendant did not
create, control, or employ this distribution system. (para. 6.) •    On very rare occasions, when Pental has emergency
shortages, Pental purchases some quartz slabs from Stylenquaza, but in very
insignificant amounts. When these shortages occur, Pental books a third-party
truck company to pick up the products from Stylenquaza. Stylenquaza has no
control over where the products that Pental purchases from Stylenquaza are
distributed. (Para. 7.) •    Between 2018 and 2022, Defendant distributed insubstantial
amounts of pre-fabricated tops directly to California, and supplied, via six
shipments to California, 22 total stone slabs representing approximately 0.001
percent of all of the square footage of product it has ever distributed in its
more than a decade of business. (Para. 8.) •    Other than these extremely rare instances of shipments to
California, Defendant does not conduct, nor has it ever conducted, any business
in California (Para. 9), produce, promote, sell, market, or distribute any
products in California (Para. 10), or directly sell, ship, or otherwise
introduce any products into commerce in California. (Para. 11.) •    Defendant did not design its products specifically for the
market in California. (Para. 12.)•    Defendant is not now, nor has it ever been, qualified,
licensed, or authorized to do business in California. (Para. 13.)•   
Defendant does not
have and never has had any offices, officers, employees, sales representatives,
or registered agent or other person authorized to accept service of process in
California. (Para. 14.) •   
Defendant has not
entered into joint business ventures or other such arrangements with any
business in California. (Para. 15.) •   
Defendant does not
own, rent, or lease any real property in California.
(Para. 16.)•   
Defendant does not
operate any kind of office or other facility in California. (Para. 17.) •   
Defendant does not
maintain inventory in California. (Para. 18.) •   
Defendant does not
maintain a bank account in California. (Para. 19.) •   
Defendant does not
pay any taxes in California. (Para. 20.) •   
Defendant does not
advertise in any media that is directed toward California. (Para. 21.) •   
Other than two
instances in which Defendant was dismissed for lack of personal jurisdiction,
Defendant has no record of having been named a party to a lawsuit in federal or
state court in California prior to December 2022. (Para. 22.) •   
Defendant’s
registered and authorized agent in several states is CT Corporation System;
however, not in California. CT Corporation System did not transmit to Defendant
any service of process related to this case. Nguyen is unaware of any attempts
by Plaintiffs to serve Defendant other than by their purported service in
California as indicated on their Proof of Service of Summons filed in this
Court. (Para. 23.)              The
only allegation in Plaintiffs’ FAC going towards the issue of jurisdiction was
that Defendant was “a Texas limited liability company doing business as
Vicostone US and which at all material times hereto, was doing business in the
County of Los Angeles, State of California.” (FAC, para. 67.)              Plaintiffs’
Opposition             In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant is a United States based subsidiary
of Vicostone JSC, a Vietnam based artificial stone manufacturer, and that
Defendant distributed to Decedent the artificial stone that caused his
silicosis. Plaintiffs submit the Declaration of Raphael Metzger, Plaintiffs’
counsel, in support of their position. The Metzger Declaration states the
following:                        The
information contained in the Nguyen Declaration actually supports specific
jurisdiction, especially the admissions that Defendant shipped stone slabs to
California six different times between 2018 and 2022, distributed
pre-fabricated tops during that same time period, on occasion sold Vicostone
quartz slabs to Pental for distribution in California, and had a distribution
agreement with Vicostone JSC.              Furthermore,
even if Defendant’s sales of its products in California could be considered
extremely attenuated, that should not determine whether specific jurisdiction
applies here because Defendant operates a website that directs customers to
purchase their product in California. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s
website directs prospective customers to “find a Vicostone authorised dealer near you” and lists
five authorized dealers throughout California from whom customers can purchase
the product. Plaintiffs contend that pursuant to the California Supreme Court’s decision in Snowney v. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc.,
this establishes specific jurisdiction regardless how much or how little
product was sold. Plaintiffs contend that Defendant designated Integrated
Resources Group, Inc. as its regional distributor for Northern California at
three locations and Architectural Surfaces Company as its regional distributor
for Southern California at two locations, including one in Los Angeles County.
Further, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s argument that the website is the
website of Vicostone
Joint Stock Company (VJSC) and not
Defendant is misleading because the website’s url is us.vicostone.com and the
site itself contains pages headed “Vicostone USA.”              Plaintiffs
also contend that pursuant to distribution contracts between VJSC and
Defendant, which they cannot produce, Defendant is VJSC’s authorized
distributor in the USA of the company’s
engineered stone slabs that are the subject of this lawsuit.              Furthermore,
VJSC’s annual report describes Defendant as VJSC’s direct distributor in North
America.              Finally,
Plaintiffs contend that in LASC Case No. 22STCV31907, which Defendant relies on to show that its previous motion to quash
was granted, the Court’s decision was issued based on Defendant’s perjurious
testimony. Specifically, Plaintiffs contend that Defendant’s motion to quash in
that case was supported by a separate declaration by An Nguyen in which he
stated that Defendant did not know where the distributer, Pental, was
distributing its product, and therefore that it had no knowledge that its
product was distributed in California. Plaintiffs contend that this contradicts
the testimony provided in Nguyen’s declaration in this case.              Personal
Jurisdiction Analysis             A
California court can exercise personal jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant who has “minimum contacts” with the state. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th
262, 268; Virtualmagic Asia, Inc. v. Fil-Cartoons, Inc. (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 228, 238.) A defendant has minimum contacts if the quality and
nature of its activity in the forum state (referred to as “contacts”) is such that it is reasonable and fair to
require the defendant to conduct a defense in that state. (Pavlovich, supra,
at 268; Strasner v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP
(2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 221.)               The
focus of the minimum contacts analysis is the defendant's contacts with the
forum. (Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2017) 582 U.S. 255,
260.) Depending on the extent of a defendant's contacts with California, it may
be subject to either general or specific jurisdiction. (Elkman v. National
States Ins. (2009) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445-446.)              A
court can exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant if (1)
the defendant has purposefully availed itself of the forum's benefits and
protections and (2) the cause of action relates to or arises out of the
defendant's contacts with the forum, and (3) the exercise of personal
jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at 269.) The contacts for specific jurisdiction are
those that existed when the plaintiff's cause of action arose. (Strasner,
supra, 5 Cal.App.5th at 226.)              To
establish minimum contacts for specific jurisdiction, the plaintiff must show
that the defendant has purposefully availed itself of the privilege of
conducting activities in California to involve its benefits and protections. (See
Axiom Foods, Inc. v. Acerchem Int'l (9th Cir. 2017) 874 F.3d 1064, 1068;
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 783,
799-800.) In this analysis, (1) only the defendant's contacts with California
are considered, not the defendant's contacts with persons who reside there, (2)
the defendant's contacts must have been purposeful rather than random,
fortuitous, or attenuated, and (3) the defendant must have sought some benefit
by availing itself of the jurisdiction. (See Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571
U.S. 277, 285-286; Burger King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462,
474-475; Vons Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 446, 458.)              Here,
on this record, Plaintiffs have not carried their
burden of demonstrating that Defendant has sufficient minimal contacts with
California to allow for a finding of personal jurisdiction. (Jewish Defense
Organization, Inc. v. Superior Court, 72 Cal. App. 4th 1045, 1054-55 (1999)
(plaintiff opposing motion to quash service of summons has burden of producing
"competent evidence in affidavits
and authenticated documentary evidence”.)             On
the issue of general jurisdiction, Plaintiffs have provided no evidence that
Defendant has offices, employees, bank accounts, or real property in
California. Defendant is a Texas corporation headquartered in Texas. Other than
a few very limited sales to California over the years, Defendant does not
appear to have contacts that are substantial, continuous, and systematic.
Accordingly, general jurisdiction does not exist over Defendant.              On
the issue of specific jurisdiction, the only way in which Defendant may have
interjected itself into California is by distributing a limited number of
pre-fabricated tops to California and a total of 22 stone slabs. In reply,
Defendant first notes that because these “[p]re-fabricated tops are ready to be installed . . . thus
[they] are not . . . dust-producing products” that could have allegedly caused
Plaintiff’s injuries. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff argues, without admissible evidence, that pre- fabricated tops have
to be polished and edged, which creates “fine respirable crystalline silica dust[.]” (Metzger Decl., ¶ 16.) Defendant has indicated that the pre-fabricated
tops would not have caused the injuries in Plaintiffs' complaint because they
would not create silica dust.              Additionally,
there is nothing in Plaintiffs' complaint tying the 22 stone slabs to the
decedents injuries. There is no other evidence that Defendant has purposefully
availed itself of the benefits of California.              As
for the website that Plaintiffs cite, that website is for a separate company
that Defendant does business with. Defendant does not provide products to the
California distribution centers listed on VJCS’s website, therefore, the website does not serve as conclusive
evidence of sufficient minimum contacts. (Nguyen Decl. ¶ 21.)             Additionally,
the Annual Report cited by Plaintiffs as evidence of Defendant’s contacts with
California does not provide anything more than mere speculation regarding
Defendant’s involvement in a broader scheme to distribute VJCS’s products in
California.              Accordingly,
specific jurisdiction does not exist.  Conclusion             Specially
Appearing Defendant’s motion to quash summons and FAC for lack of personal
jurisdiction is GRANTED.                Dated:  March 25, 2024                                                                                                                                                Hon.
Jon R. TakasugiJudge
of the Superior Court   Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517. 
 
 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 



JOSE GUADALUPE SOTO-RODRIGUEZ, et al.
  
         vs.
 
AKG TRADING (USA), INC., et al.  


 Case
  No.:   23STCV08440
 
 
Res. ID: 184867682961
 
Hearing Date: March 25, 2024



 
            Specially Appearing
Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.’s motion to quash service of summons and
dismiss the action for improper service is GRANTED. 
 
            Background:
            
            This is a toxic tort case arising
from Plaintiff Jose Guadalupe Soto-Rodriguez’ (Plaintiff) claim that he
developed silicosis and consequential injuries through his employment working
with stone products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by Defendants.
 
            On February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs Jose
Guadalupe-Soto Rodriguez and Sara Sanchez (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed the
operative first amended complaint against 39 Defendants, alleging: (1)
negligence; (2) strict liability—warning defect; (3) strict liability—design
defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties; and (6)
loss of consortium.
 
            Party’s Request: 
 
            Specially appearing Defendant
Cosentino Group, S.A. moves for an order quashing service of summons and
dismissing the action as to Defendant. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            Cal Code of Civil
Procedure § 418.10(a)(1) states: 
 
“(a) A defendant, on or before the last day of his or
her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause
allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following
purposes: 
(1)  To quash service of summons on the ground of
lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her. 
(2)  To stay or dismiss the action on the ground
of inconvenient forum. 
(3)  To dismiss the action pursuant to the
applicable provisions of Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 583.110) of Title
8.”
 
            Plaintiff bears the burden of
proving by a preponderance of evidence that service was properly accomplished.  “When
a nonresident defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that all
necessary jurisdictional criteria are met. This burden must be met by competent
evidence in affidavits and authenticated documentary evidence. An unverified
complaint may not be considered as an affidavit supplying necessary facts.” (Ziller
Electronics Lab Gmbh v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 1222,
1232-1233.) “In the absence of a voluntary submission to the authority of the
court, compliance with the statutes governing service of process is essential
to establish that court's personal jurisdiction over a defendant.¿(§ 410.50.)
When a defendant challenges¿that jurisdiction by bringing a motion to quash,¿the
burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving,
inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co.¿(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1439–1440.)
 
Discussion 
 
            Specially appearing Defendant
Cosentino Group, S.A. (“Defendant”) moves for an order quashing service of
summons and dismissing the action as to Defendant.
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiffs object to different
portions of the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela. 
            
            Plaintiffs’ objections are uniformly
OVERRULED. The declaration is based on Vela’s personal knowledge as Defendant’s
Vice President, Legal and Compliance, and review of the relevant business
records. Vela’s statements are not conclusionary, nor are they contrary to
other evidence.
 
            Defendant objects to different
portions of the Declaration of Raphael Metzger. 
 
            Defendant’s objections are
OVERRULED. 
 
            Requests
for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiffs request the Court take
judicial notice of the following in support of Plaintiffs’ position that
Defendant was properly served in compliance with the Hague Convention: 
 
•     Convention on the
Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents In Civil Or Commercial
Matters (the “Hague Convention”) (RJN, Exh. A.) 
•    Canada - Central Authority & practical information
(RJN, Exh. B.) 
•    United States - Central Authority & practical
information (RJN, Exh. C.)
•    Pages 7 and 8 of the Practical Handbook on the Operation of
the Service Convention published by the Hague Conference on Private
International Law Permanent Bureau in 2016 regarding “Place of service as
determining factor.” (RJN, Exh. D.)
•    Page XL of the Glossary of the Practical Handbook on the
Operation of the Service Convention published by the Hague Conference on
Private International Law Permanent Bureau in 2016 defining State of
destination as “the State where service is, or will be, effected.” (RJN, Exh.
E.)
 
            Plaintiffs’ requests
for judicial notice are GRANTED. 
 
            Defendant’s
Moving Argument and Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela
 
            Defendant first contends that
Plaintiffs did not serve Defendant properly according to the requirements of
the Hague Convention. Instead of serving Defendant through Spain’s central
authority, Plaintiffs made two attempts to serve Defendant in compliance with
the Hague Service Convention under article 10, subdivisions (a) and (b), both
of which were invalid. 
 
            First, Plaintiffs
attempted to personally serve an officer of Defendant while he was visiting
Canada under 10(b) of the Hague Service Convention and British Columbia Supreme
Court Civil Rule 4–3(2)(b). Spain did not object to 10(b) of the Convention,
thereby consenting to personal “service within its boundaries” (Volkswagenwerk,
supra, 486 U.S. at p. 699, italics added), “directly through the judicial
officers, officials or other competent persons” of Spain. (Hague Service
Convention, art. 10, subd. (b).) A signatory to the Hague Service Convention
that does not object to 10(b) does not consent to personal service in any
country in the world that also happens to be a signatory, even if that country
has no connection whatsoever to the summons being served.
 
            Second, Plaintiffs improperly
attempted to serve Defendant using Federal Express under 10(a). Plaintiffs’ “attempted
service by Federal Express did not constitute valid service of process under
California law, and as a result, did not comply with the Hague Service
Convention pursuant to article 10, subdivision (a).” (Inversiones Papaluchi
S.A.S. v. Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 1067 (Inversiones
Papaluchi).)
            
            Defendant submits the following
portions of the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela in support of its position that
service was not proper: 
•    “Suministros” is a location where supplies and occasionally
FedEx deliveries are received. No one working at this location is authorized to
accept service of process on behalf of Defendant. (3-18-2024 Declaration, para.
5.)
•    Vela reviewed the return receipt that Plaintiffs’ counsel
claims shows service of the summons in this matter by United States Postal
Service registered mail, return receipt requested. In the space for the
signature of the addressee, there is a Cosentino Global, S.L.U. stamp. This
stamp is used by receptionists and mail clerks who are not authorized to accept
service of process on behalf of Defendant. (3-18-2024
Declaration, para. 6.)
 
            Next, Defendant contends that, even if Plaintiffs had
properly served Defendant, it would be unconstitutional to subject Defendant to
jurisdiction in California as it would violate traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice. 
 
            The
FAC alleges that Plaintiffs were injured from inhaling dust from various stone
products manufactured by 39 defendants, including Defendant and its indirect
United States subsidiary, C & C North America, Inc. (“C & C”). 
 
            Defendant
submits the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo Vela in support of its position that it
has not established minimum contacts in California to support general or
specific jurisdiction. Vela, Defendant’s and Defendant’s subsidiaries’ current
Vice President, Legal and Compliance, who has held various positions with
companies owned by Cosentino Group since 2011, submitted two declarations, one
in support of the initial moving papers and one in support of the reply,
stating: 
•   
Defendant is
organized under the laws of Spain, its headquarters are in Spain, and it
operates exclusively in Spain. (10-11-2023 Declaration, para. 4.) 
•   
Defendant has never
conducted any business in California. (10-11-2023 Declaration, para. 5.)
•   
Defendant is a
holding company that does not develop, design, manufacture, distribute, sell,
advertise, or market any products. (10-11-2023 Declaration, para. 6.)
•   
C & C is a
Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in Coral Gables,
Florida. C & C is an indirect subsidiary of Defendant.
(10-11-2023 Declaration, para. 7.)
•   
Defendant and C
& C are separate and independent corporate entities. Defendant does not
manage or control the day-to-day operations of C & C. C & C keeps its
own separate bank accounts and business records, and C & C pays and manages
its own employees. (10-11-2023
Declaration, para. 8.)
•   
Defendant does not
own, maintain, or control the website www.cosentino.com. (3-18-2024
Declaration, para. 4.)
 
            Defendant contends that Plaintiffs cannot successfully show
that C & C’s contacts with California should be imputed to Defendant
because Plaintiffs cannot show Defendant exercised excessive control over C
& C’s forum-based operations as holding companies such as Defendant do not
participate in making day-to-day business decisions in the companies that they
own.
 
            Plaintiffs’ Opposition
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that regarding compliance with the service
requirements of the Hague Convention, the Hague Convention does not apply where
an officer of the foreign corporation is personally served with the summons in
compliance with the laws of the forum (California in this case) and the place
of service (British Columbia in this case). 
 
            Plaintiffs
contend they attempted to serve the Executive Vice President of Defendant,
Eduardo Cosentino, at his office and his personal residence in Florida, but
their process server was barred from entry in the gated community and his
workplace. Therefore, they were forced to hire an international process server.
However, upon discovering Cosentino was in Vancouver on September 13, 2023, a
process server served him with the summons and complaint. Cosentino was
personally served in British Columbia at a ribbon-cutting event for the opening
of a new Cosentino showroom at 1640 West 3rd Avenue, in Vancouver, Canada.
Plaintiffs’ counsel also sent copies of the summons and complaint via Federal
Express International Priority, Tracking Number 783826293331, to Cosentino’s
corporate headquarters in Spain on September 15, 2023. The package was
delivered to Cosentino in Spain on September 20, 2023 and was signed for by S.
Uministros at Cosentino’s corporate headquarters in Cantoria, Spain.
Additionally, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent copies of the summons and complaint to
Defendant’s corporate headquarters in Spain by First Class Mail, postage
pre-paid, with return receipt requested, and received written confirmation of
Federal Express service. 
 
            Plaintiffs
also argue, regarding personal jurisdiction, 
Plaintiffs have submitted massive evidence that Defendant has long
conducted business in California, even naming Los Angeles a “Cosentino City.”
            
            Compliance with Hague Convention
 
                        1. Applicability of the Hague Service Convention 
 
            Plaintiffs contend the Hague Service Convention does not
apply. Plaintiffs argue that as long as service is proper under state law and
the Due Process Clause, no official transmittal through the Hague Service
Convention need be made. However, California law is clear that service on a
foreign company completed in a foreign country must be completed through the
Hague Service Convention. (Rockefeller Technology Investments (Asia) VII v.
Changzhou SinoType Technology Co., Ltd. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 125, 138.) Thus,
Plaintiff’s service on Cosentino must be valid under the Hague Service
Convention, Art. 10(b).  
 
                        2. Application of the Hague Service Convention 
 
            Here,
the Court agrees with Defendant that service was not properly effected in
compliance with the Hague Convention. 
 
            Article 10 of the Hague Service Convention provides in
pertinent part that “Provided The state of the destination does not object, the
present Convention shall not interfere with - … b) the freedom of judicial
officers, officials, or other competent persons of the State of origin to
effect service of judicial documents directly through the judicial officers,
officials, or other competent persons of the State of destination, … .” (Hague
Service Convention art. 10, Nov. 15, 1965, 20 U.S.T. 361.) 
 
            Neither Spain nor Canada have objected to Article 10(b). (A
treaty is to be understood by its plain language unless such would create a
result inconsistent with the expectations of its signatories. (Landstar
Global Logistics, Inc. v. Robinson & Robinson, Inc. (2013) 216
Cal.App.4th 378, 385.)  
 
            Here, first, Plaintiffs’ authority does not support the
position that personal service on Cosentino in Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada complied with the Hague Service Convention. Plaintiff’s reliance on
Supreme Court Civil Rules of British Columbia Reg 168/2009 Rule 4-3 is not
enough to indicate compliance. Plaintiff contends Cosentino is an officer of
Defendant and was in Vancouver, British Columbia for official business of
Defendant by attending a ribbon cutting ceremony where he was personally
served. Rule 4-3 provides that, “if the chief place of business of the
corporation is outside British Columbia, every person who, within British
Columbia, transacts or carries on any of the business of, or any business for,
that corporation is deemed to be an agent of the corporation” and that service
on a corporation may be effected “by leaving a copy of the document with the
president, chair, mayor or other chief officer of the corporation.” (Rule
4-3(2)(b)(i).) 
                        
            Similarly, Canada’s Central Authority and practical
information concerning the Hague Service Convention indicate that personal
service on a corporation occurs “by handing a copy of the document to the
individual, or to an officer, director or agent of the corporation at its place
of business.” (Plaintiff’s RJN Hague Documents, Exhibit 2.) However, the court
has more questions than answers. Does Rule 4-3 apply to international
corporation when it refers to corporations “outside British Columbia” or to
corporations that are Canadian from other provinces? Does the “place of
business” indicated in the Canadian Hague Certificate apply to a ribbon cutting
ceremony? Plaintiff has provided rules, but no authority explaining how those
rules have been applied to comparable situations. The court does not have
access to such and is not in a position to interpret Canadian law.  
 
            Additionally, Plaintiff’s reliance on Denlinger v.
Chinadotcom Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1396 (Denlinger), Yamaha Motor
Co., Ltd. v. Superior Court (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 264 (Yamaha), and Lebel
v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154 (Lebel) is misplaced to support her
position that either the Hague Service Convention does not apply or that
service in Canada was proper. Denlinger concerns service by mail of a
foreign corporation in its home country. That case does not apply here because
mail service is not at issue – personal service in Canada is. Yamaha
concerns service of a foreign corporation via its “general manager in this
state” (i.e., in California). Again, this case does not apply here because
Plaintiff did not serve Cosentino in California, but in Canada. Finally, Lebel
concerns whether the Hague Service Convention applied when the plaintiff knew
the defendant resided in England but attempted to serve his mother (as a
purported agent) in California. Lebel does not apply here, either,
because the purported service was effected in California, not in Canada. In
sum, Plaintiff provided no authority that personal service in Canada was
effective.
 
            Second, Plaintiffs do not contend that they ever
transmitted the summons and complaint to Spain’s central authority, under
Article 6 of the Hague Service Convention, for service on Defendant. 
 
            Third, California does not allow service of the summons and
complaint by Federal Express. In Inversiones, the Plaintiff served a
Columbian defendant by Federal Express and via email. (Inversiones, 20
Cal.App.5th at 1061.) The Court found that Federal Express service did not
comply with the Hague Service Convention because “service by Federal Express
did not constitute valid service of process under California law.” (Id. at
1067.) As in Inversiones, here, Spain does not object to service by mail and
Plaintiff attempted to serve Moving Defendant by Federal Express at its
corporate headquarters in Spain. Accordingly, service did not comply with the
Hague Service Convention and is therefore invalid. The Court should thus
conclude that service on the Spanish company’s officer was valid in Canada. 
 
            Therefore, the court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to quash service of summons. 
 
            Personal Jurisdiction Analysis
 
            A California court can exercise personal jurisdiction over
a nonresident defendant who has “minimum contacts” with the state. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268; Virtualmagic Asia, Inc. v. Fil-Cartoons, Inc.
(2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 228, 238.) A defendant has minimum contacts if the
quality and nature of its activity in the forum state (referred to as “contacts”) is such
that it is reasonable and fair to require the defendant to conduct a defense in
that state. (Pavlovich, supra, at 268; Strasner v. Touchstone
Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215, 221.)  
 
            The focus of the minimum contacts analysis is the
defendant's contacts with the forum. (Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior
Court (2017) 582 U.S. 255, 260.) Depending on the extent of a defendant's
contacts with California, it may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (Elkman v. National States Ins. (2009) 14 Cal.4th 434,
445-446.) 
 
            A court can exercise specific jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant if (1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of
the forum's benefits and protections and (2) the cause of action relates to or
arises out of the defendant's contacts with the forum, and (3) the exercise of
personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at 269.) The contacts for specific jurisdiction are those
that existed when the plaintiff's cause of action arose. (Strasner, supra,
5 Cal.App.5th at 226.) 
 
            To establish minimum contacts for specific jurisdiction,
the plaintiff must show that the defendant has purposefully availed itself of
the privilege of conducting activities in California to involve its benefits
and protections. (See Axiom Foods, Inc. v. Acerchem Int'l (9th Cir.
2017) 874 F.3d 1064, 1068; Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. v. Superior Court
(2016) 1 Cal.5th 783, 799-800.) In this analysis, (1) only the defendant's
contacts with California are considered, not the defendant's contacts with
persons who reside there, (2) the defendant's contacts must have been
purposeful rather than random, fortuitous, or attenuated, and (3) the defendant
must have sought some benefit by availing itself of the jurisdiction. (See
Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 285-286; Burger King Corp. v.
Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 474-475; Vons Cos., supra, 14 Cal.4th
at pp. 446, 458.) 
 
            Here, considering the lack of compliance with the Hague
Convention, the personal jurisdiction analysis is MOOT.
 
Conclusion
 
            Specially
Appearing Defendant’s motion to quash summons and FAC for improper service
under the Hague Convention is GRANTED. 
 
            
 
 
Dated:  March 25, 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon.
Jon R. Takasugi
Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org. 
If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case
number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative.  If all parties to a motion
submit, the court will adopt this tentative as the final order.  If the department does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  For more information,
please contact the court clerk at (213) 633-0517. 
 
 