  Case Number:  23PSCV01562    Hearing Date:   February 5, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION FOR INTERLOCUTORY
JUDGMENT OF PARTITION AND APPOINTMENT OF REFEREE is GRANTED. Plaintiff and Defendants are to
equally bear the costs of the partition (each owing one third of the cost).
 
Background
 
This is a
real property case. Plaintiff JIA HUI LU (“Plaintiff” or “Jia”) alleges the
following against her parents Defendants YUK YEE FUNG (“Yuk”) and JI ZHONG LU
(“Ji”): In 2016, a deed transferred the subject property to Plaintiff and
Defendants wherein each owned a 33% interest in the subject property as joint
tenants. In 2020, a deed of trust (DOT) as recorded against the property
listing all the parties as borrowers. Plaintiff moved out in 2021, and between
2016 to 2020, Plaintiff paid more than Plaintiff’s fractional 33% share of the
monthly mortgage expense. Plaintiff seeks partition of the property. 
 
On May 24,
2023, Plaintiff filed a verified complaint for partition by sale of real
property. 
 
On July 6,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice Of Recording Of Pendency Of Action Pursuant To
Ccp § 405.20 (Lis Pendens).
 
On August 22,
2023, default was entered against Defendants. 
 
On August 30,
2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. 
 
On November
27, 2023, the parties filed a stipulation setting aside Defendants’ default. 
 
On December
20, 2023, Defendants made three filings: (1) their answer, (2) their opposition
to the instant motion, and (3) a cross-complaint against Plaintiff asserting
the following COAs: 1.     Unjust Enrichment 2.     Quiet Title
On January
19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an answer to the cross-complaint. 
 
On January
26, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The governing statute for partition is section
872.720. Subdivision (a) declares that “[i]f the court finds that the plaintiff
is entitled to partition, it shall make an interlocutory judgment that
determines the interests of the parties in the property and orders the
partition of the property.” (§ 872.720, subd. (a).) The order of partition
“shall order that the property be divided among the parties in accordance with
their interests as determined in the interlocutory judgment.” (§
872.810.) “The manner of partition may be ‘in kind’—i.e., physical
division of the property [citation] according to the parties’ interests as
determined in the interlocutory judgment. [Citations.] Alternatively, if the
parties agree or the court concludes it ‘would be more equitable,’ the court
may order the property sold and the proceeds divided among the parties.”
 
The judgment
of partition is left to the discretion of the trial court and the determination
of whether partition by sale is more equitable than physical division requires
a factual inquiry by the court and when the evidence, even though conflicting,
permits the court to reasonably conclude partition by sale would be more
equitable to the owners such decision should be upheld absent an abuse of
discretion. (See Richmond v. Dofflemyer (1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 745,
758-59, 765-66.) 
 
Discussion
 
As observed
by the Summers’ court, a trial court is to make two determinations: 
 
1.     Determination of the
parties’ interests in the property 
2.     The manner of
partition—i.e., a physical division or sale of the property. (Summers,
supra, 24 Cal.App.5th at p. 143.) 
 
In satisfying these elements, a
trial must “resolve” the parties’ interests. (Id. at p. 144 [“We conclude
that the trial court lacked the authority to order the sale of the property
before it determined the parties’ respective ownership interests.”].)[1]  
 
 
 
 
 
1.       
Whether Plaintiff Has an Ownership Interest?  
 
In her motion, Plaintiff explains that on November 30, 2016, a grant deed transferred the
Property to Plaintiff and Defendants as joint tenants each with 1/3 interest. Consequently,
Plaintiff has an ownership interest in the property. As a joint tenant,
Plaintiff may seek entry of an interlocutory judgment of partition by sale.
(Motion p. 6, quoting 4 Miller & Starr, Cal. Real Est. (4th ed.2020) §
11:14 [“Each cotenant has an ‘absolute’ right to partition the common
property.”]; see also p. 6, quoting Bacon v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97
Cal.App.2d 599, 603 [“If the party seeking partition is shown to be a tenant in
common, and as such entitled to the possession of the land sought to be partitioned,
the right is absolute.”].) 
 
In Opposition, Defendants aver that despite the
deed, Plaintiff does not have an ownership interest. Effectively, Defendants’
opposition requires the trial court to make an evidentiary finding to resolve the
parties’ ownerships interests prior to ordering a partition.
 
According to
Defendant’s cross-complaint and opposition to the instant motion, Defendants
dispute Plaintiff’s ownership interest based on the following: 
 
-       
“Plaintiff
became the initial title holder in name only due to the need for her better
credit rating merely to facilitate the purchase of the property and obtain
financing due to Defendants poorer credit rating” (Opp. p. 4:16-20)
-       
“Plaintiff
paid no monies toward the purchase of the property and has paid no monies
toward the mortgage or maintenance of the property” (Opp. p. 4:20-21)
-       
“[T]he
parties [] agreed that Plaintiffs name was on title merely to facilitate the
purchase and not to reflect any ownership interest in the property.” (Opp. p.
4:21-24)
-       
Defendants
paid the entire down payment (Opp. p. 6 of 15 [Fung Decl].)  
-       
Since
the purchase of the family home in 2016, Defendants have paid “all property
taxes, mortgage payments, insurance, utilities, maintenance, and repair costs
of the property.” (Opp. p. 6 of 15 [Fung Decl]
 
But, as noted
by Plaintiff in Reply, there are numerous problems with the explanation(s). 
 
Preliminarily,
Evidence Code 662 provides that “The owner of the legal title to property is
presumed to be the owner of full beneficial title. This presumption may be
rebutted only by clear and convincing proof.” (Evid. Code § 662.) “Clear and
convincing evidence requires a finding of high probability. […] [It
requires] that the evidence be so clear as to leave no substantial doubt;
sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent of every reasonable
mind.” (Reply p. 5, quoting Nevarrez v. San Marino Skilled Nursing &
Wellness Centre, LLC (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 102, 112.) 
 
Here, for
one, however, Defendants rely primarily on oral agreements between the
parties; any such agreement would be barred by the statute of frauds.
(See Reply pp. 9-10, citing Code of Civil Procedure § 1971 [writing
requirement] and Civil Code § 1624(a) [real property contract invalid unless in
writing]; see also Rossberg v. Bank of America, N.A. (2013) 219
Cal.App.4th 1481, 1502 [“An agreement for the sale of real property or an
interest in real property comes within the statute of frauds.”].) 
 
Next,
Defendants’ evidence is unclear. For example, Defendants proclaim that they
made all mortgage payments, citing to Exhibit D. But Exhibit D (Opp. p. 11 of
15 of PDF) is a mortgage statement that does not indicate who made those
payments. 
 
To the extent
Defendants’ evidence is Yu Yee Fung’s declaration (made under penalty of
perjury) that the parents made all the mortgage payments, Plaintiff
provides evidence otherwise. Plaintiff attaches two checks (one dated 4/4/18
for: ‘April Mortgage’ in the amount of $1,500 and other dated 2/18/2017 for:
‘house’ in the amount of $1,700). In fact, according to Plaintiff’s
declaration (signed under penalty of perjury) she made consecutive monthly
payments towards the mortgage from February 2017 to November 2021 totaling
$70,569.49. (Reply p. 12 of 14 of PDF.)[2]
Thus, Defendants’ proclamation that they have made all payments is,
seemingly, untruthful. Even if not all of Plaintiff’s payments were towards the
mortgage, “[c]redits include expenditures in
excess of the co-tenant's fractional share for necessary repairs, improvements
that enhance the value of the property, taxes, payments of principal and
interest on mortgages, and other liens, insurance for the common benefit, and
protection and preservation of title.” (Reply p. 9, quoting Wallace
v. Daley (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 1028, 1035-1036.) 
 
Therefore, as
Defendants have failed to meet their burden to rebut the presumption that
Plaintiff is presumed to have an interest in the Property as a joint tenant
with her parents/Defendants as evidenced by the grant deed, the court
determines that each party is holds a 1/3 interest in the property.  
 
2.       
Partition by Sale vs. In Kind
 
“Partition in kind is
favored in law and in the absence of proof to the contrary the presumption in
favor of in kind division will prevail. A forced sale is strongly disfavored.”
(Butte, supra, 136 Cal.App.3d 360, 365.) As the Butte
court explained: 
 
There are two types of evidence which
have been held sufficiently to justify a partition sale of property rather than
physical division. The first is evidence that the property is so situated that
a division into subparcels of equal value cannot be made. [citation
omitted] . . . In order to meet this test the party desiring partition sale
must show that the land cannot be divided equally. [citation omitted] . . . The
second type of evidence which supports a partition sale rather than physical
division is economic evidence to the effect that, due to the particular
situation of the land, the division of the land would substantially diminish
the value of each party’s interest . . . This is a purely economic test. If
plaintiff, who demands that the land be sold, can receive a portion of the land
through physical division and that portion could be sold for a sum equal to the
amount it could realize through sale of the entire parcel then as a matter of
law no economic prejudice can be shown. 
 
(Id. at 367.) 
 
Here, the
property is a single-family residence in a suburban lot rather than a large
parcel that could be divided into individual plots. With that, it is
impractical to physically divide the single-family residence between the three
co-tenants.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has made a sufficient showing for partition by
sale. The opposition does not address the point. 
 
a.     Referee
 
“The court
shall appoint a referee to divide or sell the property as ordered by the
court.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 873.010(a).) In appointing a referee: “The court
may: … Instruct the referee [and] Fix the reasonable compensation for the
services of the referee and provide for payment of the referee’s reasonable
expenses….” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 873.010(b)(2)-(3).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks the appointment of Attorney Matthew L. Taylor to act as the
referee in this case. Taylor has served as a receiver in dozens of cases and
served as in-house counsel for a receiver for 8 years before starting his own
law practice. Taylor estimates that the total cost of most partitions is
approximately $14,000, considerably less than will be paid to the realtor. 
 
Accordingly,
as Taylor is well-qualified to handle the referee action in this case involving
single-family residence in the region of his practice as a lawyer and referee,
the court takes no issue with his appointment. 
 
The referee
shall report to the court and to the parties as to the sale proceedings and
shall present to the court a proposed order of distribution of the proceeds of
sale. The proposed order shall specify in detail all payments then due to third
parties in connection with the sale of the Property. 
 
b.     Costs
 
Before the
proceeds are distributed to the co-owners, the costs of partition must be paid.
(Code Civ. Proc. §§ 873.820(b), 873.820(d).) Such costs include reasonable
attorney’s fees and the referee’s fees. actions Section
874.040 states the court shall apportion the costs and fees of partition “among
the parties in proportion to their interests or make such other apportionment
as may be equitable.” (Motion p. 13, citing Finney v. Gomez (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 527, 545.) Thus, “the court may apportion the fees and costs based on
the parties' respective interests in the property, or it may apportion the
costs and fees based on some other equitable apportionment.” (Ibid.)
That said, a trial court should normally apportion the costs on
the parties' interest in ownership. (Stutz v. Davis (1981) 122
Cal.App.3d 1, 5.) 
 
Plaintiff
requests the costs should be placed on Defendants for their non-cooperation.
(Motion p. 14.) But Plaintiff misconstrues what is equitable in this context. “Where
litigation for the common benefit arises among only some of the parties, or where the interest of the parties in all items,
lots, or parcels of property are not identical, the
court may segregate the costs of partition to the extent practicable and
apportion a part among particular parties only.” (Finney, supra, 111
Cal.App.4th at p. 545-546, citing California Law Revision Commission comment,
17A West's Annotated Code (1980 ed.) following section
874.040, page 586, emphasis added.) 
 
Here, as the litigation for the common
benefit arises among arguably one party (Plaintiff), it would be inequitable to allocate costs on Defendants and none of Plaintiff. Second,
Plaintiff has not offered illuminating facts as to Defendants’ purported lack
of cooperation. The mere fact of filing an untimely answer does not illustrate lack
of cooperation. Even turning to Plaintiff’s citation to a Cummings v. Cummings (Cal. Ct. App.,
Nov. 23, 2016, No. H040710) 2016 WL 7077611 (which
Plaintiff acknowledges is uncitable because it is an unpublished opinion), those
facts undermine Plaintiff’s request. There the court imposed the cost of the partition
entirely on the appellant because of the appellant’s “intransigent
refusal to cooperate in fashioning a viable alternative solution to the
conflict, along with his unwarranted resistance to discovery by
respondents . . . In his control the property was poorly maintained, and
was filled with, and appeared to be filled with, belongings from a hoarder.
Photographic evidence of the “deplorable” condition of the property was adduced
at trial, with rat feces in several locations among the accumulated “stuff”
appellant kept there. Plaintiffs' efforts to remove and destroy the
“debris and junk” there were “thwarted by [appellant,] who has refused to
part with much of his ‘stuff. . . . he admitted at trial that he did not want
to sell his Sacramento homes to buy his sisters' interests, nor had he tried to
qualify for financing toward that end . . . Appellant even defied the
court's order to vacate the property within 30 days, causing yet more
hearings—and more attorney fees—on the resulting writ of possession.” (Id.
at pp. 3-4, emphasis added.) In short, there, the appellant did anything
and everything he could to ensure the property could not be sold. Here, absent
any of those facts, the court declines to deviate from the rule that “costs should be awarded in proportion to the
litigant's interest in the property.” (Finney, supra, at p. 546.)
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff and Defendants are to equally bear the costs of the partition (each
owing one third of the cost). The Opposition does not address this point. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is granted. The court shall retain jurisdiction of this
matter to confirm the sale of the Property and to issue whatever additional
orders may be required to carry out the partition of the Property.
 
 


