  Case Number:  24PSCV00381    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION TO
STAY PROCEEDINGS AND APPOINT APPRAISERS TO BUY OUT PLAINTIFF KAREN HOLTON’S
MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS IN VAMPYRE COSMETICS, LLC is GRANTED, as prescribed by Section
17707.03(c)(6). The entire action is stayed.[1]
Defendant is to post an undertaking in an amount TBD at the hearing. 
 
Background
 
This case
arises from a business partnership dispute(s). Plaintiff Karen Holton alleges
the following against Defendants Vampyre Cosmetics, LLC (the “Company”); Rachel
Boese aka Rachel Clinesmith (“Defendant” or “Boese”); and Lisa Malcolm
(“Malcolm”):[2]
Plaintiff, the COO, and Defendant, founder, have a 37.5% interest in the
Company and Malcolm (now resigned) has a 25% interest in the Company. Since
joining in 2022, Plaintiff, amongst other actions and responsibilities, made
personal loans to the Company, created products, and allowed Defendants to use
Plaintiff’s credit to access capital. However, starting around June 25, 2023,
Defendants froze Plaintiff out of the Company by removing her access to the
business checking accounts, revoking her access to viewing the Company’s
financial date, cutting her access to the Company’s email and chat, have
refused to provide Plaintiff access to the Company books and financial records,
and have engaged in gross mismanagement and fraud. Examples of the alleged
fraud include: (i) stealing Plaintiff’s personal information to take out new
loans, (ii) stealing Plaintiff’s intellectual property to manufacture new
products and increase product sales; (iii) Boese has diverted funds and loans
to Boese’s other business, Undead Magazine. 
 
On February
6, 2024, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On February
16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion For Appointment Of Receiver For Vampyre
Cosmetics, Llc.
 
On March 29,
2024, Malcolm filed a joinder to the receiver motion. (In the joinder, Malcolm
indicates that she has irrevocably granted Plaintiff all rights and powers to
exercise all voting rights in accordance with Malcolm’s membership interest.
Copies of the ‘Proxy Voting Agreement’ and the ‘Irrevocable Proxy to Vote
Membership Interest Vampyre Cosmetics’ have been provided.) 
 
On April 2,
2024, Boese filed a Verified FAC asserting the following fourteen (14) causes
of action (COAs) against Defendants: 1.    
Breach Of
Contract – Operating Agreement 2.    
Breach Of
Promissory Note 3.    
Breach Of
Fiduciary Duty 4.    
Breach Of
Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing 5.    
Fraud 6.    
Conversion 7.    
Unlawful
And Unfair Business Practices (Cal B&P § 17200) 8.    
Money
Lent 9.    
Account
Stated 10.  Unjust Enrichment – Constructive Trust 11.  Preliminary And Permanent Injunctive Relief 12.  Declaratory Relief 13.  Fraudulent Conveyance 14.  Involuntary Dissolution
On April 10,
2024, Plaintiff filed two doe amendments naming Joseph Keens as Doe 1 and
Phoenix Rising Cosmetics, LLC as Doe 2. 
 
On April 11,
2024, Defendant filed the instant MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDINGS AND APPOINT
APPRAISERS TO BUY OUT PLAINTIFF KAREN HOLTON’S MEMBERSHIP INTERESTS IN VAMPYRE
COSMETICS, LLC.
 
On April 15,
2024, the court conducted the hearing on the receiver motion and continued the
matter as the motion appeared moot in light of Plaintiff’s majority voting
interest in the company. According to Defense
Counsel Yu, on 3/30/24, Plaintiff and Malcolm entered into a settlement
whereby Malcolm would provide Plaintiff with an irrevocable proxy and join in
this Motion in exchange for a dismissal from this action. 
 
On April 19,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed Lisa Malcolm on all COAs except the involuntary
dissolution COA.
 
On April 25,
2024, Plaintiff dismissed the 14th COA for involuntary dissolution. That
same day, Plaintiff filed her opposition to Defendant’s motion. 
 
On May 1,
2024, Defendant filed her reply. 
 
On May 3,
2024, Defendant filed a ‘declaration of demurring or moving party in support of
automatic extension.’ According to the filing, Defendant intends to file a
demurrer and motion to strike to Plaintiff’s FAC. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Defendant
brings forth the instant motion pursuant to California Corporations Code
section 17707.03 to stay this litigation and appoint appraisers so that Boese
can purchase all of the membership interests held by Plaintiff in Vampyre
Cosmetics, LLC.[3]
In turn, Section 17707.03, subdivision (c)(1), states, “In any suit for
judicial dissolution, the other members may avoid the dissolution of the
limited liability company by purchasing for cash the membership interest owned
by the members so initiating the proceeding, the ‘moving parties,’ at their
fair market value.” 
 
“If the
purchasing parties elect to purchase the membership interests owned by the
moving parties, are unable to agree with the moving parties upon the fair
market value of the membership interests, and give bond[4]
with sufficient security to pay the estimated reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, of the moving parties if the expenses are recoverable under
paragraph (3), the court, upon application of the purchasing parties, either in
the pending action or in a proceeding initiated in the superior court of the
proper county by the purchasing parties, shall stay the winding up and
dissolution proceeding and shall proceed to ascertain and fix the fair market
value of the membership interests owned by the moving parties.” (Corp. Code §
17707.03(c)(2).) 
 
Discussion
 
As a member
with 37.5% interest in the company and in action wherein Plaintiff seeks to
dissolve the company, Defendant is electing to invoke her right under
Corporations Code section 17707.03, subdivision (c) to buy out Plaintiff’s
interest and have the court appoint appraisers to determine the fair market
value of Plaintiff’s interest. (Motion p. 4.) Even if Plaintiff dismisses the
dissolution COA, the dismissal does not affect Defendant’s rights to
avoid dissolution because Vampyre Cosmetics is a limited liability company and
not a corporation, and this Motion is governed by Corporations Code section
17707.03(c)(6). (Motion p. 4.) In opposition, amongst other points, Plaintiff’s
chief argument is that that the motion is moot because the right to dismiss the
cause of action only goes away after the court has ruled on the motion and the
buyout appraisal proceeding has commenced but here, no order for dissolution
has been entered nor commenced.[5]

 
Effectively, the issue presented is whether
dismissal of the dissolution COA vitiates relief under Section 17077.03. For
reasons to be discussed below, the court determines that Section 17707.03
subdivision (c)(6) provides that the buy-out procedure is not affected by the
dismissal. As both
parties heavily rely upon Ontiveros v. Constable (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
259, the court will begin its analysis there. 
 
In Ontiveros
v. Constable (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 259, the plaintiff/minority shareholder
sued the majority shareholder of a corporation. In response to the
plaintiff’s involuntary dissolution COA, the defendants filed a motion to stay
proceedings and appoint appraisers under section 2000.[6]
After the trial court granted the
motion (staying the action), the plaintiff tried to dismiss the
dissolution COA via a motion for leave to file a dismissal with
prejudice (CCP section 581(e)), which the court granted; thus, effectively
terminating the procedure under section 2000. (Id. at p. 263.) The
appellate court determined that the trial court misapplied the law because “a
special proceeding under section 2000 once initiated, ‘supplants’ a cause of
action for involuntary dissolution.” (Id. at p. 264.) Alternatively
stated, “a party's right under section 2000 depends entirely on the existence
of a cause of action for involuntary dissolution of a corporation. Without such
a cause of action, a party could not bring a motion pursuant to section 2000.” (Id., at p. 271, citing Kennedy v. Kennedy (2015) 235 Cal. App. 4th 1474, 1481.)[7]
The defendants, however, claimed that Section
2000 does not give the party seeking involuntary dissolution of a corporation
the right to avoid the statutory election to purchase after the election
process has been commenced by order of the court, and in making such argument,
the defendants focused not on section 2000 but on section 17707.03. (Ontiveros,
supra, 27 Cal.App.5th at p. 272.)  
 
In turn,  Section 17707.03 applies to
limited liability companies. Notably, as relevant here, Section 17707.03
subdivision (c)(6) states: “A dismissal of any suit for judicial
dissolution by a manager, member, or members SHALL not affect the
other members' rights to avoid dissolution pursuant to this section.” (emphasis
and capitalization added.)[8] Accordingly, similar to
the argument raised by the defendants/appellants in Ontiveros, here,
Defendant Boese claims that  section 17707.03, subdivision (c)(6) prevents
Plaintiff from dismissing her involuntary dissolution COA to avoid the
appraisal and buyout procedures. (Id. at p. 273.) However, while in Ontiveros
the appellate court was not persuaded by the argument because the business
entity at issue was a corporation not a LLC (“Appellants,
undaunted by this distinction…” (ibid), the court was not silent on
the issue. (Opp. p. 3:25-26.)  
 
As observed by the Ontiveros court, “there is no analogous provision in section 2000 comparable
to section 17707.03, subdivision (c)(6).” (Ibid.) Indeed, a
comparison of the two sections (2000 an 17707.3) shows largely similar identical
language—e.g., “in any suit for
judicial dissolution” member/shareholder “may avoid the dissolution” by
“purchasing for cash” either the interest (for LLC) or the shares (for
corporation) at their “fair value” which can be determined by “three
disinterested appraisers.” Effectively, the fundamental difference
between the two is section 17707.03’s addition of the provision that
regardless of the dismissal of the dissolution COA, the right to a
buy-out is UNAFFECTED. Accordingly, whereas the Ontiveros court
declined to insert words into Section 2000 (id. at p. 274 [“Here, Appellants essentially ask us to add that
subdivision to section 2000 although the
Legislature did not do so. This is not our role.”]) considering the
recognition that the “[e]ach statute governs a different legal entity (id. at p.
274), here, this court
would be usurping legislative
intent by not adhering to the plain language of
subdivision (c)(6) of section 17707.03. 
 
Thus, as the
plain meaning of Section 17707.03 (c)(6) grants Defendant a mandatory right to
proceed with a buyout regardless of Plaintiff’s dismissal of her claims, then
Defendant’s relief is proper. 
 
To the extent
another argument is raised in opposition, Plaintiff argues that in the
“unlikely event that the Court were to order a buy-out and appraisal process
given that Plaintiff has dismissed the dissolution cause of action, it does not
necessarily entail a stay of the entire litigation” because “Defendant has made
no offer to purchase Plaintiff’s membership interests in Vampyre Cosmetics or
communicated the fair market value of Plaintiff’s interest.” (Opp. p. 5.) That
appears disputed as Defendant in Reply attaches a declaration wherein she
attests otherwise. (Reply p. 11 of 16 of PDF, See Boese Declaration, ¶5
[“Starting in 2023, I have
made repeated offers to Plaintiff to buy out her ownership interests in Vampyre
Cosmetics. These offers to Plaintiff have been made both by me
personally and through my counsels of record at the time through informal
negotiations and even mediations facilitated by third parties. The most recent offer
was made on January 16, 2024. Plaintiff has not accepted any of the offers to
date.”].) Indeed, a review of an email sent from Defendant’s prior counsel to
Plaintiff’s counsel is time stamped to January 2024, corroborating the fact
that an offer to purchase was made prior to filing the motion. 
 
To the extent
that Plaintiff argues that a stay of the entire of the proceedings would be
prejudicial (Opp. p. 7), the court is not persuaded for a few reasons. 
 
First,
dissolving the company (which was Plaintiff’s intended desired relief) is
arguably the most prejudicial outcome as there would be no company. Defendant’s
option, however, allows for the company to remain in force and effect. Thus, staying
the proceedings is not as prejudicial as dissolving the company.  
 
Second, in
Plaintiff’s FAC for involuntary dissolution, she “pray[ed] for a decree that
Vampyre be wound up and dissolved in the manner provided by law, and for such
ancillary orders and decrees as may be just and necessary to effectuate the
winding up and dissolution of Vampyre.” (FAC P125.) Consequently, as a matter
of law, to effectuate the winding up and dissolution of the company, the
court “shall stay the winding up and dissolution proceeding and shall proceed to ascertain and fix the
fair market value of the membership interests owned by the moving parties.” (Corp.
Code § 17707.03(c)(2), emphasis added.) Thus, the court must stay the dissolution
proceedings; this is not a matter of discretion.[9]

 
Third, to the
extent that Plaintiff does not dispute that the dissolution proceeding
should not be stayed, she does not advance a convincing argument as to how, practically
speaking, the litigation would proceed. 
 
Fourth, on a
related noted about judicial economy, staying the dissolution proceeding,
valuing the company, and ordering Defendant to pay the designated amount would inherently
resolve the dispute which has to do with harm to the company. After all,
Corporations Code § 17707.03(b)(5) expressly contemplates that “persistent and
pervasive fraud, mismanagement, or abuse of authority” could be among the
issues appraised, along with similar wrongdoing itemized in id. § (b)(1)-(4),
as part of the buyout proceeding under subdivision (c).” (Reply p. 7.) 
 
Thus, the
matter is stayed. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing—namely that the appraisal and buy-out process is unaffected by
Plaintiff’s dismissal of the dissolution COA before any formal order on the
dissolution COA—the motion is GRANTED, and the matters are stayed. 
 
 


