  Case Number:  24STCV15757    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, January 7, 2025
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV15757
CASE NAME:                        Mario Ortiz, by and
through his Successor-In-Interest, Marta Pacheco v. BQ Operations
Holdings LLC, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Mario Ortiz
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendants BQ Operations Holdings
LLC and Devonshire Care Center, LLC
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer to First
Amended Complaint with Motion to Strike
OPPOSITION:                        20 December 2024
REPLY:                                  30
December 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’
demurrer to the FAC is sustained with leave to amend. The motion to strike is
granted and denied in part. The motion to strike is denied as to the first and
third causes and the FAC’s request for punitive damages and granted as to the
FAC’s request for attorney’s fees. Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to amend.
The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for, and continues the Case
Management Conference to, January 29, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. Defendant to give
notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On June 24, 2024, Mario Ortiz, by and through his
Successor-In-Interest, Martha Pacheco (“Plaintiff”), filed a Complaint against BQ
Operations Holdings LLC, Devonshire Care Center, LLC dba Devonshire Care Center
(collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 40. 
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), filed October
1, 2024, alleges three causes of action: (1) Elder Abuse (Welf.
& Inst. Code, §§ 15600, et. seq), (2) Negligence/Willful
Misconduct, and (3) Violation of Residents’ Rights (Health
& Saf. Code, § 1430). 
Defendants now demurrer and move to strike the FAC.
Plaintiff opposes the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
LEGAL STANDARDS
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th
861, 872.)¿To test the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Discussion
 
            A.        First Cause of Action: Elder
Abuse/Neglect (Welf. & Inst. Code, §§ 15600, et. seq)
 
Under the Elder Abuse
Act “[a] plaintiff must prove, by clear and convincing evidence, that a defendant
is liable for either physical abuse under section 15610.63 or neglect under
section 15610.57, and that the defendant committed the abuse with
‘recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.’ ” (Winn v. Pioneer Medical
Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 156 (Winn).) 
 
“ ‘[N]eglect’ within the meaning of Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15610.57 covers an area of misconduct distinct from
‘professional negligence.’ ”¿¿(Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 783 (Covenant Care).)¿¿“As used in the [Elder Adult and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection] Act, neglect refers not to the substandard
performance of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of those
responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or
dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their
custodial obligations.’ ”¿¿(Ibid.) “Thus, the statutory definition of
‘neglect’ speaks not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the
failure to provide medical care.” (Ibid. [italics added].)
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of action on
the basis that Plaintiff’s claims are for professional negligence rather than
negligence under the Elder Abuse Act because the FAC alleges that substandard
care was provided rather than the failure to provide care.
 
In Alexander v. Scripps Memorial Hospital La
Jolla (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 206, the appellate court found that the
Plaintiff had not pled a claim for Elder Abuse because the FAC referenced
various instances of the elder receiving “extensive medical care” and the
“allegations do not constitute abuse or neglect within the meaning of the Elder
Abuse Act” even if “Plaintiffs may disagree with the frequency and quantity of
the medication, hydration, and nutrition Defendants provided to [the elder].” (Id.
at p. 224.) 
 
In Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley
LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, the elder patient was admitted for chest
pains following hip surgery and had no pressure ulcers at the time of
admission. (Id. at p. 407.) The Carter Court found that
“[n]othing is alleged about the Hospital's denial or withholding of any care or
about any injury Grant suffered during this hospitalization. Thus, no violation
of the Elder Abuse Act was stated based on this hospitalization.” (Id.,
at p. 407.) “No facts are alleged as to any care or treatment the Hospital
denied or withheld from Grant—indeed, the allegations that various conditions
were diagnosed and that Grant was able to be discharged eight days after
admission suggest the Hospital actually provided adequate treatment.” (Id.
at p. 408.) 
 
In contrast, in Avila v. Southern California
Specialty Care, Inc. (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 835, the Court of Appeal
found that a plaintiff could plead both a cause of action for elder abuse and
negligence, even if there was an overlap between the two:
 
The
complaint includes allegations that could be categorized as professional
negligence as well as elder abuse. There is at least some overlap between the
two. But the complaint was pleaded as one for “negligence/willful misconduct,”
elder abuse and neglect under the Act, and wrongful death.
 
[ . . . ] 
 
Plaintiffs,
within the limits of established law, are essentially free to plead their case
as they choose. They chose to plead a cause of action under the Act, and they
did so successfully. The fact that they could have also pleaded a claim for
medical malpractice, had they wished to do so, is irrelevant. 


(Id. at p. 483.) The Avila Court
found that the complaint adequately alleged a claim for Elder Abuse because:
“The complaint alleges a ‘conscious and continued pattern of withholding
the most basic care and services,’ which included a lack of monitoring,
supervision, assistance, and other adequate care and services. It alleges the
lack of availability of a physician, failure to provide properly trained staff
and nursing, among other things.” (Id.)
 
In Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 81, the appellate court explained that statutorily“[t]he Act
excludes liability for acts of professional negligence.” (Id. at p. 88
citing Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657.2[2].) Accordingly, Defendants’
liability for Elder Abuse cannot be premised on the same acts that could
constitute professional negligence. Moreover, the Elder Abuse allegations “must
be pled with particularity” as they invoke statutory remedies. (Covenant
Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790.)
 
                        i.          Facts in the FAC Related to
Plaintiff’s Treatment and Care
 
The FAC alleges that the Plaintiff, age 77, was
admitted to Defendant’s facility on February 13, 2024 and discharged on March
8, 2024. (FAC, ¶¶ 27, 33.) While the FAC generally alleges that Plaintiff
failed to provide medical services and care, the FAC contains various facts
showing that care was provided, albeit not at an acceptable standard. 
 
Despite Plaintiff’s pressure ulcers worsening,
Plaintiff admitted to the ER doctor that “he was not really moved” and “moved
on the bed roughly and was not given proper care,” suggesting that Defendants
provided care related to the pressure sores, but the frequency and type of care
was insufficient. (FAC. ¶ 33.) The FAC alleges that Plaintiff received speech,
physical, and occupational therapy as well as a nutritional care plan that was
later updated. (Id.  ¶¶ 28, 29,
30, 31.) The FAC alleges that the Facility ordered a wound consult and feeding
assistance, but the FAC fails to state if the care or services ordered were
provided. (Id. ¶ 29.) 
 
The FAC also alleges that the Interdisciplinary
Team (IDT) met to discuss Plaintiff’s wounds, resulting in wound care orders,
and a care plan was initiated to treat the buttock pressure ulcer injury on
March 7, 2024. (FAC, ¶ 32.) “The IDT met to discuss his wounds. Care plan
problems were developed to address the left buttock pressure injury,
perineal/perianal redness, and position preference at this time. Orders for
wound care and a low air loss mattress were entered, education was provided to
the family regarding pressure ulcer prevention/skin care, and wound care
supplies were provided.” (Ibid.)
 
The above facts support the finding that a care
plan was implemented and carried out, albeit negligently. The court agrees that
the allegations in the FAC failed to distinguish between conduct that
constituted negligence and conduct that was Elder Abuse due to failure to
provide any care. “The Estate cannot evade the limitations set forth in Covenant
Care simply by characterizing a claim based on the undertaking of medical
services as a failure to protect a patient from health or safety hazards.” (Kruthanooch
v. Glendale Adventist Medical Center (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1135.)
 
Because the Elder Abuse Act expressly excludes
acts of professional negligence, Plaintiff is required to plead specific facts
that show that Defendants failed to provide care, not that the care was
negligently provided. (See Wel. & Inst. Code, § 15657.2; Sababin, supra,
44 Cal.App.4th at p. 88.) 
 
As with
any person or entity in a caretaking or custodial role, a hospital acting as a
custodian may negligently fail to provide a patient with adequate hydration or
nutrition, fail to tend to the patient's hygiene, or fail to provide medical
care. (§ 15610.57, subd. (b)(1), (2), (4).) Such negligent failures are
consistent with the definition of neglect under the Act and the Supreme Court's
decisions and are not based on the negligent undertaking of medical
care.


(Kruthanooch, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1136 [italics original].) 
 
The court is unaware of any statute or case law
holding that the same operative facts used to support a claim for professional
negligence can support a claim for negligence under the Elder Abuse Act. Here,
the specific operative facts for each cause of action in the FAC should be
alleged under each count and not commingled under the section titled “FACTS
COMMON TO ALL ALLEGATIONS” because the facts supporting Elder Abuse
must be separate from the facts supporting a claim for professional negligence.
Plaintiff must distinguish what care and services were negligently provided and
what care and services Defendants failed to provide altogether in violation of
the Elder Abuse Act. 
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff must allege facts to show
how the failure to report a change of condition, understaffing, lack of
in-service education program and training was abuse that was committed with
“recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15657.) “Plaintiffs' general statements of recklessness are not sufficient to
survive a demurrer to their elder abuse cause of action.” (Alexander, supra,
23 Cal.App.5th at p. 223.) 
 
Lastly, the court is unpersuaded by Defendants’
argument that they did not have a caretaking and custodial relationship with
the Plaintiff when the FAC alleges that Plaintiff was transferred from the
hospital to Defendant’s Facility so that they could provide for Plaintiff’s
basic needs and to initiate medical care. (Winn, supra, 63
Cal.4th at p. 158.) The FAC alleges that Defendants owned, managed, or operated
a  24-hour care facility and had the
power to initiate medical care, including feeding assistance over the Plaintiff
who had substantive mobility issues and was unable to manage his basic needs. (FAC,
¶¶ 4, 27-33.)
 
As the facts that support Plaintiff’s claim for
Elder Abuse are ambiguous and uncertain, the demurrer to the first cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
B.        Third Cause of Action – Violation of
Residents’ Rights (Health & Saf.
Code, § 1430)
 
“A current or former
resident or patient of a skilled nursing facility . . . may bring a civil
action against the licensee of a facility who violates any rights of the
resident or patient as set forth in the Patients’ Bill of Rights in Section
72527 of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations, or any other right
provided for by federal or state law or regulation.” (Health & Saf. Code, §
1430(b).)¿¿A violation of a statute must be pled with specificity.¿¿(Fisher
v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital¿(1990) 214 Cal.App.3d 560, 604 [“facts in
support of each of the requirements of a statute upon which a cause of action
is based must be specifically pled”].
 
Defendants demur to the
third cause of action because it recites the rights that were violated without
stating facts to showing how Defendants violated the Plaintiff’s bill of
right.
“It is settled law that
a pleading must allege facts and not conclusions, and that material facts must
be alleged directly and not by way of recital.” (Ankeny v. Lockheed Missiles
and Space Co. (1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 531, 537.) 
 
While Plaintiff alleges
various facts in the FAC under the section titled “FACTS COMMON TO ALL
ALLEGATIONS”, Plaintiff fails to tie those facts to the specific
statutory violations alleged in Paragraph 113 of the FAC. For example, the
third cause of action fails to state what facts support the allegation that
Defendants failed to treat Plaintiff with respect and dignity, as required by
Title 22 CCR § 72527(a)(12).
 
While Paragraph 113 identifies some of the rights
Defendants violated, Paragraph 113 states those rights are “including, but not
limited” to the identified violations. Therefore, Paragraph 113 is not
inclusive of all alleged statutory violations. In opposition, Plaintiff states
that Paragraph 42 details all statutory violations but the FAC fails to specify
if all statutory violations recited in Paragraph 42 were all rights that
Defendants violated 
 
As the third cause of
action must be pled with specificity, Plaintiff cannot make legal conclusions
about which rights were violated and must reallege which specific facts recited
in the “FACTS COMMON TO ALL ALLEGATIONS” support each statutory
violation recited in Paragraph 113. Without specific facts in the third cause
of action, Defendants are forced to speculate about what facts and violations
support the third cause of action, meaning Defendants lack sufficient notice to
defend against the third cause of action. 
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to
strike the following the following portions from the FAC: 
 
1)    
Paragraphs 87 through 96; First Cause of Action for Elder
Abuse/Neglect, in its entirety.
2)    
Paragraphs 110 through 116; Third Cause of Action for
Violation of Patient’s Bill of Rights, and its entirety.
3)    
Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney's fees and costs pursuant to
Welfare and Institutions Code 
4)    
Plaintiff’s prayer for exemplary and punitive damages
pursuant to Civil Code §3294.
5)    
Plaintiff’s prayer for attorney's fees and costs pursuant to
Health and Safety Code § 1430(b). 
 
It is improper to strike
a whole cause of action pursuant to a motion to strike. (Quiroz v. Seventh
Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1281.)  Such challenges must be made by
demurrer.  (Id.) Accordingly, the
request to strike the first and third cause of action from the FAC is denied. 
 
As the demurrer to the
first and third causes of action has been sustained, the motion to strike
attorney’s fees and costs under Welf. & Inst. Code §15657(a) and Health and
Safety Code § 1430(b) is granted with leave to amend. 
 
Lastly, the court finds
that Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages is adequately pled. 
 
To state a claim for
punitive damages under Civ. Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts
showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud. (Smith
v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for
punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid
of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice” is defined
in Civ. Code § 3294 (c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with
a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”
“Oppression” is “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust
hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions
that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.”¿ (Shade Foods, Inc. v.
Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847,
891.)¿¿¿ 
 
When the defendant is
a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated,
authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of
the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Company (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, § 3294(b).) The FAC alleges that
the Director of Nursing (“DON”) is a managing agent of the Facility and carried
out duties and functions that “inextricably impact the operations of the
facility thereby affecting corporate policy.” (FAC, ¶  25, 77.) 
 
The FAC alleges the DON
was aware that Plaintiff’s pressure sore injuries were worsening but failed to
address or remedy the substandard care despite knowing that the pressure sore
presented “a life-threatening and potentially fatal risk to the health, safety,
and well-being of an elderly and infirm patient such as Mr. ORTIZ.” (FAC, ¶¶
32, 76.) Because nothing was done about Plaintiff’s injuries, Plaintiff “passed
away after spending the remainder of his life enduring needless pain and
suffering from the injuries alleged herein.” (Id. ¶ 40.) The DON acted
with malice, fraud, and oppression by failing to properly manage the Facility
to provide adequate care to patients, failing to comply with local, state, and
federal laws, and failing to review, evaluate, and update Plaintiff’s care plan
and assess risk factors. (Id. ¶ 77.) 
 
Based on the above, the
motion to strike the FAC’s request for punitive damages is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’
demurrer to the FAC is sustained with leave to amend. The motion to strike is 
granted and denied in part. The motion to
strike is denied as to the first and third causes and the 
FAC’s request for punitive damages and
granted as to the FAC’s request for attorney’s fees. 
Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to
amend. The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint for 
for, and continues the Case Management
Conference to, January 29, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. 
Defendant to give notice.
                                                                                                                        
 


