  Case Number:  23STCV11871    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  11 Stern (23STCV11871)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Supplemental Briefs Re: Motion to Compel
Arbitration
 
Date:                           2/22/24
Time:                          1:45
pm
Moving Party:           Hyundai Motor America (“HMA”) and
Hyundai Capital America, Inc. (“HCA”) (collectively “Defendants” or “Petitioners”)
Opposing Party:        Andrew Stern (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11        
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is denied without prejudice.
 
BACKGROUND
 
The instant case is a putative class action.
 
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative complaint,
which alleges the following:
 
9. On or about
December 19, 2019, Plaintiff leased a 2020 Hyundai Tucson, VIN
KM8J23A48LU145815 (“Vehicle”) from KEYES, one of HYUNDAI’s authorized
dealerships, for a lease term of three (3) years (“Lease Term”). 
 
10. Plaintiff, like
others similarly situated, entered into a California Motor Vehicle Lease
Agreement ("Lease Agreement") with FINANCE and KEYES for the Vehicle,
with the option to purchase the Vehicle. A true and correct copy of said Lease
Agreement is attached hereto, marked Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by
reference. 
 
11. The Lease
Agreement was set to expire on December 18, 2022, and Plaintiff was in
discussions about purchasing the Vehicle with KEYES's sales manager in July
2022. 
 
12. As of July 2022,
the Vehicle, driven for almost three years under the Lease Agreement, had
around 11,000 miles, and its buy-out price was approximately $17,000.00
("Residual Value"). 
 
13. The Vehicle was
stolen on August 4, 2022, and while later recovered, it was deemed a
"total loss" by Plaintiff's insurance company, Farmers Insurance
("Farmers"). 
 
14. On or about
September 15, 2022, Plaintiff was informed by Farmers that the Vehicle's
pay-off figure obtained from HYUNDAI was $24,905.00, exceeding the Residual
Value owed by Plaintiff. 
 
15. Farmers' letter
further indicated that, after deductions, Plaintiff was entitled to $2,613.65
as net insurance claim proceeds. 
 
16. FINANCE's
assertion of a $24,905.00 pay-off strayed from the agreed-upon Residual Value
in the Lease Agreement. Instead, this claim was based on Section 25 of the
Lease Agreement, which entitled HYUNDAI to the “reasonable market value” -
rather than the contractual “Residual Value” - of the Vehicle once declared a
total loss. This interpretation has fundamentally altered the calculations and
expected payments within the Lease Agreement. 
 
17. Meanwhile,
Section 23 of the Lease Agreement grants to the Plaintiff the right to purchase
the Vehicle at any time before the lease term ends, provided no default has
occurred, but it makes absolutely no reference to Section 25. The default
referenced in Section 23 pertains to the requirements sets forth in Section 9,
which were not applicable to Plaintiff. 
 
18. At the time of
signing the Lease Agreement, Plaintiff asked to see the key deal terms
including the purchase options and the finance manager at the time pointed
Plaintiff to Section 9 and Section 23 of the Lease Agreement which identified
Plaintiff's purchase options. Plaintiff read Section 9 and Section 23 and
because there were absolutely no references to any language or sections within
the Lease Agreement to suggest that this absolute right to purchase the Vehicle
is taken away if the Vehicle is stolen or is damaged beyond repair, Plaintiff
had no reason to believe that his rights could be affected in other parts of
the Lease Agreement.
 
19. Plaintiff
challenges the validity of Section 25 of the Lease Agreement, given its direct
contradiction with Section 23. Amid the high-pressure nature of vehicle lease
negotiations at a dealership, and the influx of additional offerings such as
service contracts and maintenance packages, consumers such as the Plaintiff
reasonably concentrate their attention on sections that explicitly delineate
important deal terms, including but not limited to monthly payments, down
payment amount, purchase options, and mileage limits. The expectation or
feasibility of consumers scrutinizing every fine print of every page in every
document during this process is unrealistic. 
 
20. The Plaintiff
had no grounds to expect that significant constrains to his purchase rights
might be obscurely nestled in non-cross-referenced sections of the Lease
Agreement. The conspicuous absence of any cross-reference to Section 25,
despite the presence of such references among Sections 4, 9, 22, 23, and 24
within Section 23, accentuates the apparent inconsistency and purported
unfairness of Section 25. 
 
21. This lack of
explicit cross-reference potentially leaves consumers unaware of restrictions
on their purchase rights. This omission is purportedly and strategically
designed to provide an “illusion of absolute purchase rights” subject to the
Residual Value, despite the reality that conditions in Section 25 could
drastically alter these rights. 
 
22. It is well
understood that even a vehicle deemed a total loss by an insurance carrier -
typically based on the cost of repairs exceeding a set percentage of the
vehicle's value - still retains a salvage value. Significantly, there is no
language in Sections 9 or 23 of the Lease Agreement indicating that a
consumer's right to purchase is limited to non-salvage vehicles. This is
crucial as the Plaintiff, had the right to purchase his salvage vehicle been
upheld, could have received over $7,000 from the insurance proceeds. Despite
the Residual Value being around $17,000 to purchase the Vehicle during the
lease term, FINANCE received $24,905 from Farmers. The Plaintiff alleges that
this considerable sum was secured at his expense, asserting that his purchase
rights under the lease were abruptly and unfairly nullified under Section 25,
with the additional $7,000 being appropriated by FINANCE. 
 
23. Moreover, after
FINANCE received $24,905.00 for the Vehicle's "pay-off," HYUNDAI
billed the Plaintiff an additional $510.30 ("Additional Pay-off
Amount"). 
 
24. Upon inquiry,
the Plaintiff was informed that the $510.30 was the discrepancy between the
$1,000 deductible and credits owed to Plaintiff by HYUNDAI.
 
25. Nonetheless, on
August 31, 2022, HYUNDAI, indicating the Vehicle's pay-off as $24,905.00,
promised to "release and transfer all of its right, title and interest in
and to the Vehicle" to Farmers Insurance in consideration of said amount. 
 
26. Despite
receiving the requested $24,905.00, HYUNDAI continues to demand the Additional
Payoff Amount from the Plaintiff, threatening legal action and negative credit
reporting, which could adversely impact the Plaintiff's credit rating. 
 
27. As a result of
HYUNDAI's actions and omissions, the Plaintiff has suffered various damages,
including financial loss, decreased credit rating, and significant emotional
distress, such as stress, aggravation, frustration, loss of trust, loss of
serenity, and reduced confidence in engaging with car manufacturers and
dealerships.
 
(Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶
9-27, capitalizing in original.)
 
On January 18, 2024, Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration came on for hearing.  The Court ended up continuing the matter for
supplemental briefing.
 
Now, the Court considers the
supplemental briefs.
 
DISCUSSION
 
At the last hearing, Plaintiff “assert[ed] that the arbitration provision is a ‘distinct
standalone document executed only with the dealership’ and that it does not
apply to Defendants since the lease agreement fails to incorporate it.”  (Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration, p.
6.)
 
In
response, “[t]he Court continue[d] the hearing[,]” stating:
 
Although the arbitration provision covers disputes with “employees,
agents, successors or assigns,” it does not mention Defendants.  [Citation.] 
Although HCA’s manager declares that HCA and Hyundai Lease Titling Trust
[(“HLTT”)] constitute assigns, he fails to discuss HMA.  [Citation.] 
And although the lease agreement states that “EXHIBIT A IS INCORPORATED
BY REFERENCE AS IF SET FORTH HEREIN[,]” it does not define what Exhibit A is,
and there is no Exhibit A attached to it. 
[Citation.]  Moreover, the arbitration
provision fails to identify itself as Exhibit A.  [Citation.] 
Are Defendants assigns within the meaning of the provision?  Is the provision Exhibit A?  Does the lease agreement incorporate it?  These questions need to be answered before
the Court can find that an agreement to arbitrate exists, so the parties should
submit supplemental briefs.
 
(Ibid.)
 
Exhibit A
and Incorporation
 
The incorporation issue is
undisputed.  The parties agree that
Exhibit A is not the arbitration provision and that the lease does not
incorporate the arbitration provision by reference.  (See Defendants’ Supp. Brief, pp. 1, 3; see
also Plaintiff’s Supp. Brief, pp. 1-4.) 
 
Defendants and Assignment
 
Defendants claim the motion to
compel does not depend on incorporation. 
They assert that the motion is “made on entirely distinct and separate
grounds.”  (Defendants’ Supp. Brief, p.
3.)  As the Court intimated last time,
the arbitration provision’s express terms permit enforcement by the
dealership’s assigns.  Defendants contend
they have a right to enforce the arbitration provision as nonsignatories
because:
 
* the dealership assigned the
lease to HLTT; 
 
* HCA is HLTT’s attorney-in-fact
regarding the lease; and
 
* the claims against HMA are
inextricably intertwined with the claims against HCA.  (See id. at pp. 2, 4-6.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees.  She contends the motion should be denied
because the arbitration provision is a separate agreement, and Defendants fail
to show that the dealership assigned the arbitration provision in addition to
the lease.  (See Plaintiff’s Supp. Brief,
pp. 2-4.)
 
Nonsignatories are entitled to
compel arbitration in some circumstances. 
For example, “[a]n assignee of a contract containing an arbitration
clause has standing to compel other parties to the contract to arbitrate
claims against the assignee.”  (Knight,
et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution (The Rutter Group
December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:266.7, emphasis added.)  Also, for example, “[u]nder the equitable
estoppel doctrine, a party to an arbitration agreement may be required to
arbitrate with a nonparty.”  (Id. at ¶
5:266.15.)  “A nonsignatory may enforce
an arbitration clause on grounds of equitable estoppel only when the claims
against the nonsignatory are ‘dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably
intertwined with,’ the obligations imposed by the agreement containing the
arbitration clause.”  (Ibid.,
emphasis in original.)  But “[w]hen the
nonsignatory’s claims are not founded on and so intertwined with the
contracting parties’ agreement containing an arbitration provision, a
nonparty cannot invoke the arbitration provision to compel a party to the
contract to arbitrate with the nonparty.” 
(Id. at ¶ 5:266.19, emphasis added.)
 
Given these rules, the Court
agrees with Plaintiff.  Defendants cite
the declaration of Nayeli Saldivar, HCA’s manager.  Paragraph 14 discusses the assignment: 
 
Subsequent to the
execution of the Lease and Arbitration Provision, Keyes Hyundai assigned the Lease
to HLTT, which holds title as the legal owner of the lessor’s rights under the
Lease of the Vehicle.  
 
(Saldivar Decl., ¶ 14, emphasis
added.)  Significantly, the plain
language only affirms assignment of the lease. 
Again, the parties agree that the arbitration provision is not an
exhibit to the lease and is not incorporated by reference.  In effect, they agree that the lease does
not contain an arbitration clause and that the arbitration provision is an independent
agreement.  Thus, Defendants
cannot enforce the arbitration provision – and their motion must be denied –
because: 
 
* assigning the lease, alone, was
inadequate to assign the arbitration provision;
 
* Defendants do not qualify as
assigns under the arbitration provision; and
 
* Plaintiff’s claims against
Defendants, which concern the lease, are not founded on or intertwined with the
arbitration provision.
 
Defendants’ reliance on Metalclad
Corp. v. Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 1705 does not change the result.  Unlike here, where the arbitration provision
is separate from the lease and was not assigned, the claims in Metalclad
involved breach of and interference with a contract that contained an
arbitration clause.  (See Metalclad,
supra, 109 Cal.App.4th at 1710, 1717-1718.) 
 
The Court is denying the motion
without prejudice.  Defendants are free to
file a renewed motion to compel if they find evidence showing that the
dealership assigned the arbitration provision to HLTT or HCA.
 
 