 Case Number:  22AHCV00356    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  X Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted and Order to Show Cause Hearing
 
Order to Show Cause Hearing re: Striking Defendant Mile High’s
Answer and Cross-Complaint
 
The Court notes that a substitution of attorney has been
filed as to Defendant Mile High Cure Corp.  However, no substitution of attorney has been
filed on behalf of Cross-Complainant Mile High Cure Corp.  In the absence of any such substitution filed
prior to the OSC hearing, the latter will remain on calendar.
 
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted; Request for Sanctions
 
Plaintiff moves for an order that the truth of the matters specified in
the requests for admission be deemed admitted against Defendant Mile High.  As responses have been provided, the Motion is
denied as moot.  However, sanctions are
granted in the amount of $598.50.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.280, subdivision (b), provides that if a party fails to
respond to a request for admission, “[t]he requesting party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted”. 
Unless the court determines that the responding party “has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220, it must
order the RFAs deemed admitted… But a responding party’s service, prior to the
hearing on the ‘deemed admitted’ motion, of substantially compliant responses,
will defeat a propounding party’s attempt under section 2033.280 to have the
RFAs deemed admitted.”  (St. Mary v.
Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 775–776, citations and footnote
omitted.)
 
Plaintiff served its first set of requests for
admissions on December 6, 2023, which were due January 8, 2024 (Liberzon Decl.,
¶ 4, Exh. 1).  Plaintiff
provided at least three extensions to Mile High.  (Liberzon Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.)  Plaintiff provides that Mile High failed to
produce any responses as of the filing of this motion (August 27, 2024).  (Liberzon Decl., ¶ 7.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant Mile
High provides it served objection-free responses on October 7, 2024.  (Murrin Decl., ¶ 4.)  Because Defendant has served responses prior
to the hearing on this motion, Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted is denied as
moot.
 
Due to the necessity in having
to file the instant motion to secure responses, Plaintiff’s request for
sanctions in the amount of $598.50 is granted. 
Sanctions are payable by Defendant Mile High to Plaintiff’s counsel and
due within 30 days of mailing of a notice of ruling.
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.