

 
BACKGROUND
            Plaintiff
was employed by Defendants Carrie Forbes, Inc. and Carrie Forbes as a
bookkeeper from October 21, 2019 until February 20, 2020.  Plaintiff alleges during her employ
Defendants committed multiple Labor Code violations, including depriving her of
meal and rest breaks, failing to pay her overtime, failing to pay her proper
wages and failure to provide itemized wage statements.  Plaintiff alleges that when she was
terminated, Defendant Forbes also assaulted and battered her.  
 
            Plaintiff
filed this action on March 5, 2020.  The
action was assigned to Department 28, the Hon. Rupert A. Byrdsong.  The operative complaint is the Second Amended
Complaint filed on October 26, 2020, alleging (1) failure to pay wages; (2)
failure to provide rest periods; (3) failure to pay minimum wage; (4) failure
to pay overtime wages; (5) failure to pay wages due upon termination: waiting
time penalties; (6) failure to issue accurate itemized wage statements; (7)
unlawful/unfair business practice; (8) retaliation; (9) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy; (10) assault and battery; (11) failure to
reimburse/indemnify; and (12) intentional infliction of emotional distress.
            
            On September
20, 2022, Defendants filed a motion for summary adjudication of the 8th
cause of action for retaliation under Labor Code §§98.6 and 1102.5, 9th
cause of action for wrongful termination and 10th cause of action
for assault and battery of the Second Amended Complaint. 
 
            On February
22, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication,
adjudicating the 8th through 10th causes of action of the
Second Amended Complaint.  
 
            On July 12,
2023, Plaintiff filed a request for voluntary dismissal of the 12th
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress.  
 
            On August
8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to reclassify the action on grounds that the
damages fell below the jurisdictional amount of Department 28, an unlimited
department.  
 
            On August
18, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to reclassify.  The action was reassigned from Department 28
to this Court.  
 
            On October
16, 2023 and October 27, 2023, the parties filed a joint stipulation foregoing
the trial date while the parties attempted to informally resolve the issues
remaining after Defendants’ successful motion for summary adjudication of the 8th
cause of action for retaliation under Labor Code §§98.6 and 1102.5, 9th
cause of action for wrongful termination and 10th cause of action
for assault and battery of the Second Amended Complaint and dismissal of the 12th
cause of action for IIED.  
 
            On November
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for attorney’s fees.  On November 21, 2023, Defendants filed an
opposition to the motion for attorney’s fees. 
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a late reply to Defendant’s
opposition. 
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an award of attorney’s
fees in the amount of $316,638 based on 335.2 attorney hours.  Plaintiff argues she undisputedly prevailed
on the remaining Labor Code claims, as acknowledged by the parties in their
stipulation filed on October 16 and October 27, 2023.  Plaintiff argues parties stipulated that they
would forego the trial date and move directly for attorney’s fees and
costs.  Plaintiff seeks the fees and
costs pursuant to CCP §1033.5, Labor Code §§218, 1194.2 and 2802 and the parties’
stipulation.  Plaintiff argues the
requested fees are reasonable given the nature of the litigation and the degree
to which it was hotly disputed. 
Plaintiff asks that the Court also apply a multiplier of 2.0, because
Defendants made constant veiled threats of malicious prosecution and the legal
issues were complex.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Defendants
argue the wage and hour claims that are remaining were resolved four months
from when the action was filed. 
Defendants argue they tendered payment to Plaintiff on July 20, 2020, to
resolve all of Plaintiff’s claims for unpaid wages and waiting time
penalties.  Defendants argue they
resolved the remaining claims two and a half years before the Court adjudicated
Plaintiff’s 8th through 10th causes of action.  Defendants argue the parties acknowledged in
their stipulation that nothing was left to be litigated other than Plaintiff’s
attorney’s fees.  Defendants argue the
purpose of the stipulation was for the parties to try and resolve the
attorney’s fees issue informally.  
 
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff served them with a request for attorney’s fees in an amount
exceeding $200,000 on November 1, 2023. 
Defendants argue Plaintiff did not attempt to engage in meaningful
settlement discussions and filed this motion for fees only five days
later.  
 
            Defendants
argue the amount of fees requested is unreasonable given that she did not
prevail on any causes of action remaining after Defendants’ tendered payment
for the wage and hour claims.  Defendants
argue Plaintiff’s requests fees for litigation of the entire action.  Defendants argue Plaintiff is only entitled
to recover fees in connection with the wage and hour claims, which were
resolved within four months of this action being filed.  
 
            Defendants
argue the hourly rate of Plaintiff’s counsel is unreasonable.  Defendants ask that the Court reduce the
rates if it is inclined to grant the motion. 

 
            Defendants
argue the wage and hour claims were not complex and the law is settled on
them.  Defendants argue the work
performed by counsel was not extraordinary. 

 
            Defendants
argue the fees claimed are incongruent with the amount of time and effort
expended on the wage and hour claims, which were fully resolved when Defendants
tendered $6,748.47 to Plaintiff four months after the action was filed.  
 
            Defendants
argue the number of hours claimed by Plaintiff is unreasonable.  Defendants argue the hours claimed were not
reasonably spent on wage and hour claims that were resolved four months into
the action.  
 
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff should have apportioned the attorney’s fees between the wage
and hour claims and the remaining claims. 
Defendants argue Plaintiff fails to demonstrate that she prevailed on
the non-wage and hour claims or that the wage and hour claims were so
intertwined with the non-wage and hour claims that apportionment is
impossible.  For this reason, Defendants
ask that the Court apply a negative multiplier and reduce the fees. 
 
REPLY
 
            Plaintiff
disagrees that her wage and hour claims are resolved. Plaintiff argues Defendant
has served her with a notice of deposition relating to these allegedly resolved
claims.  Plaintiff argues Defendant is
continuing to litigate claims it is claiming were resolved.  Plaintiff argues the parties have stipulated
to bring this motion for fees and any assertion otherwise is contradicted by
the stipulation.  Plaintiff argues the
requested fees are reasonable, because the wage and hour issues are not
rudimentary but are novel and complex.  Plaintiff
argues Plaintiff’s counsel litigated this action with more skill than that of
reasonably diligent counsel.  Plaintiff
argues the fees are reasonable as Defendants concede there are issues remaining
to be litigated.  Plaintiff argues
apportionment is not appropriate, because there are remaining issues.  Plaintiff argues the Court should apply a
positive multiplier in light of the circumstances.  Plaintiff argues the Court should allow all
costs due to Defendants’ failure to contest the costs memo.  
            
ANALYSIS
 
            The remaining claims in
the operative Second Amended Complaint are as follows:  (1) failure to pay wages (Labor Code §§
201-202, 218, 218.5, 1194, 1194.2, 1197.1); (2) failure to provide rest periods
(LC § 226.7, § 512, and IWC Wage Orders); (3) failure to pay minimum wage (Labor
Code § 1194 et seq.); (4) failure to pay minimum wage (Labor Code §§ 1194 and
1194.2 et seq); (5) failure to pay wages due upon termination: waiting time
penalties (Labor Code §§ 201, 202, 203); (6) failure to issue accurate itemized
wage statements (Labor Code §226, 226.3); (7) unlawful/unfair business practice
(B&PC 17200) and (11) failure to reimburse and indemnify.  
 
            The Court
denies Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees for the following procedural and
substantive reasons:
 
(1)  Motion
premature.  “Attorney's fees
allowable as costs pursuant to subparagraph (B) of paragraph (10) of
subdivision (a) may be fixed as follows: (i) upon a noticed motion, (ii) at
the time a statement of decision is rendered, (iii) upon application
supported by affidavit made concurrently with a claim for other costs, or (iv)
upon entry of default judgment. Attorney's fees allowable as costs pursuant to
subparagraph (A) or (C) of paragraph (10) of subdivision (a) shall be fixed
either upon a noticed motion or upon entry of a default judgment, unless
otherwise provided by stipulation of the parties.”  No judgment has been entered in this action,
nor has a statement of decision resolving this action been entered.    
 
When “prevailing party” status or the “reasonableness” of
attorney fees requested must be determined by the trial court, a notice of motion
claiming fees for services up to and including rendition of the trial court
judgment must be served and filed within the time for filing a notice of appeal
(CRC 8.104, 8.108; CRC 3.1702(b)(1); P R Burke Corp. v. Victor Valley
Wastewater Reclamation Auth. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1047 (motion “almost
always” filed after entry of judgment because until then “there is technically
no prevailing party” and “parties may still incur additional fees”).)  
 
The motion seeks recovery of prejudgment attorney’s
fees as an element of costs pursuant to CCP §1033.5(a)(10)(A)(contract) and
(B)(statutory attorney’s fees).  No
judgment has yet been entered.  
 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s own briefing concedes that only the
wage and hour claims have been resolved and that “[t]here are still the
remaining issues of rest break violations, failure to reimburse, and liquidated
damages, which are being resolved by stipulation so Plaintiff can move
for attorney’s fees.”  (Motion,
3:9-11.)  On reply, Plaintiff goes so far
as to dispute the stipulate fact in the preambles of the Stipulation that the
wage and hour claims were resolved by Defendant’s payments at the outset of the
action.  The motion for prejudgment
attorney’s fees is premature given that not all issues have been resolved in
this action. 
 
(2)  No stipulation
to have attorney’s fees resolved prejudgment by motion.  Plaintiff argues the parties stipulated
that a motion for attorney’s fees would be heard if they reached an impasse in
their efforts to informally settle the matter. 
The Joint Stipulation filed on October 17 and October 26, 2023 only
stipulates to “forego the trial date.”  (Plaintiff’s
Appendix of Exhibits, Ex. 7.)  The Joint
Stipulation does not contain a formal agreement allowing a motion for
prejudgment attorney’s fees to be heard before judgment is entered or before final
resolution of this action in one form or another.  
 
Moreover, the mere fact that parties stipulated to having a
premature motion for fees to be heard does not entitle them to have it
heard.  The Court never issued an order
approving a premature motion for fees for hearing.  
 
However, in the preamble/background, parties indicate that
“if the Parties reach an impasse as to the matter of Plaintiff’s reasonable
wage and hour attorney’s fees and other damages, the Parties expressly reserve
all rights related to this matter and the Plaintiff may move this Court for
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.”  (Plaintiff’s
Appendix of Exhibits, Ex. 7.)  Even if
this preamble were considered an agreement, Plaintiff submits no evidence that
the parties reached an “impasse” after attempting to settle the remaining
issues.
 
(3)  Failure to
identify causes of action on which Plaintiff prevailed.  Plaintiff fails to establish that she is
prevailing party on specifically identified claims.  Plaintiff alleges (1) failure to pay wages
(Labor Code §§ 201-202, 218, 218.5, 1194, 1194.2, 1197.1); (2) failure to
provide rest periods (LC § 226.7, § 512, and IWC Wage Orders); (3) failure to
pay minimum wage (Labor Code § 1194 et seq.); (4) failure to pay minimum wage (Labor
Code §§ 1194 and 1194.2 et seq); (5) failure to pay wages due upon termination:
waiting time penalties (Labor Code §§ 201, 202, 203); and (6) failure to issue
accurate itemized wage statements (Labor Code §226, 226.3).   
 
Plaintiff fails to identify which of these specific Labor
Code causes of action she is claiming attorney fees for as prevailing
party.  Plaintiff indicates Defendants
are liable for fees and costs pursuant to Labor Code violations, “unpaid wages
(Labor Code § 218), liquidated damages (Labor Code § 1194.2), unpaid overtime,
(Labor Code 1194.2), and failure to reimburse for business expenses (Labor Code
§ 2802).”  (Motion, 3:7-9).  Plaintiff must identify which of the specific
causes of action she believes she prevailed on and the specific code section that
entitles her to that fees as to that cause of action.  
 
This is particularly important given that Plaintiff admits
there are still outstanding issues to be litigated and she was the losing party
on the 8th through 10th causes of action and she
voluntarily dismissed the 12th cause of action.  In light of these facts, apportionment of
fees among those causes of action she failed on and those she prevailed on
would be appropriate and necessary. 
Plaintiff fails to establish that litigation of her Labor Code violation
claims overlapped with the litigation of the 8th through 10th
and 12th causes of action.  
 
(4)  Fee Request
Patently Unreasonable and Grossly Inflated. 
The trial court has broad discretion to determine what constitutes a
reasonable fee.    (PLCM Group, Inc.,
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.)  “The
trial court makes its determination after consideration of a number of factors,
including the nature of the litigation, its difficulty, the amount involved,
the skill required in its handling, the skill employed, the attention given,
the success or failure, and other circumstances in the case.”  (Melnyk v. Robledo (1976) 64
Cal.App.3d 618, 623-624.)  If the Court
reduces the requested attorney fees as unreasonable, it is not obligated to
justify its decision by identifying specific time entries with which it finds
fault.  (Id. at 625.)  To require otherwise would be inconsistent
with the general rule that the trial court is entitled to take all
circumstances into account when determining the reasonableness of attorney
fees.  (Id.)  The trial court is therefore not bound by an
attorney's evidence in support of his fees. 
(Vella v. Hudgins (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 515, 524.)
 
Fee setting ordinarily begins with the "lodestar,"
a touchstone figure based on the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied
by the reasonable hourly rate.  (PLCM
Group, Inc., supra, 22 Cal.4th at 1095 (lodestar "presumably
reasonable" method for calculating fees).) 
Under this approach, a base amount is calculated from a compilation of
time reasonably spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each attorney.  The base amount is then adjusted in light of
various factors.  (Serrano v. Priest
('Serrano III') (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 48.) 
The lodestar method vests the court with discretion to decide which of
the hours expended by the attorneys were reasonably spent on the
litigation.  (Hammond v. Agran
(2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 115, 133.)  An
award of fees may include not only the fees incurred with respect to the
underlying claim but also fees incurred to establish and defend a fee claim.  (Serrano v. Priest ('Serrano IV ')
(1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 639.)   
 
“Inflated fee requests constitute a special circumstance…[¶]  If ... the Court were required to award a
reasonable fee when an outrageously unreasonable one has been asked for,
claimants would be encouraged to make unreasonable demands, knowing that the
only unfavorable consequence of such misconduct would be reduction of their fee
to what they should have asked in the first place. To discourage such greed, a
severer reaction is needful.”  (Christian
Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321-1322.)  
 
“[A]ttorney fees may be awarded only for hours reasonably
spent, thus discouraging unnecessary or frivolous litigation.  Prevailing parties are compensated for hours
reasonably spent on fee-related issues. A fee request that appears unreasonably
inflated is a special circumstance permitting the trial court to reduce the
award or deny one altogether.”  (Ketchum
v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1137.)  
 
Assuming Plaintiff is seeking to recover fees in connection
with her Labor Code claims, Plaintiff’s requested fees are patently
unreasonable.  The bulk of litigation in
this action involved the 8th through 10th causes of
action, which Defendants successfully summarily adjudicated.  Plaintiff is asking for over $200,000 in fees
based on wage and hour claims that were either not litigated or were barely
litigated in this action.  
 
In fact, according to the Joint Stipulation’s preambles,
Defendants “tendered payments in the amounts of $567.43 on February 21, 2020
and $6,748.47 on July 20, 2020” and these payments “resolved the disputes
surviving Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication.”[1]  If in fact this is the case, expending over
$200,000 in connection with wage and hour claims that were resolved four months
into the litigation is unreasonable.
 
Plaintiff is seeking an award of $316,638 for claims that
purportedly yielded payment of $7,315.90 from Defendants.  “For a century or more, California courts
have considered the success or failure of attorney efforts when evaluating
attorney fee requests.  The size of a
judgment is pertinent to rational evaluation of a requested fee. Rational
decisionmaking weighs benefits and costs. The judgment measures the dollar
benefit of the litigation. The attorney fee is the cost of obtaining that
benefit.”  (Karton v. Ari Design &
Construction, Inc. (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 734, 746–747.)  Given the benefit received, Plaintiff’s
request for fees approximately 43 times the amount recovered is patently
unreasonable.  
 
(5)  Plaintiff must
apportion her fees among the wage and hour claims she purportedly prevailed on
and the remaining claims.  Plaintiff contends
all of her fees are recoverable, because her wrongful termination, assault and
battery and retaliation claims were inextricably intertwined with her wage and
hour claims.  Even if that were the case,
her wage and labor claims were resolved by July 20, 2020.  Any further litigation on the 8th
through 12th causes of action are not attributable to the wage and
hour claims, because those claims were already resolved by July 20, 2020.  Based on the statements in the parties’ Joint
Stipulation, Plaintiff’s litigation after July 20, 2020 would have been
directed solely at the 8th through 12th causes of
action.  As Defendants argue, these facts
require that Plaintiff apportion fees amongst her wage and hour claims and all
other claims.  A reasonable fee would
only include those fees attributable to litigation of the wage and hour
claims.  
 
Plaintiff argues on reply that apportionment is
inappropriate given that there are issues still being litigated.  The Court agrees that apportionment is
impractical because issues are still being litigated.  However, that does not make apportionment
improper.  The inability to apportion due
to unresolved issues in this litigation merely confirms that the motion is
premature.  
 
(6)  Propriety of
Plaintiff’s November 6, 2023 Memorandum of Costs.  The Court declines to address the propriety
of Plaintiff’s November 6, 2023 Memorandum of Costs and Defendants’ right to
file a motion to tax or strike those costs. 
Those specific issues were not raised or briefed in this motion for
attorney’s fees.  
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.  
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
  


