

 
BACKGROUND
 
            On
September 7, 2023, Petitioner State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company
filed this Petition for Superior Court Case Number for the Purpose of Filing
Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections. 
Petitioner asks that the Court relieve it from waiver of objections to
discovery propounded by Respondent in an Underinsured Motorist’s Arbitration
pending between them.  
 
MOVING PARTY’S
POSITION 
 
            Petitioner
State Farm petitions for relief from waiver of objections to Respondents’
written discovery propounded in the pending Uninsured Motorist’s Arbitration
between the parties.  Petitioner argues
the discovery requests were improperly served by electronic mail, Petitioner
did not have counsel at the time and any failure to respond and waiver of
objections was due to excusable neglect, mistake and inadvertence.  
 
            Petitioner
argues it did not realize there were outstanding discovery requests that were
concurrently served with Respondents’ demand for arbitration.  Petitioner did not realize there were
outstanding discovery requests until it was assigned counsel and counsel
discovered them in late August 2023. 
Petitioner served full and complete verified responses on September 8,
2023.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Respondent
argues Petitioner failed to serve responses that substantially complied with Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.210-2030.240, 2031.210-2031.240, 2031.280.  Respondent argues Petitioner failed to answer
the substance of the discovery in many instances and instead stated it did not
have the information to respond. 
Respondent argues Petitioner’s claim of excusable neglect and mistake
are unsupported by the facts.  Respondent
argues it contacted the claims agent multiple times regarding the discovery
requests before the deadline to respond expired.  Respondent argues the discovery was also
properly served by electronic service. 
Respondent argues Petitioner itself has served discovery on Respondents
electronically.
 
REPLY
 
            Petitioner argues the rules requiring that parties accept
electronic service where documents must be filed with the court electronically
does not apply to self-represented parties. 
Petitioner argues that it was not represented at the time that the
discovery requests were served.  As such,
Petitioner argues personal service was therefore required.  
 
            Petitioner argues its responses also
substantially complied with Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.210-2030.240,
2031.210-2031.240, 2031.280.  Petitioner
argues its statements of inability to respond for lack of knowledge complied
with statutory requirements.  Petitioner
argues it establishes excusable neglect and reasonable mistake.  Petitioner agues its claims agent overlooked
the discovery, because he was focused on the demand for UM arbitration.  Petitioner argues the discovery served was
served before a demand for arbitration was ever accepted.  Petitioner argues ordinarily a demand for
arbitration is served, the respondent accepts the demand and engages in
discovery after counsel is assigned to the matter.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
            Pursuant to
Insurance Code §11580.2(f), an uninsured motorist arbitration “shall be deemed
to be a proceeding and the hearing before the arbitrator shall be deemed to be
the trial of an issue therein for purposes of issuance of a subpoena by an
attorney of a party to the arbitration under Section 1985 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. Title 4 (commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of
Civil Procedure shall be applicable to these determinations, and all rights,
remedies, obligations, liabilities and procedures set forth in Title 4
(commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure
shall be available to both the insured and the insurer at any time after the
accident, both before and after the commencement of arbitration….”  Discovery disputes in an uninsured motorist
arbitration petition are resolved by the trial court, not the arbitrator. (Ins. Code, § 11580.2, subd. (f); State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company v. Robinson (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 276, 282.)
 
            On
July 20, 2023, Respondent served Petitioner with (1) a Demand for Uninsured
Motorist Arbitration and (2) form interrogatories, special interrogatories,
requests for admission and requests for production of documents. (Respondent’s
Opposition, Hakakian Dec., ¶2.)  At the
time there was no arbitration pending.  Petitioner
argues its failure to respond to the discovery was caused in part by how “unusual”
it is for a claimant to serve discovery with the demand for arbitration, as
opposed to serving the discovery after the insurer accepts the demand and
arbitration is ongoing.  
 
            Petitioner’s
oversight in responding to the discovery on grounds of this “unusual” sequence was
entirely reasonable.  In fact,
Respondent’s right to serve discovery with the demand for arbitration is
questionable.  Pursuant to Insurance Code
§11580.2(f), “all rights, remedies, obligations, liabilities and procedures set
forth in Title 4 (commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of
Civil Procedure shall be available to both the insured and insurer at any time
after the accident, both before and after the commencement of arbitration…”  Among the rights and obligations included in
CCP §2016.010, et seq. is a hold on all discovery until 10 days or 20 days after
the responding party/defendant has made an appearance, depending on the
discovery served.  (CCP §§ 2025.210(b)
& 2025.270(b), (d) (depositions), § 2030.020(b), (c), (d)
(interrogatories), § 2031.020(b), (c), (d) (demands for documents, etc.), §
2033.020(b), (c), (d) (requests for admission).)  ‘
 
            In
light of the 10-day or 20-day hold ordinarily applied to discovery in civil
actions and arguably incorporated into UM arbitrations pursuant to Insurance
Code §11580.2(f), Respondents’ discovery was improper and prematurely
served.  Petitioner was not required to
respond to it.  As such, Petitioner’s
failure to respond did not result in waiver of its right to assert
objections.  
 
            In
addition to the discovery being prematurely served, Respondents also served Petitioner
with discovery requests by email.  Petitioner
was not represented by counsel at the time, as no arbitration had yet been
initiated, nor did Petitioner ever consent to electronic service prior to
Respondent’s service of the discovery requests. 
Self-represented parties are exempt from mandatory electronic service
and filing requirements adopted by the court. Each self-represented party must
be served with documents by nonelectronic means unless the party affirmatively
consents to electronic service.  (CCP §
1010.6(c), (f)(2), (g)(4); CRC 2.253(b)(2), (3).)  Respondents service of the discovery on
Petitioner by email on July 20, 2023 was therefore improper and Petitioner was
not obligated to respond.  
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, Petitioner did not waive any objections by failing to
respond to Respondents’ discovery served on July 20, 2023.  The discovery was improperly served because
it was served on Petitioner before Petitioner appeared in the arbitration by
email.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Petitioner’s
Motion for Relief from Waiver of Objections is DENIED as moot.  Petitioner never waived any objections by
failing to respond to the July 20, 2023 discovery.  The July 20, 2023 discovery was improper and
Petitioner was not obligated to respond. 

 
Moving Party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 