  On July 28, 2023, John Koblanski filed the operative Complaint against Defendants Ultralytics, Inc. and Glenn Jocher for (1) declaratory relief, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) failure to pay minimum wages under FLSA.  Plaintiff alleges that he and Jocher formed a company, Ultralytics, Inc.  Plaintiff claims there was an agreement in which he was supposed to have a 35% interest in Ultralytics, but Jocher now asserts Plaintiff is owed nothing despite the time and efforts that Plaintiff has invested in making Utralytics successful.  Defendants seek to dismiss this action for forum non conveniens.  They primarily argue that “Koblanski is a resident of Canada or Norway; Jocher is a resident of Spain; and Ultralytics is a resident of Delaware and Maryland. Further, none of Koblanski’s claims arise under California law: the alleged agreement between Koblanski and Jocher regarding Ultralytics was allegedly formed in Mexico (Compl. ¶ 12); the fiduciary duties to which Jocher are held arise under Delaware law (see In re Match Group, Inc. Derivative Litigation (Del., Apr. 4, 2024) ___ A.3d ___, 2024 WL 1449815, at *6); and Koblanski’s wage and hour claim arises under federal law (Compl. ¶ 39), which reflects that none of the purported work that Koblanski allegedly performed for Ultralytics took place in California.”  Defendants argue that Delaware, where a case filed by Defendants is currently pending, is a suitable alternative forum.  “When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30(a).)  In other words, the doctrine of forum non conveniens “is an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a court to decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly tried elsewhere.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751 (“Stangvik”))In considering motions based on forum non conveniens, courts undertake a two-part analysis.  First, the court determines whether the alternate forum is a suitable place for trial.  If it is, the next step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in litigating the matter in one forum or another.  (Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 751.)  “The private interest factors are those that make trial and the enforceability of the ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling witnesses. The public interest factors include avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars, protecting the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the local community has little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the litigation.”  (Ibid.)  The moving party bears the burden of establishing both components in the analysis. (Ibid.)  The trial court has considerable discretion to decide motions based on forum non conveniens. (Ibid.)A plaintiff’s forum choice “should rarely be disturbed unless the balance is strongly in favor of the defendant.” (Stangvik, supra, at p. 754.)  “[T]he reasons advanced for this frequently reiterated rule apply only to residents of the forum state: (1) if the plaintiff is a resident of the jurisdiction in which the suit is filed, the plaintiff's choice of forum is presumed to be convenient [citations]; and (2) a state has a strong interest in assuring its own residents an adequate forum for the redress of grievances.”  (Fox Factory, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 197, 205–06.)  Here, assuming Delaware is a proper forum, Defendants fail to point to sufficient evidence indicating that litigation in this forum would be seriously inconvenient relative to Delaware.  There is nothing to indicate that Delaware would be a substantially better suited forum with greater ties.  Ultralytics may have been incorporated in Delaware, but that alone is insignificant.  There are over a million corporations that could say the same thing.  Defendants state that “Ultralytics, is based in Delaware, along with corporate records and other relevant evidence.”  What evidence?  Defendants’ moving declaration fails to provide any specificity on this point, and the Court will not consider new evidence in a reply.  (See, e.g., Jay v. Mahaffey (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537.)  That basic corporate records were filed in Delaware has little significance, and Defendants presumably possess these documents in electronic format.  It is also not particularly notable that Delaware law with respect to fiduciary duties may apply.  Indeed, “California courts have routinely relied ‘on corporate law developed in the State of Delaware given that it is identical to California corporate law for all practical purposes.’ ”  (Kanter v. Reed (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 191, 208.)  If Jocher were to change the place of incorporation to Mississippi, would that be a good reason to litigate there?In sum, the Court does not find that either the public or private factors support a dismissal or stay of this action.  The Motion is denied.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 