 Case Number:  23STCV25796    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS: 
Motion for Protective Order
The Motion for a Protective
Order is DENIED.
On October 20, 2023,
Plaintiff Bondit LLC filed a complaint against Defendants Logan Wood and Vertex
Funding, LLC.
On
April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the first amended complaint (“FAC”), against
Defendants, alleging causes of action for: (1) fraud-intentional
misrepresentation; (2) fraud-concealment; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4)
Violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200; and Violation of
Penal Code section 496. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants acted as authorized
representatives of Jil Pro Group, LLC (“Jil Pro”), HMG Studios, Inc., Heritage
Music Group, Inc., Full Range Backline LLC, and Jovan Dawkins (“Judgment
Debtors”) in negotiations with Plaintiff over loans that Plaintiff ultimately
made to Judgment Debtors. Plaintiff alleges that it made these loans after
receiving false information from Defendants about Judgment Debtors’ assets and
ability to pay the loans. After Judgment Debtors failed to pay the loans,
Plaintiff filed a lawsuit against them and ultimately obtained a judgment
against them pursuant to settlement. 
Defendants
filed a motion for protective order.
 
Plaintiff
opposes.
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s Objections to
Defendants’ Evidence:
·       The following objections are
SUSTAINED: 1, 3, 4
·       The following objections are
OVERRULED: 2
Defendants move for a
protective order as to Plaintiff BondIt LLC’s Requests for Production, Set One,
precluding the production of: (1) all discovery pertaining to the financial
information of Judgment Debtor Jovan Dawkins; (2) documents that are protected
by the constitutional right to privacy or the right to privacy for Judgment
Debtors; and, (3) documents that are not subject to the same privileges,
including ones that are publicly available. In the alternative, Defendants seek
the Court’s guidance. 
When an
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of documents, tangible things,
places, or electronically stored information has been demanded, the party to
whom the demand has been directed, and any other party or affected person, may
promptly move for a protective order. This motion shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (C.C.P. §2031.060(a).)
“The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to,
one or more of the following directions: 
(1) That all or some of the items or
categories of items in the demand need not be produced or made available at
all.
(C.C.P.
§2031.060(b).)
“In accordance with the liberal policies underlying the
discovery procedures, California courts have been broad-minded in determining
whether discovery is reasonably calculated to lead to admissible evidence. (Pacific
Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1970) 2 Cal.3d 161,¿172;¿Pettie
v. Superior Court¿(1960) 178 Cal.App.2d 680,¿687.) As a practical matter,
it is difficult to define at the discovery stage what evidence will be relevant
at trial. Therefore, the party seeking discovery is entitled to substantial leeway.
(Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co.,¿supra, 2 Cal.3d at p. 172.)
Furthermore, California’s liberal approach to permissible discovery generally
has led the courts to resolve any doubt in favor of permitting discovery. (Id.¿at
p. 173.) In doing so, the courts have taken the view if an error is made in
ruling on a discovery motion, it is better that it be made in favor of granting
discovery of the¿nondiscoverable¿rather than denying discovery of information
vital to preparation or presentation of the party's case or to efficacious
settlement of the dispute.”¿(Norton v. Superior Court¿(1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1750, 1761.)¿ 
 
Courts have considerable discretion in granting and
crafting protective orders. (Raymond Handling Concepts Corp. v. Superior
Court¿(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 584, 588.) The
burden of proof is on the party seeking the protective order to show "good
cause" for the Order he or she seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v.
Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th¿245, 255.)¿
Here, Defendants argue that
the information sought by Plaintiff seeks financial information of Defendants
and invades their rights to privacy; and that Defendants are under a
confidentiality provision with Judgment Debtors. 
At
the onset, the court notes that Defendants’ motion for a Protective Order fails to establish good
cause, as they seek a sweeping order denying Plaintiff of all discovery without
providing an adequate factual basis or sufficient identification of the precise
information they seek to protect. Defendants do not even cite to any specific
requests in the request for production that they argue would violate their
privacy rights. Defendants fail to cite any authority permitting the court to
issue the broad protective order sought. In any event, the court addresses each
of Defendants’ arguments.
A.   
Privacy Right
of Hawkins
The framework for evaluating invasion of privacy
claims in the context of discovery is as follows: (1) a claimant must possess a
legally protected privacy interest, (2) must have a reasonable expectation of
privacy under the particular circumstances, and (3) the invasion of privacy
must be serious in nature, scope, and actual or potential impact. (Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 40.) 
“If there is reasonable expectation of privacy and
the invasion of privacy is serious, then the court must balance the privacy
interest at stake against other competing or countervailing interests, which
include the interest of the requesting party, fairness to the litigants in
conducting the litigation, and the consequences of granting or restricting
access to the information.” (Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158
Cal.App4th 1242, 1251.)
There is no
egregious invasion of privacy every time there is a request for private
information and courts must “place the burden on the party asserting a privacy
interest to establish its extent and seriousness of the prospective
invasion.”  (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531,
557.) 
 
Here, the Court agrees Hawkins has a
privacy interest in his financial records. (See Valley Bank of Nevada v.
Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 652, 656 [finding “the right of privacy
extends to one's confidential financial affairs as well as to the details of
one's personal life.”].) 
Nevertheless, “[t]he tax return privilege ‘is not
absolute’ and ‘will not be upheld when (1) the circumstances indicate an
intentional waiver of the privilege; (2) the gravamen of the lawsuit is
inconsistent with the privilege; or (3) a public policy greater than that of the confidentiality of tax
returns is involved.’ ” (Strawn v. Morris, Polich & Purdy, LLP
(2019) 30 Cal.App.5th 1087, 1098.)
Defendant contends that Plaintiff already has this information.
“Specifically, the tax returns and other financial information requested are in
the possession of BondIt.” (Motion, pg. 8, lns. 12-13.) Thus, the circumstances
indicate that there was an intentional waiver of this privilege. Moreover,
Hawkins does not possess an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in
these financial records based on the allegations in the FAC.
Even if Hawkins did have a reasonable
expectation of privacy and there was a serious invasion of privacy, the balance
of opposing interests would tilt in favor of Plaintiff. At stake is the "general public interest in
‘facilitating the ascertainment of truth in connection with legal proceedings'
[citation] and in obtaining just results in litigation [citation].” (Puerto, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at 1256.)
In sum, the
court finds the balancing of interests tilts in favor of Plaintiff.
 
b. Privacy Right of the Businesses
 
“ ‘The extent of any privacy rights of a business entity is
unsettled.’ ” (S.B.C.C., Inc. v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co.¿(2010)
186 Cal.App.4th 383, 396, fn. 6.) Some opinions hold that the California
Constitution protects only the privacy rights of human beings, other opinions
hold that business entities have zones of privacy rights, and others assume
without deciding that corporations enjoy a constitutional right of privacy.
(See¿Nativi v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.¿(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th
261, 314, fn. 16 [comparing cases without deciding issue].) 
 
Thus, corporations do not have a right of privacy protected
by the California Constitution.  Article I, section 1 of the California
Constitution¿protects the privacy rights of “people” only.¿“ ‘[T]he
constitutional¿provision simply does not apply to corporations.’ ” (Ameri-Medical
Corp. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd.¿(1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1260, 1287
quoting¿Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp.¿(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 770, 791; see¿Zurich
American Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 1485, 1504
[corporation acknowledged that it had no right of privacy under the California
Constitution].) While corporations do have a right to privacy, it is not a
constitutional right. The corporate right to privacy is a lesser right than
that held by human beings and is not considered a fundamental right. (Ameri-Medical
Corp. v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd., supra,¿at pp. 1287-1288, 50
Cal.Rptr.2d 366.) 
 
Because the corporate privacy right is not constitutionally
protected, the issue presented in determining whether the requests for
production infringe that right is resolved by a balancing test. The discovery's
relevance to the subject matter of the pending dispute and whether the
discovery “ ‘appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence " is balanced against the corporate right of privacy.
(Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Superior Court¿(2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 579, 595. Doubts about relevance generally are resolved in
favor of permitting discovery. (Ibid.) 
 
Again, the
information sought is at the heart of this lawsuit and at stake is the general public interest in facilitating
the ascertainment of truth in connection with legal proceedings and in
obtaining just results in litigation. The balancing of interests weighs in
favor of Plaintiff.
 
c. Confidentiality Provision with
Judgment Debtors?
Defendants argue that there is a confidentiality provision in this case
wherein it states: 
“Confidentiality. Except as otherwise provided by
the law, all information given to Vertex [Funding, LLC] by the Company, unless
publicly available, will be held in confidence by Vertex and will not be
disclosed to anyone other than Vertex’s agents and advisors without [the
Company’s] prior approval or used for any other purpose other than in
connection with the performance of Vertex’s services hereunder or the
enforcement of this agreement.” 
(Wood Decl., Ex. A.) Defendants argue this confidentiality provision applies
to Full Range Backline LLC, the shareholders, subsidiaries, and related
entities. (Wood Decl.) Defendants thus argue the Judgment Debtors would be
protected by the provision, and that they can be sued for breach of a
confidentiality agreement. 
However, the agreement states “except as otherwise provided by law.” As
such, the confidentiality agreement would not apply in this circumstance.
Moreover, Defendants have not shown that the confidentiality provision applies
to all Judgment Debtors. The agreement is between Full
Range Backline LLC and Defendant Vertex. The court has sustained Plaintiff’s
objections to Defendant Wood’s statement that it applies to the shareholders,
subsidiaries, and related entities (Jil Pro Group, LLC, HMG Studios, Inc., Heritage
Music Group, Inc. and Jovan Dawkins) as lacking foundation. The agreement does
not state it applies to them.
In addition, Defendants
argue that Plaintiff has the information already. As such, it is unclear why they claim they
would be subject to liability if it was already provided
to Plaintiff.
Defendants are strongly encouraged to enter into the model protective order
proposed by Plaintiff to avoid any potential confidentiality concerns.
Lastly, the court notes that Defendants make a new argument in reply that
Plaintiff has not had an opportunity to respond to. They argue that as
Plaintiff has a case against Dawkins, it can directly go to Dawkins and the
other judgment debtors for this discovery. As Plaintiff has not had an
opportunity to respond to this argument, the court cannot consider it.
Conclusion
The Motion for a
Protective Order is DENIED.