  Case Number:  21STCV35596    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  74 Ernest J.
Franceschi Jr. v. Christopher Baldwin, et al.
Motion to Tax Costs
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a dispute between an attorney and his former client.
            On
September 28, 2021, Plaintiff Ernest J. Franceschi Jr. filed a complaint
against Defendant Christopher Baldwin (Defendant), Gloria Baldwin, and Ross
Perkal (Perkal).
            On
March 25, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC). In the FAC,
Plaintiff alleges the following causes of action: (1) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (2) tortious interference with
contract, and (3) extortion.
            On
February 1, 2024, the court granted Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 
            On
February 23, 2024, Defendant filed a memorandum of costs.
            On
March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to tax costs.
LEGAL STANDARD
            The
prevailing party is entitled to recover costs, including attorneys’ fees, as a
matter of right, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute. (¿¿See Code
Civ. Proc., §§ 1032, subd. (a)(4), 1032, subd. (b), 1033.5¿¿.)¿Costs
recoverable under¿¿section 1032¿¿are restricted to those that are both
reasonable in amount and reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation.
(¿Code Civ. Proc.,¿§§ 1033.5, subd. (c)(2), (3)¿.)¿Costs “¿merely convenient or
beneficial¿” to the preparation of a case are disallowed. (¿Code Civ. Proc., §
1033.5, subd. (c)(2)¿.)  
            “¿A
‘verified memorandum of costs is prima facie evidence of [the] propriety’ of
the items listed on it, and the burden is on the party
challenging these costs to demonstrate that they were not reasonable or
necessary.¿” (¿¿Adams v. Ford Motor Co. (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1475,
1486-1487 [italics and brackets omitted]¿¿.)¿Costs otherwise allowable as a
matter of right may be disallowed if the court determines they were not
reasonably necessary, and the court has power to reduce the amount of any cost
item to an amount that is reasonable. (See Perko’s Enterprises, Inc. v. RRNS
Enterprises¿(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 238, 245 [finding that¿“the intent and
effect of section 1033.5, subdivision¿(c)(2) is to authorize a trial court to
disallow recovery of costs, including filing fees, when it determines the costs
were incurred unnecessarily”].)¿
DISCUSSION  
            In
his motion, Plaintiff argues that Defendants did not reasonably incur the
following costs:
            Deposition
Costs - $7,020.25
            Plaintiff contends the court should
tax this cost because Defendant and Perkal jointly conducted the deposition. According
to Plaintiff, Defendant does not seek costs proportionate to the amount he
incurred conducting the deposition. In opposition, though, Defendant offers
evidence he paid for the entire deposition. (Leigh Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. B.) Plaintiff
also argues the deposition was unnecessary. But Defendant relied on the
deposition as evidence in his motion for summary judgment. Thus, the court will
not tax this cost.
            Gloria
Baldwin First Appearance Fee - $435
            Defendant has withdrawn his request
for this cost. (Opposition, p. 7.) 
            Filing
Fees for Two Motions to Quash and One Motion for Protective Order - $180
            Plaintiff asserts Defendant
improperly seeks to recover these filing fees because the motions are not
sufficiently identified in the memorandum of costs. But in his opposition,
Defendant offers evidence of the filing fees he incurred for two motions to
quash and one protective order. (Leigh Decl., ¶ 3; Ex. A.)[1]
Thus, the court will not tax this cost.
            Fees
for Electronic Filing or Service - $798.88
            Plaintiff argues the court should
tax this cost because Defendant has not substantiated this request by
identifying the electronic filings. However, Defendant has provided receipts of
the electronic filing fees he incurred. (Leigh Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. 6.) In addition,
Plaintiff contends there is no court order requiring electronic filing or
service of documents. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(14).) But Defendant
has provided the relevant court order. (Request for Judicial Notice; Ex. 1.)
Thus, the court will not tax this cost.
            Fees
for Hosting Electronic Documents Through Electronic Filing Service Provider  - $91.20
 
            Defendant used this storage service
to comply with Plaintiff’s discovery requests that targeted numerous emails and
electronically stored information. (Leigh Decl., ¶ 7; Ex. D; Ex. E.)
Accordingly, the court will exercise its discretion and permit Defendant to
recover this cost. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (c)(4).) 
            Fee
for Rescheduling Motion for Summary Judgment - $20
            Plaintiff
claims it would be unfair to shift this cost to him. However, Plaintiff has
cited no authority in support. The court will not tax this cost, either.
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants Plaintiff’s motion to tax in part. The court taxes $435, which
represents Gloria Baldwin’s first appearance fee.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.


