  Case Number:  23SMCV00851    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  I The matter is here for an FSC.  The initial FSC was set on Monday, but the
FSC materials were not filed until Friday, so the court had not seen them.  The court is in receipt of the following
joint materials: (1) Exhibit List with a total of 92 exhibits—15 from plaintiff
and 77 from defendant.  Defendant objects
to some of plaintiff’s exhibits, plaintiff appears to have no objections to the
defense exhibits, although many are demonstrative so they may not be admitted
in the traditional sense.  (2) Statement
of the Case.  This looks good.  (3) Joint Witness List.  A total of 21 witnesses with 31.5 hours of
direct and cross combined.  (4) Joint
Special Verdict From.  This looks
appropriate.  (5) Joint Jury
Instructions.  All are agreed except CACI
3924, to which plaintiff objects.  The
court will inquire.
 
The court has not received the following FSC materials.  (1) Trial Briefs.  They are, however, optional in a jury
trial.  (2) Jury Questionnaires.  They are, however, optional.  They need be filed only if a party requests
that it be given.  (3) Statement of
Unusual Issues.  The court will inquire
as to this, but it will not stop the case from being ready for trial unless the
issues are heftier than the court suspects. 
(4) Deposition Chart.  This is not
required so long as no party intends to use deposition testimony other than for
impeachment.  (5) Updated Trial
Estimate.  The court will inquire as to
this, but it will not stop the case from being ready for trial.  Based on the witness list, it would appear
that there might be 10-11 days of testimony if all witnesses are called, which
suggests a 15 day trial from swearing the venire to the start of deliberations.
 
The court believes that the case is READY FOR TRIAL.  The court has another case that might (or
might not) be going forward on 1/21/25. 
Because it is running on the 5 year rule, it will have priority over
this case.  Right now, the court is
unsure how long it will last.  The court
will give the parties the option to trail that case (meaning that this case
will be “on deck” as soon as the jury is deliberating in that case) or continue
the case.  The parties need not decide
until 1/21/25.  The court will take stock
at that time.
 
The court is also in receipt of 10 motions in limine filed by the defense yesterday. 
They are DENIED as untimely.  The
court has not read them and has no plans to do so.  There is a reason that the rules require that
such motions be timely filed.  One is so
that the court can review them and make an intelligent ruling.  Another is so that the other side can oppose
them—that’s called due process. 
Defendant’s tactic of filing them at the last second, unfortunately for
the defense, tends to suggest something about their litigation strategy and
good faith that they would rather not be suggested.
 
The court sets forth below its trial procedures.
 
The court does not know if the parties have retained a court
reporter.  If not, then the parties are
ORDERED at the conclusion of each day of trial to have lead counsel MEET AND
CONFER to arrive at an agreed settled statement.  The meeting will last until the earlier of:
(1) reaching an agreement; or (2) midnight. 
No later than 9:30 on the following court day, the parties will submit
the agreed statement to the court.  If
the parties cannot agree, they will submit plaintiffs’ proposal red-lined
against defendants’ proposal.  On even
numbered calendar days, plaintiffs will be responsible for the submission.  On odd numbered calendar days, defendants
will be responsible for the submission. 
(That refers to the day of the month for the trial, not the day of
submission.)  Alternatively, the parties
may elect to waive appeal, although the court STRONGLY ADVISES AGAINST IT.  The point of the settled statement is to have
a record for appeal of what occurred during the trial (beyond that reflected in
the Clerk’s Transcript).  If there is no
appeal, there is no need for the statement. 
The reason that the court is ordering daily meetings is because too
often the process begins after the notice of appeal is filed, which could be
months after the trial has concluded.  By
that time, memories have faded—especially the court’s memory.  Yet the parties must either agree or the
court must settle the statement.  In the
court’s experience, the sooner that is done, the better.  If there is a court reporter, of course, then
this is not needed.
 
The court holds trials Monday through Thursday, starting at
10:30.  Fridays are reserved for other
matters, but the jury can deliberate on Fridays.  The court has an ELMO available for the
parties’ use.  Other technology must be
provided by the parties and the parties need to work with court staff to be
sure that it will be up and running as needed. 
The court does not appreciate speaking objections.  The parties should be very careful not to
divulge the contents of a document or an exhibit to the jury through
questioning until the document or exhibit has been admitted.
 
The parties will lodge on the first day of trial the
following trial notebooks.  Volume 1: (1)
The operative complaint; (2) the operative answer; (3) any substantive rulings
made by the court that are binding at trial; (4) the witness list; (5) the
exhibit list; (6) the short statement of the case; and (7) motions in limine
and rulings.  Volume 2: Jury Instructions
as they are to be read to the jury (meaning no brackets or the like).  Volume 3: Exhibit binder.  The parties will also lodge the deposition
transcripts of any witnesses on the witness list.  The parties should also inform the court
before the jury venire is brought in whether they want to do “mini-openings” to
the venire.  If they do, they will be
limited to 5 minutes per side.  
 
For voir dire, the court generally gives the venire an
introductory statement and reads the short statement of the case.  The court then allows the parties to give
mini-openings if they have chosen to do so. 
The court then gives additional information about the case—such as the
list of witnesses and the estimated length. 
The court then deals with hardships, releasing jurors for the remainder
of the day who do not claim hardship. 
The court asks the parties to meet and confer regarding any jurors to
which they will stipulate there is a hardship or to which they both believe
there is no hardship.  The court then
conducts the examination.  While the
court encourages agreement of the parties, the final hardship decision is the
court’s alone.  Note that this is before
voir dire.  The remaining venire
typically convenes the next day and voir dire begins.  The court generally uses a “six-pack”
procedure.  Voir dire begins with the
court, then with plaintiffs, and then goes to defendants.  Voir dire may be had as to all 18 jurors
first selected, although the court will discuss whether voir dire can be had as
to the entire venire (it depends on how many there are in the venire).  When voir dire is concluded, the court will
typically excuse the jury or conduct a side-bar with counsel to discuss
challenges for cause.  The defense goes
first and makes all challenges for cause the defense wishes to make.  A challenge for cause can be made as to any
juror for whom there was voir dire. 
After the defense, plaintiffs will make their challenges for cause.  When those challenges are resolved, the
successfully challenged jurors are excused, the venire reconvenes, and the
“box” is filled to the extent of successful cause challenges.  After that, plaintiffs and defendants may
exercise peremptory challenges, alternating between plaintiffs and defendants
with plaintiffs going first.  Peremptory
challenges may only be made to the 12 jurors in the box.  A “pass” by one side does not use a challenge
nor does it establish that the remaining jurors are immune from peremptory
challenge.  If the box cannot be filled
due to challenges, additional names will be called for the six pack.  Voir dire will then go forward as to the
newly-called prospective jurors only, after which the court will go through the
cause procedure (as to the newly called jurors only) and then peremptory
challenges, which can be made against any juror in the box.  If a party makes a Batson/Wheeler
motion, it must do so before the challenged juror is actually excused.  The reason is so that the court can re-seat
the juror if the challenge is successful. 
When the 12 members of the jury are chosen, the court will utilize a
similar procedure regarding alternates, still using the “six pack.”  The jurors are usually sworn when the panel
and alternates have been selected.  In
the event that a second venire is needed, the court will discuss procedure with
the parties.  The court reminds the
parties that, while some latitude is allowed during voir dire, the court will
not allow pre-conditioning of the panel.
 
 
 
 