 Case Number:  SC127692    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  I This is a debtor’s exam. 
On Tuesday, the witness and sort-of-new counsel sought to continue the
matter.  The witness claims she is
undergoing a medical procedure today and counsel has a conflict.  The creditor objects to a continuance.  The court is not pleased.  If the witness has a medical procedure,
presumably it was known before Tuesday. 
(Of course, if that is not the case because this is an emergency, that
is different).  Yet the witness waited a
month before letting anyone know about it. 
Counsel was just substituted in and claims a need to learn things, talk
to the client, and review the file.  That
would have more heft had this counsel not already been involved in the case
literally for years.  If there was a true
conflict, the court would have expected counsel to talk to the judgment
creditor’s counsel and try to get a 1 or 2 day continuance, which the court
would have expected judgment creditor’s counsel to grant.  The witness also says that Pimi and Pilar
might seek a stay pending appeal of the portions of the judgment relating to
issues they claim the referee lacked jurisdiction to hear.  The appeal was filed in March, and no stay
has been requested to this day.  The
question whether the referee exceeded his authority has been fully briefed and
argued and the court ruled on the question last February.  The Court of Appeal might grant a stay, but
the odds that this court will do so—a year after the decision was made and
almost a year after the appeal was filed—will depend on what kind of showing
Pimi and Pilar can make to explain this extraordinarily long delay.  The court is not saying they cannot make the
showing—it could be, for example, that Michelle offered to stay the matter
informally or there could be many other reasons—it is just that they will have
to explain it.  Michelle argues that the
court cannot stay the deposition unless the witness actually appears pursuant
to Local Rule 3.221(e).  If Pilar is
truly undergoing a medical procedure, the court is quite unlikely to sanction
her for the non-appearance or find that she is wrongfully not here.  Michelle would be well advised to reconsider
that position.  What the court will do is
sanction Pilar and Pimi for the costs Michelle incurred preparing for the
deposition, including attorneys’ fees, payable in 10 days.  The court will find out from the witness’s
counsel when the witness will have recovered from the procedure and Michelle
may set the new deposition date on any week day (that is not a holiday)
thereafter.  The court will also
condition that order on counsel’s representation that she has authority to
accept service of process as if process were personally served on Pilar so that
there are no further issues regarding service. 
Absent an agreement to that, the court would be forced to draw the
inference that the request for delay is a subterfuge and act accordingly.  If the parties are detecting a degree of
frustration by the court, that would be a perceptive observation.  The frustration is more at Pimi and Pilar,
but there is some at Michelle for pressing for a penalty if the witness is
truly undergoing a medical procedure today.