 Case Number:  24SMCV02021    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  I Plaintiff filed this Song Beverly Act case against
defendant.  Defendant moves to compel
arbitration and plaintiff opposes (in a brief that is 1 page overlong, which
the court will overlook). 
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement that encompasses the
dispute.  If that is shown, the motion
will be granted unless the opposing party can establish a defense to the
arbitration clause, such as unconscionability. 
The major issue here is whether there is an arbitration agreement
between plaintiff on the one hand and Rivian—the manufacturer—on the other hand.  Rivian (not to be confused with Rivian LLC)
asserts two sources of such an agreement: the Purchase Agreement and the
Warranty.  There are problems with both.
 
As to the Purchase Agreement, Rivian admits it is not a
signatory of that agreement (that would be Rivian LLC).  It nonetheless argues plaintiff is bound by
the arbitration clause therein even as to the suit against Rivian.  Rivian argues that the usual issue involved
in such contracts does not exist here. 
That issue is whether the Song Beverly cause of action stems from the
warranty such that the warranty would not come into play but for the purchase
agreement, and if so whether that means that the manufacturer gets the benefit
of the arbitration clause.  Some courts
say yes (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486) and some say
no because the Song Beverly cause of action is not a warranty cause of action
in the necessary sense (Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th
1324, review granted).  The California
Supreme Court has agreed to take up the issue. 
Rivian argues that it does not matter here, however, because the Warranty
Agreement (with its separate arbitration provision) was expressly made a part
of the Purchase Agreement.  Because of
that, Rivian argues, the issue being decided by the Supreme Court cannot defeat
this motion whichever way the Court rules. 
This court is not so sure.  The
fact that the warranty is incorporated by reference is too thin a reed for this
court to conclude that the arbitration clause therein was incorporated as well.  That is especially so in that all of the
benefits of the Warranty Agreement—or at least those pertaining to Song
Beverly—would be given to plaintiff whether the Warranty Agreement was
incorporated or not.  The argument is
clever, but not sufficient.  The court
sees no material difference between incorporating the Warranty Agreement by
reference or giving the buyer the benefit thereof by law.  The court also notes that the incorporation
language is not as clear as Rivian would like. 
The language states that “The warranties for the Vehicle are available
at Rivian.com/legal/warranty-vehicle (‘Warranty’) and are incorporated herein
by reference.”  That incorporates the
warranty, but not actually the Warranty Agreement—the Warranty Agreement is
merely the place one looks to see what the warranties are.   And, of course, the suit is not a suit under  the warranty per se.  It is a suit brought under the Song Beverly
Act, which imposes its own duties on the manufacturer.
 
As to the Warranty Agreement itself, the problem is
different.  Rivian is plainly a party to
that document.  And there is plainly an
arbitration clause in that document.  The
problem here is that plaintiff never signed the Warranty Agreement.  It would seem that the warranties set forth
in the Warranty Agreement are the same as those that plaintiff was entitled to
receive as a matter of law.  Given that,
the court has some difficulty seeing that it was truly a contract between
plaintiff and Rivian in the normal sense. 
Plaintiff was entitled to the benefits of the warranties without the
need to agree to anything.  Inserting the
clause would seem to be something for which there is no consideration.  Of course, the court well understands that an
arbitration agreement could benefit both parties.  But let’s be real.  That’s not what is happening here.  This is an attempt by Rivian to get an
arbitration agreement without true consent by giving up nothing.  The court is not persuaded.  The chain of logic is that the warranty is
something that the manufacturer gives because it must and also because it will
make it easier for the dealer to sell the car. 
But that is not itself a contract in the traditional sense between the
manufacturer and plaintiff.
 
With that, we are back to the Purchase Agreement and more
traditional notions by which plaintiff might be forced to arbitrate, namely
things like equitable estoppel or third-party beneficiary.  This is the issue now under review by the
California Supreme Court.  Pending the
Court’s ruling, this court tends to follow the Ford Motor line of cases
and find that there is no equitable estoppel binding plaintiff to
arbitrate.  The court will, of course,
follow our Supreme Court’s ruling, but until that ruling issues, the court does
not believe that this theory will prevail. 
The reason is that plaintiff’s claims are not inextricably bound up in
the Purchase Agreement.  Plaintiff is
suing under the Song Beverly Act, to be specific, not the warranty
directly.  Neither is the third party
beneficiary argument compelling.  It is
not clear from this contract that Rivian is a third party beneficiary.  It manufactured the car, but plaintiff did
not sign the contract to benefit Rivian. 
It bought the car from the dealer and the signatory to that contract was
Rivian LLC—a related but different entity.
 
The fact of the matter is that Rivian—and other auto
manufacturers—are not helpless here.  The
Purchase Agreement could have specifically named Rivian as a party to the
arbitration clause or stated that any action against Rivian LLC or Rivian had
to be arbitrated.  In fact, the court has
seen some vehicle purchase agreements that do just that.  This one does not.  And it would have been easier to do it here
because Rivian LLC and Rivian are, perhaps, more closely tied than other
dealers and manufacturers.
 
The bottom line is that it does not appear that Rivian has
established an arbitration agreement between it and plaintiff.  The motion is therefore DENIED.  That said, the court will certainly
reconsider its ruling if the Supreme Court follows Felisilda.