 Case Number:  24STCV00296    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  40 
24STCV00296 Li H. Liu, et al v. Pacific Life Insurance,
 et al.
Monday,
 January 6,  2025
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AMENDED BY DEFENDANTS, BY FERNANDO
GONZALEZ AND JOHN SHIN
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT BY DEFENDANT, MARC J.
SCHWARTZ,  AND GRANTING IN PART THE
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
I.       BACKGROUND
      This
action arises from an allegedly fraudulent scheme perpetrated by Defendant, Pacific
Life Insurance Company, and its agents and producers, to sell indexed universal
life insurance policies to Plaintiffs. Defendants allegedly abandoned the
product due to rapidly and substantially increasing costs resulting in damage
to Plaintiffs. The second amended complaint (“SAC”) filed on August 12, 2024, alleges
14 causes of action arising from these allegations. Plaintiff dismissed the 10th
cause of action for violation of Insurance Code § 780, et seq. on August 26,
2024. 
      The
court has considered demurrers by all three Defendants, the motion to strike by
Defendant, Marc J. Schwartz, and the Plaintiffs’ oppositions and replies
thereto. The court declines all Defendants’ request to take judicial notice of
Judge Richardson’s July 29, 2024, ruling on demurrer by other co-defendants in
this action as they are immaterial to the Plaintiffs’ allegations against the
demurring Defendants here. Prior rulings involving other allegations against
other named Defendants are irrelevant. 
 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
The bases for demurrer are limited by
statute and may be sustained for reasons including failure to state facts to
state a cause of action and uncertainty. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) A demurrer “tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law.” (Schmidt
v. Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.) The
court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual allegations;
(2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly pleaded; and (3)
judicially noticed matters. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The court may
not consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law. (Moore
v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.4th 634, 638.)
A motion to strike is limited to matters
that appear on the face of the pleading or on any matter of which the court can
take judicial notice. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437.) The court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading; or strike all or any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. §436 subd. (a)-(b).)
III.    DISCUSSION
A.    
Demurrer by Shin and Gonzalez defendants.
1)     Demurrer to the fourth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress is OVERRULED
      The Shin defendants argue that Plaintiffs
did not allege facts that constitute extreme and outrageous conduct. Plaintiffs
contend the claims are well stated.
      The
Shin defendants are alleged to be licensed life insurance agents who sold the
Pacific Discovery Xelerator IUL 2 indexed life insurance policies (“Policies”)
to Plaintiffs and who acted as agents for the other Defendants. (SAC, ¶¶ 11-12,
19, 86.) The fourth cause of action is based on Defendants’ alleged
misrepresentations in selling the Policies to Plaintiffs and concealment of
material facts. Specifically, Plaintiffs allege that the Shin defendants falsely
represented and or concealed material facts that the Policies would procure
sufficient value to offset any loan interest and premium requirement; that
taking out a loan did not present a risk to Plaintiffs; that Plaintiff Li H.
Liu (“Liu”) qualified for the program; that Liu would receive a positive cash flow
from the program and would not have to borrow additional funds after the first
year; and that Plaintiff Liu would have to pledge collateral for the program. (SAC,
¶ 62.)
      The
Shin defendants allegedly failed to explain the terms of the loan or the Policies,
failed to provide any disclosures or documents or other information
demonstrating how the program would operate as required by the Insurance Code,
never disclosed risks of the program, failed to disclose they had little or no
experience with premium financing, all of which Plaintiffs relied upon to their
detriment. (SAC, ¶ 63.) 
      The
alleged misrepresentations proved false because the loan at issue would mature
in six years, and Liu would have increased collateral obligations to support
the loan. (SAC ¶ 99.) Liu ultimately borrowed $4.5 million from Defendant, Win
Trust Life Finance (“Win Trust”) and was required to pay interest costs in
excess of $50,000 in 2019, over $75,000 in 2020, and over $99,000 in 2021. (SAC
¶ 80.)  Plaintiff Liu was also required
to wire $1.2 million in collateral. (SAC ¶ 81.) Plaintiffs allege that as a
result of the misconduct, the policy lapsed, the personal collateral was
foreclosed upon, and the Policies held by the Plaintiff, Li Huang Liu
Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust (“Plaintiff Trust”) was forfeited. (SAC, ¶
22.)  
      To
prevail on a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, plaintiff
must allege facts showing (1) extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention
of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional
distress, (2) that plaintiff suffered severe or extreme emotional distress, and
(3) actual and proximate causation. (Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.) 
      Behavior
is considered sufficiently “outrageous” if defendant “(1) abuses a relation or
position which gives him power to damages the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows
the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts
intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to
result in illness through mental distress.” (Agarwal
v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 946.)
      Notably,
the Shin defendants are named in the causes of action for intentional
misrepresentation, fraudulent concealment, violation of Business &
Professions Code § 17200 (“UCL”), professional negligence, negligent
misrepresentation, Insurance Code violations, conspiracy to defraud, and for
receiving stolen property. The Shin defendants have not demurred to any of
these claims, although the specific allegations on which those claims arose collectively
form the basis for the emotional distress claim. All of these aforementioned causes
of action can support a jury’s finding that such misconduct was extreme and
outrageous. If reasonable minds may differ on whether a defendant’s conduct is
sufficiently outrageous “it is for the jury, subject to the control for the court,
to determine whether, in the particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently
extreme and outrageous to result in liability.” (Alcorn
v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.)
Accordingly, the Shin defendants demurrer to this claim is OVERRULED. 
2)    
Demurrer to the 13th cause of
action for violation of Penal Code §496 is OVERRULED.
      Plaintiffs
allege that by perpetrating the premium finance scheme described above,
Defendants received large commissions and/or other funds that they should not
have received and “in fact stole” from Plaintiffs. (SAC ¶ 245.)  The Shin defendants argue that Plaintiffs
did not allege that the Shin defendants received or possessed stolen property. Plaintiffs
allege that other defendants issued the insurance policies, obtained the loan, and
paid commissions to other Defendants. (Dem. 16:16-24.)
      Section 496 of the Penal Code is commonly referred to as
receiving stolen property requires a showing "(1) that the particular
property was stolen, (2) that the accused received, concealed or withheld it
from the owner thereof, and (3) that the accused knew that the property was
stolen." (Finton Construction, Inc. v. Bidna &
Keys, APLC
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 200, 213.)
The elements required for civil liability to attach “are simply that (i)
property was stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii) the
defendant knew the property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the defendant
received or had possession of the stolen property." (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
       The
express language of the statute permits statutory liability against every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen "or who
conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing, selling, or withholding any
property from the owner, knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained … .”
(Pen. Code, § 496.) Moreover, "the requisite
possession of the stolen property may be either actual or constructive, and
need not be exclusive. In fact, physical possession is not required, as it is
sufficient if the defendant acquires a measure of control or dominion over the
stolen property.” (In re Anthony J. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 718, 728.) 
Accordingly, the Shin defendants’ actual receipt or
possession of stolen funds is not required to support the claim. 
      Plaintiffs
allege that by Defendants’ procurement of the loan and Policies, Defendants
earned fees for themselves and other Defendants. (SAC ¶ 71.) By sharing in the
commissions, Defendants conspired and acted “in concert to deprive Plaintiffs
of money and causing damages.” (SAC ¶ 73.) Shin and Gonzalez allegedly formed
an agency relationship with Defendant, Succession Capital, who issued the
policy and received commissions for procuring the policy. (SAC ¶ 75.) Shin’s
and Gonzalez’s alleged misconduct induced Plaintiffs to participate in the
program so that they (defendants) could receive “excessive commissions.” (SAC ¶
86.)
      Penal
Code § 496 broadly extends to property that “extends to property ‘that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft.’ Penal Code section 484 describes
acts constituting theft. The first sentence of section 484, subdivision (a)
states: “Every person who shall feloniously steal, take, carry, lead, or
drive away the personal property of another, or who shall fraudulently
appropriate property which has been entrusted to him or her, or who shall
knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or
pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or personal
property, or who causes or procures others to report falsely of his or her
wealth or mercantile character and by thus imposing upon any person, obtains
credit and thereby fraudulently gets or obtains possession of money, or
property or obtains the labor or service of another, is guilty of theft."
(Bell
v. Feibush (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1041, 1048
(italics in original).) Accordingly, demurrer is OVERRULED. 
B.    
Demurrer by Marc Schwartz (“Schwartz”)
1)     Demurrer to the first
cause of action for intentional fraud, second cause of action for concealment,
and the sixth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation is OVERRULED.
      A claim for fraud requires facts to
support the following elements: (1) a misrepresentation, (2) made with
knowledge of its falsity, (3) Defendant intended to defraud Plaintiff, i.e.,
induce Plaintiff’s reliance, (4) Plaintiff justifiably relied on the misrepresentation,
(5) causing damage. (Nagy
v. Nagy (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 1262, 1268.) Fraud claims are subject to strict requirements of
particularity in pleading. (Id.) The particularity requirements
necessitate pleading facts showing “how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered." (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) The
requirement “applies not only to the alleged misrepresentation, but also to the
elements of causation and damage." (Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 776.) 
      A
claim for negligent misrepresentation differs only as to the second element which
requires proof that the defendants made the representation without reasonable ground
for believing it to be true. (Ragland
v. U.S. Bank National Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 196.)
      While fraud claims are subject to strict
requirements of particularity in pleading, the specificity rule is intended to
apply to affirmative misrepresentations and not to concealment.    (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System
& Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 89 Cal.Rptr.3d 659).
      The elements of a fraud claim based on
concealment are: “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a
material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose
the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed
or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the
plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did
if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.” (Bigler-Engler
v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 310–311.) 
      There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.” (Id. at 311).
If a fiduciary relationship does not exist, but the latter three circumstances
are present, plaintiff must still show “the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from which a duty to disclose
can arise.” (Id. at 311).

      Schwartz
argues that Plaintiffs do not allege the specific misrepresentations made by
him or facts to show that Plaintiffs justifiably relied on Schwartz’s purported
misrepresentations. Contrary to Schwartz’s arguments, the SAC adequately
alleges facts to support these elements.
      Plaintiffs
allege that Schwartz is a California licensed, estate-planning attorney who attended
the June 2018 meeting at Plaintiff Liu’s home along with the Shin defendants.  (SAC, ¶ 7, 49.) Schwartz allegedly held
himself out as an expert in estate planning and represented that he and Shin
determined it would be best if Liu purchased a life insurance policy using an
irrevocable life insurance trust (“ILIT”) to avoid estate taxes on the proceeds
of the life insurance policies at issue. (SAC ¶ 57.) Schwartz allegedly assured
Plaintiff Liu that he would act as her trustee for the ILIT and represented
that he could work with the insurance agents (Shin defendants) in their
proposed program. (SAC ¶ 58.) Schwartz represented that the policy account
values would grow to a cash surrender value by the third year of $3.484 million,
which was false, because by the third anniversary, the Policies had a surrender
value of $3.198 million. (SAC ¶ 44.) 
      Schwartz’s
contention that Plaintiffs did not allege that Schwartz marketed any material
specifically to Liu or that she relied on these materials is unsupported by the
allegations of the SAC. Plaintiffs allege that Schwartz and Shin allegedly
handwrote a false diagram demonstrating how the program would work and how Liu
would benefit. (SAC ¶ 60.) Schwartz’s contention that his name is
“conspicuously omitted” is inaccurate. (Dem. 11:22.) Plaintiffs allege that
“[b]oth Gonzalez and Schwartz acknowledged Shin’s representations, and participated
and ratified the representations in pitching the investment. (SAC ¶ 50.)
Schwartz allegedly ratified and approved “of the representations as attorney
and proposed fiduciary, Liu relied upon their representations, and did so
reasonably.” (SAC ¶ 55.) Plaintiffs allege that Shin, Gonzalez, and Schwartz
made these false statements to Plaintiff Liu, with each affirming the others’
false statements, and failed to provide Plaintiff Liu with any required
disclosures or other documents to demonstrate how the loan or the life
insurance policy would operate. (SAC ¶ 63.)
      Schwartz
allegedly created the Li Huang Liu Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust (the “Liu
Trust”) with Schwartz acting as the trustee of said trust. He selected the type
and amount of the policy, the insurer, the loan, and the lender. (SAC ¶ 69.) Schwartz
caused the Liu Trust to borrow $9 million for Policies that required premium
payments of $1.5 million per year for six years, contrary to Schwartz’s
representation that the loan would fund the premium for the duration of the Policies
so that Liu would not incur out-of-pocket expenses for the premiums. (SAC ¶ 71.)

      Schwartz
allegedly worked behind Plaintiff Liu’s back to earn fees for himself and
commissions for the Shin defendants among other co-defendants. (SAC ¶ 71.) Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants including Schwartz, conspired and acted in concert to
deprive Plaintiffs of money causing them damages. (SAC ¶ 73.) Schwartz
allegedly signed the sales illustrations and concealed the risks and leverage
associated with the Policies. (SAC ¶ 44.) 
      The
Schwartz and Shin defendants allegedly concealed documents and information from
Plaintiff Liu to perpetrate the fraudulent scheme and to obtain the fraudulent
loans for Policies that allowed them to receive commissions. (SAC ¶ 88.) Defendants,
including Schwartz, fraudulent and electronically placed Plaintiff Liu’s
signatures on the loan and policy documents without Liu’s knowledge, consent,
or authorization. (SAC ¶ 89.) Schwartz and the Shin defendants falsely
represented to Plaintiff Liu that she needed to sign these documents, including
a personal guaranty, in order that they may protect her interest and falsely
represented that they would provide the completed documents to her once they
were complete as specifically described. (SAC ¶ 90.) Schwartz furthered the
collective fraud by improperly signing documents for which he had no authority,
including an assignment of life insurance policy as collateral, which he never
showed to Plaintiff Liu. (SAC ¶ 92.) 
      The
foregoing allegations are replete with the specific material misrepresentations
allegedly made by Schwartz and material facts that were concealed from Plaintiff
Liu, who allege they relied on the Shin defendants and Schwartz as they “convincingly
claimed to have special expertise in premium-financed life insurance and to
have a nationwide program that gave them access to the lowest-cost available
financing.” (SAC ¶ 123.)
      Plaintiff
Liu also alleges facts to support her justifiable reliance on Schwartz: Plaintiff
Liu alleges she agreed to work with Schwartz “since he was an attorney, and
Schwarz held himself out as an expert in estate planning, and he further
represented to Liu that he could work with insurance agents to obtain life
insurance, such as the program proposed by Shin and Gonzalez. He assured her he
would act as her trustee for the ILIT, and by his representations regarding his
experience in these transactions as attorney and fiduciary, Plaintiff Liu “placed
her trust in Schwartz relying on his representations and reassurances.” (SAC ¶
58.) 
2)     Demurrer to the third
cause of action for violation of Business & Professions Code § 17200
(unfair competition or “UCL”) is OVERRULED.
      Schwartz argues that Plaintiffs failed to
allege that he engaged in any fraudulent, unfair, or unlawful business
practice. Plaintiffs are not entitled to recover damages. Plaintiffs do not
allege what benefits Schwartz received that require disgorgement. 
      Contrary
to Schwartz’s argument, all allegations of the SAC, including those identified
above, specifically identify the misrepresentations of fact, the concealment of
material facts, and Schwartz’s alleged forgery of documents on behalf of the
Trust without Plaintiffs’ knowledge, among other misconduct. Plaintiffs more
specifically describe the alleged unfair practices with specificity. (SAC ¶¶
151-154). Plaintiffs specifically allege how Defendants’ business practices
violate the Insurance Code and Civil Code. (SAC ¶ 157.) These allegations are
adequate to support  a UCL claim. 
      As defined by statute, “unfair competition”
includes “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200). Its purpose is to protect both consumers and
competitors by promoting fair competition in commercial markets for goods and
services.” (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores
California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th
1234, 1265). A plaintiff alleging unfair
business practices under the UCL must state with “reasonable particularity” the
facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619 [Where Plaintiff did not identify the statutory
scheme which was allegedly violated and the particular facts supporting the
violation]. However, “heightened pleading” normally required of fraud
allegations is not required to state a UCL claim. (Gutierrez at 1261
["Based on the foregoing, we conclude causes of action under the CLRA and
UCL must be stated with reasonable particularity which is a more lenient
pleading standard than is applied to common law fraud claims."]. 
      The UCL claim alleged here is predicated
on the fraud and fraud-related claims and are “tethered” to the UCL claim. (Gutierrez at 1265
["Virtually any statute or regulation (federal or state) can serve as a
predicate for a UCL unlawful practice cause of action."].) The UCL is
stated in the disjunctive; Plaintiff need only allege a claim that is unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent. Under Section 17200, a practice is prohibited as
‘unfair’ or ‘deceptive’ even if not ‘unlawful’ and vice versa.” (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)
      Schwartz correctly argues that a claim
under the UCL “is a separate equitable cause of action, and only restitution
and injunctive relief are available.  (Hodge
v. Superior Court (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 278, 284; State
Farm Fire & Casualty Co. v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1110.) While Schwartz takes issue with the allegation
that Plaintiffs lost money as a result of the misconduct, Plaintiffs are not
alleging monetary damages; that allegation is to support Plaintiffs’ standing
to sue under Section 17200, which requires that a UCL claim be prosecuted, in
relevant part, " by a person who has suffered injury in fact and has lost
money or property as a result of the unfair competition." (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17204, SAC ¶ 160.) 
      Any “monetary relief” is limited to
restitution and disgorgement as Schwartz argues and as  Plaintiffs have alleged. (SAC ¶ 162; Bank
of the West v. Superior Court
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 1254, 1266 ["The
only nonpunitive monetary relief available under the Unfair Business Practices
Act is the disgorgement of money that has been wrongfully obtained or, in the
language of the statute, an order “restor[ing] ... money ... which may have
been acquired by means of ... unfair competition."].) Plaintiffs allege
that Schwartz, among others would receive large commissions, believed to be in
the hundreds of thousands of dollars each per policy. (SAC ¶ 142.) Schwartz was
required to disclose the receipt of commissions, which he was not entitled to
collect, and failed to disclose. (SAC ¶ 185.)
3)    
Demurrer to the fourth cause of action for Intentional
infliction of emotional distress is OVERRULED.
      To
prevail on a claim for intentional infliction of emotional distress, a plaintiff
must allege facts showing (1) extreme and outrageous conduct with the intention
of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional
distress, (2) that plaintiff suffered severe or extreme emotional distress, and
(3) actual and proximate causation. (Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)
Behavior is considered sufficiently “outrageous” if defendant “(1) abuses a
relation or position which gives him power to damages the plaintiff’s interest;
(2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or
(3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are
likely to result in illness through mental distress.” (Agarwal
v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 946.)
      Defendant
argues that Schwartz’s alleged misconduct is not sufficiently outrageous to
support the claim. However, all of the fraud and fraud-related claims, which
includes allegations of forgery, survive demurrer and can support a jury’s
finding that such misconduct was sufficiently extreme and outrageous. If
reasonable minds may differ on whether a defendant’s conduct is sufficiently
outrageous “it is for the jury, subject to the control for the court, to
determine whether, in the particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently
extreme and outrageous to result in liability. (Alcorn
v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.) 
4)     Demurrer to the seventh
cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and 12th cause of
action for conspiracy to defraud is OVERRULED.
      Schwartz argues that Plaintiff cannot show
causation on the seventh and 12th causes of action which requires a
showing that but for Schwartz’s intentional misconduct, Plaintiffs would have
obtained a better result on their investment. (Dem 16:10-13.) First, at the
demurrer stage, the court is not concerned with whether Plaintiffs can prove
their claims. Plaintiffs need only allege sufficient facts that are the essential facts of the case "with
reasonable precision and with particularity that is sufficiently specific to
acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of
action.” (Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  Whether the
Plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant. (Stevens
v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) 
      Additionally, Schwartz mischaracterizes
the allegations; Plaintiffs allege that but for the false and misleading representations,
and material omissions, Plaintiffs would not have purchased the Policies had
they known of the true facts. (SAC ¶ 134.)
      Schwartz
acknowledges that the conspiracy to defraud depends on the fraud and
fraud-related claims, and since the fraud claims fail, so does the conspiracy
claim. (Dem. 17:11-17.) As explained above, Plaintiffs’ fraud claims are
sufficiently alleged and are sufficient to support the conspiracy claims. 
5)    
Demurrer to the 13th cause of
action for violation of Penal Code § 496 is OVERRULED.
      Schwartz
argues that since Plaintiffs have not alleged a claim for intentional
misconduct against Schwartz, there can be no claim for violation of Penal Code
§ 496. Plaintiffs allege that by perpetrating the premium finance scheme, Defendants
(including Schwartz) received large commissions and/or other funds that they
should not have received and “in fact stole” from Plaintiffs. (SAC ¶ 245.)
      Section
496 of the Penal Code is commonly referred to as receiving stolen property and
requires a showing that "(1) that the particular property was stolen, (2)
that the accused received, concealed or withheld it from the owner thereof, and
(3) that the accused knew that the property was stolen." (Finton
Construction, Inc. v. Bidna & Keys, APLC (2015) 238
Cal.App.4th 200, 213.” The elements required for civil liability
to attach “are simply that (i) property was stolen or obtained in a manner
constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the property was so stolen or
obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had possession of the stolen
property." (Switzer
v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
       The express language of the statute permits
statutory liability against every person who buys or receives any property that
has been stolen "or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in concealing,
selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the property to be
so stolen or obtained … .” (Pen.
Code, § 496.) Moreover, "the requisite possession
of the stolen property may be either actual or constructive, and need not be
exclusive. In fact, physical possession is not required, as it is sufficient if
the defendant acquires a measure of control or dominion over the stolen
property.” (In
re Anthony J. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 718, 728.)  
      Based
on the allegations previously identified above, this cause of action is well
stated. 
C.    
Schwartz’s motion to strike is GRANTED in
part and DENIED IN PART.
      Defendant
moves to strike the Plaintiffs’ allegations that she suffered damages as a
result of intentional fraud, fraudulent concealment, unfair business practices,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, professional negligence, breach
of fiduciary duty, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy to defraud, and for
violation of Penal Code § 496. 
      Schwartz
argues that Plaintiff Liu can only suffer emotional distress if the defendant
has assumed a duty to plaintiff in which the emotional condition of the
plaintiff is an object, and the emotional distress arises out of and is
proximately caused by the defendant's breach of some other legal duty, citing Potter
v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co, (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 985') for the
proposition that even then, with rare exceptions, a breach of the duty must
threaten physical injury, not simply damage to property or financial interests.
" (Mot.  to Strike, 14:5-10.)
Schwartz argues that Plaintiffs cannot recover emotional distress damages in
legal malpractice claims which asserts economic damage only. 
      Schwartz
contends that Plaintiffs bring suit for their lost investment, which is purely
economic, and emotional distress damages are not recoverable against an
attorney. (Mot.  to Strike 15:11-14.)
Plaintiffs do not address this contention. (Ovando
v. County of Los Angeles (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 42, 73 [“Emotional
distress damages ordinarily are not recoverable in a legal malpractice action
if the representation concerned primarily the client's economic interests and
the emotional injury derived from an economic loss.”.) Plaintiffs allege only
economic damage arising out of the alleged legal malpractice. (SAC ¶ 187.)
Therefore, the court GRANTS and STRIKES paragraph 188, which alleges emotional
distress damage. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
D.    
Schwartz’s motion to strike the claim for punitive
damages is DENIED. 
      Schwartz
argues that Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts to support a finding
of malice, fraud, or oppression. Exemplary
damages may be recovered if a plaintiff establishes “by clear and convincing
evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a).). The predicate acts to support a claim for
punitive damages must be intended to cause injury or must constitute fraud, or
“malicious” or “oppressive” conduct as defined by statute. (Civ. Code, §
3294 subd. (c)(1); College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.
      All of Plaintiffs’ fraud and fraud-related
claims survive demurrer and may serve as predicate acts to support recovery of
punitive damages. The motion to strike the claim for punitive damages is
DENIED. 
E.    
Motion to strike
the prayer for attorney’s fees is DENIED. 
      Defendant contends that Plaintiffs seek
recovery of attorney’s fees under Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.5, however,
Plaintiffs have no right to recover fees under that section.  Fees are recoverable if a party prevails in any
action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting
the public interest " (Code Civ. Proc., § 1021.5.)
      Defendant’s contention here is not
supported by any facts or legal argument and is therefore, unpersuasive.
(Mot.  to Strike 18:17-20.) Regardless, it
is not an abuse of discretion to refuse to strike a claim for attorney fees
where a plaintiff has not had a full opportunity to determine the basis for
such fees. (Camenisch v. Superior Court (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1689, 1699. Yassin v. Solis (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 524,
533) ["There is no requirement that a party plead
that it is seeking attorney fees, and there is no requirement that the ground
for a fee award be specified in the pleadings."].
IV.  
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, demurrer to the second amended complaint by Fernando Gonzalez and John Shin is
OVERRULED in its entirety. 
The
demurrer by Defendant, Marc J. Schwartz, is OVERRULED in its
entirety. The motion to strike portions of the second amended complaint by
Defendant, Mark J. Schwartz, is GRANTED in part only as to paragraph 188 seeking
emotional distress damages for the claim for legal malpractice. In all other
respects, the motion to strike is DENIED.
Leave to amend is ordinarily given if
there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured. However, Plaintiffs
did not address their ability to recover emotional distress damages
specifically for the legal malpractice claim, and therefore, leave to amend is
DENIED. (Association
of Community Organizations for Reform Now v. Department of Industrial Relations
(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 298, 302.
Defendants, Fernando Gonzalez, John Shin,
and Marc J. Schwartz, are ordered to file their respective answers to the
second amended complaint within 10 days. 