  Case Number:  23STCV28020    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  40 
23STCV28020 Erin Joyce dba Erin Joyce Law v. Derek Khanna
Monday,
 January 6, 2025
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE CONTEMPT.
 
I.       
FACTS
       Plaintiff
filed this action on November 15, 2023, alleging claims for breach of contract,
quantum meruit and a common count arising from Defendant’s alleged failure to pay
for Plaintiff’s services incurred to defend Defendant regarding State Bar
disciplinary charges. Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint FAC on February
13, 2024, which the Hon. Anne Richardson struck on April 18, 2024 for
Plaintiff’s failure to file proof of service of the FAC on Defendant. (M.O.
4/18/24.) 
       On
October 7, 2024, Judge Richardson granted Plaintiff’s motion to seal portions
of the complaint and FAC and ordered Plaintiff to file a redacted versions of
those pleadings within five court days of the court’s ruling at which time
Judge Richardson intended to file the redacted versions and seal the unredacted
versions. (M.O.
10/7/24.) 
       
II.   ARGUMENTS
       Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s filing of the unredacted complaint and the FAC is
contemptuous because both pleadings include misleading and defamatory allegations
made against Defendant which violates the attorney-client privilege. The
allegations are gratuitous as they have no relevance to Plaintiff’s contract
action. Plaintiff refused to take appropriate corrective action. After instructed
by the California State Bar’s Special Counsel, Plaintiff filed a “perfunctory”
motion to seal. Plaintiff failed to comply with Judge Richardson’s order.  Plaintiff acted intentionally to cause
Defendant harm, and Defendant continues to suffer harm because the pleadings
have not been redacted. Defendant failed to file proof of service of the FAC on
Defendant.  
       In
opposition, Plaintiff states she was unable to comply with Judge Richardson’s
order within the five- day limitation as she underwent two surgeries beginning
on October 6, 2024 to address an emergent health condition. After a week,
Plaintiff returned to California for a second surgery and remained hospitalized
for several days. Plaintiff could only work part-time while she recuperated in
November. Defendant refused to meet and confer. Plaintiff attempted to lodge
the redacted documents, and Defendant agreed to move the hearing date but then
refused to stipulate. Defendant violates Los Angeles County Court Civility
Guidelines. 
       Plaintiff
argues she moved forward in good faith, sought leave to seal the pleadings at
issue although she disagreed with Defendant in good faith, sought leave to file
a late opposition to this motion although the parties were diligently
attempting to settle the case, and diligently attempted to comply with the
order despite her illness. 
       In
reply filed December 27, 2024, Defendant argues that while he is sympathetic to
Plaintiff’s situation, Plaintiff waited 34 days to comply with the court’s
order. Plaintiff did not show good cause for delay. Defendant filed a
“sur-reply” on December 30, 2024, to add that although he stipulated to
continue this hearing date, Plaintiff contends the court rejected those
stipulations. The opposition was untimely filed. 
III.  DISCUSSION
       The
court has considered Plaintiff’s untimely opposition in favor of the strong policy favoring disposition of
the case on the merits. (Kapitanski
v. Von’s (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d
29, 32, [“Judges are well aware of the unnecessary burdens placed on courts and
counsel when strict compliance with local procedural rules results in the
expenditure of unnecessary time and money for the preparation of later section
473 motions.”].) Defendant has not shown any prejudice resulting from the delay.
Defendant was able to respond to the opposition with two written reply briefs,
all of which the court has considered.
       In
matters of indirect contempt, the court may issue a warrant of commitment upon
an order to show cause. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1212.) After notice to the opposing party’s counsel, and if
the court is satisfied with the sufficiency of the affidavit, the court “must
sign an order to show cause re contempt in which the date and time for a
hearing are set forth. (§ 1212; Arthur v. Superior Court (1965) 62 Cal.2d 404,
408, [‘an order to show cause must be issued’]; Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 1999) § 9:715, p.
9(II)–47.) The order to show cause acts as a summons to appear in
court on a certain day and, as its name suggests, to show cause why a certain
thing should not be done." (Cedars-Sinai
Imaging Medical Group v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1286.) 
       “Disobedience
of any lawful judgment, order, or process of the court” is punishable by
contempt. The facts essential to a court’s jurisdiction over contempt
proceedings are “(1) the making of the order; (2) knowledge of the order; (3)
ability of the respondent to render compliance, (4) willful disobedience of the
order." (Van
v. LanguageLine Solutions (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 73, 81.)
       Defendant
has not shown that Plaintiff’s conduct constituted willful disobedience of
Judge Richardson’s order. Plaintiff’s emergent medical condition occurred on
October 5, 2024, the day before the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to seal.
(Carolin K. Shining decl., ¶ 6.) She was transferred from an emergency room to
McLaren Hospital in Pontiac, Michigan (where Plaintiff was caring for her mother).
(Id. ¶¶ 5, 7-9.) While Plaintiff had a colleague review her
incoming mail, he did not see the due date in the October 7 order. (Id.
¶ 12.)   Plaintiff returned to California to undergo a
second surgery and hospitalization. (Id. ¶ 15-16.) Given the
seriousness of Plaintiff’s medical condition, it cannot be said that Plaintiff
had the ability to render compliance or that her failure to do so was willful. 
       After
her convalescence, on November 18, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to lodge the
redacted pleadings as ordered by the court but was unable to do so, even with
the assistance of Onelegal, a third-party filing entity. (Id.
at ¶¶ 23, 28). At the same time Plaintiff was obligated to file
oppositions to this motion, Defendant’s demurrer, all while engaging in global
settlement negotiations, and also obtaining Defendant’s agreement to a
stipulation to continue the motion. (Id. at ¶¶ 34, 38).
       The
confluence of these events over the holiday period does not constitute “willful
disobedience” sufficient to give the court jurisdiction over a contempt
proceeding. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion is DENIED. 
 
       