  Case Number:  21STCV03715    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of
California
County of Los Angeles
Department 26



 
SUSAN
  HOPKINS, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
General
  motors, llc, et al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  21STCV03715
 
  Hearing Date:  April 5, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
defendant’s motion for summary adjudication 



 
Procedural
Background
On January 29, 2023, Plaintiffs Susan Hopkins and Jason Hopkins (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed the instant lemon law action against Defendant General
Motors LLC (“Defendant”) arising out of the purchase of
a Certified Pre-Owned 2013 Chevrolet Cruze. On August 18, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant. The FAC
asserts six causes of action for (1) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2)
Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code §
1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express Written Warranty; (5) Breach of the Implied
Warranty of Merchantability, and (6) Fraud by Omission.
            On September 30, 2022, Defendant initially
filed the instant motion for summary adjudication directed at the first five
causes of action of the FAC.  Thereafter,
on September 29, 2023, Defendant filed a renewed motion for summary
adjudication directed at the same causes of action. The only difference between
these two motions is that the most recent motion omits reference to the Subject
Vehicle’s repair history.  Because both
motions assert the same arguments and are substantially similar in form, the
Court shall treat both filings as one. 
On December 21,
2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  On
December 28, 2023, Defendant filed a reply.
On January 17,
2024, the instant motions came for a hearing, and the parties stipulated to the
following: “(1) continue Defendant's motion for summary adjudication to April
5, 2024 (by which date the California Supreme Court will hopefully have decided
the Rodriguez decision); (2) continue the trial to May 13, 2024 at 9:30 am; (3)
continue the FSC to 4/30/24 at 9:00 am; (4) continue discovery and motion
cut-off deadlines with the new trial date; and (5) file a stipulation no later
than March 29, 2024 attaching any decision from the Supreme Court in the [Rodriguez
v. FCA US, LLC, No. E073766, 77 Cal.App.5th 209, review granted July 13,
2022] and indicating that the parties are ready to proceed with the motion for
summary adjudication hearing on 4/5/24.” (January 29, 2024 Minute Order at pg.
1.)
As of April 2,
2024, the parties have not filed a joint stipulation regarding any decision
from the California Supreme Court in Rodriguez or their readiness to
proceed on the merits of the motion. Based on their failure to abide by the
Court’s prior order, the Court shall proceed on the merits of Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication.
 
Allegations of the
Operative Complaint
The FAC alleges
as follows: 
On January 24,
2016, Plaintiffs purchased a 2013 Chevrolet Cruze, vehicle identification
number 1G1PC5SB4D7109746 (“Subject Vehicle”) that was manufactured and/or
distributed by Defendant. (FAC ¶ 6.) It is alleged that Plaintiffs purchased
the Subject Vehicle from Wittmeier Chevrolet. (Ibid.) The purchase of
the Subject Vehicle was accompanied by express warranties by which Defendant
“undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of Plaintiff’s
vehicle or provide compensation if there was a failure in such utility or
performance.”  (Id. at ¶ 7.)  During the warranty period, the Subject
Vehicle contained or developed various defects that substantially impaired its
use, value, or safety. (Id. at ¶ 8.) With regard to the defect in the
cooling system, the Subject Vehicle has experienced issues with large oil
leaks, a rough idle when the A/C is on, metal in the transmission fluid, fluid
leaks, and corrosion in the ignition coil assembly. (FAC ¶¶ 36-44.) Due to
recalls, internal pre- and postproduction testing, and consumer complaints,
Defendant had superior and exclusive knowledge of the Cooling System Defect.
(FAC ¶¶ 13-30.) However, Defendant failed to disclose the Cooling System Defect
to Plaintiffs at the time of sale. (FAC ¶ 18.)
Because of the
defects relating to the Subject Vehicle’s engine and/or cooling system,
Plaintiffs presented it to Defendant’s authorized repair facilities on multiple
occasions, but the defects persisted. (Id. at ¶¶ 9, 36-45.) Thereafter, Defendant
failed to replace the Subject Vehicle or make restitution.  (Id. ¶ 18.)  
 
Request for
Judicial Notice
            In
conjunction with the opposition, Plaintiff requests that the Court take
judicial notice of the legislative history for the 2007 addition of section
1795.8 of the California Civil Code.
            As
the Court may take judicial notice of actions of the State, Plaintiff’s
unopposed request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code §
452(c).
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff objects
to two portions of the declaration of Alexandria O. Pappas.  The Court overrules these objections in their
entirety.
            
Undisputed
Material Facts
            As a procedural issue, it is noted
that Plaintiff’s responsive separate statement does not comply with California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(f)(2). While Plaintiffs has disputed many of
Defendant’s material facts, Plaintiffs’ responses fail to provide the nature of
the dispute. Instead, Plaintiffs’ responses either amount to legal conclusion
or legal argument regarding certain warranties. Thus, because these responses
are insufficient, the Court finds that the following material facts are
undisputed:
“The vehicle at issue is a model year 2013
Chevrolet Cruze, VIN 1G1PC5SB4D7109746 (the ‘Cruze’).”  (Undisputed Material Fact “UMF” 1.)  
            “Plaintiffs [] bought the Cruze used
with 60,942 miles on January 24, 2016, from Ed Wittmeier Ford, Inc. in Chico,
California.”  (UMF 2.)  “Ed
Wittmeier Ford, Inc. is not currently a [Defendant]-authorized dealership, nor
was Ed Wittmeier Ford, Inc. a [Defendant]-authorized dealership in January
2016.”  (UMF 3.)  “[Defendant] was not a party to the
transaction between Plaintiffs and Ed Wittmeier Ford, Inc.”  (UMF 4.) 

“Plaintiffs were not the Cruze’s original
owners; the Cruze was originally delivered to its original owner on October 14,
2012, with 14 miles on its odometer.” (UMF No. 5.) “In connection with the
Cruze’s delivery to its original owner, [Defendant] issued a New Vehicle
Limited Warranty (the “Warranty”) with bumper-to-bumper coverage for the
earlier of 36 months or 36,000 miles and powertrain coverage for the earlier of
60 months or 100,000 miles.” (UMF No. 6.) “By its terms, the [Defendant]
Warranty’s bumper-to-bumper coverage would expire on either October 14, 2015,
or at 36,014 miles—whichever occurred first, and its powertrain coverage would
expire on either October 14, 2017, or at 100,014 miles—whichever occurred
first.” (UMF No. 7.) “[Defendant] did not issue or provide any new or
additional warranty coverage to Plaintiffs or the vehicle when they bought the
Cruze used in January 2016; Plaintiffs received only the balance of coverage
remaining under the Warranty that [Defendant] had issued back in October 2012.
(UMF No. 8.) “When Plaintiffs bought the Cruze, the bumper-to-bumper coverage
had expired, and it had the lesser of 21 months or 39,072 miles of powertrain
coverage left.” (UMF No. 9.)
 
Legal
Standard
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial.  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(c) “requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or to
establish a defense.  (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
“If the defendant meets this burden, then
the burden of production shifts to the plaintiff to establish the existence of
a triable issue of material fact. 
[Citation.]”  (Donohue v. AMN Services, LLC (2018) 29
Cal.App.5th 1068, 1077.)  “A triable issue of material fact may not be created by
speculation or a ‘stream of conjecture and surmise.’  [Citations.] 
Instead, the plaintiff must produce ‘substantial responsive
evidence.’  [Citation.]”  (Miller
v. Fortune Commercial Corp. (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 214, 221.)  “There is a
triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a
reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party
opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof. 
[Citation.]’  [Citation.]”  (Gabrielle
A. v. County of Orange (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1268, 1282.)
 
Discussion
 
A.    Fifth
Cause of Action: Song -Beverly Consumer Warranty Act: Breach of Implied
Warranty
            Defendant contends that the second
cause of action for breach of implied warranty fails because Defendant is not
liable for the implied warranty as the Subject Vehicle was a used vehicle. 
            “[E]very sale of consumer goods that
are sold at retail in this state shall be accompanied by the manufacturer's and
the retail seller's implied warranty that the goods are merchantable.”  (Civ. Code, § 1792; see also Civ. Code,
§ 1791.1.)  “ ‘“Consumer goods” means any
new product or part thereof that is used, bought, or leased for use
primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, except for clothing and
consumables.’ (§ 1791, italics added.)” 
(Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 339.)  
            “The Song-Beverly Act provides
similar remedies in the context of the sale of used goods, except that the
manufacturer is generally off the hook: ‘Notwithstanding the provisions of
subdivision (a) of Section 1791 defining consumer goods to mean “new” goods,
the obligation of a distributor or retail seller of used consumer goods in a
sale in which an express warranty is given shall be the same as that imposed on
manufacturers under this chapter except: [¶] (a) It shall be the obligation of
the distributor or retail seller making express warranties with respect to used
consumer goods (and not the original manufacturer, distributor, or retail
seller making express warranties with respect to such goods when new) to
maintain sufficient service and repair facilities within this state to carry
out the terms of such express warranties.’ (§ 1795.5, subd. (a).)”  (Kiluk, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p.339.)  “[T]he assumption baked into section 1795.5
is that the manufacturer and the distributor/retailer are distinct entities.
Where the manufacturer sells directly to the public, however, it takes on the
role of a retailer.”  (Kiluk, supra, 43
Cal.App.5th at p.340.)  Thus, “in the
sale of used consumer goods, liability for breach of implied warranty lies with
distributors and retailers, not the manufacturer, where there is no evidence
the manufacturer played any role in the sale of the used car to plaintiff.”  (Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 385, 398.)  
 
                          
i.         
Defendant’s Moving Burden
            “[T]he pleadings determine the scope
of relevant issues on a summary judgment motion.” (Nieto v. Blue Shield of
California Life & Health Ins. Co. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 60, 74.) On a
motion for summary judgment, or adjudication, a defendant need only “negate
plaintiff's theories of liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a
moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not
included in the pleadings.” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Company (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493; see also Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, 99 Fn. 4. [“[a] defendant moving for
summary judgment need address only the issues raised by the complaint; the
plaintiff cannot bring up new, unpleaded issues in his or her opposing
papers.”].)  Moreover, allegations of the
complaint may be presented as judicial admissions by the opposition party on
summary judgment.  (24 Hour Fitness,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1199, 1211, [“Although a
party cannot rely on its own pleadings on summary judgment, a party seeking or
opposing summary judgment under these circumstances can rely on admissions of
material fact made in the opposing party's pleadings.”].)
            Here, Plaintiffs concede in the
complaint that the Subject Vehicle was purchased on January 24, 2016.  (Complaint ¶ 6; UMF 1.)  The purchase agreement produced by Plaintiff
to Defendant in discovery shows that Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle
used with 60,942 miles on the odometer from Ed Wittmeier Ford in Chico,
California.  (Pappas
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A [Sales Contract]; UMF 2.) 
This evidence refutes the allegation that Plaintiffs purchased the
Subject Vehicle from Wittmeier Chevrolet. (FAC ¶ 6.) Therefore, as the Subject
Vehicle was purchased by Plaintiffs as a used vehicle, only the
distributor/retailer can be liable for a breach of express warranty.  (Nunez, supra, 61 Cal.App.5th at p.398.)
            Pursuant to the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act, “[a] seller or retailer is an entity ‘that engages in
the business of selling or leasing consumer goods to retail buyers.’ (§ 1791,
subd. (l).)”  (Nunez, supra, 61
Cal.App.5th at p.398.)  Therefore, Defendant
is not the retailer as it did not sell the Subject Vehicle to Plaintiff and is
not listed as a party to the sale.  (Pappas
Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A [Sales Contract]; UMF 4.)
            Under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act, “[a] manufacturer is an entity ‘that manufactures, assembles, or
produces consumer goods.’ (§ 1791, subd. (j).)” 
(Nunez, supra, 61 Cal.App.5th at p.398.)  In contrast, “[a] distributor is an entity
‘that stands between the manufacturer and the retail seller in
purchases, consignments, or contracts for sale of consumer goods.’ (§ 1791,
subd. (e).)”  (Nunez, supra, 61
Cal.App.5th at p.398 [Italics Added].) 
Thus, under the Song-Beverly Act a distributor must be a distinct entity
that is separate from the manufacturer and retailer.  Therefore, as Defendant is not the retailer of
the Subject Vehicle, Defendant could only be liable for breach of the implied
warranty as the distributor.  Further, as
a distributor must be a separate entity from the manufacturer, Defendant also
cannot be the manufacturer.  (See Ibid.)

            While Defendant fails to directly provide
any evidence that it was not a distributor or that it was the manufacturer, the
complaint concedes as such.  (24 Hour
Fitness, Inc., supra, 66 Cal.App.4th at p.1211.)  Under the second cause of action for breach
of Civil Code § 1793.2(b), Plaintiff claims that Defendant’s authorized
dealerships failed to repair the Subject Vehicle to conform with the warranties
within 30 days.  (Complaint ¶¶ 66-69.)  A claim under Civil Code § 1793.2 can only be
made against the manufacturer.  (See
Civ. Code, § 1793.2, [“Every manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this
state and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty shall: …”],
[italics added].)  
            Therefore, as conceded by the
complaint, Defendant is the manufacturer, and as the distributor must stand as
an entity between the manufacturer and retailer, Defendant cannot also be the
distributor.  (Civ. Code, § 1791(e).) As
Defendant is not the retailer or distributor of the Subject Vehicle and the
Subject Vehicle was purchased used, Defendant is not liable under the
Song-Beverly Act for breach of implied warranty.  (Nunez, supra, 61 Cal.App.5th at p.398.)  Accordingly, Defendant meets its burden in
showing that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law as to the fifth
cause of action.
            
                        
ii.         
Plaintiff’s Opposing Burden
            In opposition, Plaintiffs does not
dispute that the Subject Vehicle was purchased used.   Further,
“[Plaintiff] present[s] no evidence that [Defendant] was ‘a distributor or
retail seller of used consumer goods’ (§ 1795.5), or in any way acted as
such.”  (Nunez, supra, 61
Cal.App.5th at p.399.)  Instead,
Plaintiffs argue that privity is not required between the plaintiff and
manufacturer/distributor in order to maintain an implied warranty claim under
the Song-Beverly Act. (Opposition at pg. 16.) They maintain that because the
pertinent warranties are transferrable, then Defendant’s duties as manufacturer
continue post transfer. (Ibid., relying on 
Kiluk,
supra,
43 Cal.App.5th at p.340 fn. 4.) It I evident that Plaintiffs further concede
that Defendant was a manufacturer, not a distributor. As a result, Plaintiffs
have failed to meet their burden in showing that there is a triable issue of
material fact that Defendant is liable under the Song-Beverly Act for breach of
implied warranty in connection with the sale of the used Subject Vehicle.
            Accordingly, as Plaintiff fails to
show a triable issue of fact, Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication of
the fifth cause of action is GRANTED.
 
B.    First
through Fourth Causes of Action: Violations of Civil Code § 1793.2 and Breach
of Express Warranty.
            Defendant asserts that the first through
fourth causes of action for violations of Civil Code § 1793.2 and breach of
express warranty under the Song-Beverly Act fail because the Subject Vehicle
was purchased used and no express warranty was issued by Defendant at the time
of sale.
            “The Song–Beverly Act is a remedial
statute designed to protect consumers who have purchased products covered by an
express warranty.”  (Robertson v.
Fleetwood Travel Trailers of California, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 785,
798.)  The Song-Beverly Act requires that
“[e]very manufacturer of consumer goods sold in this state and for which the
manufacturer has made an express warranty shall: [¶] (1)(A) Maintain in this
state sufficient service and repair facilities reasonably close to all areas
where its consumer goods are sold to carry out the terms of those warranties or
designate and authorize in this state as service and repair facilities independent
repair or service facilities reasonably close to all areas where its consumer
goods are sold to carry out the terms of the warranties.”  (Civ. Code, § 1793.2(a).)  Pursuant to Civil Code section 1793(b), an
authorized repair facility must repair the goods to conform to the express
warranties within 30 days.  (Civ. Code, §
1793.2(b).)
            For motor vehicles specifically, “[i]f
the manufacturer or its representative in this state is unable to service or
repair a new motor vehicle, as that term is defined in paragraph (2) of
subdivision (e) of Section 1793.22, to conform to the applicable express
warranties after a reasonable number of attempts, the manufacturer shall either
promptly replace the new motor vehicle in accordance with subparagraph
(A) or promptly make restitution to the buyer in accordance with subparagraph
(B).”  (Civ. Code, § 1793.2(d)(2). (emphasis
added.) 
            For purposes of Civil Code section
1793.2(d), the term “‘[n]ew motor vehicle’ means a new motor vehicle that is
bought or used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes. ‘New
motor vehicle’ also means a new motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight under
10,000 pounds that is bought or used primarily for business purposes by a
person, including a partnership, limited liability company, corporation,
association, or any other legal entity, to which not more than five motor
vehicles are registered in this state. ‘New motor vehicle’ includes the
chassis, chassis cab, and that portion of a motor home devoted to its
propulsion, but does not include any portion designed, used, or maintained
primarily for human habitation, a dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or
other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty but does
not include a motorcycle or a motor vehicle which is not registered under the
Vehicle Code because it is to be operated or used exclusively off the highways.
A demonstrator is a vehicle assigned by a dealer for the purpose of
demonstrating qualities and characteristics common to vehicles of the same or
similar model and type.”  (Civ. Code, §
1793.22(e)(2), [italics added].)
            As noted above, “[t]he Song-Beverly
Act provides similar remedies in the context of the sale of used goods, except
that the manufacturer is generally off the hook: ‘Notwithstanding the
provisions of subdivision (a) of Section 1791 defining consumer goods to mean
“new” goods, the obligation of a distributor or retail seller of used consumer
goods in a sale in which an express warranty is given shall be the same as that
imposed on manufacturers under this chapter except: [¶] (a) It shall be the
obligation of the distributor or retail seller making express warranties with
respect to used consumer goods (and not the original manufacturer, distributor,
or retail seller making express warranties with respect to such goods when new)
to maintain sufficient service and repair facilities within this state to carry
out the terms of such express warranties.’ (§ 1795.5, subd. (a).)”  (Kiluk, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p.339.)
            The facts here are clear.  On January 24, 2016, Plaintiffs purchased the
Subject Vehicle used with 66,942 miles on the odometer from Ed Wittmeier Ford,
Inc. in Chico, California.  (Pappas Decl.
¶ 3, Exh. A [Sales Contract]; UMF 2.)  Plaintiffs
were not the original owner who obtained the vehicle on October 14, 2012.  (Pappas Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B [Vehicle Delivery
Information Report]; UMF 5.)  In
connection with the delivery to the original owner of the Subject Vehicle, the
Subject Vehicle was accompanied by a New Vehicle Limited Warranty issued by
Defendant with bumper-to-bumper coverage for the earlier of 36 months or 36,000
miles and powertrain coverage for the earlier of 60 months or 60,000 miles.  (Pappas Decl. ¶¶ 5-6, Exh. C [Warranty
Booklet at pp.2, 4], Exh. D [Global Warranty View Vehicle Summary Report]; UMF 6.)  Thus, the warranty relating to the
bumper-to-bumper coverage would expire on either October 14, 2015 or at 36,014,
which ever occurred earlier. (Pappas Decl. at ¶¶ 5-6 Exh. C [Warranty Booklet
at pp.2, 4], Exh. D [Global Warranty View Vehicle Summary Report]; UMF 7.)
Similarly, the warranty concerning the powertrain coverage would expire either
on October 14, 2017 or at 100,014 miles, which ever occurred earlier. (Ibid.)

The only express warranty issued by
Defendant at issue is the original new vehicle warranty that was issued in
October 2012 with the original purchase of the Subject Vehicle.  (Pappas Decl. ¶¶ 3-7, Exhs. A, C, D; UMF 8.)  When Plaintiffs purchased the Subject Vehicle
on January 24, 2016, the bumper-to-bumper coverage had expired, and the
powertrain coverage had the lesser of 21 moths or 39,072 miles. (Ibid.;
UMF 9.) Thus, the question at issue is whether the Subject Vehicle with some
balance remaining on the manufacturer’s express warranty is covered by the
Song-Beverly Act.  
            In Jensen v. BMW of North
America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, the plaintiff, in response to a
newspaper ad offering leases of “BMW demonstrators,” leased a motor vehicle
that had 7,565 miles on its odometer.  (Id.
at p.119.)  “The salesman told [the
plaintiff] the car had been used as a demonstrator for the dealership. He also
said she would get the 36,000–mile warranty on top of the miles already on the
car, and gave her the warranty booklet. The dealer wrote ‘factory demo’ on the
credit application.”  (Ibid.)  However, the salesman was wrong as the car
was not in fact a demonstrator as it had been previously owned by the BMW
Leasing Corporation.  (Id. at
p.120.)  The Third District Court of
Appeal concluded that the plaintiff’s car was a “new motor vehicle” for
purposes of the act.  (Id. at
pp.121-124.)  In relevant part, the Third
District Court of Appeal found that the phrase “or other motor vehicle sold
with a manufacturer's new car warranty” in Civil Code section
1793.22(e)(2) included “cars sold with a balance remaining on the
manufacturer's new motor vehicle warranty are included within its definition of
“new motor vehicle.” (Jensen, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p.123.)
            In Rodriguez v. FAC US, LLC (2022)
77 Cal.App.5th 209, the Fourth District Court of Appeal similarly considered whether
the words, “or other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car
warranty,” in Civil Code section 1793.22(e), covers the sale of previously
owned vehicles with some balance remaining on the manufacturer's express
warranty.  There the plaintiffs purchased
a two-year-old used car from a used car dealership which “had over 55,000 miles
on it and, though the manufacturer's basic warranty had expired, the limited
powertrain warranty had not.”  (Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p.215.)  In
contrast to Jensen, the Fourth District Court of Appeal in Rodriguez
concluded it did not and that “the phrase ‘other motor vehicles sold with a
manufacturer's new car warranty’ refers to cars sold with a full warranty, not
to previously sold cars accompanied by some balance of the original warranty.”  (Rodriguez, supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at p.225.)  In distinguishing Jensen, the Fourth District
Court of Appeal in Rodriguez noted that:
            Jensen involved a lease by
a manufacturer-affiliated dealer who issued a full new car warranty
along with the lease. The issue was whether the leased car qualified as a “new
motor vehicle” under the Act. Plaintiff had learned of the car through a
newspaper ad offering leases of “BMW demonstrators.” (Jensen, supra, 35
Cal.App.4th at p. 119.) When she arrived at the dealership—a BMW-authorized
dealership—the car had 7,565 miles on its odometer. The salesperson told her
this was because it had previously been used by BMW as a demonstrator. The
plaintiff agreed to lease the car and the salesperson gave her BMW's
36,000-mile warranty “on top” of the miles already on the odometer. (Ibid.)
As it turned out, the salesperson was wrong and the car was not in fact a
demonstrator; it had been previously owned by the BMW Leasing Corporation and
registered in New Jersey.
            BMW tried to use that fact to its
advantage in court, arguing the car didn't qualify as a “new motor vehicle”
because it wasn't in fact a demonstrator. BMW argued that the car didn't
qualify as “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty”
because the category “clarifies the word ‘demonstrator’ and is not intended as
a separate category.” (Jensen, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 122.) The
court rejected BMW's position and concluded the car qualified as a new vehicle
because BMW's representative issued a new car warranty with the lease. (Ibid.)
The court also rejected BMW's interpretation of the phrase “other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty,” reasoning that the phrase
referred to “cars sold with a balance remaining on the manufacturer's new motor
vehicle warranty.” (Id. at p. 123.) Plaintiffs seize on this statement
to argue their interpretation is correct.
            Though we think Jensen was
correctly decided, we agree with Dagher that its statement about “the
Act's coverage for subsequent purchasers of vehicles with a balance remaining
on the express warranty must be read in light of the facts then before the
court and are limited in that respect.” (Dagher v. Ford Motor Co. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 905, 923,.) Given that those facts included a car leased with a
full manufacturer's warranty issued by the manufacturer's
representative, the court was not asked to decide whether a used car with an
unexpired warranty sold by a third party reseller qualifies as a “new motor
vehicle.”
            Dagher is not the only
opinion to question Jensen's statement about express warranties. In Kiluk,
the court expressed “reservations” about the statement because it implied that
“a car accompanied by a 20-year warranty” would qualify as a “new motor
vehicle” if it were purchased used “on year 18.” (Kiluk, supra, 43
Cal.App.5th at p. 340, fn. 4.) Kiluk questioned the wisdom of an
approach that considered “every car sold with any portion of a new-vehicle
warranty remaining” to be a new motor vehicle, and stated it was more likely
the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty”
refers to “cars originally sold with a new motor vehicle warranty, not
subsequent sales.” (Ibid.)
            We agree with Kiluk on this
point. In other words, we agree with Jensen's holding but not all of its
reasoning. And the holding hurts, not helps, plaintiffs' argument. BMW's
attempt to avoid liability by claiming the vehicle wasn't actually a
demonstrator exemplifies the need for a catchall provision covering any
not-previously-sold car accompanied by a full new car warranty.
(Rodriguez,
supra, 77 Cal.App.5th at pp.223–224.)
            In the instant action, Plaintiff
claims that the Court should decline to follow the reasoning in Rodriguez
as the California Supreme Court has granted review and Rodriguez is no longer
binding authority.  (Opposition at pp.
7-8.)  
However, that disregards the Supreme
Court’s granting of review holding that Rodriguez could be cited not only for
persuasive value but for establishing the existence of a conflict of
authority.  In granting review of
Rodriguez, the Supreme Court denied the requests for an order directing
depublication of the opinion and stated:
Pending review, the opinion of the Court
of Appeal, which is currently published at 77 Cal.App.5th 209 [___ Cal.Rptr.3d
___], may be cited, not only for its persuasive value, but also for the limited
purpose of establishing the existence of a conflict in authority that would in
turn allow trial courts to exercise discretion under Auto Equity Sales, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456 [20 Cal. Rptr. 321, 369 P.2d
937], to choose between sides of any such conflict. (See Standing Order
Exercising Authority Under California Rules of Court, Rule 8.1115(e)(3), Upon
Grant of Review or Transfer of a Matter with an Underlying Published Court of
Appeal Opinion, Administrative Order 2021-04-21; Cal. Rules of Court, rule
8.1115(e)(3) and corresponding Comment, par. 2.)
The requests for an order directing
depublication of the opinion are denied. 
(Rodriguez
v. FCA US, LLC (July 13, 2022) 512 P.3d 654.) 
In fact, trial courts are permitted to
“follow a published review-granted Court of Appeal opinion, even if that
opinion conflicts with a published, precedential Court of Appeal opinion.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.1115, Adv. Comm. Comment to Subd. (e)(3).) 
            Despite previously continuing the
hearing in order to allow for sufficient time for the Supreme Court to render
its opinion regarding Rodriguez, no such opinion has been issued. Thus,
the Court shall proceed on the merits because there does appear to be a
conflict of authority and the reasoning in Rodriguez is more persuasive.

Unlike in Jensen, the evidence
shows that the Subject Vehicle was sold by Ed Wittmeier Ford, Inc., and this
entity is not one of Defendant’s manufacturer-affiliated dealers. (Pappas Decl.
¶ 3, Exh. A; UMFs 2-4.) In fact, Plaintiffs’ warranty claims are based on the
used car purchase, which had an unexpired warranty. (Pappas Decl. ¶¶ 3-7, Exhs.
A, C, D; UMF 9.)  Plaintiffs fail to
present any evidence to suggest that Ed Wittmeier Ford, Inc. extended the
express and implied warranties to Plaintiff. (See Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at 223, citing Johnson v. Nissan N.Am., Inc. (N.D.
Cal. 2017) 272 F.Supp.3d 1168, 1179.)  Therefore, the limited
holding set forth in Jensen does not apply, and the Court finds that Rodriguez
is dispositive. 
Plaintiff’s reliance on Dagher v. Ford
Motor Co. (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 905 for the proposition that
Song-Beverly Act applies to all vehicles purchased from a retail seller is not
accurate. In Dagher, the Court of Appeal did not expressly state that
the protections of Song-Beverly Act are applied to all retail sellers. In order
for the Act to apply, a vehicle must be purchased from a retail seller. (Id.
 at 922-924.) Dagher further
acknowledges that the Act treats the purchase of used vehicles differently,
and for the act to apply, an express warranty must be given. (Id. at
921.) Moreover, the decision noted that “the Act’s coverage for subsequent
purchasers of vehicles with a balance remaining on the express warranty must be
read in light of the facts…and are limited in that respect.” (Id. at
923.) Therefore, Rodriguez does not conflict with Dagher. 
Plaintiff appeals to the remedial and
pro-consumer policies of the Song-Beverly Act in asserting that Rodriguez improperly
limits the scope of the Act. (Opposition at pp. 14-16.) However, “[courts] must
interpret the language of the statute as it has been written, not as it might
have been drafted had the Legislature contemplated and chosen to address the
specific concerns of [other consumers].” (Cummins, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 36
Cal.4th 478, 493.) As stated in Dagher, determinations of whether the
Song-Beverly Act’s warranty protections apply in a given circumstance is fact
intensive. (Dagher supra, 238 Cal. App. 4th at 923.) Thus, Rodriguez’s
interpretation that the protection under the Act is only afforded to vehicles
sold with a new express warranty is not necessarily inconsistent with the Act’s
remedial purpose. After all, the Song-Beverly Act “regulates warranty terms,
imposes service and repair obligations on manufacturers, distributors, and
retailers who make express warranties. . . . (Id. at 926.)
Accordingly, because Rodriguez is
dispositive, there are no triable issues of material fact that Plaintiffs
purchased a new motor vehicle with a full manufacturer’s warranty, Defendant’s
motion for summary adjudication of the first through fourth causes of action is
GRANTED. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant General Motors, LLC’s motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED in its entirety.
Moving Party is to give notice and filed
proof of service of such.
 
DATED: April ___, 2024                                                       ___________________________
                                                                                          Yolanda
Orozco
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court