  Case Number:  22VECV00452    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  W MELINDA
BONENE V. ASHKAN KERAKHSHAN
 
DEFENDANT KERAKHSHAN’S
MOTION TO VACATE TRIAL AND FOR OTHER RELIEF 
 
Date of Hearing:        March
8, 2024                                               Trial Date:       March 15, 2024
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        22VECV00452
 
Moving Party:            Defendant

Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Bonene 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action for breach of contract, defamation and invasion
of privacy brought by a tenant against her former landlord.  The case has been pending since March 30,
2022.  Trial was set on October 28, 2022
for June 12, 2023 and then continued multiple times to its current date of
March 15, 2024. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
The request to vacate the trial date is denied; request to
file a cross-complaint is denied.
 
DISCUSSION
 
At any time during the
course of the lawsuit, the court retains power to permit the
defendant to file a compulsory cross-complaint. Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50. Where the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
plaintiff’s claim, leave to file must be granted as long as defendant is acting
in good faith. Id. (specifying that the court “shall” grant leave as long as
defendant is acting in “good faith”); see also, Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98–99 (noting that, even on the “eve of trial,”
leave to file compulsory cross-complaint is mandatory absent bad faith).
 
            The court
finds no good cause to grant the request to vacate the trial date seven days
prior to trial so as to allow defendant to file a cross-complaint.  Defendant has been aware of this case and the
pending trial date for over a year but has taken no steps to seek leave to file
a cross-complaint.  Instead, he has taken
meritless actions to try to delay the trial, including filing an untimely
challenge to this court and pursuing a baseless appeal.  There is no justification for the defendant’s
delay in bringing a cross-complaint, when he was aware of whatever grievances
he may have had with plaintiff from the very outset of this litigation.  The court finds this request to be made in
bad faith, in order to prejudice plaintiff and cause her further expense and
delay in resolving this matter.   
 