 Case Number:  23VECV00538    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  W WESLEY SU v.
AVANTGARDE SENIOR LIVING
 
Demurrer with
motion to strike to the second amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        March
8, 2024                                   Trial
Date:       None Set.
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV00538
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
AvantGarde Senior Living dba AvantGarde Senior Living of Tarzana 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Wesley Su  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Dayal Decl. ¶¶2-3.)   
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff Wesley
Su filed a complaint against Defendant AvantGarde Senior Living dba AvantGarde
Senior Living of Tarzana for (1) Negligence; (2) Violations of The Elder and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act [Welf. & Instit. Code §15600 Et Seq.];
(3) Violations of Resident Rights [Health & Safety Code §1430(B)]; and (4)
Wrongful Death. Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on July 14, 2023, removing
the third cause of action for Violations of Resident Rights. Plaintiff filed a
second amended complaint on November 27, 2023. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant AvantGarde Senior Living dba
AvantGarde Senior Living of Tarzana’s Demurrer is OVERRULED; the Motion to
Strike is GRANTED, in part. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant AvantGarde Senior Living dba
AvantGarde Senior Living of Tarzana demurs to Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint on the grounds the Second Cause of Action for Elder Abuse pursuant to
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15600 et. seq. fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
 
Defendant AvantGarde argues while
Plaintiff has included new allegations in the SAC, Plaintiff still fails to set
forth particularized factual allegations demonstrating any recklessly
neglectful conduct on the part of this Defendant’s staff relative to the care and
treatment provided to Decedent which caused or contributed to Decedent’s
claimed injuries. Defendant AvantGardge further contends this is not an elder
abuse case. This case is, at best, about whether this Defendant was negligent
in providing care and services to Decedent. The fact that Decedent was a
resident of a residential care facility for the elderly does not automatically
create a cause of action for elder abuse. 
 
The court finds the new allegations
sufficient to support a claim for elder abuse for the purposes of a demurrer. Plaintiffs
have sufficiently alleged AvantGarde denied or withheld goods or services
necessary to meet Mr. Wang’s basic needs by allowing Mr. Wang on several
occasions to stand from a chair and ambulate on his own, which was contrary to
the protocols put in place to prevent him from falling. Moreover, the amended
complaint sufficiently alleges Defendant’s conduct arose to the level of
recklessness. “Recklessness involves ‘”deliberate disregard” of the “high
degree of probability” that an injury will occur’ and ‘rises to the level of a “conscious
choice of a course of action ... with knowledge of the serious danger to others
involved in it.” ’” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 405.) The amended complaint alleges Defendant wholly
disregarded the fall prevention protocols that Defendants knew were
specifically outlined in Mr. Wang’s medical chart. Taking these as true,
Plaintiffs have alleged Defendant knew it must provide a certain type of care
on a daily basis but provided it sporadically including prior instances to the
fall at issue. Accordingly, a reasonable jury could conclude Defendant’s
conduct was beyond simple or even gross negligence. 
 
Lastly, the court had previously found
Plaintiffs’ allegations sufficient to plead corporate ratification. Although
the complaint did not provide the specific identity of particular employees,
officers and agents of AvantGarde in Paragraph 36 (now Paragraph 38), it is established
that this particular identification is not a strict requirement under Civ. Code
§3294 (b).
 
Accordingly, Defendant AvantGarde’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
AvantGarde moves to strike portions of
the second amended complaint including Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages,
attorney’s fees, enhanced relief or treble damages, and that Defendant’s
managing agents were involved. 
 
As noted above, the court has found
Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged recklessness on part of Defendant and that
Defendant’s officer, director and/or managing agent was involved. Accordingly,
this point is moot. Next, the Elder Abuse Act allows for attorney fees, so the
motion to strike is denied as to that request.
 
With respect to the claim for treble
damages under Civil Code Section 3345, that section provides for treble damages
in an action  “to redress unfair or
deceptive acts or practices or unfair methods of competition” brought on behalf
of a senior citizen or disabled person (both applicable here), “whenever a
trier of fact is authorized by a statute to impose either a fine, or a civil
penalty or other penalty, or any other remedy the purpose or effect of which is
to punish or deter.”  Without deciding
whether the conduct alleged here could be deemed “unfair or deceptive,” the
court concludes that the remedy under Section 3345 is unavailable because the
elder abuse act, on which the claim for treble damages under Section 3345 is
based, does not provide for a “fine, or a civil penalty.”  See Clark v. Superior Court (2010) 50
Cal.4th 605.)  While it does
allow for punitive damages, this court does not believe the legislature
intended by the passage of Section 3345 to treble punitive damages awarded by
the trier of fact.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to strike is
GRANTED, in part, striking the request for treble damages. 
 