 Case Number:  22STCV26524    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DAVID TRUJEQUE, ET AL., Plaintiff(s), vs.  VICTORY OUTREACH, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV26524  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. November 8, 2023  I. Background Facts Plaintiffs David Trujeque and Rosa Trujeque (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Victory Outreach, Victory Outreach Eagle Rock, Roger Soto (“Soto”), Jasmine Galvez, Augie Barajas, and Mary Barajas (collectively, “Defendants”), alleging the wrongful death of Justin Trujeque (“Decedent”) based upon Defendants’ failure to supervise Decedent’s drug addiction while under Defendants’ care.  On march 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an amendment to complaint naming Victory Outreach International (“VOI”) as Doe 1. At this time, Plaintiffs seek leave to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) to set forth (1) additional factual allegations as to all named defendants, (2) identify three new Doe Defendants, namely Inner City Recovery Homes International as Doe 2, Victory Outreach Christian Recovery Homes, Inc. as Doe 3, and Victory Homes International as Doe 4, and (3) assert four additional fraud-based causes of action for intentional misrepresentation, negligent misrepresentation, concealment, and false promise, including a prayer for punitive damages. Defendant VOI opposes the motion, and Plaintiffs filed a reply.  II. Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint  CCP § 473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  “This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.)  Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer or motion to strike are premature.  The court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the defect cannot be cured by further amendment.  (See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) Under CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.  Under CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Even if a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the adverse party.  If the party seeking the amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party, the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) Here, Plaintiffs argue Defendants’ testimony made false representations of the Rules and Responsibilities, which set forth the policy and procedure of Defendants, and that Defendants falsely represented that medical help would be sought immediately in the event of physical problems of a resident. Plaintiffs provide a copy of the proposed amended pleading, and provide within the proposed pleading the proposed additions in bolded font. The Court will consider this as satisfying CRC Rule 3.1324(a). Further, Plaintiffs provide they discovered the facts giving rise to fraud claims on September 12, 2023, September 13, 2023, and September 2023 when the depositions of Defendant Soto, the PMK of Victory Outreach Eagle Rock, and Plaintiff David Trujeque’s depositions were completed. Further, Plaintiffs aver they discovered documents and testimony relating to documents produced by Defendants to support fraud and punitive damage allegations, such as Decedent’s intake form, policy and procedure testimony, and documents signed by Decedent. Plaintiffs argue Defendants will not be prejudiced because the amendments relate to the same general set of facts, that discovery is in the preliminary stage, and that the new parties have stipulated to a 90 to 120-day trial continuance.  Defendant VOI, in opposition, contends the amendment seeks to bind VOI to the conduct of its co-defendants through allegations contradicted under oath, and that Plaintiffs fail to state sufficient facts to constitute the causes of action and damages claims against it. VOI argues it had no involvement in the operation of the subject home, and that Plaintiff’s Complaint does not identify any causes of action specifically against VOI. VOI provides the parties met and conferred regarding the deficiencies in Plaintiffs’ operative Complaint, wherein Plaintiffs served VOI with Plaintiffs’ FAC, which did not include any fraud-related causes of action or claim for punitive damages at the time. Plaintiffs granted VOI an extension until November 15, 2023 to file a responsive pleading. VOI requests, should the Court grant Plaintiffs’ motion, that trial be continued by 150 to 180 days to allow defense counsel time to conduct crucial discovery related to the newly added claims. In reply, Plaintiffs aver this is the first time they have sought leave to amend their Complaint, and that VOI’s arguments regarding insufficiently pled allegations are premature.  In terms of VOI’s contention that the proposed allegations do not have evidentiary support and are insufficiently pled, the Court ordinarily does not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave to amend. “The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. [Citation.] ‘Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff's claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change the result.’ [Citation.]” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) At this stage, the facts are in dispute and the Court cannot say, at this time, that no liability exists under substantive law. Trial is currently set for February 13, 2024, which is only three months from the hearing date. The Court considers VOI’s request for a trial continuance, and finds good cause to continue the trial date to allow sufficient time for VOI to file any motions and to provide sufficient time to conduct discovery. Plaintiffs do not contest the need for a trial continuance.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. Plaintiffs must file a separate copy of the FAC within 10 days. Further, the February 13, 2024 trial date is continued to ______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  The January 30, 2024 Final Status Conference is continued to _______________ at 10:00 a.m. in Department 31.  All discovery and expert cutoff dates are continued to reflect the new trial date.     Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 7th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   