 Case Number:  21STCV13952    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  MONREAU BITTLER-PARETTI, a minor, by and through her Guardian Ad Litem DAVID BITTLER, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  BRIGHT HORIZONS CAPITAL CORP, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV13952  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 8, 2023  I. Motion to Compel¿ Defendant College Nannies and Tutors of Socal (“Defendant”) propounded form interrogatories, set one, on Plaintiff Monreau Bittler-Paretti, a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem, David Bittler (“Plaintiff”) on January 6, 2023. Plaintiff’s responses were due on or before February 7, 2023. After having received no responses, defense counsel sent correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel requesting responses by February 15, 2023. To date, Plaintiff has not served responses. Defendant therefore seek an order compelling Plaintiff to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  Any opposition was due on or before October 26, 2023. The motion is unopposed. For a motion to compel discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  Therefore, because the evidence shows Plaintiff was properly served with discovery and failed to respond, and Plaintiff has not demonstrated responses were served prior to the hearing, Defendant’s unopposed motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified responses to Defendant’s form interrogatories, set one, without objections, within fifteen (15) days. (CCP §2030.290 (a),(b).)  II. Sanctions¿ Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c).)¿Plaintiff did not file any opposition. However, sanctions may be awarded, even though no opposition is filed pursuant to CRC 3.1348(a). Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $560 for the motion.  Defendant is $200 in attorney fees for bringing the motion, and $60 for the motion filing fee as costs.   Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s attorney of record, jointly and severally.  Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $260, within fifteen (15) days.   Moving Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 7th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   