 Case Number:  21STCV21874    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  LUNA KURDY, ET AL.,¿ Plaintiff(s),¿¿ vs.¿ ¿TANNER JOHN HAYNES, ET AL.,¿¿ Defendant(s).¿  ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV21874  [TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 8, 2023    On June 11, 2021, Plaintiffs Luna Kurdy and Abigail Bostadjian, by and through her Guardian ad Litem Luna Kurdy (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendants Tanner John Haynes (“Tanner”), Alan Douglas Haynes (“Alan”), and Does 1 to 50 for injuries arising from a motor vehicle accident that occurred on January 17, 2020.  On August 23, 2021, Defendants/Cross-Defendants Tanner and Alan filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendant Hamazasb Aghajaniani (“Aghajaniani”).  On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint naming Cross-Defendant Aghajaniani as Doe 1.    At this time, Cross-Defendant Aghajaniani moves to enforce settlement and for an order to direct Plaintiffs to file a petition for minor’s compromise under CCP § 372 on the grounds that settlement had been reached between the parties.  Cross-Defendant Aghajaniani filed a reply in reference to Plaintiffs’ opposition to the motion. However, the Court is unable to locate a copy of the opposition.   Therefore, the hearing on the motion is continued from November 8, 2023 to __________ at 1:30 p.m. in Department 31 of the Spring Street Courthouse for the purpose of allowing Plaintiffs to file with the Court the same opposition which was served on Aghajaniani. No further briefing is permitted.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 7th day of November, 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   