 Case Number:  21STCV09586    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  PAUL MARTIN, Plaintiff(s), vs.  SMART & FINAL STORES, LLC, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV09586  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL MEDICAL EXAMINATION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 8, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Paul Martin filed this action against Defendant Smart & Final Stores, LLC (“Defendant”) for damages arising from an assault by a third party while outside of the Smart & Final store. Plaintiff sets forth two causes of action for premises liability and general negligence.   At this time, Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to appear for his independent medical examination (“IME”) with Robert Kvitne, M.D. (“Dr. Kvitne”).  However, since the filing of this motion, Plaintiff’s physical examination with Dr. Kvitne had been completed as of October 13, 2023. (Opp. Avaness Decl. ¶ 13.) Accordingly, the motion to compel is now moot.  The only issue remaining is whether the Court should award sanctions. Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $5,760 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel.   II. Sanctions CCP § 2032.250(b) requires the court to impose sanctions in connection with a motion to compel physical exam unless the court finds Plaintiff acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust.  Plaintiff, in opposition, argues the deposition did not move forward due to defense counsel unilaterally noticing Plaintiff’s IME on unavailable dates. Plaintiff provided his availabilities for his IME, but did not appear because Defendant did not agree to stipulate to the parameters of the IME after having previously agreeing to it. Plaintiff avers it is unreasonable for defense counsel to seek costs for the June 24, 2022 IME when Plaintiff’s counsel informed defense counsel in advance that Plaintiff was unavailable on that date. Additionally, Plaintiff did not appear for his January 5, 2023 IME because Defendant did not agree to the parameters of the January IME. Lastly, Plaintiff argues the November 15, 2022 IME was cancelled because Dr. Kvitne was unavailable for the exam. In reply, Defendant argues Plaintiff appeared for his IME only after the motion to compel was filed, and therefore sanctions are warranted. Further, Defendant contends it is not required to stipulate to any conditions set by Plaintiff prior to the IME. Here, there appears to be good faith attempts by Plaintiff to resolve the dispute over the parameters of the IME, including Plaintiff making revisions to his IME response multiple times. Defendant does not address the contention that defense counsel agreed to, and then withdrew, the IME stipulation. Further, the IME has since moved forward. Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find sanctions warranted. The request for sanctions is denied.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿    Dated this 7th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    