 Case Number:  21STCV45600    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  DAVID GERMAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  PUBLIC STORAGE, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV45600  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTIONS TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  November 8, 2023  Plaintiff David German’s (“Plaintiff”) attorney of record, Justin Farahi, Esq. (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff. Counsel contends relief is necessary, citing to the permissive withdrawal condition set forth in CRPC 1.16(b)(4), which states “the client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to carry out the representation effectively.”   Counsel provides proof of service on Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s last known address. However, Counsel declares he has been unable to confirm Plaintiff’s address or locate a more current address after mailing the moving papers on Plaintiffs’ last known address with return receipt requested, calling the last known telephone number, and conducting a skip trace investigation. Counsel avers Plaintiff’s location has remained unidentified to date despite diligent efforts to locate him.  Since Counsel is unable to serve Plaintiff at a confirmed address after making diligent efforts, Counsel must serve the moving papers on both Plaintiff and on the Clerk of the Court- located at Stanley Mosk Courthouse- pursuant to CCP §1011 and California Rules Court, rule 3.1362(d).   The motion is denied without prejudice.   Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 7th day of November 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    