  Case Number:  20SMCV01133    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Allorbi v. Counter Brands LLC, et
al.
CASE
NO.:                20SMCV01133
MOTION:                  Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel
HEARING
DATE:   6/6/2024

 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The court may order that an
attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or
final determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice
from one to the other. (CCP § 284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must
take “reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights
of the client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for
employment of other counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See,
e.g., Vann v. Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where
attorney withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before
trial began the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny
a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1133.)  
 
An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a),
(c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties
that have appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).) When a client is
served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that the client’s
address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.)
If the attorney is unable to confirm the client’s current address, the
declaration must state the reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to
obtain the client’s current address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally, the declaration “must
state in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought instead of filing a
substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Shayfrath Shaw LLP moves to be
relieved as counsel of record for Defendants Counter Brands LLC and Gamze
Sauzeat. Counsel submits all the mandatory forms. Counsel served the clients
via email and regular mail. The declaration notes the hearings that are on
calendar, including the OSC for 8/14/24. Counsel provided notice to both
clients that it would be seeking to withdraw as counsel of record given the
Company’s status, and the fact that it no longer exists as an entity. Counsel
states that Counter Brands is in the process of winding down, an assignment for
the benefit of creditors has been established, Counsel explains that any parties
in interest, including litigants with alleged claims or anyone else with a
potential claim against Counter Brands, will be able to file a proof of claim
from the assignee. Moreover, no trial date is currently set in this case. The
matter has essentially been dormant until recently, as the claims were
dismissed in July 2023. Given that there is no trial set, the Court does not find
that the client will be prejudiced by the withdrawal. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
The order is effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the order on
the client. Until then, counsel remains counsel of record. 