 Case Number:  23SMCV05910    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Clean Product Advocates LLC, et al., v. S. Bertram Inc.,
et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05910
MOTION:                  Motion
to Quash Service of Summons; Motion to Set Aside
HEARING DATE:   6/6/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
“A defendant . . . may serve and file a notice of motion
for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her . . ..”  (CCP § 418.10(a).) A court lacks jurisdiction
over a party if there has not been proper service of process. (Ruttenberg v.
Ruttenberg (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 801, 808.) “When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc.
v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.) “[C]ompliance with the
statutory procedures for service of process is essential to establish personal
jurisdiction. [Citation.]” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.) “[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that the service was proper” but only if it “complies
with the statutory requirements regarding such proofs.” (Id. at
1441-1442.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY ISSUES
 
The parties’ requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.
 
Analysis
 

Defendant S. Betram Inc. moves to
quash service of summons and moves to set aside default. The Court will first
address the motion to quash.  Defendant
argues that the Court lacks personal jurisdiction because there are
insufficient contacts between it and California. As it is undisputed that
Defendant is not a resident of California, the motion is properly brought.
Plaintiff therefore must demonstrate all facts necessary to support personal
jurisdiction against Defendant.  
 
 The extent to which a California court can exercise
personal jurisdiction over a non-resident defendant depends on the nature and
quality of defendant's “minimum contacts” with the state. (See International
Shoe Co. v. Washington (1945) 326 U.S. 310, 316.) “Minimum contacts” refers
to the relationship between the nonresident and the forum state is such that
the exercise of jurisdiction does not offend traditional notions of fair play
and substantial justice. (Id.; Asahi Metal Industry Co. v.
Superior Court (1987) 480 U.S. 102.) A court may
assume specific jurisdiction over a nonresident, if the nonresident purposefully
directed its activities at forum residents, or purposefully availed itself of
the privilege of conducting activities within the forum state, thus invoking
the benefits and protections of local law. (Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357
U.S. 235.) Specific jurisdiction involves a three-part test: (1) the
nonresident defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with the
forum or perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the
privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits
and protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or
results from the defendant's forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of
jurisdiction must be reasonable.”¿¿(Jewish Defense Organization, Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054
[purposeful¿availment¿exists where a defendant performed some type of
affirmative conduct which allows or promotes the transaction of business within
the forum state].) 
 
“ ‘ “The purposeful availment
inquiry ... focuses on the defendant's intentionality. [Citation.] This prong
is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily directs [its]
activities toward the forum so that [it] should expect, by virtue of the
benefit [it] receives, to be subject to the court's jurisdiction based on”
[its] contacts with the forum.’ [Citation.] Thus, purposeful availment occurs
where a nonresident defendant ‘ “purposefully direct[s]” [its] activities at
residents of the forum’ [citation], ‘ “purposefully derive[s] benefit” from’
its activities in the forum [citation], ‘create[s] a “substantial connection”
with the forum’ [citation], ‘ “deliberately” has engaged in significant
activities within’ the forum [citation], or ‘has created “continuing
obligations” between [itself] and residents of the forum’ [citation]. By
limiting the scope of a forum's jurisdiction in this manner, the ‘ “purposeful
availment” requirement ensures that a defendant will not be haled into a
jurisdiction solely as a result of “random,” “fortuitous,” or “attenuated”
contacts....’ [Citation.] Instead, the defendant will only be subject to
personal jurisdiction if ‘ “it has clear notice that it is subject to suit
there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome litigation by procuring
insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers, or, if the risks are too
great, severing its connection with the state.” ’ [Citation.]” (Snowney v.
Harrah’s Entertainment (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062-1063.) 
 
In the context of products
liability, defendant’s placement of a product into the stream of commerce alone
does not establish minimum contacts with a forum state. (J. McIntyre
Machinery, Ltd. v. Nicastro (2011) 564 US 873, 885-886; see Bombardier
Recreational Products, Inc. v. Dow Chemical Canada ULC (2013) 216
Cal.App.4th 591, 603-604 [knowledge that defendant's products would eventually be
used in California insufficient to establish jurisdiction in California]; Dow
Chemical Canada ULC v. Sup.Ct. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 170, 179 [no minimum
contacts with California found where Canadian manufacturer “might have
predicted or known that its products would reach California”].) “The placement
of a product into the stream of commerce, without more, is not an act of the
defendant purposefully directed toward the forum State. Additional conduct of
the defendant may indicate an intent or purpose to serve the market in the
forum State, for example, designing the project for the market in the forum
State, advertising in the forum State, establishing channels for providing
regular advice to customers in the forum State, or marketing the product
through a distributor who has agreed to serve as the sales agent in the forum
State.” (Asahi, supra, 480 US at 112, plur. opn. of O'Connor, J; see
also World-Wide Volkswagen Corp. v. Woodson (1980) 444 US 286, 297 [a
purchaser's unilateral activity of bringing goods into a forum state does not
constitute “purposeful availment” by an out-of-state retailer or distributor].)
California courts have accordingly held that, where products are not sold in a
state as part of the regular and anticipated flow of commerce into that state,
mere foreseeability that products could reach the forum state is not enough to
establish minimum contacts. (Bombardier, supra, 216 Cal.App.4th at 604;
see Luberski, Inc. v. Oleificio F.LLI Amato S.R.L. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 409 [Italian company entered into a direct sales contract with a
California business purposefully had availed itself of the California forum]; cf.
Carretti v. Italpast (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 1236 [company lacked
contacts where product sold to retailer in Italy, it had no offices or
employees in US, it did not market, advertise or sell its products directly to
California users, and there was only one California distributor who purchased
its product].)
 
Defendant, for its part, presents
unrebutted evidence that denies the hallmarks of minimum contacts. (Weitz
Decl., paras. 7-15.) Defendant explains that it is a food service company
distributing fresh produce, grocery, frozen and canned foods. Defendant
operates out Linden, New Jersey. Bertram’s direct distribution is made
primarily within New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut. (Id., para. 9.) Bertram
does not advertise or distribute the Product to any customer or person in California.
(Id., paras. 10-12.) Defendant does sell the product to third party
distributors, but once delivered they lose all control over the product. (Id.,
paras. 13-14.) Defendant has a website from which customers may make purchases.
(Id. para. 15.) However, purchases can only be made through user accounts, and
there are no users in California. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff does not present sufficient
evidence showing Defendant’s purposeful availment. Plaintiff only cites Defendant’s
placement of the subject product into the stream of commerce, with the mere possibility
that it would end up in California. Plaintiff claims that Defendant distributed
its product in California. Plaintiff only cites a representation that the
product was “Distributed by S. BERTRAM INC.” While this shows that the product was
distributed by Defendant, this would not necessarily show Defendant sold the
product to a California distributor, or knew that a third party distributor
would sell the product in California. Plaintiff cites an “interactive website”
wherein Defendant admits that it offers services to its customers in the
“Tri-State” area and “across the globe.” (Ex. C.) However, no part of the
website suggests that Defendant directed this website or services to
Californians. In fact, the website apparently requires a customer to register
as a user. (Id.) Defendant notes that they only sell to registered users, and
there are no users registered in California. (Weitz Decl., para. 15.)
 
Here, Plaintiff presents no
evidence that Defendant directly distributed the subject product to California,
directed any marketing at California, or otherwise created any continuing
obligations to distribute products in California. Plaintiff does not present
any evidence that Defendant knew that the product would be distributed to
California consumers. Thus, Plaintiff only shows that Defendant placed the
product into the stream of commerce. 
 
Considering the undisputed record, Plaintiff
failed to establish Defendant’s purposeful availment. Defendant therefore lacks
the necessary minimum contacts with California to support personal
jurisdiction. Accordingly, the motion to quash is GRANTED. 
 
Lack of personal jurisdiction
renders a default void. (Strathvale Holdings v. E.B.H., (2005) 126 Cal.
App. 4th 1241, 1250.) As the Court lacks personal jurisdiction over Defendant,
the default against Defendant is void. (CCP § 473(d).) Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to
vacate the default is GRANTED.