 Case Number:  22STCV0413    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Cheverez v. Serenity
Care Health Group
CASE NO.:                22STCV04131
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Deposition 
HEARING DATE:   6/6/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Service of a proper deposition notice obligates a party or
“party-affiliated” witness (officer, director, managing agent or employee of
party) to attend and testify, as well as produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying. (CCP §
2025.280(a).) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party deponent fails
to appear, testify, or produce documents or tangible things for inspection
without having served a valid objection under CCP § 2025.410, the deposing
party may move for an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production. (CCP
§ 2025.450(a).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration, or, when a party deponent fails to attend the deposition, the
motion must also be accompanied by a declaration stating that the moving party
has contacted the party deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).) If the deposition notice included a request for production of
documents, the motion to compel attendance must also show good cause to justify
the production. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
  
A motion to compel production of documents described in a
deposition notice must be accompanied by a showing of good cause. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(1).) In other words, the moving party must provide declarations
containing specific facts justifying inspection of the documents described in
the notice. Courts liberally construe good cause in favor of discovery where
facts show the documents are necessary for trial preparation. 
 
The motion to compel must be “made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(b).)
This time limit also applies to motions based on a deposition subpoena for
production of documents or a business records subpoena. The 60-day time limit
runs from the date objections are served because the deposition record is then
complete. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,
1192.) 
 
Analysis
 

Plaintiff Julia Cheverez moves to
compel the deposition of Defendant Bink Corp’s employee, Greg Alcaraz, who was
the decedent’s caregiver at the time of her death. Defendant opposes on the
grounds that Mr. Alcaraz is not an employee of Defendant. It is undisputed
that, at the time of the subject deposition notice, Mr. Alcaraz was not an
employee of Defendant. (See Spinger Decl.) Defendant therefore cannot require
Mr. Alcaraz’s attendance. Plaintiff improperly noticed Mr. Alcaraz’s deposition
as a party affiliated witness. (See Jurczak Decl., Ex. 6.) Since Mr. Alcaraz
was never properly served with a deposition subpoena, the motion cannot be
granted to compel his deposition. Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.
 
The issue of sanctions is not moot.
While the motion was substantively denied, the Court is not inclined to
sanction Plaintiff because she was reasonably misled by Defendant’s discovery
responses, which implied that Alcaraz was still its employee. In special
interrogatories, Defendant stated that Mr. Alcaraz could be contacted through
Defendant’s counsel. (Jurczak Decl., Ex. 1-4.) Further, Defendant did not
object to the deposition notice on this basis. Defendant explains that counsel did
not become aware that Binko no longer employed Alcaraz until March 18, 2024. (Spinger
Decl., para. 22) Yet, Defendant did not inform Plaintiff of this until April
11, 2024, which was a few days before the April 15, 2024 deposition. (See Id.,
paras. 16-28.) To be sure, Plaintiff is not blameless in this dispute.
Plaintiff could have directly asked about Mr. Alcaraz’s employment in discovery.
That said, the undisputed record suggests that Defendant’s representation that
Mr. Alcaraz could be contacted through its counsel reasonably led Plaintiff to
believe that Mr. Alcaraz’s deposition could be arranged through counsel. In
light of both parties’ responsibility in this dispute, no sanctions will be
awarded.