 Case Number:  22STCV02576    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT 


207




HEARING DATE


March 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER 


22STCV02576




MOTION


Motion to Partially Lift Discovery Stay




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Susana Madrid and Daniel Villa




OPPOSING PARTIES


(1)  
  Defendant O.L. Development
(2)  
  Defendants Helio Group, Simon Lazar, and Venue
  Residences LLC



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a fatal motorcycle accident whereby decedent hit
a metal plate in the road while riding his motorcycle.  The metal plate was placed there by virtue of
a construction project.  Defendant Helio
Group (“Helio”) is the general contractor for the construction work being done
at the site where the metal plate was located, and Defendant O.L. Development (“O.L.”)
was the subcontractor.  Defendant Simon
Lazar (“Lazar”) is the managing director of Helio and the manager of Defendant
Venue Residences, LLC (“Venue”), the owner of the construction project.  
 
On March 20, 2023, before Lazar was named as a defendant, the Court
denied Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Lazar’s deposition on the basis that Lazar
is an apex witness, and Plaintiffs had not met their burden to depose an apex
witness.  (March 20, 2023 Minute Order.)  Specifically, the Court held “Plaintiffs have
not shown that [Lazar] has unique or superior knowledge that could be obtained
via any other source.  Should Plaintiffs
later discover, via the discovery process, that there are certain questions only
[Lazar] can answer, Plaintiffs will then be entitled to take [Lazar’s]
deposition.”  (Ibid.)
 
On June 13, 2023, Plaintiffs named Lazar and Venue as Defendants via
Doe amendments.  Lazar filed a special
motion to strike the complaint as to Lazar, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16 (Anti-SLAPP), arguing that adding Lazar via Doe amendment was an
attempt to circumvent the prior ruling, denying Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Lazar’s deposition.  The Court denied
Lazar’s Anti-SLAPP motion, finding that the addition of Lazar to the complaint did
not stem from Lazar’s prior assertion of the Apex doctrine, but rather from Plaintiff’s
subsequent discovery that in addition to the subject property, Lazar also owned the construction company he hired to do
the construction work on the subject property. 
(See October 12, 2023 Minute Order.)
 
Lazar timely appealed the
order denying the Anti-SLAPP motion, effectively staying the case during the
pendency of the appeal.  Plaintiffs now
move to partially lift the stay, to take the PMQ Deposition for Defendant O.L.
Development, the PMQ Deposition for Defendant City of Los Angeles, and “any
percipient witnesses associated with Defendants O.L. Development or City of Los
Angeles.”
 
Defendants Helio, Lazar, and
Venue have filed an opposition, and Defendant O.L. Development oppose the
motion.  Plaintiff replies. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16, subdivision (g) provides:
 
All discovery proceedings in the action shall be
stayed upon the filing of a notice of motion made pursuant to this section. The
stay of discovery shall remain in effect until notice of entry of the order
ruling on the motion. The court, on noticed motion and for good cause shown,
may order that specified discovery be conducted notwithstanding this
subdivision.
 
Similarly, Code of Civil
Procedure section 916 provides:
 
(a) Except as provided in Sections 917.1 to
917.9, inclusive, and in Section 116.810, the perfecting of an appeal stays
proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon
the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the
judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.
 
(b) When there is a stay of proceedings other
than the enforcement of the judgment, the trial court shall have jurisdiction
of proceedings related to the enforcement of the judgment as well as any other
matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order
appealed from.
 
Plaintiffs contend the
requested discovery should be permitted because the Court already held the
lawsuit does not arise from protected speech, the requested discovery is
ancillary to the Anti-SLAPP motion, it will promote judicial efficiency, and
there will be no prejudice, because even if Lazar prevails on appeal, the other
entities will still be in the case and the requested discovery will go forward
eventually anyway, and Lazar’s counsel represents some of the other entities defendants,
so Lazar’s interests will be adequately protected in his absence.
 
Defendants argue that
because all causes of action are brought against all defendants, the pending
appeal affects all causes of action, Lazar’s interests are necessarily
implicated, and therefore no discovery should go forward during the pendency of
the appeal.
 
The Court finds that
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated good cause to partially lift the stay.  The Court’s prior order denying Lazar’s
anti-SLAPP motion is not a basis to lift the stay, because that is precisely
the issue currently being appealed. 
Moreover, judicial economy will be best served by postponing discovery
until all litigants can participate.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Because the Court finds Plaintiffs
have not met their burden to demonstrate good cause for partially lifting the
stay, the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion in its entirety.  
 
Plaintiffs shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of service regarding the same.
 
 
 
DATED:
March 5, 2024                                                         ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court