 Case Number:  23SMCV01262    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV01262




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Subaru of America, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Richard Azucena



 
MOVING PAPERS:
 

Notice
     of Motion and Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of
     Points and Authorities
Separate
     Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Federal
     Authorities Cited in Memorandum of Points and Authorities
Declaration
     of James Sciolla in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Declaration
     of Joey Boktor in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
Declaration
     of Jacqueline Bruce Chinery in Support of Motion for Summary
     Judgment/Adjudication

 
OPPOSITION PAPERS:
 

Opposition
     to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and
     Authorities
Declaration
     of Nancy Zhang in Support of Plaintiff’s Opposition
Separate
     Statement in Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

 
REPLY PAPERS:
 

Reply
     to Plaintiff’s Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

                     
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff Richard Azucena (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Subaru of
America, Inc. (“Defendant”); alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Act (“Song-Beverly)
in connection with Plaintiff’s purchase of a Subaru vehicle.  Defendant moves for summary judgment or
adjudication as to the following issues:
 
1.      Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(d) fails because Plaintiff bought a used vehicle with a balance remaining on
the new vehicle limited warranty and Song-Beverly does not apply to sales of
used vehicles with a balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty per Rodriguez
v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209, 222-223 (hereafter Rodriguez).
 
2.      Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(b) fails because Plaintiff bought a used vehicle with a balance remaining on
the new vehicle limited warranty and Song-Beverly does not apply to sales of
used vehicles with a balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty per Rodriguez.
 
3.      Plaintiff’s
third cause of action for violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision
(a)(3) fails because Plaintiff bought a used vehicle with a balance remaining
on the new vehicle limited warranty and Song-Beverly does not apply to sale of
used vehicles with a balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty per Rodriguez.
 
4.      Plaintiff’s
fourth cause of action for breach of the express written warranty in violation
of Civil Code sections 1791.2, subdivision (a) and 1794 under Song-Beverly is
without merit because Plaintiff bought a vehicle with a balance remaining on
the new vehicle limited warranty and Song-Beverly does not apply to sales of
used vehicles with a balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty per Rodriguez.
 
5.      Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability in
violation of Civil Code sections 1791.1 and 1794 under Song-Beverly fails
because:
 
a.       Plaintiff
bought a used vehicle with a balance remaining on the new vehicle limited
warranty and Song-Beverly does not apply to sales of used vehicles with a
balance remaining on the new vehicle limited warranty per Rodriguez.
 
b.      Civil
Code section 1795.5 only imposes liability for breach of the implied warranty
in connection with the sale or lease of a used vehicle on a distributor who
makes an express warranty in connection with the sale or lease of the used
vehicle, rather than on a distributor, like Defendant, who only made express
warranties with respect to the vehicle when it was new.
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendant replies.  
 
EVIDENCE
 
The Court notes that in the
Opposition Separate Statement of Disputed and Undisputed Material Facts,
Plaintiff purports to object to various pieces of evidence on the grounds of
foundation/personal knowledge. 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b) requires “[a]ll written
objections to evidence must be served and filed separately from the other
papers in support of or in opposition to the motion.” “Each written objection
must be numbered consecutively and must: (1) Identify the name of the document
in which the specific material objected to is located; (2) State the exhibit,
title, page, and line number of the material objected to; (3) Quote or set
forth the objectionable statement or material; and (4) State the grounds for
each objection to that statement or material.” 
Because Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections do not satisfy these
procedural requirements, the Court declines to rule on the objections.
 
LEGAL STANDARDS – SUMMARY JUDGMENT/ADJUDICATION

 
“[T]he party moving for
summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue
of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.]
There is a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would
allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the
party opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”
 (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a
shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden
of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue of material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“On a summary judgment
motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing
party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” 
(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839
[cleaned up].)  Further, “the trial court
may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose
version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of
credibility.”  (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)  
 
A party may move for
summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action, affirmative defenses,
claims for damages, or issues of duty if that party contends that there is no
merit to the cause of action, defense, or claim for damages, or if the party
contends that there is no duty owed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)  A cause of action has no merit if: (1) one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately established, even if
that element is separately pleaded, or (2) a defendant establishes an
affirmative defense to that cause of action. 
(See Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (n); Union Bank v. Superior
Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 573, 583.) 
Once the defendant has shown that a cause of action has no merit, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists as to that cause of action.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Union Bank v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at p. 583.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant primarily argues that, pursuant to Rodriguez,
Song-Beverly does not apply to the sales of used vehicles with a balance
remaining on the original new vehicle limited warranty.  Defendant also argues that the Certified
Preowned Service Agreement is a not a warranty and Plaintiff’s fifth cause of
action for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability fails because
Song-Beverly only imposes liability for implied warranties for the sale of used
vehicles when an express warranty was made in connection with the sale of the
used vehicle.
 
A.    Song-Beverly’s Applicability to Used
Vehicles

 
            Defendant first contends that
Plaintiffs’ causes of action under Song-Beverly Consumer fail because Plaintiff
purchased a used vehicle with some balance remaining on the new vehicle limited
warranty, which does not constitute a “new motor vehicle” as that term is
defined under Song-Beverly.
 
            Background of the Song-Beverly
Act
 
“The [Song-Beverly] Act regulates warranty terms, imposes service and
repair obligations on manufacturers, distributors, and retailers who make
express warranties, requires disclosure of specified information in express
warranties, and broadens a buyer’s remedies to include costs, attorney’s fees,
and civil penalties.”  (Krieger v.
Nick Alexander Imports, Inc. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 205, 213.)     
 
            Song-Beverly defines “buyer” as “any
individual who buys consumer goods from a person engaged in the business of
manufacturing, distributing, or selling consumer goods at retail.”  (Civ. Code, § 1791, subd. (b).)  Song-Beverly also defines “manufacturer” as
“any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal
relationship that manufactures, assembles, or produces consumer goods.”  (Civ. Code, § 1791, subd. (j).)  In relevant portion, Song-Beverly defines
“consumer goods” as those goods “used or bought for use primarily for personal,
family, or household purposes.”  (Civ.
Code, § 1791, subd. (a).)
 
            “In the event of a breach of an
express warranty, the Song–Beverly Act requires a manufacturer to repair,
replace, or reimburse the buyer for the nonconforming goods.”
(Park
City Services, Inc. v. Ford Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 295, 302
(citing Civ. Code, § 1793.2).)   The
legislature amended the Song-Beverly Act in 1982 to clarify its application to
motor vehicles, adding a definition for “new motor vehicle.”  (Id. at p. 304.)  In 1984, it was amended again to apply to car
leases as well as sales.  (Ibid.)
            
            In 1987, the Legislature clarified
the scope and expressly included within the definition of “New motor vehicle” a
“dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer's new car warranty[.]” (Legislative Counsel’s Digest, Assembly
Bill 2057, 1987-88, 1987 California Legislative Service 1280.) The 1987
amendment defines a demonstrator as “a vehicle assigned by a dealer for the
purpose of demonstrating qualities and characteristics common to vehicles of
the same or similar model and type.”  (Ibid.)
 
            In 1995, the case of Jensen v.
BMW of North America, Inc. was decided. 
In that case, the plaintiff who had leased a low-mileage used vehicle
(leased a 1988 vehicle in 1989) sued the manufacturer under Song-Beverly and the
Magnuson-Moss Act.  The dealer’s sales
representative mistakenly represented to the plaintiff that the car had been
used as a demonstrator for the dealership and gave the plaintiff a 36,000-mile
warranty on top of the 7,565 miles the car already had on it.  (Jensen v. BMW of North America, Inc.
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 119 (hereafter Jensen).)  Unbeknownst to both the plaintiff and the
sales representative, the dealer had actually obtained the car at an auction,
having previously been leased by a consumer in New Jersey.  (Id. at p. 120.)  
 
The dealer tried to use the fact that the car had not actually been a
demonstrator to its advantage, and argued the language “or other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” modified “demonstrator” and was
not meant to apply to other used vehicles. 
(Jensen, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at p. 122.)  The appellate court rejected the dealer’s
argument, holding  that Song-Beverly
“includes [used] cars sold with a balance remaining on the new motor vehicle
warranty.”  (Id. at p. 126.)
 
            In 2007, the legislature expanded
Song-Beverly to apply to the purchase of motor vehicles with a manufacturer’s
express warranty from states outside of California by a member of the Armed
Forces, so long as certain criteria are met. 
(Civ. Code, § 1795.8.)  As part of
the legislature’s discussion in 2007, it repeatedly acknowledged that “Existing
case law holds that a used motor vehicle sold or leased with a balance of the
manufacturer’s original warranty is a ‘new motor vehicle’ for purposes of
California’s Lemon Law” and cited to Jensen.  (See RJN Ex. 2, Senate Rules Committee Office of Senate Floor
Analyses Report on Senate Bill No. 234 (2007-2008 Reg. Sess.) as amended June
5, 2007.)  
 
In Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC, the appellate court held that a
used truck with an unexpired express warranty sold by a third-party dealer was
not a “new motor vehicle” subject to the refund-or-replace provision.  Specifically, the court of appeal determined
that the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car
warranty” did not cover the sale of previously owned vehicles with some balance
remaining on the manufacturer’s express warranty.  In reaching its conclusion, the appellate
court noted that Song-Beverly’s protections for used goods “are limited and
bind the seller or distributor of the used product” making express warranties
as to used consumer goods, and do not apply to “the original manufacturer,
distributor, or retail seller making express warranties with respect to such
goods when new[.]” (Rodriguez v. FCA US, LLC (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 209,
218 (citing Civ. Code, § 1795.5) (hereafter Rodriguez).)  
 
The Rodriguez court acknowledged that the plain language of the
phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a manufacturer’s new car warranty” could
seemingly refer to a used car sold with a balance of the manufacturer’s new car
warranty.  (Rodriguez, supra, 77
Cal.App.5th at p. 220.)  But the court
opined that because the phrase appeared in the definition of “new” motor
vehicles, and singled out dealer-owned vehicles and demonstrators, the context
of the provision meant it only applies to this “specific and narrow class” of
used vehicles that are “basically new vehicles.”  (Ibid.)  The Rodriguez court also noted that
the Song-Beverly Act defines “express warranty” as any “written statement arising
out of a sale to the consumer” and pointed out that in plaintiffs’ case,
the warranty did not ‘arise out of the sale’ but rather ‘transferred to
plaintiffs by operation of law along with title to the truck.’”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  Furthermore, the Rodriguez court noted
that the Act defines “consumer” as “any person to whom the motor vehicle is transferred
during the duration of an express warranty” and therefore the legislature knew
how to distinguish between a sale and a consumer to whom a vehicle is
transferred.  (Ibid., emphasis in
original.)  Rodriguez also
distinguished Jensen on the basis that it involved a lease by a
manufacturer-affiliated dealer who issued a full new car warranty along with
the lease.  (Id. at pp. 223-224.)[1] 
 
Yet this Court notes that the Rodriguez analysis did not
address the legislature’s express statement that “Existing case law holds that
a used motor vehicle sold or leased with a balance of the manufacturer’s
original warranty is a ‘new motor vehicle’ for purposes of California’s Lemon
Law” or its reference to Jensen.  
 
            Analysis
            
Defendant relies on Rodriguez while Plaintiff relies on Jensen.  As an initial matter, “resort to legislative
history is appropriate only where statutory language is ambiguous.”  (Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. v.
Performance Plastering, Inc. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 26, 29.)  “In determining intent, we first look to the
words of the statute, giving language its usual, ordinary meaning.  If there is no ambiguity in the language, we
presume the Legislature meant what it said, and the plain meaning of the
statute governs.” (Ibid.)  “Only
when the language of a statute is susceptible to more than one reasonable
construction is it appropriate to turn to extrinsic aids, including the
legislative history of the measure, to ascertain its meaning.”  (Id. at pp. 29-30.)
 
            Here, the plain language of
Song-Beverly provides in pertinent part:
 
“New motor vehicle” includes the chassis, chassis
cab, and that portion of a motor home devoted to its propulsion, but does not
include any portion designed, used, or maintained primarily for human
habitation, a dealer-owned vehicle and a “demonstrator” or other motor vehicle
sold with a manufacturer's new car warranty but does not include a motorcycle
or a motor vehicle which is not registered under the Vehicle Code because it is
to be operated or used exclusively off the highways. A demonstrator is a vehicle
assigned by a dealer for the purpose of demonstrating qualities and
characteristics common to vehicles of the same or similar model and type.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 1793.22.)  Also, in relevant
part, the statute indicates that “‘New motor vehicle’ includes […] a
dealer-owned vehicle and a ‘demonstrator’ or other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s new car warranty[.]”  As Rodriguez
acknowledges, the phrase “other motor vehicle sold with a
manufacturer’s  new car warranty” appears
on its face, to apply to “any car sold with a manufacturer’s warranty still in
force.”
 
            The analysis could end there.  However, to the extent others have found
ambiguity with the plain text of the statute, the legislative history confirms
this interpretation.  In enacting
additional provisions of Song-Beverly in 2007 that pertain to veterans, the
Legislature noted “[e]xisting case law holds that a used motor vehicle sold or
leased with a balance of the manufacturer’s original warranty is a ‘new motor
vehicle’ for purposes of California’s Lemon Law. [Jensen v. BMW of North
America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112.]” (California Bill Analysis, S.B.
234 Sen., 3/27/2007.)  Thus, at least as
of 2007, the legislature was expressly aware of Jensen and understood Jensen
to mean that Song-Beverly’s “new motor vehicle” provisions apply to used
cars sold “with a balance of the manufacturer’s original warranty[.]”  
 
            Therefore, the Court denies
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication as to all causes of
action on the basis that the “new motor vehicle” provisions of Song-Beverly do
not apply to used vehicles with a balance remaining on the original new vehicle
warranty.
 
B.    
Breach of
the Implied Warranty of Merchantability
 
Under Song-Beverly, “only
distributors or sellers of used goods—not manufacturers of new
goods—have implied warranty obligations in the sale of used goods.”  (Nunez v. FCA US LLC (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 385, 399 [emphasis original].) 
“Where the manufacturer sells directly to the public, however, it takes
on the role of a retailer.”  (Ibid.)  When a manufacturer “partner[s] with a
dealership to sell used vehicles directly to the public by offering an express
warranty as part of the sales package, […] the manufacturer step[s] into the
role of a retailer and [is] subject to the obligations of a retailer.”  (Kiluk v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC
(2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 334, 340.)
 
Plaintiff argues that
Defendant did just that, by offering an express warranty on the certified
pre-owned vehicle Defendant purchased.  
 
Defendant argues that the
Certified Pre-Owned Service Agreement and Registration Application, upon which
Plaintiff relies is not an express warranty because the acknowledgment at the
bottom states, “I understand that this Certified Pre-Owned Service
Agreement is a service contract, and not an insurance policy, warranty, or
guarantee[.]”  (Ex. B to Boktor Decl.)
 
However, the top of the
Agreement indicates: “Point of Sale Mileage 2203 | Subaru Limited Warranty
Start Date 08/22/2020 subject to verification by Subaru of America, Inc. |
Vehicle Purchase Date 08/22/2020”  (Ibid.)  Thus, the face of the Agreement makes clear
that Subaru provided a limited warranty on the vehicle with 2,203 miles as of
the August 22, 2020 purchase date. 
Therefore, Defendant has not met its burden of production and persuasion
that it did not provide an express warranty in connection with the sale.
 
As such, the Court denies
summary adjudication as to Issue 5.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
For the reasons stated above,
the Court denies Defendant’s motion for summary judgment or adjudication in its
entirety. 
 
The Clerk of the Court shall
provide notice of the Court’s ruling.  
 
 
 
DATED:  March 5, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


