 Case Number:  23STCV05027    Hearing Date:   April 5, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of Second
Amended Complaint
Demurrer
            Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan (IEHP) demurs to both causes of action alleged in the
second amended complaint by plaintiffs Markeisha Cassidy-Dawson and minor
Melrose D.-F.  
            Plaintiffs
allege two causes of action: (1) violation of Government Code section 11135,
and (2) violation of the California Constitution’s right to substantive due
process.  On January 24, 2024, the court granted
defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to these causes of action.  The court did so for two reasons.  First, as a matter of substantive law, these
causes of action do not permit recovery of monetary damages.  Second, plaintiffs did not allege sufficient
facts for injunctive relief because they allege they reside in Orange County.  IEHP only administers healthcare in the
Counties of Riverside and San Bernardino. 
(See Allied Anesthesia Medical Group, Inc. v. Inland Empire Health
Plan (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 794, 798.) 
Speculation that plaintiffs might become eligible for healthcare through
IEHP in the future does not present a basis for injunctive or other equitable
relief. 
Plaintiffs’ second amended complaint adequately
cured the latter defect.  Plaintiffs
added the following relevant allegations:
“Plaintiffs are still Medi-Cal beneficiaries and cannot move to the Inland
Empire because IEHP will be the managing office of their benefits.  Plaintiffs believe, and therefore allege that
IEHP still engages in the same policies and practices that enable ongoing
discrimination towards black women as Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs still have temporary housing and
still utilize Ms. Dawson’s late mother’s home as a stable permanent address,
Ms. Dawson is currently a Doctoral student attending a University located in
the Inland Empire, and therefore eligible for benefits under IEHP.  The plaintiffs’ family and support system
reside in the Inland Empire, and the plaintiffs desire to relocate to the
Inland Empire and therefore are in immediate harm of being discriminated
against by IEHP.”  (SAC, ¶ 50.)
Plaintiffs now allege more than speculation that
they will become eligible for IEHP membership in the future.  The second amended complaint alleges
plaintiffs “desire to” move to one of the Counties where IEHP operates, but “cannot”
do so because they fear future discrimination by IEHP.  At the pleadings stage, this allegation
sufficiently states a present and likely future controversy between the
parties.  (See Stocks v. City of
Irvine (1981) 114 Cal.App.3d 520, 532 [holding that nonresidents of city could
challenge city’s policies that excluded low-income people].)    
Motion to Strike
            Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan moves to strike 11 portions of plaintiffs’ second
amended complaint.  Defendant’s
memorandum of points and authorities is defective.  “The memorandum must contain… arguments
relied on, and a discussion of the statutes, cases, and textbooks cited in
support of the position advanced.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(b).)  “A
trial court may decline to consider an argument that does not comply with rule
3.1113 of the California Rules of Court.” 
(Nationwide Ins. Co. of America v. Tipton (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th
1355, 1365.)  
            Defendant’s
memorandum states the legal standard for motions to strike in general (Memo,
pp. 1-2) and argues the second amended complaint fails to allege a proper basis
for recovering punitive damages (id., pp. 3-5).  But plaintiffs’ second amended complaint does
not allege “oppression, fraud, or malice” under Civil Code section
3294(a).  It does not pray for punitive
damages.  Those arguments are irrelevant.  Defendant’s memorandum of points and
authorities makes no arguments pertinent to the portions it seeks to
strike.  The court therefore will deny
the motion.    
Disposition
            Defendant
Inland Empire Health Plan’s demurrer is overruled.  Defendant’s
motion to strike is denied.  Defendant
shall answer plaintiffs’ second amended complaint within 20 days.