 Case Number:  23STCV26388    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



J.P., an individual;
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EASTERN REVENUE, INC., a California Corporation; EMMANUEL UNIVERSITY,
  INC., a Georgia Corporation; KYLE SHANAHAN, an individual; MATT MCREE, an individual,
  JOANN S. HARPER, an individual; and DOES 1-30, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV26388
 Hearing Date:   6/25/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff’s Motion
  to Recover Expenses Incurred in Serving Defendants, Reasonable Attorney Fees
  & Filing Fees (California Code of Civil Procedure S 415.30(d)) [Res ID #
  4281].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff J.P. (Joseph
Parker) sues Defendants Eastern Revenue, Inc. (Eastern Revenue), Emmanuel
University, Inc. (Emmanuel University), Kyle Shanahan (Eastern Revenue’s
President), Matt McRee, Joann S. Harper, and Does 1-30 pursuant to an October
30, 2023, Complaint alleging claims sounding in fraud, unfair business
practices, and breach of contract.
B. Motion to Recover Expenses,
Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (d)
On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a motion to recover expenses incurred in serving Defendants Eastern Revenue,
Shanahan, and Emmanuel University by mail.
On June 5, 2024, Defendants Eastern
Revenue and Shanahan filed a joint opposition.
On June 6, 2024—one court day
late—Emmanuel University filed an opposition.
On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply addressing the Eastern Revenue and Shanahan opposition but not the
untimely Emmanuel University opposition.
On June 18, 2024, the Court ruled
on Plaintiff’s motion as it related to Defendants Eastern Revenue and Shanahan
but continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion as it related to Emmanuel
University to June 25, 2024. The Court noted the lack of a reply from Plaintiff
responding to Emmanuel University’s opposition and gave Plaintiff until June
21, 2024, to file a reply.
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply to the Emmanuel University opposition.
Plaintiff’s motion as it relates to
Emmanuel University is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion
to Recover Expenses, Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (d): DENIED as to
Defendant Emmanuel University, Inc.
A. Reply Objections to Emmanuel
University Opposition Evidence
Objection Nos. 1-4: OVERRULED.
B. Legal Standard
A summons may be served by mail to
the person to be served as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 415.30.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (a).)
If a person to whom a copy of the
summons and of the complaint are mailed pursuant to section 415.30 fails to
complete and return the acknowledgement form set forth in subdivision (b)
within 20 days from the date of such mailing, the party to whom the summons was
mailed shall be liable for reasonable expenses thereafter incurred in serving
or attempting to serve the party by another method permitted by this chapter,
and, except for good cause shown, the court in which the action is pending,
upon motion, with or without notice, shall award the party such expenses
whether or not he is otherwise entitled to recover his costs in the action.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.30, subd. (d).)
C. Analysis
The Court finds in favor of
Emmanuel University.
Defendant Emmanuel University’s
opposition raises a factually valid basis to deny the motion: The attorney
served, Daniel Cohen, was not authorized to accept service on behalf of
Emmanuel University. (Mot., Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 4-7 [Daniel Cohen of Barnes &
Thornburg was not authorized to accept service on behalf Emmanuel University at
the time of attempted service by mail, which Cohen conveyed to Plaintiff’s
counsel over a phone call], Ex. 1 [email from Eric Fisher of Barnes &
Thornburg to Plaintiff’s counsel clarifying that Dan Cohen is not a litigator or
counsel of record and that Eric Fisher was specially appearing on behalf of
Emmanuel University but did not represent the individual Defendants].)
In reply, Plaintiff J.P. argues
that the opposition’s Cohen declaration shows a waiver of arguments in relation
to service of process by mail. Specifically, the reply appears to refer to the
opposition where it argues that “Emmanuel University does not wish to waste the
Court’s time and resources on a curable issue, [for which reason] Emmanuel
University filed a motion to quash only for lack of personal jurisdiction[] and
did not file a motion to quash for lack of proper service.” (Opp’n, Cohen
Decl., ¶ 8.)
The Court finds insufficient merit
to Plaintiff’s argument.
The Court relies on Laboratory
Specialists Internat., Inc. v. Shimadzu Scientific Instruments, Inc. (2017)
17 Cal.App.5th 755, 761 (Shimadzu Scientific), which held as follows:
“The trial court reasonably could
conclude Shimadzu did not run afoul of section 418.10(e)(3)’s forfeiture
provision. Although the statute phrases the ‘[f]ailure to make a motion under
this section at the time of filing a demurrer’ as a ‘waiver of the issue[] of …
inconvenient forum’ (§ 418.10(e)(3), …), a true ‘waiver’ requires more than a
mere failure to act, but rather an express relinquishment of a known right.
Accordingly, ‘the correct term is “forfeiture” rather than “waiver,” because
the former term refers to a failure to object or to invoke a right, whereas the
latter term conveys an express relinquishment of a right or privilege.
[Citations.]’ (In re Sheena K. (2007) 40 Cal.4th 875, 880, fn. 1 [55
Cal. Rptr. 3d 716, 153 P.3d 282] [noting ‘the two terms on occasion have been
used interchangeably’].) Here, there was no forfeiture because Shimadzu did not
‘at the time of filing a demurrer’ (§ 418.10(e)(3)) fail to object or fail to
invoke its right to object to the case proceeding in California. To the contrary,
Shimadzu expressly raised the forum issue—the opposite of forfeiting it—and
timely did so ‘at the time’ of its demurrer, rather than subsequently as
prohibited by section 418.10(e)(3)’s waiver language.”
Here, there has been no forfeiture
of the right to challenge jurisdiction. As recognized by the opposition, as
well as by the reply in arguing waiver, Emmanuel University filed a motion to
quash challenging the exercise of jurisdiction over it by this Court—filed on
May 17, 2024, and set for hearing on July 19, 2024. The parties do not dispute
that the May 17, 2024, motion was timely filed. Under these circumstances, the
Court finds that no forfeiture as contemplated in Shimadzu Scientific
has occurred here. Specifically, because Emmanuel University appears to have a
timely motion to quash on file, it has invoked its right to object to the case
proceeding in California, and therefore, no forfeiture or waiver under section
418.10, subdivision (e)(3) can apply.
Based on this record—improper
service on person not authorized to accept service, and no forfeiture or waiver
of right to object to proceedings in this Court—the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion as to Emmanuel University. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff’s Motion to Recover Expenses Incurred in Serving Defendants,
Reasonable Attorney Fees & Filing Fees (California Code of Civil Procedure
S 415.30(d)) [Res ID # 4281], specifically as it relates to Defendant Emmanuel
University, Inc., is DENIED.
The Court notes that it otherwise ruled on Plaintiff’s motion on June 18,
2024, specifically as related to Defendants Eastern Revenue, Inc.
and Kyle Shanahan.