  Case Number:  23STCV24690    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



Robert Drummond, as trustee of the Drummond Family Trust of 1991,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Armin Monfared, Innovative Realty, Inc., Bye Bye House, Inc., Stephen
  Couig, Paul Hanson, Michael Marshall and Does 1 to 50,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV24690
 Hearing Date:   6/25/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Bye Bye
  House, Inc.’s Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff to Provide Further
  Responses to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories (Set One); Request for
  Monetary Sanctions Against Plaintiff’s Counsel Thomas Kielty in the Amount of
  $2,400 [Res ID # 2339]; and
Defendant Bye Bye
  House, Inc.’s Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff to Comply with
  Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents (Set One); Request for
  Monetary Sanctions Against Plaintiff’s Counsel Thomas Kielty in the Amount of
  $1,600 [Res ID # 6445].



 
I. Background
On April 30, 2024, Defendant Bye
Bye House, Inc. (Bye Bye House) filed motions to (1) compel further responses
to its first set of special interrogatories (SROGs, Set One), with a request
for sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel and (2) compel compliance with Bye
Bye House’s first set of production requests (RPDs, Set One), with a request
for sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel.
On June 12, 2024, Plaintiff
Drummond filed notices of non-opposition to Bye Bye House’s motions. The
notices indicate that Plaintiff served document production responsive to RPDs,
Set One, on June 4, 2024, and that Plaintiff served responses to SROGs, Set
One, on June 12, 2024. The opposition also argues that sanctions are not
merited based on extenuating circumstances.
On June 17, 2024, Bye Bye House
filed a combined reply in favor of its motion. The reply does not contest the
opposition’s representation that Plaintiff has provided responses to SROGs, Set
One, and RPDs, Set One. Instead, the reply focuses on the reasons for granting
monetary sanctions notwithstanding Plaintiff Drummond’s service of further discovery
responses and production.
Bye Bye House’s motions are now
before the Court.
 
II. Motions to Compel and Requests for Sanctions
A. Motions
to Compel Further Interrogatory Responses and Document Production: MOOT.
Here, the notices of non-opposition
filed by Plaintiff Drummond represent that Plaintiff served responses to SROGS,
Set One, and RPDs, Set One, on June 12, 2024, and June 4, 2024, respectively.
(6/12/24 Notices, ¶ 6.)
The combined reply by Bye Bye House
does not contest Plaintiff’s representation. Neither does Bye Bye House
challenge the sufficiency of the Plaintiff’s discovery responses or production.
(Reply, pp. 2-4.)
Under these circumstances, the
Court determines that Bye Bye House’s motions are MOOT insofar as they request
further responses and/or production to SROGs, Set One, and RPDs, Set One.
B. Requests for Sanctions: GRANTED
in part.
1. Legal
Standard
The court must impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response to interrogatories or a motion to compel further response to a
demand, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd.
(h).)
The court may award sanctions under the
Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even
though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348, subd. (a).)
2. Court’s
Determination
The Court finds that sanctions are
merited in part.
While Plaintiff’s notices of
non-opposition represent that Plaintiff’s counsel was not able to respond to
discovery due to various impediments—e.g., staff not being copied on discovery
request emails, counsel being in back-to-back trials from December 2023 to
April 2024—the reply contends that between January and March 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed defense counsel at least 26 times and propounded discovery on
behalf of Plaintiff, and that Plaintiff’s counsel only once asked his staff to
be copied to emails. (6/12/24 Notices, ¶ 2; Reply, Brockschmidt Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
Thus, while there may have been
some impediments to Plaintiff’s responding timely, they do not seem to have
resulted in his complete unavailability on this case. The Court determines that
the most just result would be to GRANT half of the sanctions requested—i.e.,
$2,000 of $4,000 total sanctions requested—which the Court determines reflects
an appropriate sanctions award for the motions before the Court. 
The breakdown of sanctions is as
follows: $1,200 in relation to SROGs, Set One ($2,400 requested); and (2) $800
in relation to RPDs, Set One ($1,600 requested). The sanctions are calculated
using a $400 per hour fee rate and five total hours of work reasonably expended
on these motions (three on the SROGs motion, two on the RPDs motion).
 
III. Conclusion
A. Motions to Compel Further
Interrogatory Responses and Document Production
Defendant Bye Bye House, Inc.’s
Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff to Provide Further Responses to
Defendant’s Special Interrogatories (Set One); Request for Monetary Sanctions
Against Plaintiff’s Counsel Thomas Kielty in the Amount of $2,400 [Res ID #
2339] is MOOT in part and GRANTED in part as follows:
(1) MOOT as to compelling further
responses to SROGs, Set One; and
(2) GRANTED in part as to monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel Thomas Kielty in the amount of $1,200.
Plaintiff’s Counsel Thomas Kielty
is ordered to remit sanctions of $1,200 to Defendant Bye Bye House, Inc. within
14 days of this ruling.
B. Requests for Sanctions
Defendant Bye Bye House, Inc.’s
Motion for an Order Compelling Plaintiff to Comply with Defendant’s Request for
Production of Documents (Set One); Request for Monetary Sanctions Against
Plaintiff’s Counsel Thomas Kielty in the Amount of $1,600 [Res ID # 6445] is MOOT in part and GRANTED in
part as follows:
(1) MOOT as to compelling further
responses and/or production to RPDs, Set One; and
(2) GRANTED in part as to monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel Thomas Kielty in the amount of $800.
Plaintiff’s Counsel Thomas Kielty
is ordered to remit sanctions of $800 to Defendant Bye Bye House, Inc. within
14 days of this ruling.