 Case Number:  22STCV26844    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  34 The Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel brought by Wilshire Law Firm, counsel for Plaintiff Stacie
Dart is DENIED without prejudice. The court will inquire at the hearing whether
there are additional facts in support of the Motion. If the court is satisfied,
the Motion will be granted, effective upon the
filing of a proof of
service showing service of the signed
order via email upon Clients.
Background   
Plaintiff Stacie Dart ( “Plaintiff”) allege as follows:
Defendant VXI
Global Solutions, LLC, employed Plaintiff as an Account Associate from January
13, 2020, until December 18, 2020.  On
August 26, 2020, Plaintiff notified Defendant’s manager, Sofia Zambrano,
(“Zambrano”), via text message that she was ill and required emergency room
treatment. Plaintiff sought and received medical treatment and was diagnosed
with congestive heart failure and immediately admitted to the hospital. On
August 27, 2020, Plaintiff’s physician recommended she undergo a coronary
artery bypass surgery. Plaintiff timely notified Defendant of her physicians’
instructions and forwarded supporting documentation. 
 
On
September 2, 2020, Plaintiff underwent a coronary artery bypass surgery, and
her medical care provider placed her on a medical leave of absence through
December 14, 2020. Plaintiff timely notified Defendant of her physicians’
instructions and forwarded supporting documentation. On September 13, 2020, Plaintiff
sent Zambrano, via text message, a September 9, 2020, correspondence from her
healthcare provider confirming that she had been hospitalized at Hollywood
Presbyterian Medical Center. On October 20, 2020, Defendant’s employee, Debra
Romero (“Romero”) requested Plaintiff, via email, to complete an employee
request for accommodations documentation and to have her physician complete
certain medical inquiry documentation. Plaintiff and her medical care provider
complied and returned the necessary documents to Defendant. 
 
On December
7, 2020, Plaintiff contacted Defendant’s employee, Kimberly Marze (“Marze”),
via telephone, inquiring if Plaintiff needed any training before she returned
to work. Marze indicated that Plaintiff did not need additional training before
returning to work. 
 
On December
14, 2020, Plaintiff contacted Marze via telephone and requested her
return-to-work schedule and inquired if she needed any computer passwords or
computer login information. Marze replied that Plaintiff did not need new
computer passwords or computer login and instructed Plaintiff to bring
Defendant’s equipment when she returned to work. Plaintiff questioned Marze
about returning her work equipment and inquired if she was being terminated.
Marze told her that she had received three escalated calls, instructed Plaintiff
to return her work equipment, and indicated the two would discuss her
employment status in person. Plaintiff arrived at the Human Resources that same
day, December 14, 2020, and returned her work equipment. Plaintiff requested to
speak with Marze but was instructed by a human resources employee to return
home and that Marze would contact her. On December 15, 2020, Plaintiff unsuccessfully
attempted to contact Marze multiple times via telephone and text message to
inquire about her employment status.  On
December 17, 2020, Plaintiff contacted Zambrano, via text message, inquiring
about her employment status. Zambrano instructed Plaintiff to contact the Human
Resources Department. On December 18, 2020, Defendant terminated Plaintiff’s employment.
On August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a Complaint, asserting causes of
action against Defendant and Does 1-30 for:
1.              
Discrimination Based on Physical Disability; 
2.              
Failure to Accommodate Actual or Perceived
Physical Disability; 
3.              
Failure to Engage in Good Faith Interactive
Process;
4.              
Failure to Prevent Discriminatory Practices; 
5.              
Fair Employment & Housing Act Retaliation; 
6.              
Retaliation for Requesting/Taking California
Family Rights Act Leave; and, 
7.              
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy.  
A Post-Arbitration Status Conference is set for September 4,
2024.
Discussion
Wilshire Law Firm
(“Firm”) seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff Stacie
Dart  (“Clients”).
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.)
California
Rules of Court (“CRC”) Rule 3.1362 requires (1) a notice of motion and motion
directed to the client (made on the Notice
of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) a
declaration stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure § 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under section
284(1) (made on the Declaration in
Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-052)); (3) service of the notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order on the client and on all other parties who have appeared in
the case; and (4) a proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). The court may delay the effective
date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the
signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
Attorney Nicol Hajjar (“Hajjar”) represents the following:
There has been a
complete breakdown of the working relationship with the client. The specific
facts which give rise to this motion are confidential and required to be kept
confidential pursuant to California Rules of Professional Conduct and by the
attorney-client privilege [].
 
The court
determines that the requirements of Rules of Court Rule 3.1362 enumerated above
have not been sufficiently met. There is no information that any breakdown in
communications exists between the Firm and Clients. The court also does not
have any information whether or not the Arbitration hearing office has been
notified of this development. The court will inquire whether there are
additional facts that should be disclosed at the time of the hearing.  
Accordingly, the motion is Denied without prejudice subject
to additional information being considered by the court.  