  Case Number:  21STCV21298    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  34 The Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
The Win.It-State Farm MSJ is DENIED. 
The Win.It-Labrador MSJ is DENIED.
The Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. State
Farm is granted fourteen days leave to file its proposed First Amended
Complaint. 
BACKGROUND:
 
On June 8, 2021, Lisa
Labrador, Luis Labrador, Shelby Lane, Maryam Motamed, Candace Saville, Emilee
Saville, Kirsten Renner (erroneously sued as “Kristen Renner”), and Sophia
Wilson (“the Labrador Parties”) filed their Complaint (“Labrador Complaint”)
against Windrose Place, LLC, Cathy O’Conner, Marty Matyseck, and Alan Matyseck
on a cause of action for negligence. The Labrador Complaint was assigned Case
No. 21STCV21298.
 
On August 25, 2021, Cathy
O’Conner and Windrose Place, LLC filed their Answer to the Labrador Complaint. 
 
On August 27, 2021, Mary
Matyseck and Alan Matyseck (“the Matysecks”) filed their Answer to the Labrador
Complaint. 
 
On May 17, 2022, State Farm
General Insurance Company (“State Farm”) filed its Subrogation Complaint
(“State Farm Complaint”) against the Matysecks, Shenzhen Unit Pack Power Co.
Ltd, DHGate.com, and Wilson Industry I, LLC on causes of action for negligence,
breach of contract, and strict products liability. The State Farm Complaint was
assigned Case No. 22AHCV00281. 
 
On June 20, 2022, Wilson
Industry I, LLC filed: (1) Answer to the State Farm Complaint; and (2)
Cross-Complaint (“Wilson Cross-Complaint”) solely against Does 1 to 25.
 
On August 1, 2022, the
Matysecks filed their Answer to the State Farm Complaint. 
 
On September 8, 2022, the
Labrador Parties filed their Complaint in Intervention (“Labrador Intervening
Complaint”) against the Matysecks, Shenzhen Unit Pack Power Company, Ltd.,
DHGate.com, and Wilson Industry I, LLC.
 
On October 7, 2022, the
Matysecks filed: (1) Answer to the Labrador Intervening Complaint; and (2)
Cross-Complaint (“Matyseck Cross-Complaint”) against Windrose Place, LLC, Cathy
O’Conner, Shenzhen Unit Pack Power Company, Ltd., DHGate.com, and Wilson
Industry I, LLC.
 
On November 3, 2022, the
Court found related cases 21STCV21298 and 22AHCV00281, and designated
21STCV21298 as the lead case. 
 
On November 29, 2022, State
Farm amended the State Farm Complaint to substitute Does 1 and 2 with Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited, respectively.
 
On December 5, 2022, the
Matysecks amended the Matyseck Cross-Complaint to substitute Roes 1 and 2 with Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited, respectively.
 
On December 7, 2022, Wilson
Industry I, LLC filed its Answer to the Matyseck Cross-Complaint. 
 
On December 7, 2022, Wilson
Industry I, LLC amended the Wilson Cross-Complaint to substitute Does 1 and 2
with Mary Matyseck and Alan Matyseck, respectively. 
 
On December 8, 2022, the
Labrador Parties amended the Labrador Intervening Complaint to substitute Does
1 and 2 with Win.It America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited,
respectively.
 
On January 17, 2023,
Windrose Place, LLC filed: (1) Answer to the Matyseck Cross-Complaint; and (2)
Cross-Complaint (“Windrose Cross-Complaint”) against Wilson Industry I, LLC, Win.It
America, Inc., DHGate.com, and Shenzhen Unit Pack Power Co., Ltd.
 
On April 3, 2023, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited filed: (1) Answer to the
State Farm Complaint; and (2) Cross-Complaint (“Win.It Cross-Complaint”)
against Wilson Industry I, LLC, Windrose Place, LLC, Cathy O’Conner, Shenzhen
Unit Pack Power Co., Ltd., the Matysecks, and DHGate.com.
 
On April 5, 2023, by request
of the Labrador Parties, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice Wilson
Industry I, LLC from the Labrador Intervening Complaint. 
 
On April 5, 2023, by request
of State Farm, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice Wilson Industry
I, LLC from the State Farm Complaint. 
 
On April 5, 2023, Windrose
Place, LLC amended the Windrose Cross-Complaint to substitute Zoe 1 with WinIt
America Trade Company Limited.
 
On April 24, 2023, by
request of Windrose Place, LLC, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice
Wilson Industry I, LLC from the Windrose Cross-Complaint. 
 
On April 27, 2023, by
request of the Matysecks, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice Wilson
Industry I, LLC from the Matyseck Cross-Complaint. 
 
On May 17, 2023, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited filed their Answer to the
Windrose Cross-Complaint. 
 
On May 17, Windrose Place,
LLC filed its Answer to the Win.It Cross-Complaint. 
 
On May 31, 2023, the
Matysecks filed their Answer to the Win.It Cross-Complaint. 
 
On May 31, 2023, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited filed their Answer to the
Matyseck Cross-Complaint. 
 
On June 30, 2023, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited filed their Answer to the
Labrador Intervening Complaint. 
 
On July 25, 2023, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited amended the Win.It
Cross-Complaint to substitute Does 1 and 2 with Shiji Fuxuan Technology
Development (Beijing) Limited and Digitrading Hongkong Limited, respectively.
 
On August 1, 2023, the Court
consolidated cases 21STCV21298 and 22AHCV00281.
 
On March 1, 2024, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited amended the Win.It
Cross-Complaint to substitute Roes 3 and 4 with Heguang International Group
Limited and Heguang International, LLC, respectively. 
 
On April 10, 2024, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited filed their Notice of
Errata, indicating that they inadvertently included Wilson Industry I, LLC
among the Cross-Defendants in the Win.It Cross-Complaint. 
 
On April 23, 2024, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited filed their Motion for
Summary Judgment/Adjudication (“Win.It-Labrador MSJ”) regarding the Labrador
Intervening Complaint, the Matyseck Cross-Complaint, and the Windrose
Cross-Complaint. In support of the Win.It-Labrador MSJ, they concurrently
filed: (1) Evidence; and (2) Separate Statement.
 
On April 23, 2024, Win.It
America, Inc. and WinIt America Trade Company Limited filed their Motion for Summary
Judgment/Summary Adjudication (“Win.It-State Farm MSJ”) regarding the State
Farm Complaint. In support of the Win.It-State Farm MSJ, they concurrently
filed: (1) Evidence; and (2) Separate Statement. 
 
On April 30, 2024, by
request of State Farm, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice WinIt
America Trade Company Limited from the State Farm Complaint. 
 
On June 11, 2024, State Farm
filed its Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint. State Farm
concurrently filed its Proposed Order. 
 
On June 18, 2024, State Farm
filed its Opposition to the Win.It-State Farm MSJ (“State Farm Opposition”).
State Farm concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Dominic J. Fiore; (2)
Separate Statement; (3) Objections to Evidence; and (4) Proposed Order Re:
Objections to Evidence. On June 21, 2024, State Farm filed its Compendium of
Evidence. 
 
On June 21, 2024, the Matysecks
filed their Opposition to the Win.It-Labrador MSJ (“Matyseck Opposition”). They
concurrently filed: (1) Notice of Joinder to State Farm Opposition; and (2)
Separate Statement. 
 
On June 21, 2024, Windrose
Place, LLC filed its Notice of Joinder to Matyseck Opposition. 
 
On June 21, 2024, the
Labrador Parties filed their Notice of Joinder to State Farm Opposition. 
 
On June 24, 2024, the
Labrador Parties filed their Opposition to the Win.It-Labrador MSJ (“Labrador
Opposition”). The Labrador Plaintiffs concurrently filed their Response to
Separate Statement. 
 
On June 26, 2024, by request
of the Matysecks, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice WinIt America
Trade Company Limited from the Matyseck Cross-Complaint. 
 
On June 28, 2024, the
Matysecks filed their Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement. They
concurrently filed their Proposed Order. 
 
On July 1, 2024, by request
of Windrose Place, LLC, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice WinIt
America Trade Company Limited from the Windrose Cross-Complaint. 
 
On July 3, 2024, by request
of the Matysecks, the Clerk’s Office dismissed Cathy O’Conner from the Matyseck
Cross-Complaint. 
 
On July 3, 2024, Win.It
America, Inc. (“Win.It”) filed its Reply to All Oppositions to Motion for
Summary Judgment/Adjudication (“Win.It Reply”). Win.It concurrently filed: (1)
Evidentiary Objections to Lyle A. River’s Declaration; (2) Evidentiary Objections
to Evidence Supporting State Farm’s Opposition; (3) Response to State Farm’s
Opposition to Separate Statement; (4) Response to the Matysecks’ Opposition to
Separate Statement; and (5) Reply to the Labrador Parties’ Response to Separate
Statement. 
ANALYSIS:
I.               
Motion
for Determination of Good Faith Settlement
A.   
      Legal
Standard
“Any party to an
action in which it is alleged that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or
co-obligors on a contract debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of
the good faith of a settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant
and one or more alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the
manner provided in subdivision (b) of Section 1005.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,
subd. (a)(1).)
 
“In the
alternative, a settling party may give notice of settlement to all parties and
to the court, together with an application for determination of good faith
settlement and a proposed order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (a)(2).)
 
“The issue of the
good faith of a settlement may be determined by the court on the basis of
affidavits served with the notice of hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed
in response, or the court may, in its discretion, receive other evidence at the
hearing.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd.
(b).)
B.   
      Discussion
The Matysecks move the Court to: (1) find that the settlement entered
among the Matysecks, the Labrador Parties, and State Farm was made in good
faith; and (2) enter their Proposed Order, which bars all present and future
claims from continuing or being brought against the Matysecks for equitable
comparative contribution or partial or comparative indemnity based on
comparative negligence or comparative fault. (Motion for Determination of Good
Faith Settlement, p. 10:13–18.)
            Among other things, Counsel for the
Matysecks declares: (1) that the Labrador Parties and State Farm are the only
parties making affirmative causes of action against the Matysecks, as the
remaining parties only seek indemnity against the Matysecks; (2) that the
Matysecks have total insurance policy coverage of $100,000.00; (3) that the
Matysecks’ other assets are essentially limited to Mary Matyseck’s Social
Security checks; (4) that just State Farm’s claimed damages are $3,080,936.77,
with the fire damages being estimated at over $500,000.00; (5) that the
Matysecks are making a global settlement offer for their $100,000.00 policy
limit; and (6) that the settlement offer was accepted and reached through arm’s
length negotiations through counsel. (Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement, Decl. River, ¶¶ 11, 13–18, 20, 22, 24–25.)
            The Court
does not have any evidence that would indicate the settlement was not entered
into in good faith. Rather, all of the evidence indicates that the settlement
was entered into in good faith.
 
The Court finds that the settlement was entered into good
faith. (Code Civ. Proc, § 877.6, subd. (b).) 
C.   
      Conclusion

The Motion for Determination of Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED.
II.            
Win.It-State
Farm MSJ
A.   
      Evidentiary
Objections
1.    
      State
Farm’s Evidentiary Objections
State Farm filed evidentiary objections to the evidence of Win.It. The
following are the Court’s rulings on these objections. 





Objection


SUSTAINED


OVERRULED




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




2.    
      Win.It’s
Evidentiary Objections
Win.It filed evidentiary objections to the evidence of State Farm. The
following are the Court’s rulings on these objections. 
 




Objection


SUSTAINED


OVERRULED




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




7


 


OVERRULED




8


 


OVERRULED




9


 


OVERRULED




10


 


OVERRULED




11


 


OVERRULED




12


 


OVERRULED




13


 


OVERRULED




 
B.   
      Legal
Standard
“A party may move for summary
judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. The motion may be made
at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general appearance in the
action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is directed or at
any earlier time after the general appearance that the court, with or without
notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(1)(a).)
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears the burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of fact
and that he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. That is because of the
general principle that a party who seeks a court’s action in his favor bears
the burden of persuasion thereon. There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.)
“[T]he party moving for summary
judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of
the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his
burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then
subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of
the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment
standards in Aguilar to motions for summary adjudication].)
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues. Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.)
“The trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a fact finder to determine whose version is more
likely true. Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the
court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder, supra, at p. 840,
citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Dep’t of Transp.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].) 
“On a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise. If a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the challenged causes of action, the motion must
be denied. If there is no triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's
Wharf Bay Cruise Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320,
citation omitted.)
C.   
      Discussion
Win.It (also called “WIN.IT America” in the relevant papers) moves the
Court to grant summary judgment in its favor on the State Farm Complaint.
(Win.It-State Farm MSJ, p. 2:1–6.) (The other party bringing this motion was
recently dismissed from the State farm Complaint; arguments made in the initial
motion only as to that party will be omitted below.)
            Win.It argues that it is entitled to
summary judgment because: (1) Win.It never had any connection with the subject
motor, battery pack, or charger; (2) even assuming that Win.It did warehouse or
arrange shipping of the subject motor, battery pack, or charger, the negligence
claim would still fail because Win.It did not have notice of or opportunity to
mitigate any purported defect in those products; (3) even assuming that Win.It
did warehouse and arrange delivery of the subject products, the strict liability
claim would still fail because those acts would not make Win.It part of those
products’ chain of distribution; (4) the subrogation claim must fail because
State Farm cannot establish that its equities are superior to Win.It’s
equities; and (5) no act or omission on Win.It’s part contributed in any way to
the subject fire. (Win.It-State Farm MSJ, pp. 14:17–18, 15:3–6, 16:6–9,
17:22–24, 21:21–23.)
            State Farm disagrees, arguing: (1)
that Win.It was a direct link in the vertical chain of distribution under
strict products liability; (2) that Win.It is strictly liable under the stream
of commerce approach to strict products liability; (3) that notice is not
required to prove negligence; (4) that State Farm’s subrogation claim is
warranted under equitable subrogation; and (5) that summary judgment is not
warranted here because a genuine dispute to material fact exists for causation.
(State Farm Opp’n, pp. 5:1–2, 8:21–22, 13:20, 14:21, 18:1–2.)
            In its Reply, Win.It reiterates its
arguments. Win.It also requests that the Court enter summary judgment in favor
of Win.It America Trade Company Limited,
claiming that State Farm is attempting to evade summary judgment by dismissing
the action. (Reply, p. 10:1–16.)
            All of Win.It’s arguments involve
triable issues of material fact. Put differently, Win.It meets its initial
burden by claiming that there are no facts that demonstrate it is liable, but
State Farm meets its subsequent burden by showing that there are multiple
triable issues of material facts, including but not limited to: (1) whether
Win.It did have a connection to products that started the subject fire; (2)
whether Win.It had notice or opportunity to mitigate purported defects in those
products; (3) whether Win.It was part of those products’ chain of distribution;
(4) what are the facts that will be considered for a consideration of the
relative equities; and (5) whether any act or omission on Win.It’s part
contributed in any way to the subject fire.
            Neither summary judgment nor summary
adjudication are appropriate as to the State Farm Complaint.
D.   
      Conclusion
The Win.It-State Farm MSJ is DENIED. 
III.          
Win.It-Labrador
MSJ
A.   
      Evidentiary
Objections
Win.It filed evidentiary objections to a declaration filed in support of
the Matysecks’ Opposition. However, the Matysecks have since settled all
affirmative claims in this matter pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6. (See supra at Section II.B–C.) Thus, all of these
evidentiary objections are immaterial to disposition of the motion and
therefore need not be ruled on. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
B.   
      Legal
Standard
The same legal standard applies
here as with the Win.It-State Farm MSJ. (See supra at Section III.B.)
C.   
      Discussion
Win.It makes essentially the same arguments in the Win.It-Labrador MSJ (and
the associated Reply) as it made in the Win.It-State Farm MSJ. (Win.It-Labrador
MSJ, pp. 17:22–23, 18:9–13, 19:18–21, 21:10–13, 21:24–26; Reply, pp. p. 10:1–16.)
 
Notably, all of the opposing parties at issue — the Matysecks, the
Labrador Parties, and Windrose Place, LLC — filed joinders, either directly to
the State Farm Opposition or to the Matyseck Opposition (which had itself been
joined to the State Farm Opposition). 
The same analysis discussed as to the Win.It-State Farm MSJ is adopted
here as to the Win.It-Labrador MSJ.
“Where the reason is the same, the rule should be the same.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3511.)
D.   
      Conclusion
The Win.It-Labrador MSJ is DENIED.
IV.          
Motion
for Leave to File First Amended Complaint
A.   
      Legal
Standard
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms
as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding
or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name
of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms,
enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may likewise, in its
discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be
just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may
upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this
code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
 
            “Any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
 
“A motion to amend a pleading before trial must: (1)
Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;
(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations
are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)
 
“A separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) The reason why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of
amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in
the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Super. Ct. (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Leave to amend is thus liberally granted, provided there is
no statute of limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) The Court may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if
there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Ibid.)
B.   
      Discussion
State Farm moves for leave to file its proposed First Amended Complaint.
(Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint, p. 7:22–23.) State Farm has
complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b), and it does not appear
that there is a significant risk of prejudice to any other party by allowing
the proposed amendment. (Ibid.: App’x of Proposed Changes; Decl.
Letofsky, ¶¶ 3–6, 10; Exhs. A–C.)
C.   
      Conclusion
The Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. State
Farm is granted fourteen days leave to file its proposed First Amended
Complaint. 