  Case Number:  23CHCV01379    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 8/15/24
Case #23CHCV01379
 
DEMURRER &
MOTION TO STRIKE TO THE ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer & Motion to Strike filed on 7/9/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Zerafat Nikou
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Ella Chan
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint:
            1.  Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect
            2.  Negligence (incorrectly listed as Willful
Misconduct in caption)
            3.  Medical Negligence 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED IN MOTION TO STRIKE: An order
striking the entire complaint. 
Alternatively, Nikou seeks an order striking portions of various
paragraphs in the complaint.  (See Notice of Motion, p.2:7-p.5:13).    
 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled, in part, and
sustained with 30 days leave to amend, in part.      The motion to strike is placed off
calendar as moot.   
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of the care and treatment
Plaintiff Ella Chan (Plaintiff) received while a resident at residential care
facility doing business as Defendant J28 Home Care Corp. (J28).  (Complaint ¶¶1-2, 10-11).  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Edjeska
Macandili (Macandili) and Zerafat Nikou (Nikou) owned and/or operated J28.  (Complaint ¶¶3-4).
 
Plaintiff alleges that she suffered from dementia.  (Complaint ¶11).  On 7/24/22, while a resident at the facility,
Plaintiff alleges that she fell from a bed and suffered a skull fracture as
well as other injuries.  (Complaint ¶13).  Plaintiff alleges that after the fall, it was
discovered that she had multiple untreated sores and wounds on her body and
legs.  Id.  As a result of the fall, on 7/26/22,
Plaintiff had surgery and was relocated to a new care facility.  (Complaint ¶14).  Plaintiff alleges the incident aggravated her
dementia symptoms.  Id. 
 
On 5/10/23, Plaintiff filed this action against J28;
Macandili; Nikou and Does 1-50 for: (1) Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect, (2) Negligence
(mislabeled as Willful Neglect in the caption of the complaint) and (3) Medical
Negligence.  After meet and confer
efforts failed to resolve the issues Nikou had with the complaint, on 7/9/24, Nikou
filed and served the instant demurrer to the entire complaint and motion to
strike which seeks to strike the entire complaint, or, alternatively, portions
of various paragraphs in the complaint.  (See
Ghazi Decls.; Notice of Motion, p.2:7-p.5:13).        
 
Plaintiff has opposed the demurrer and motion to
strike.  Replies to the oppositions have
not been filed as of 8/12/24 (replies were due on or before 8/8/24).  CCP 1005(b).
 
ANALYSIS
 
Nikou’s Request for Judicial Notice is denied.  Nikou has failed to establish that judicial
notice may be taken of the facts requested in the Request for Judicial
Notice.  Rather, the information is
evidence that could help support Nikou’s position on a contested factual issue
which is not the proper subject of a demurrer. 
    
 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice is granted.  The Court notes that Plaintiff has mistakenly
attached the exhibits referenced in her Request for Judicial Notice to her
opposition to Nikou’s Request for Judicial Notice, rather than attaching them
to her Request for Judicial Notice.  
 
A demurrer may be based on the grounds, among others,
that there is a defect or misjoinder of parties, the pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or the pleading is
uncertain.  CCP 430.10(d), (e), (f).  
 
Misjoinder of Parties
 
A demurrer based on misjoinder of parties lies only when
the defect appears on the face of the pleading or matters subject to judicial
notice.  Royal Surplus Lines Ins. Co.,
Inc. (2002) 100 CA4th 193, 198; Adams (1943) 56 CA2d 905, 909.  Plaintiff has alleged that Nikou owned the
property where the where the residential care facility where Plaintiff was
injured is located and that Nikou owned and operated or was otherwise in
control of the facility itself. 
(Complaint ¶4).  Additionally,
Plaintiff has alleged that Nikou and her employees were Plaintiff’s care
custodians as defined by Welfare & Institutions Code 15610.17.  Id. 
 
It cannot be determined by the face of the complaint that
Nikou has been improperly named as a defendant in this action.  Therefore, the demurrer based on the ground
of misjoinder of parties is overruled.  
 
1st cause of action – Dependent Adult
Abuse/Neglect
 
The cause of action is uncertain in that it is titled as
“Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect” but also seems to be based on the fact that
Plaintiff is alleged to be an elder as defined by Welfare & Institutions
Code 15610.27.  (Complaint, p.21,
¶10).  It is not clear whether Plaintiff
intended to allege that she is both an elder and a dependent adult based on the
allegation that she suffered from dementia during her residency at J28.  (Complaint ¶11).  The claim is also uncertain in that it refers
to Plaintiff as “decedent.”  (Complaint
¶10).  If Plaintiff is deceased, this
action cannot be brought solely in her name as is currently alleged.  Even if Plaintiff is still alive, based on
the allegation that she suffers from dementia, which is alleged to have been aggravated
from the fall at the facility, it seems that it may be appropriate for a
guardian ad litem to be appointed for Plaintiff in this action.     
 
The cause of action also fails to state sufficient facts
to constitute a claim for dependent and/or elder abuse neglect.  Such a statutory cause of action must be pled
with factual specificity.  Covenant
Care, Inc. (2004) 32 C4th 771, 790; Carter (2011) 198 CA4th 396,
407.  
To obtain the remedies available under the Elder and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act (the Act),  a
plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is
guilty of something more than negligence. 
Delaney (1999) 20 C4th 23, 31. 
A claim for elder/dependent adult abuse/neglect refers to forms of abuse
or neglect performed with some state of culpability greater than mere
negligence.  Id. at 32.  In order to properly state such a claim based
on neglect, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant: (1)
had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the dependent adult, such as
nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made
the dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3)
denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the dependent adult's
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud or
malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury (if
the plaintiff alleges recklessness).  See
Carter, supra at 406-407.    

 
While it can likely be presumed that the owner, operator
and/or administrator of a residential care facility, such as J28, as Nikou is
alleged to be, had the responsibility for meeting the basic needs of a resident
such as Plaintiff and that such a defendant knew of the conditions that made Plaintiff
unable to provide for her own basic needs, Plaintiff does not specifically
allege such facts in the complaint. 
Additionally, Plaintiff has failed to plead sufficient specific fact
regarding the alleged abuse and/or neglect she allegedly suffered at the hands
of any of the defendants.  
 
The complaint only includes the bare facts regarding one specific
incident at J28.  Plaintiff alleges that
on 7/24/22 she fell from a bed resulting in a skull fracture and other
injuries.  (Complaint ¶13).  Without any supporting facts, Plaintiff
merely concludes that the fall was the result of defendants not providing her
“proper care.”  Id.  Plaintiff also alleges that after the fall,
it was discovered that she had multiple untreated sores and wounds on her body
and legs.  Id.  Plaintiff fails to allege specific facts to
support a finding that the fall or other injuries were the result of any
conduct by Nikou or the other defendants, much less the type of egregious
conduct necessary to state a claim for elder/dependent adult abuse/neglect.  Plaintiff also fails to allege facts to
support the conclusion that the sores and wounds were untreated.  Plaintiff has not alleged how long she had
these claimed “untreated” injuries, their cause, etc.  Additionally, because Plaintiff has not
alleged when she entered J28 as a resident, it cannot be determined how long
the alleged sores and wounds allegedly went untreated while Plaintiff was in
defendants’ care and custody. 
 
2nd cause of action – Negligence
(Mislabeled Willful Misconduct in the caption)
 
The complaint is uncertain as to this cause of action
because it is mislabeled in the caption of the complaint.  As such, Nikou addressed a cause of action in
the demurrer, willful misconduct, which Plaintiff did not intend to
allege.  (See Demurrer,
p.7:9-p.9:3; Opposition, p.4, fn.4). 
Plaintiff cites no authority for the proposition that it is Nikou’s
responsibility to determine the correct cause of action she intended to plead
based on the totality of the allegations in the complaint.  Id.
 
Nikou should have the opportunity to challenge the cause
of action for negligence once it is clearly alleged in Plaintiff’s pleading.
 
3rd cause of action – Medical Negligence
 
The elements of a medical negligence cause of action are:
(1) a duty to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of the
medical profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of the duty; (3)
a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the injury; and
(4) resulting loss or damage.  Lattimore
(2015) 239 CA4th 959, 968; Belfiore-Braman (2018) 25 CA5th 234, 238,
fn.3.
 
Plaintiff has specifically alleged that Nikou owned the
building and residence where J28 is located, that Nikou is an owner, operator
or person in control of J28, Nikou and her employees had care and custody of
Plaintiff and Nikou was a “nursing facility administrator.”  (Complaint ¶4).  Plaintiff has not specifically alleged that
Nikou, individually was a medical care provider.  Plaintiff has failed to cite any authority to
support the claim that the allegation that “[t]o the extent that the J28
Facility is a Skilled Nursing or Nursing Facility, defendants J28, defendant
EDJESKA MACANDILI, defendant ZERAFAT NIKOU, and DOES 1 through 10, are medical
care providers, including and not limited to physicians, clinical nursing
staff, licensed nurses, elder care providers and resident care facility
providers responsible for providing appropriate medical care and treatment for
plaintiff,” is sufficient to establish that Nikou, individually, is a medical
care provider such that Nikou can be held to the standard of a medical
professional and liable for breaching such standard.  (See Complaint ¶26; Opposition,
p.8:22-p.9:18).    
 
As such, the cause of action for medical negligence fails
to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action against Nikou and/or is
uncertain.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer on the ground of misjoinder of parties is
overruled.  The demurrer is otherwise
sustained as to the 1st, 2nd and 3rd causes of
action.  Due to the liberal policy of
allowing leave to amend and because this is only the original complaint,
Plaintiff is given the opportunity to try to cure the defects in the pleading. 
 
A First Amended Complaint is due within 30 days.
 
The motion to strike is placed off calendar as moot due
to the ruling on the complaint.  
 
The Court notes that Nikou has improperly attached the
Motion to Strike to the Demurrer.  In
future filings a demurrer and motion to strike must be filed as separate
documents.  Additionally, the electronic
bookmarks which appear in the demurrer and motion to strike document are not
properly labeled or linked to any part of the document as required.  See CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the parties are warned that
failure to comply with this requirement in the future may result in matters
being continued so that documents can be resubmitted in compliance with the
rule, papers not be considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.     