 Case Number:  22STCV30174    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  YELENA MELOYAN, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  ALBERTSONS COMPANIES, INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV30174  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER    Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 6, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Yelena Meloyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Albertsons Companies, Inc. (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a slip and fall on Defendant’s property.  On February 26, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion for an order compelling Plaintiff to provide further responses to special interrogatories, set two. The parties participated in an informal discovery conference (“IDC”), in which the issues were deemed resolved but for the issue of sanctions. (Min. Order, April 25, 2024.) Thus, the Court will address the issue of sanctions only.   II. SANCTIONS Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response. (CCP §2031.310(h).) Defendant requests $1,185 in monetary sanctions.  The Court will award 2.5 hours of attorney time, at the rate of $250 per hour, for a total of $625 in attorney’s fees. Further, Defendant is awarded one motion filing fee of $60 as costs. Sanctions are sought and imposed against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, jointly and severally. Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through its attorney of record, in the total amount of $685, within twenty (20) days.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   