 Case Number:  21STCV26388    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  BIANCA ALVARADO, Plaintiff(s), vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV26388  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: PITCHESS MOTION FOR PRODUCTION OF PERSONNEL RECORDS  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 6, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Bianca Alvarado (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”) and Tyler Patrick Whiteman (“Whiteman”) for damages arising from an automobile incident. Plaintiff alleges that on January 22, 2020, Whiteman lost control of his vehicle and collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle. Plaintiff sets forth a cause of action for liability of public entities and public employees pursuant to Gov. Code section 815.2 and 820.   Plaintiff moves to compel the City to produce medical employment records of Whiteman related to prior syncopal episodes, who was an in the course and scope of his employment with the Los Angeles Police Department at the time of the incident. The City and Whiteman (collectively, “Defendants”) oppose the motion. No reply has been filed to date. Plaintiff previously brought this motion, which was heard and denied on February 1, 2024. Defendants did not appear at that hearing. (Min. Order, Feb. 1, 2024.) Based upon the Court’s recollection of the matter, the Court noted to Plaintiff’s counsel at the hearing that the declaration was deficient. Plaintiff’s counsel informed the Court that he would fix the declaration on a renewed motion. The Court therefore considers the renewed motion on the merits.   II. PITCHESS MOTION  Legal Standard In general, the personnel records of peace officers are protected from discovery pursuant to Penal Code section 832.7. The exclusive means for obtaining these materials is through a Pitchess motion. (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (1990) 219 Cal. App. 3d 1605, 1611.)  Penal Code section 832.5 applies to “complaints by members of the public against the personnel of these departments or agencies.” (Penal Code section 832.5(a)(1).) “Complaints and any reports or findings relating to these complaints shall be retained for a period of at least five years.” (Id. section 832.5(b).) They “may be maintained either in the peace or custodial officer’s general personnel file or in a separate file designated by the department or agency.” (Ibid.)¿¿ The term “personnel records” is defined as follows:¿¿  “Personnel records” means any file maintained under that individual's name by his or her employing agency and containing records relating to any of the following:¿¿  Personal data, including marital status, family members, educational and employment history, home addresses, or similar information.¿¿   Medical history.¿¿   Election of employee benefits.¿¿   Employee advancement, appraisal, or discipline.¿ ¿  Complaints, or investigations of complaints, concerning an event or transaction in which he or she participated, or which he or she perceived, and pertaining to the manner in which he or she performed his or her duties.¿¿   Any other information the disclosure of which would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.¿¿  (Penal Code section 832.8(a).)¿ Under Evidence Code section 1043, a party may seek disclosure of personnel records or records maintained pursuant to Section 832.5 by filing a regularly noticed motion with the appropriate court. (Evid. Code section 1043(a).)¿ A Pitchess motion shall (1) identify the proceeding in which discovery or disclosure is sought, the party seeking discovery or disclosure, the peace or custodial officer whose records are sought, the governmental agency which has custody and control of the record, and the time and place at which the motion for discovery or disclosure shall be heard, (2) describe the type of records or information sought, and (3) present affidavits showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought.  (Evid. Code § 1043(b).)  The “good cause” declaration must be sufficiently specific “to preclude the possibility of [the movant] simply casting about for any helpful information.” (People v. Mooc (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1216, 1226 (Mooc).) However, an attorney declaration based upon information and belief may be used to evidence good cause in support of a Pitchess motion. (Haggerty v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1079, 1086.) The moving party need show only a “plausible factual foundation” for discovery—that is, a scenario of officer misconduct that might occur or could have occurred. (Warrick, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1025-1026.) All that is required is the presentation of a scenario that might have or could have occurred, which is a “relatively low threshold.” (Uybungco v. Superior Court (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1043, 1048.)¿ Turning to the second step, if the court finds good cause, then an in camera hearing must be held. (Slayton v. Superior Court (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 55, 60.) After personally examining the records in camera, the court shall order disclosure of peace officer personnel records that are “relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation.” (See Evid. Code, § 1045, subd. (a); Mooc, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1226.) If disclosure is ordered, the court must also order that the disclosed information may not be used “for any purpose other than a court proceeding pursuant to applicable law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1045, subd. (e).)¿  Discussion  Plaintiff argues that Penal Code § 832.5(a)(1) does not apply, because the complaint by Plaintiff does not concern the conduct of Officer Whiteman, but as to his potential history of syncopal episodes. Defendant does not dispute this, and indeed, Plaintiff is not requesting records of complaints maintained pursuant to Section 832.5. Plaintiff is requesting disclosure of “peace of custodial officer personnel records” pursuant to Evidence Code section 1043. Still, the process is the same (via Pitchess motion), as dictated by section 1043. The exclusive means for obtaining personnel records of peace officers is through a Pitchess motion. (County of Los Angeles, supra, 219 Cal. App. 3d at 1611.) “Personnel records” includes “medical history”. (Penal Code §832.8(a)(2).) Here, Plaintiff seeks the medical history of Officer Whiteman’s from his personnel records. In terms of Defendants’ opposition, which contends that this motion seeks to evade the statutory timeline for a motion to compel further, Defendants do not provide any authority regarding the relationship between a Pitchess motion and a motion to compel further, such that this Pitchess motion is barred, on its face, by any related statutory deadline. Thus, on this renewed motion, the Court specifically reviews the revised “good cause” declaration to determine whether there is a plausible factual foundation for the discovery sought in order to compel an in camera review. The movant must submit a declaration showing good cause for the discovery of such records, setting forth both the records’ materiality to the subject matter of the pending litigation and the declarant’s reasonable belief that the identified government agency has the type of records which are being pursued.¿(Evid. Code § 1043 (b)(3).)¿The declaration, in sum, provides that because Officer Whiteman testified that he experienced a coughing episode a few second loss of consciousness at a café just prior to the incident, that therefore the episode which occurred while driving was actually the “second” incident. Plaintiff’s counsel appears to cast doubt on the credibility of Officer Whiteman’s testimony that he never had a prior history based on the technicality that he experienced symptoms just prior to the incident. As such, Plaintiff seeks Officer Whiteman’s medical history related to any syncopal episodes.  Pursuant to the City’s responses to Plaintiff’s written discovery, the City denies the existence of any medical records which reflect any of the medical history described by Plaintiff as syncopal episodes, fainting, passing out, blackouts, or temporarily losing consciousness. (Opp., Exhs. 2 and 3.) On the other hand, it appears that Plaintiff seeks to probe the truth of this contention of no prior history. A police officer's privilege of confidentiality with respect to police personnel records is conditional and must be balanced with the right of a litigant to obtain information or records that are material to the subject matter of the litigation. (Rosales v. City of Los Angeles (2000) 82 Cal. App. 4th 419, 428.) As to materiality, this prong is satisfied upon a showing that “the evidence sought is admissible or may lead to discovery of admissible evidence.” (Riske v. Superior Court (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 647, 658.)¿ Such an inquiry is left to the discretion of the trial court and will only be reversed upon a finding of abuse of discretion.¿(Id. at p. 657.) Plaintiff avers the information is necessary because it relates to whether the City actually had notice of Officer Whiteman having a history of fainting or blacking out while allowing him to drive a vehicle. In the balancing of factors, the Court finds good cause to proceed to the second step of this Court personally examining the records. If no such medical history of past syncopal episodes exists, as the City argues, then there will be no disclosure of any of Officer Whiteman’s medical records to Plaintiff. If such records do exist, then only the pertinent information directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claim will be ordered disclosed.  III. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED. Plaintiff has established a plausible factual foundation for discovery to proceed to the second step for an in camera review to determine the relevance of any of Officer Whiteman’s personnel medical records that may be subject to disclosure, should any relevant records exist. The Court requests that the Custodian of Records appear at the hearing on this motion, if possible. If the Custodian of Records is not available, the Court requests the parties meet and confer regarding a mutually agreeable date for the in camera hearing.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 3rd day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  