  Case Number:  22VECV00259    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  W 4467 WOODLEY
PARTNERS, LLC vs ALLIED INSULATION, INC., et al. 
 
motion for
determination of good faith settlement  
 
Date of Hearing:        April
16, 2024                                     Trial
Date:       None
set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00259
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability action. On July
26, 2023, Plaintiffs Melvy Cardona; Felipe Argueta; Ever Carbajal; Maymarie
Carbajal, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona; Melanie
Carbajal, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona; Michael
Carbajal, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona, Bella
Rodriguez, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona, Chanel
Carbajal, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona; and Mason
Cardona, a minor by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Melvy Cardona filed a
complaint against SFV Portfolio – 14732 Blythe Owner, LP and 14732 Blythe
Associates, L.L.C. for 1. Failure to Provide Habitable Dwelling; 2. Breach of Covenant
and Right to Quiet Enjoyment and Possession of the Property; 3. Nuisance 4.
Negligence 5. Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4. Plaintiffs allege the
property suffered from several nuisances as well as untenantable and
substandard conditions including cockroaches, mice, inoperable heating, mold,
deteriorated closet, and so on.
 
Plaintiff dismissed Jeff Warling D/B/A
Warling and Associates and Byer Geotechnical Inc. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.      Boc Construction, Inc.’s Motion for
Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
2.      Premier Pool Plastering’s Motion
for Good Faith Settlement Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is
GRANTED. 
 
discussion
 
1.      BOC CONSTRUCTION, INC.’S MOTION
FOR GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT 
 
Boc
Construction, Inc. (“BOC”) moves this court for determination of a good faith settlement made
between them and Plaintiff Seth Lichtenstein. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
877.6(a)(1) provides that a “party to an action in which it is alleged that two
or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract debt shall
be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a settlement entered
into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more alleged tortfeasors or
co-obligors…” Under subdivision (a)(2), a settling party may give notice of
settlement to the parties and court, together with an application for
determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order. The application
“shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and amount of the
settlement” and must include a proof of service. (CCP §877.6(a)(2).)
 
In determining the good faith of a
settlement, the court may consider the affidavits served with the notice of
hearing, and any counter-affidavits filed in response, or other evidence in the
court’s discretion. (CCP §877.6(b).) The California Supreme Court, in Tech-Bilt
Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, provided
factors to be considered in determining the good faith of a particular
settlement. The court explained that the policies and intent underlying section
877.6 “require that a number of factors be taken into account,” such as: a
rough approximation of a plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability; the amount paid in settlement; the allocation of
settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; a recognition that a settlor should pay
less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. (Tech-Bilt
at p. 499.) Other relevant factors include financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants, and the existence of collusion, fraud, or
tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of non-settling defendants. (Id.).
This evaluation must be made “on the basis of information available at the time
of settlement.” (Id.) The court further explained that settlement by a
defendant “must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at
the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability
to be.” (Id., citations omitted.) 

 
The non-settling tortfeasors or
obligors bear the burden of demonstrating the absence of good faith in the
settlement.  (CCP §877.6(d).) In order to
demonstrate a lack of good faith, the non-settling party must show that the
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of Section 877.6.  (Nutrition
Now, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)
 
BOC has filed an application for good faith settlement, which provides
BOC is to pay Plaintiff $75,000 in exchange for a dismissal of BOC Construction
with prejudice. BOC contends there are no defects with the work it performed at
the Subject Property and that its proportional liability is zero; however, in
the interest of good faith and to avoid additional costly legal fees moving
forward with further litigation, discovery, and trial preparation, BOC has
agreed to settle with Plaintiff. BOC goes on to address each of the Tech-Bilt
factors. (Mot. 7:9 – 10:16.) 
 
United Excavation Group Inc. opposes
the motion on the grounds BOC has failed to provide any substantial evidence
that its settlement is in good faith and $75,000 is not a fair representation
of BOC’s proportionate share of liability. United Excavation argues BOC
acknowledges the total recovery in this matter could be more than $6,000,000.00
and a settlement demand of $1,000,000.00 was made yet maintains its proportional
liability is zero and its $75,000.00 settlement is within the reasonable range of
its potential liability. 
 
According to United Excavation, BOC has
attempted to justify its disproportionate settlement by placing blame on other defendants
in this matter without providing any substantial evidence in the form of
documentation to be considered in evaluating the validity of its alleged good
faith settlement. 
 
The court
finds BOC has presented sufficient evidence and the settlement represents BOC’s proportional
share of liability. As noted above, the party contesting the settlement bears
the burden of proving that it is in bad faith. (CCP §877.6(d).) If the party
contesting the settlement can show, with admissible evidence, that the
settlement is “so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the
above-referenced factors] as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives
of the statute,” then the court should find the settlement to be lacking in
good faith. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499-500.)
If no such showing is made, the settlement should be deemed to be in good faith
and the settlor is entitled to an order barring any further claims by any other
joint tortfeasor or co-obligor for “equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity” and/or an order dismissing any such claims. (CCP
§ 877.6(c).) 
 
BOC has
submitted declarations of BOC's President and CEO, BOC's retained expert, and
BOC's counsel in support of their application. BOC also argues a settlement
demand from another party is not a factor for the court to consider in
determining whether or not a settlement is in good faith. As presented, BOC has
demonstrated the settlement is reasonable. Moreover, the instant settlement was reached
through multiple mediations with the assistance of mediator, Ross Hart, Esq.
 
Accordingly,
BOC Construction, Inc.’s Motion for Good Faith Settlement is GRANTED. 
 
2.      PREMIER POOL PLASTERING’S MOTION
FOR GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 877.6
 
Premier Pool
Plastering moves the court for an order determining that its settlement between
Premier and Plaintiff Seth Lichenstein. 
 
Premier Pool Plastering has filed an application for good
faith settlement, which provides BOC is to pay Plaintiff $200,000 in exchange
for a dismissal of Premier Pool Plastering with prejudice. Premier Pool
Plastering contends notwithstanding the lack of evidence demonstrating
liability on the part of Premier, Premier’s settlement sum of $200,000
constitutes an economic decision to avoid the expensive and uncertainty
associated with a long and protracted litigation. Premier also addresses each
of the Tech-Bilt factors. (Mot. 7:10 – 11:16.) 
 
United Excavation Group Inc. opposes
the motion on the grounds Premier has failed to provide substantial evidence
the settlement represents its proportional share of liability. Specifically, Premier
Pool acknowledges the pool tilting and cracking to be caused by improper construction
and the estimated cost to replace the pool to be approximately $1,800,000.00
yet contends that $200,000.00 is a reasonable settlement amount to represent
its proportional share of liability. According to United Excavation, Premier
has attempted to justify its disproportionate settlement by placing blame on other
defendants in this matter without providing any substantial evidence in the
form of affidavits or declarations to be considered in evaluating the validity
of its alleged good faith settlement.
 
The court
finds Premier has presented sufficient evidence and the settlement represents Premier’s proportional
share of liability. As noted above, the party contesting the settlement bears
the burden of proving that it is in bad faith. (CCP §877.6(d).) If the party
contesting the settlement can show, with admissible evidence, that the
settlement is “so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to [the
above-referenced factors] as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives
of the statute,” then the court should find the settlement to be lacking in
good faith. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499-500.)
If no such showing is made, the settlement should be deemed to be in good faith
and the settlor is entitled to an order barring any further claims by any other
joint tortfeasor or co-obligor for “equitable comparative contribution, or
partial or comparative indemnity” and/or an order dismissing any such claims. (CCP
§ 877.6(c).) 
 
Premier has
submitted a report by Helfrich Associates and Grover-Hollingsworth which provides
that Premier’s possible contribution to the alleged problem was small (roughly
10% to 20% liability) and confirmed that the bulk of the pool related damages
arise from construction and design deficiencies caused by other defendants. As
presented, Premier has demonstrated the settlement is reasonable. 
 
Accordingly,
Premier Pool Plastering’s Motion for Good Faith Settlement Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 877.6 is GRANTED. 
 