 Case Number:  24BBCV00024    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
HANI MAMMO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ABA LAW GROUP, et al.,
  
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  24BBCV00024
 
  Hearing Date:  December 20, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
Demurrer TO SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
            Plaintiff Hani Mammo (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that he hired and retained Defendant ABA Law Group (“ABA”) to represent him and
his businesses in several legal matters from 2021 to 2023.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Christopher
Reyes was an attorney who passed away in December 2023 and his estate is
believed to be Defendant Estate of Christopher Reyes (“Reyes”).  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Bianca
Santamaria (“Santamaria”) was Reyes’ wife and that she willfully took and
received money and property from Reyes with the intent to defraud Plaintiff and
other creditors.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
Edward Damas (“Damas”) and Kurt Fredric Zimmerman (“Zimmerman”) are attorneys
who worked on Plaintiff’s case. 
            Plaintiff
alleges that in 2021 and 2022, he hired and paid Defendants to work on the
following cases, but Defendants failed to perform legal services as follows (SAC,
¶26): 

LASC
     Case No. 22STCV35495, Sonia Recinos et al. v. Mammo et al.: Plaintiff
     alleges that Defendants failed to defend or engage in the matter, missed
     hearings and discovery deadlines, caused sanctions to be imposed against
     Plaintiff, and failed to report the matter to Plaintiff’s insurance. 
LASC
     Case No. 23CHCV00863, Monica Macias Lopez. v. Mammo Enterprises LLC et
     al.: Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were grossly negligent and
     failed to defend or engage in the matter and failed to report the matter
     to Plaintiff’s insurance.  
LASC
     Case No. 23CHCV01428, Lopez v. Mammo et al.: Plaintiff alleges that
     Defendants were grossly negligent, failed to defend or engage in the
     matter, abandoned the case which caused sanctions to be imposed against Plaintiff,
     and failed to report the matter to Plaintiff’s insurance.
LASC
     Case No. 23STCV01410, Racquel Haynes et al. v. Bushra Mammo et al.:
     Plaintiff alleges that Defendants were grossly negligent, failed to defend
     or engage in the matter, and failed to report the matter to Plaintiff’s
     insurance.
LASC
     Case No. 22CHRO00618, Lopez v. Mammo: Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
     failed to defend or file the papers necessary to terminate and expunge the
     case.  
LASC
     Case No. BC604605, Jorge Vargas v. Mammo, et al.: Plaintiff alleges
     that Defendants only appeared to a single hearing and then failed to
     attend any further hearings. 
     Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ gross negligence caused them to
     miss several trial dates, such that judgment was entered against Plaintiff
     in excess of $600,000 in December 2022. 
     
LASC
     Case No. 20CHCV00262, Mammo v. Athas Capital Group, et al.: Plaintiff
     alleges that Defendants failed to represent or pursue this matter, such
     that the failure to prosecute resulted in a dismissal and court sanctions
     against Plaintiff.  

Plaintiff alleges that during the time
Defendants represented him, Plaintiff would regularly check in with Defendants
about the 7 active cases, and Zimmerman and Reyes repeatedly told him that they
were working on the cases and there was nothing for Plaintiff to do.  Plaintiff alleges that he found out in 2023
that he could search the court website to check the status of the cases and
discovered that there were several missed hearings and trials, sanctions, and
gross legal malpractice by Defendants.  
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
May 24, 2024, alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) breach of
contract; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) legal malpractice/respondent
superior/agency; (5) fraud; (6) voidable transaction; (7) declaratory relief;
(8) creditor’s action; (9) fraudulent conveyance; and (10) conspiracy to
fraudulently convey property.   The 1st to 3rd causes of
action are alleged against ABA, Damas, Zimmerman, and Reyes.  The 4th cause of action is alleged
against ABA.  The 5th to 10th
causes of action are alleged against Reyes and Santamaria.  
On July 17, 2024, Defendant Kurt Zimmerman
filed a demurrer to the FAC.   On September
20, 2024, the Court sustained with leave to amend Defendant’s demurrer as to
the second and third causes of action. 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint.
Motion on Calendar
On November 12, 2024, Defendant Zimmerman
filed a demurrer to the SAC challenging the two causes of action which the
Court previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer with leave to amend.  On December 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
to the demurrer.  On December 16, 2024,
Defendant Zimmerman filed a reply to the opposition.
DISCUSSION 
            Zimmerman demurs
to the second (breach of contract) and third (breach of fiduciary duty) causes
of action in the SAC on the grounds that they fail to state sufficient facts.  This Court previously sustained Zimmerman’s
demurrer as to these counts with leave to amend.  Defendant argues that that Plaintiff has
refiled the exact same allegations and facts.  

Second cause of action for
     Breach of Oral Contract

The essential elements of a cause of
action for breach of contract are: “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff's performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and
(4) the resulting damages to plaintiff.” 
(Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman
(2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) “An oral contract may be pleaded generally as to
its effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the exact words.”  (Khoury
v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
Zimmerman argues that the SAC alleges oral
contracts or a single oral contract, as well as facts that Plaintiff entered
into the oral contract for himself and several businesses, but the businesses
have not been included as parties to the action.  
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that he
hired and retained ABA, he entered into a contract for legal services with ABA
to represent himself and several businesses he owns (Mammo Enterprises LLC and
others), and ABA assigned Reyes and Zimmerman to work as lead counsel on Plaintiff’s
cases.  (SAC, ¶¶2, 25.)  
In his opposition, Plaintiff identifies
paragraph 25 as the definition of his contract. In paragraph 25 of the SAC,
Plaintiff has alleged a single oral contract with ABA Law Group. Plaintiff has
not alleged a second, individual contract with Zimmerman, and Zimmerman is not
alleged to be a party to this contract. As this is the second time that Plaintiff
has failed to allege facts sufficient for a cause of action for breach of oral
contract against Defendant, the demurrer to the 2nd cause of action
is sustained without leave to amend.

3rd cause of action
     for Breach of Fiduciary Duty  

To state a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, Plaintiff must allege: (1) the existence of a
fiduciary relationship; (2) its breach; and (3) damage proximately caused by
that breach.  (Roberts v. Lomanto (2003) 112 Cal. App. 4th 1553, 1562.)  A fiduciary relationship is any relation
existing between parties to a transaction wherein one of the parties is in duty
bound to act with the utmost good faith for the benefit of the other
party.  (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003)
106 Cal.App.4th 625, 629.)  “The relation
between attorney and client is a fiduciary relation of the very highest
character, and binds the attorney to most conscientious fidelity ....”  (Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th
1093, 1102.)  The basic fiduciary
obligations include undivided loyalty and confidentiality. (Id.)  Such fiduciary duty includes the obligation
to render a full and fair disclosure to the client of all facts which
materially affect his rights and interests. 
(Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971)
6 Cal.3d 176, 188-189.)  
In the 3rd cause of action, Plaintiff alleges that
all Defendants had an attorney-client relationship with Plaintiff and they each
owed him a fiduciary duty to act with the utmost good faith and in his best
interests and legal representation – a duty which they breached by failing to
represent him, abandoning his legal matters, and making false and willfully
misleading statements to Plaintiff.  (SAC, ¶53.) 
He alleges that these actions fell below the fiduciary duty owed under
the attorney-client relationship to Plaintiff. 
(Id.)  Plaintiff alleges that the attorneys and
employees of ABA breach their fiduciary duty by failing to prosecute, failing
to defend, and making false statements to the Plaintiff when he asked about the
cases’ progress and status.  (Id., ¶54.)  
In the prior order, this Court
found that “[f]urther facts should be alleged to support the nature of the
fiduciary relationship and how Defendants (and Zimmerman) breached that
duty.”  (Order, 09/20/24, p. 9).  Zimmerman again argues that a breach of fiduciary
duty claim in the attorney-client context will only lie where an attorney
converts his client’s business opportunities, obtains an unfair advantage at
his client’s expense, or has a conflict of interest.  (Dem. to SAC, p.7.)  He argues that Plaintiff’s allegations in the
SAC still fail to allege “any breach of the twofold fiduciary obligations of
undivided loyalty or confidentiality” or any other breach of fiduciary duty as
established by caselaw.  (Dem. to SAC, p.
8.)
In response, Plaintiffs argue that
Defendant’s demurrer is redundant, as Plaintiff resolved the issues this Court
sustained in the First Amended Complaint. 
However, in the SAC, Plaintiff yet again repeats general allegations
made in connection with previous causes of action.  This is not sufficient to support a cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty.  Defendant
Zimmerman is entitled to details of which case he supposedly abandoned, and
what he did, if anything, that is beyond mere negligence. 
Complete abandonment without
withdrawal as counsel of record could be a breach of fiduciary duty. Yet Plaintiff
has again not alleged facts that are distinct from the general legal
malpractice allegations against all defendants jointly.  Some fact or hopefully facts specific to
Zimmerman should be alleged. Was he counsel of record in a specific case? Did
he abandon it while still counsel of record? How? What were the specific
consequences? What facts infer that he was at least reckless or intended to
cause injury? 
Without more, there is no
consequence to the allegations of breach of fiduciary duty. If Plaintiff is
going to seek punitive damages, there will need to be some definition of what
specifically Mr. Zimmerman did that constitutes reckless or malicious behavior.
The demurrer to the 3rd cause of action is sustained with
leave to amend. Plaintiff is cautioned that this may be the final opportunity
to amend this cause of action against Mr. Zimmerman. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Kurt
Zimmerman’s demurrer to the SAC is sustained without leave to amend as to the
second cause of action, and with leave to amend as to the third cause of
action.  
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: 
December 20, 2024                                    ___________________________
                                                                              JOHN
KRALIK, Judge
                                                                              Superior
Court of California
                                                                              County
of Los Angeles   
 