 Case Number:  24NNCV01420    Hearing Date:   December 20, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
JANE DOE,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ARTHUR WUTONG
  SHI,
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24NNCV01420
 
  Hearing Date:  December 20, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIES (SET TWO)
 



 
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Arthur Wutong Shi
(“Defendant”) on May 6, 2024, and she filed her operative first amended
complaint (“FAC”) on October 14, 2024. She asserts claims for sexual battery,
intentional infliction of emotioanl distress, and negligence. Plaintiff alleges
Defendant sexually assaulted her, while she was a minor, while Defendant was
intoxicated at a party on May 4, 2022.
            Defendant
cross-complained against Plaintiff for defamation on November 13, 2024.
            On
October 31, 2024, Defendant filed four motions to compel further responses to
discovery. The first motion, directed to Defendant’s Special Interrogatories
(Set Two), is now before the Court; the remaining motions are set to be heard
on January 17, 2025.
            Plaintiff
filed her opposition to the instant motion on December 9, 2024. On December 11,
2024, Defendant filed his reply.
MEETING AND
CONFERENCE
The Civil
Discovery Act requires a moving party to attest to a good-faith meet and confer
effort as described in Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040 before a motion
to compel further discovery responses may be granted. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300(b).)
Both counsel
engaged in substantial efforts to meet and confer prior to filing. (See Pl.
Exh. E.) Section 2030.300(b) is satisfied.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
An interrogatory is an authorized method
of discovery to which recipient parties must respond within 30 days, unless the
propounding and responding parties agree to an extension. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.260(a), 2030.270(a).) Each response must be either an answer, a reference
to external writing from which the answer may be found, or an objection to a
specific interrogatory. (Id., § 2030.210(a).) If the response is an
answer, it must be “as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Id., § 2030.220
(a).) “If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered
to the extent possible,” and “If the responding party does not have personal
knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so
state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where
the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Id., §
2030.220(b)-(c).)
If the propounding party receives an
incomplete response, or a meritless or overly general objection, the
propounding party may file a motion to compel further responses. (Id., §
2030.300(a).) The motion must be filed within forty-five (45) days of the
responding party’s most recent supplemental (and purportedly deficient)
response. (Id., subd. (c).)
/ / /
            Timeiliness
            The
motion is timely. Plaintiff served her responses on September 16, 2024;
Defendant filed and served his motion on October 31, 2024, forty-five days
later.
            Disputed
Interrogatories
            As
an initial matter, the Court notes that Defendant did not attach the disputed
discovery to his motion or show that it was served. Counsel’s declaration
refers to four other sets of discovery, not to the Special Interrogatories (Set
Two). (See Li Decl., ¶ 2.) However, Plaintiff admits in her opposition that the
discovery was served and that Defendant has correctly restated Plaintiff’s
responses. (See Opp., 3:22-6:2.) Counsel’s meet and confer correspondence also
refers to the disputed interrogatories. (See Def. Exh. E.) The Court proceeds
to the merits despite Defendant’s oversight.
            Also,
Plaintiff protests in part that Defendant misnumbered its interrogatories and counsel’s
efforts to meet and confer were “confusing”. (Opp., 1:27-28, 2:22-25,
5:18-6:2.) This argument is unpersuasive. Communications between counsel
reflect several meet and confer efforts, during which the minor oversight might
easily have been clarified. (See Def. Exh. E.) Counsel apparently spoke by
phone several times. (See id., at pp. 12, 16.) Plaintiff’s meet and
confer correspondence addressed each of Defendant’s meritless, boilerplate
objections. (See ibid.) The clerical error does not warrant denial of
Defendant’s motion. 
            The
Court proceeds to the substance of Plaintiff’s responses. The following
interrogatories are in dispute (using Defendant’s numbering 3, 4, and 6, rather
than Plaintiff’s 14, 15, and 17):



No. 3


IDENTIFY the medical expenses
  (to date) from Plaintiff's Statement of Damages, including a detailed
  itemization of what Plaintiff has spent for the $5,000.00. 




No. 4


IDENTIFY all facts upon which
  your contention of future medical expenses is based.




No. 6


IDENTIFY all DOCUMENTS that
  REFER TO the intentional infliction of emotional distress alleged in the
  operative complaint. This category specifically includes reports to the
  medical facilities. 



            Plaintiff
responded to each of these reasonable, specific interrogatories with objections
and non-responses. The objections are overruled. 
            To
Interrogatory No. 3, Plaintiff responds she is “currently acquiring all
invoices and payments to all medical facilities.” This is not a response. She
must answer to the extent possible, even if investigation continues and
requires later supplement. 
            To
Interrogatory No. 4, Plaintiff responds she has “experienced a traumatic event
that will affect her mental and emotional stability for years to come.”
Interrogatory No. 4 is a straightforward contention interrogatory, and
Plaintiff’s single-sentence response is lacking in factual detail. What is the
traumatic event? How will it affect her mental and emotional stability? Has she
consulted with any healthcare advisers who have advised her of future
difficulties? 
            To
Interrogatory No. 6, Plaintiff offers to “meet and confer regarding which documents
are being referenced.” The interrogatory must be answered to the extent
possible. At a minimum this would involve production of any reports of medical
facilities or health care providers that discuss any of plaintiff’s emotional
difficulties. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
            Defendant’s
motion is granted. Plaintiff is ordered to provide complete responses within
thirty (30) days of this order. In view of the defects in the moving papers,
sanctions are denied. 
Defendant to give notice.
 
                                                     
DATED: December 20, 2024                                     ___________________________
                                                                              John
J. Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court