 Case Number:  24VECV00579    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  T FRANDSEN V FOXMAN
24VECV00579
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiffs Russell M. Frandsen, Christie H.
Frandsen, Andre Berger, and Tracy Berger’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
is DENIED.
Introduction 
Plaintiffs move for judgment on
the pleadings on the grounds that the answer fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a defense to the cause of action for unlawful detainer. Defendants
oppose on the grounds that the denials are sufficient. No reply has been filed.
Discussion
Plaintiffs claim they have
presented a valid cause of action for unlawful detainer (forcible detainer),
and that Defendants have not provided facts constituting a defense. Plaintiffs
are the owners of the real property located at 14606 Sutton St., Sherman Oaks,
CA, which they purchased on January 25, 2024, through a nonjudicial foreclosure
sale. They have not granted Defendants any rights to possess the property. In
their complaint, Plaintiffs assert that they established a prima facie case for
unlawful detainer against Defendants and provided them with timely and proper
notice to vacate, which Defendants ignored despite having no legal right to
remain on the property. Plaintiffs filed and served a complaint for unlawful
detainer. 
Defendants filed a verified
answer, admitting to certain allegations but denying others (paragraphs 7, 8,
10, and 11). The denials were based on facts alleged in a proposed second
amended cross-complaint in a related case (Foxman v. Frandsen et al, LASC Case
No. 23STCV19020). Plaintiffs argue that Defendants’ denials were not “positive”
as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 431.30 because they fail to
specifically identify the allegations they deny in paragraphs 7, 8, 10, and 11.
For instance, paragraph 7 includes multiple allegations regarding Plaintiffs’
purchase of the property and compliance with foreclosure procedures, which
Defendants did not specifically deny or refute. Similarly, paragraphs 8, 10,
and 11 contain specific claims about notice to quit, the rental value of the
property, and Plaintiffs’ acquisition of title, none of which Defendants denied
specifically. Due to these insufficient denials, Plaintiffs assert that they
cannot discern Defendants’ intent. 
In Hoelzle v. Fresno County
(1958) 159 Cal.App.2d 478, the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s
denial of the motion for judgment on the pleadings. There, the appellant argued
that the answer failed because it did not specifically deny all allegations in
the complaint. (Hoelzle, supra 159 Cal.App.2d at 482.) Like Plaintiff here, the
appellant in Hoelzle also relied on Muraco v. Don (App.3 Dist. 1926) 79
Cal.App. 738, 743, for the assertion that Code of Civil Procedure section 437
requires an answer to be specific and directed to certain paragraphs or
specific parts of the complaint. (Id.) The Hoelzle Court pointed out that most
of the cases relied on by the appellant were decided before the 1927 amendment
to Section 437, which now allows for general or specific denials of material
allegations and does not require each allegation to be specifically denied.
(Id.) The court explained that the current version of Section 437 states that
an answer can contain a general or specific denial of material allegations and
a statement of any new matter constituting a defense, without requiring
specific denials for each allegation. (Id. at 483.) The court concluded that
the answer in Hoelzle was sufficient to raise an issue regarding the
complaint’s allegations. 
Similarly here, the Court finds
that the requirement for “specific” denials is no longer part of the current
statute. Plaintiffs fail to explain how the denials are not positive.
Plaintiffs argue that denying whole paragraphs is deficient, but Defendants
contend that modern pleading practice does not require this level of
specificity. Upon review of the answer, the Court finds the denials to be clear
and sufficient. 
Thus, the Court DENIES
Plaintiffs’ motion for judgment on the pleadings.