 Case Number:  23STCV19298    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



DUPONT CLINIC, PC, a California professional corporation; and
  CONSULTANTS IN OBSTETRIC AND GYNECOLOGIC ULTRASONOGRAPHY AND SURGERY, PLLC, a
  District of Columbia professional limited liability company,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
DE BHMC, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company; DOUGLAS
  EMMETT MANAGEMENT, LLC a Delaware limited liability company; DOUGLAS EMMETT,
  INC., a Maryland corporation; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
______________________________________
DUPONT CLINIC, PC, a California
  professional corporation; and CONSULTANTS IN OBSTETRIC AND GYNECOLOGIC
  ULTRASONOGRAPHY AND SURGERY, PLLC, a District of Columbia professional
  limited liability company,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
DE BHMC, LLC, a Delaware limited
  liability company; DOUGLAS EMMETT MANAGEMENT, LLC a Delaware limited
  liability company; DOUGLAS EMMETT, INC., a Maryland corporation; and DOES 1
  through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:         
  23STCV19298 (Lead Case)
                           23STCV24271
  (Related Case)
 Hearing Date:   October
  18, 2024
 Trial Date:        January
  7, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants DE BHMC, LLC, Douglas Emmett Management, LLC,
  and Douglas Emmett, Inc.’s Motion to Consolidate [RES ID # 5830]



 
 
 
 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff DuPont Clinic, PC, a
California professional corporation; and Consultants in Obstetric and
Gynecologic Ultrasonography and Surgery, PLLC, a District of Columbia professional
limited liability company (collectively, DuPont) sues Defendants DE BHMC, LLC,
a Delaware limited liability company; Douglas Emmett Management, LLC a Delaware
limited liability company; Douglas Emmett, Inc., a Maryland corporation (collectively,
Douglas Emmett); and Does 1 through 10, inclusive pursuant to an August 14,
2023 Complaint alleging causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Recovery of Damages for Rescission Pursuant to Cal. Civ. Code § 1692; (3)
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (4) Inducing
Breach of Contract; (5) Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations;
(6) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (7) Negligent
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations; (8) False Promise; (9)
Intentional Misrepresentation; and (10) Negligent Misrepresentation. 
The claims arise from the following
allegations.
In 2021, DuPont began planning to
open a clinic providing reproductive healthcare in California, specifically in
the Los Angeles area. DuPont chose California as the site of its second office
because of California’s official state stance protecting abortion rights. In
mid-2022, DuPont entered negotiations with Douglas Emmett for premises located
at 8920 Wilshire Boulevard, Beverly Hills, California, 90211 (the Premises.) 
On June 24, 2022, the United States
Supreme Court issued the decision in the case Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s
Health Organization, No. 19-1392, 597 U.S. __ (2022). In the Dobbs
decision, the Supreme Court overturned fifty years of precedent establishing a
constitutional right to choose to have an abortion, including Roe v. Wade,
410 U.S. 113 (1973) and Planned Parenthood v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833
(1992). 
On May 10, 2022, after the draft Dobbs
decision leaked, the Beverly Hills City Counsel unanimously adopted a
resolution in support of abortion rights. Given the City’s published stance on
abortion and public embrace of a woman’s right to choose, DuPont felt that its
clinic would not just be permitted but would be protected and embraced by the
City.
Amidst this political landscape, DuPont
and Douglas Emmett were actively negotiating a lease for the Premises. On June
30, 2022, DuPont sent a Letter of Intent to Douglas Emmett summarizing its
offer to rent, including a description of proposed use to perform reproductive
health services at the Premises, including abortion. Between July and September
2022, DuPont and Douglas Emmett exchanged multiple drafts of the proposed lease
agreement, including edits to the Specified Use provision describing the medical
procedures, including abortion, that DuPont would perform at the Premises. Throughout
the negotiation process, DuPont also had multiple meetings with officials from
the City of Beverly Hills regarding permits and zoning. The lease was executed
on September 27, 2022, and DuPont formally announced that the clinic would open
in October 2023.
In late 2022 and early 2023,
anti-abortion protesters began appearing at the Premises, at Beverly Hills City
Council meetings, and organizing online petitions to stop DuPont from opening
its Beverly Hills clinic. In the next months, DuPont alleges that the City of
Beverly Hills and Douglas Emmett engaged in various efforts to delay DuPont
from obtaining necessary permits, turn other tenants against DuPont, and generally
obstruct DuPont from opening the clinic.  
On June 12, 2023, Douglas Emmett
issued a letter to DuPont rescinding the lease agreement. As a result, DuPont
has been forced to cease construction, evacuate the Premises, and pursue legal
action on behalf of a clinic that may never open. Plaintiffs filed their
complaint against Douglas Emmett Management, LLC and other entities on August
14, 2023.
B. Relevant Procedural History
On October 5, 2023, DuPont filed a
Complaint against the City of Beverly Hills and various Beverly Hills city
officials (23STCV24271; the Beverly Hills Action). The Beverly Hills Action
alleges claims of (1) Inducing Breach of Contract, (2) Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations, (3) Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Relations, (4) Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations, (5) False Promise, (6) Intentional Misrepresentation, and (7)
Negligent Misrepresentation. 
On October 6, 2023, DuPont filed a
Notice of Related Case in both the instant action (23STCV19298; the Douglas
Emmett Action) and the Beverly Hills Action indicating that both Actions
“arise[] from the same or substantially identical transactions, incidents, or
events requiring the determination of the same or substantially identical
questions of law or fact.” The Beverly Hills Action was therefore designated as
related to the Douglas Emmett Action and also assigned this Department. 
C. Motion Before the Court
On September 12, 2024, Douglas
Emmett filed the instant motion to consolidate the two actions discussed above.

On October 4, 2024, DuPont filed an
opposition. 
On October 7, 2024, the City of
Beverly Hills also filed an opposition. 
On October 14, 2024, Douglas Emmett
filed separate replies to each opposition. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
When cases involving a common question of law or fact are
pending in the same superior court, i.e., in the same county, the cases can be
consolidated on a party’s motion or on the court’s own motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (a). 
Cases can be consolidated for (1) all purposes (Hamilton
v. Asbestos Corp. (200) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147; see Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (a)), (2) for trial (Stubblefield Constr. Co. v. City of San
Bernardino (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 687, 701; see Code Civ. Proc., § 1048,
subd. (a)), or (3) for limited purposes, e.g., discovery or pretrial matters
(see Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a); see, e.g., State v. Altus Fin.,
S.A. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1284, 1293 [cases consolidated for discovery and
pretrial matters]; Austin B. v. Escondido Un. Sch. Dist. (2007) 149
Cal.App.4th 860, 870 [cases consolidated for discovery and trial]; Frieman
v. San Rafael Rock Quarry, Inc. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 29, 33 [cases
consolidated for discovery and pretrial determinations]). 
To prevail on a motion to consolidate, a movant must
establish that (1) the cases are pending before the same court, (2) the cases
share a common question of law or fact, and (3) the benefits of consolidation
outweigh the burdens. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)
B. Analysis
A party moving for consolidation
must establish that the cases being consolidated are pending in the same
superior court, i.e., in the same county. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).)
In the Los Angeles Superior Court, “[c]ases may not be consolidated unless they
are in the same department.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule
3.3(g)(1).) 
Here, the Douglas Emmett Action and
the Beverly Hills Action are both pending before Department 40. 
A party moving for consolidation
must also establish that the cases sought to be consolidated involve a common
question of fact or law. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) The more
predominant and significant the common questions are to the litigation, the
more likely the motion will be granted. (Cf. Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1 [factors
considered for coordination].)  
Here, DuPont does not dispute that
the cases involve common questions of fact and law. (“To be sure, the two cases
involve related facts and circumstances.” (DuPont Opp., p. 2:12-13.) The City
of Beverly Hills asserts that the issues at the center of the Douglas Emmett
Action do not overlap with those at the center of the Beverly Hills Action. The
City argues that “DuPont’s success or failure in the Douglas Emmet Action depends
on whether Douglas Emmett had the right to rescind the Lease” and “[c]onversely,
DuPont’s success or failure in the Beverly Hills Action depends first on
whether the Court finds that the City’s challenged conduct is privileged,
truthful, or otherwise immunized.” (Beverly Hills Opp. pp. 2:20-21, 3:3-4.) 
Although both cases arise from the
same general fact of DuPont’s signing a lease with Douglas Emmet in the City of
Beverly’s involvement in Douglas Emmett’s decision to rescind the lease, there
are also many issues of law and fact that are different in the two cases. This
factor could tip in either direction.
Last, a party moving for
consolidation should establish that the benefits of consolidation outweigh the
burdens. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (a).) To establish this, the
movant should argue that consolidation will, e.g.: (1) save time (i.e., length
of time to conclude one suit versus multiple suits) or money (see Code Civ.
Proc., § 1048, subd. (a) [“costs” and “delay]); or (2) help prevent the
inconsistent adjudication of common and factual legal issues, lessen the burden
on judicial resources, or promote the convenience of the parties, witnesses,
and attorneys (see Sunrise Fin., LLC v. Superior Court (2019) 32
Cal.App.5th 114, 121; cf. Code Civ. Proc., § 404.1 [factors considered for
coordination]). 
Here, Douglas Emmett argues that
both actions will require identical fact discovery, the same witnesses and
application of the same legal principles and that proceeding as separate
actions would heighten the risk of inconsistent outcomes. (Mot. pp. 5-7.) Douglas
Emmett further argues that there is no genuine risk of prejudice because both
cases are in the early stages of litigation and no party in the Douglas Emmett Action
party objects to a continuance of the trial date. (Mot. p. 9.) 
Both DuPont and the City oppose the
motion on the grounds that the motion to consolidate is not yet ripe and is
based in part on a hypothetical filing of a cross complaint, which has not
happened yet. DuPont asserts that once Douglas Emmett files its
Cross-Complaint, it will not oppose consolidation of the two actions. (DuPont
Opp., p. 3.) The City argues that even if Douglas Emmett does file a cross
complaint (or cross-claim), the only non-time barred claims would be for
eminent domain and violations of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, claims that would not
overlap with the case between DuPont and Douglas Emmett. (City Opp., p. 3 n.
1.)
The City of Beverly Hills also argues
that consolidation will result in unnecessary costs and delays because of the
pending Anti-SLAPP motion, currently scheduled for November 13, 2024 (and
subject to an ex parte by plaintiff seeking a 90 day continuance on the hearing.)
The City argues that the losing party on the Anti-SLAPP motion will likely appeal
and if “the Actions are consolidated, once the Beverly Hills Action is stayed
upon the filing of an appeal, the Court will have to sever the two actions so
that the January 7, 2025 trial in the Douglas Emmett action can proceed, or
stay the trial of those unrelated claims for the approximately eighteen (18)
months the Anti-SLAPP motion appeal will be pending.” (Beverly Hills Opp., p.
4:15-28.) 
In reply, Douglas Emmett makes the
additional argument that a failure to consolidate will burden the witnesses
with two sets of duplicative discovery regarding the same set of facts.
However, if this was its concern, no explanation is made why Douglas Emmett delayed
close to a year after the cases were related, and indeed, close in time to its discovery
cut-off date, to bring this motion to consolidate. Moreover, such a problem
could be solved by stipulation and order.
The Court concludes that the
benefits of granting the motion are outweighed by the likelihood of substantial
delay given that an anti-SLAPP motion – which is a motion on the pleadings -- will
be heard either right before, or just after, trial is set to begin in the
Douglas Emmett action. (Despite some discussion in Douglas Emmett’s papers to
continue the trial, no such request has been made, and any continuance of the
trial date would have to be based on good case; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332 [“trial dates are firm”].) The fact that the cases are in the same
department will minimize the possibility of inconsistent rulings. As of the current
record, the Court in its discretion denies the motion without prejudice.
            For these
reasons, the Court DENIES Defendants DE BHMC, LLC, Douglas Emmett Management, LLC,
and Douglas Emmett, Inc.’s Motion to Consolidate. 
III. Conclusion
Defendants DE BHMC, LLC, Douglas Emmett
Management, LLC, and Douglas Emmett, Inc.’s Motion to Consolidate is DENIED
without prejudice. 