  Case Number:  22STCV04358    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



KARYNA MYRES,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ERNST HACKER, an individual; KAPE PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, INC., a
  California corporation; and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          22STCV04358
 Hearing Date:   October
  18, 2024
 Trial Date:        February
  4, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Niza
  Hacker’s Demurrer to Complaint, and Motion to Strike [RES ID # 8693]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Karyna Myres (Myres) sues
Defendants Ernst Hacker, Kape Property Management, Inc. (Kape Property
Management), Doe 1 Tamir Hacker, as Successor Co-Trustee of the Survivor’s
Trust established under The Hacker Family Trust dated March 24, 1988, and as
Successor Trustee of Survivor’s Trust established under the Ernst Hacker and
Bila Hacker Trust, restated March 16, 2012, Doe 2 Ronen Hacker, as Successor
Co-Trustee of the Survivor’s Trust established under The Hacker Family Trust
dated March 24, 1988, Doe 3 Adi Samuel Hacker, as Successor Co-Trustee of the
Survivor’s Trust established under The Hacker Family Trust dated March 24,
1988, Doe 4 Niza Hacker, as Successor Trustee of the Ernst Hacker Survivor’s
Trust, and Does 5-100, pursuant to a February 3, 2022 Complaint. 
The Complaint alleges causes of
action for (1) Nuisance, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of the Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Negligence, (5) Breach of
Statutes, (6) Breach of Warranty of Habitability, (7) Breach of the Covenant
Quiet Enjoyment, (8) Constructive Eviction, (9) IIED, and (10) NIED.
The claims arise from
allegations that, in February 2020, while a tenant of a residential apartment
unit located at 718 North Hayworth Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90046 (the Premises),
seemingly unlicensed contractors performed construction and demolition work on
the unit adjacent to Myres’s unit, which caused portions of the ceiling in her
unit to collapse, with debris at one point falling on her head, causing Myres injuries
and leading to a diagnosis of post-concussion syndrome. The claims also arise
from allegations of ongoing harassment by Defendants’ agents—including
allegations of unpaid rent by Defendants’ agents and threats from construction
workers—and allegations that the construction and demolition work caused a gas
leak at the Premises, leading SoCal Gas to deem the Premises uninhabitable in December
2020 and forcing Myres to move out of her unit.
B. Motion Before the Court
On July 3, 2024, Defendant Niza
Hacker (Mrs. Hacker) demurred to all ten causes of action in the Complaint on
the grounds that each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to state a
claim. Mrs. Hacker also moved to strike portions of the Complaint. 
On October 4, 2024, Myres filed
oppositions to the demurrer and motion to strike. 
On October 11, 2024, Hacker
replied. 
 
II. Demurrer
A. Meet and Confer
Hacker has satisfied the meet and
confer requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41
subdivision (a)(3)(A). (Mintesnot Decl. ¶ 2.) 

B. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) This
device can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a
[general] demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High
School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) 
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) A demurrer, however, “does not admit contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally
and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v.
Lodge at Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) The face
of the complaint includes exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits
contradict those alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland
v. Morse Diesel Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447.)
C. Analysis
1. First,
Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action
Mrs. Hacker demurs to Myres’s First
Cause of Action for Nuisance, Second Cause of Action for Breach of Contract,
Third Cause of Action for Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of Statutes, Sixth Cause of Action
for Breach of Warranty of Habitability, Seventh Cause of Action for Breach of
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment and Eighth Cause of Action for Constructive
Eviction. 
Mrs. Hacker contends that the above
causes of action all require there to be a contract between Mrs. Hacker and Myres
that was in some way breached, but that there was no contract, or lease
agreement, between them. (Demurrer, p. 6:10-14.) The Complaint alleges that Ernst
Hacker was the owner of the Subject Property, and that Myres and Ernst Hacker
entered into a lease agreement for the Property in October 2013. (Compl. ¶¶
9-10.) Ernst Hacker passed away after this lawsuit was initiated. (Demurrer, p.
4:14.) Mrs. Hacker was Ernst Hacker’s wife and is the Successor Trustee of the
Ernst Hacker Survivor's Trust; she is already named in this action as a
Defendant in her capacity as Trustee and successor in interest to the Property
and lease agreement. (Demurrer, p. 4:15.) The Demurrer contends that there is
no reason for Mrs. Hacker to also be named in her individual capacity.
(Demurrer, p. 4:16-23.) 
In opposition, Myres argues that
Mrs. Hacker is alleged to be the agent, partner, and joint venturer of Ernst
Hacker (Opp. p. 5:9-13.) In the Complaint, Myres states that on February 22,
2020, Mrs. Hacker telephoned Myres to inquire about the damage at the Subject
Property. (Compl. ¶ 29.) Myres asserts that this establishes “at the very least
ostensible authority to act, as well as alleges her relationship as agent of
Mr. Hacker.” (Opp. p. 5:21-22.) 
Here, Myres has failed to state
facts sufficient to allege a cause of action against Mrs. Hacker. The phone
call between Mrs. Hacker and Myres, on its own, does not establish an agency
relationship between Mrs. Hacker and Ernst Hacker or that she otherwise had
joint control over the property. Additionally, even accepting that Mrs. Hacker
is her husband’s agent, Myres does not allege any facts that Mrs. Hacker committed
a tort in her individual capacity. Agents are not vicariously liable for the
torts of their principals. Under Civil Code section 2343, an agent is
responsible to third persons as a principal for their acts in the course of
their agency in specific cases, including when their acts are wrongful in
nature (Civ. Code section 2343) The Complaint does not state facts of any
wrongful act committed by Mrs. Hacker.
            Thus, the demurrer to the first, second,
third, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action is SUSTAINED, with
leave to amend. 
2. Fourth and
Tenth Causes of Action
Mrs. Hacker demurs to Myres’s Fourth
Cause of Action for Negligence and Tenth Cause of Action for Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress as Myres has not plead sufficient facts of any
duty Mrs. Hacker owed to Myres. 
Myres cites Stoiber v.
Honeychuck, et al., (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 931 to support her position
that a tenant can hold a landlord’s agent liable “in tort for damages for
mental distress and injury to personal property suffered as a result of the
failure to maintain the premises” (Stoiber, supra, (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d
at 931.) However, even assuming Mrs. Hacker was her husband's agent, the
Complaint fails to provide any specific facts regarding how she, on behalf of
Mr. Hacker, neglected to maintain the property. Moreover, negligent infliction
of emotional distress is not a separate tort, “it is the tort of negligence to
which the traditional elements of duty, causation, and damages apply.” (Ess
v. Eskaton Properties, Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 126.) The facts
alleged here do not state a claim under either the bystander or the direct
victim theory of the claim. (Id. at p. 127.)
Thus, the demurrer to the fourth and tenth causes of action is
SUSTAINED, with leave to amend.
3. Ninth Cause
of Action 
Mrs. Hacker demurs to Myres’s Ninth
Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress on the grounds
that Myres has not pled facts of any intentional or reckless behavior by Mrs.
Hacker. 
In opposition, Myres argues that
the Defendants hired unlicensed workers to perform construction services at the
adjacent residence which resulted in personal, emotional and property damage. (Opp.
p. 3:4-5.) She also alleges that the Defendants “engaged in a campaign to bully
[her] so that she would move out enabling Defendants to rent her unit for more
money.” (Opp. p. 3:6-7.) The Complaint alleges that the property managers would
send her messages claiming that that her rent checks were late and threatening
legal action, although her rent was timely paid (Compl. ¶ 47.) Myers also alleges
that a contractor hired by the Defendants taunted and harassed her. (Compl. ¶
48.) 
As explained above, the Complaint
does not allege sufficient conduct by Mrs. Hacker in her individual
capacity—separate from any potential liability as a successor in interest to
the Property and lease agreement—that would constitute intentional or reckless
behavior.
Thus, the demurrer to the ninth cause of action is SUSTAINED, with leave
to amend. 
 
III. Motion to Strike
Mrs. Hacker moves to strike several
portions of the Complaint relating to punitive damages. The trial court has
broad authority to strike any portion of a pleading drawn not within conformity
of the law and its orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) A complaint requesting
punitive damages must include “specific factual allegations showing that
defendant’s conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Punitive
damages may be stricken where the facts alleged do not rise to the level of
“malice, fraud or oppression” required to support a punitive damages award.
(See, e.g. Turman v. Turning Point of Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) 
Mrs. Hacker argues that Myres’ claims
for punitive damages should be stricken because Myers does not present any
facts reflecting conduct by Mrs. Hacker that was intentional, willful,
malicious, fraudulent or oppressive. (Mot. to Strike, p. 8:18-19.) 
Myres argues that the Complaint
sufficiently alleges facts that support punitive damages. Specifically, Myres argues
that the ongoing construction, the resulting property damage and injury, the messages
from the property managers regarding allegedly late rent payments, and the
taunting and harassment by a construction worker hired by Defendants are
sufficient facts evidencing willful, oppressive, fraudulent, and/or malicious
conduct. (Opp. to Mot. to Strike, p. 3:9-23.) 
However, the above facts do not
specifically allege conduct of Mrs. Hacker’s that was malicious, fraudulent or
oppressive such as to give rise to punitive damages. 
Thus, the motion to strike is
GRANTED, with leave to amend. 
IV. Conclusion
Defendant Niza Hacker’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED, with
leave to amend. 
Defendant Niza Hacker’s Motion to Strike is GRANTED, with leave to amend.