  Case Number:  23GDCV00997    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  V SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – NORTHEAST DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT V
KLARIS AVANESSIAN,
Plaintiff,
vs.
ASIF MAHMOOD, et al.,
Defendants.
Case No.: 23GDCV00997
Hearing Date: April 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
DEFENDANTS ASIF MAHMOOD AND 
WAASIF MAHMOOD’S MOTION TO 
COMPEL A PHYSICAL EXAMINATION 
OF PLAINTIFF
MOVING PARTIES: DEFENDANTS ASIF MAHMOOD AND WAASIF 
MAHMOOD’S
RESPONDING PARTY: PLAINTIFF KLARIS AVANESSIAN
Motion to Compel a Physical Examination of Plaintiff  The court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection 
with this motion.  BACKGROUND
This case arises from a motor vehicle accident on August 6, 2022. Plaintiff Klaris 
Avanessian (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she sustained injuries to her neck back and shoulders and 
suffered from headaches following the accident. 
On December 15, 2023, Defendants filed a motion to compel a physical medical 
examination. On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April 11, 2024, Defendants 
filed their reply.  LEGAL STANDARD
California Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 states: “(a) The court shall grant a 
motion for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
. . . (d) An order granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons 
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and 
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” California Code of Civil 
Procedure § 2032.020 authorizes the Court to order the physical examination of any party and be 
limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” to the action. “In controversy” means that the 
examination be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the 
litigation. (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330; Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 
Cal.3d 833, 839.)
Code Civ. Proc. Section 2032.310 states in pertinent part: “The motion shall be 
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
DISCUSSION
A. Meet and Confer
The parties engaged in a meet and confer but Plaintiff will not submit to a physical 
examination because she claims to not have any present complaints despite alleging $100,000 in 
future care treatment for various pain injections to the spine. (Rabbani Decl. ¶11; Exhibit E.) The 
meet and confer requirement was satisfied. 
B. Motion to Compel Physical Examination
Defendants moves for leave of Court and an order compelling Plaintiff to submit to a 
physical examination. (Not. of Mot. p. 2.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff has placed her physical 
conditions and injuries in controversy in this action, and Defendants have a right under Code of 
Civil Procedure section 2032 to demand and conduct an independent medical examination on 
Plaintiff. (Not. of Mot. p. 2.) Defendants argue that good cause exists to compel Plaintiff to 
submit to a physical examination because she is claiming approximately $100,000 in future care 
treatment in the form of cervical epidural injections and occipital nerve block injections as well 
as future chiropractic care. (Id. at p.2.) Defendants also note that they will be deprived of a fair  trial unless this motion is granted because Defendants’ expert must be given the opportunity to 
form his own independent opinion and prepare for trial. (Mot. to Compel p.8.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that through extensive treatment she has been completely 
pain free with no residual symptoms since early 2023 and does not have any future appointments 
with any chiropractor, orthopedic surgeon, or pain management doctor. (Opp. p.2.) Plaintiff 
states that Defendant was provided with this information through verified responses and 
depositions. (Id.) Plaintiff also argues that Defendants’ demand failed to comply with California 
Code of Civil Procedure §2032.220 and should therefore be denied. 
In reply, Defendants argue that good cause exists because “it is anticipated that Plaintiff’s 
chiropractor and pain management provider will recommend further treatment consisting of 
physical therapy, pain management, and a lumbar spine discectomy.” (Reply p.3.) Further, 
Defendants argue that their expert cannot rely solely on Plaintiff’s medical records as she will 
conduct objective neurological tests on Plaintiff’s complaints of radiculopathy. (Id. at p.4.)
The Court finds that Defendants’ demand failed to comply with California Code of Civil 
Procedure §2032.220 because it fails to identify any potential intended diagnostic testing, and 
relies on boilerplate language which prevents Plaintiff from determining whether the testing is 
appropriate, harmful, painful, and whether or not prior diagnostic testing of the same kind is 
available and can be provided to the examining physician. (See Levin Decl., ¶2, Exh. 1 -
Defendant’s Demand for “Independent” Medical Examination of Plaintiff Klaris Avanessian.) 
Additionally, Plaintiff testified in a deposition “testified that she has had no complaints 
to her neck, low back, either shoulder or headaches for more than one year, and had no plans for 
any future medical treatment” a position she also stated in response to written discovery 
responses. (Id. at 12 5; Exh. 2.) The court according find that Defendants have not established 
good cause and denies the Motion to Compel a Physical Examination of Plaintiff. 
C. Monetary Sanctions
Defendants request for sanctions is also denied.  Based on the foregoing, the court denies the Motion to Compel a Physical Examination 
of Plaintiff and Defendants request for sanctions.