 Case Number:  22STCV23574    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Compel Physical Examination of Plaintiff filed
by Defendants Rickey Tyrone McPherson and the Chrysalis Center 
 
Tentative
 
The
motion is denied without prejudice.
 
Background
 
This action arises out of a
collision between an automobile and a pedestrian. Anna Ruth Bermejo
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that she was hit by a vehicle driven by Rickey Tyrone
McPherson (spelled “McQuerson” in the Complaint but “McPherson” in the answer)
on August 24, 2020, near Ardmore Street in the City of Los Angeles. (Complaint,
¶¶ 1 & 11.) Plaintiff alleges that the accident occurred while McPherson
was acting within the course and scope of work for his employer, Nonprofits
United and The Chrysalis Center and that the vehicle was owned by The Chrysalis
Center. (Id., ¶ 12.) 
 
On July 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed the complaint against The
Chrysalis Center, Nonprofits United, Paramount Plaza (“Paramount”), Jamison
Properties, Inc. (“Jamison”), Rickey Tyrone McQuerson, and Does 1 through 25,
asserting causes of action for negligence, premises liability, and negligence
per se. 
 
On November 18, 2022, The Chrysalis Center and Rickey Tyrone
McPherson (collectively “Defendants”) filed an answer. 
 
Nonprofits United was dismissed on December 2, 2022. 
 
On July 10, 2023, Paramount and Jamison filed an answer and
cross-complaint against Defendants.  On
September 26, 2023, Defendants filed an answer to the cross-complaint and their
own cross-complaint against Paramount and Jamison.  On October 26, 2023, Paramount and Jamison filed
an answer to Defendant’s cross-complaint.
 
Plaintiff claims injuries to her right ankle, right shoulder,
lower back, and neck.  (Balich Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.)  Plaintiff has agreed to an orthopedic
examination by Dr. Jonathan Nassos on May 21, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 5.)   Plaintiff has not agreed to Defendants’
request for a second physical examination by a neurosurgeon.  (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
On April 29,
2024, Defendants filed this motion for leave to conduct a second physical  examination of Plaintiff with Dr. Tony
Feuerman, a neurosurgeon. Plaintiff filed an opposition on May 10, 2024. Defendants
filed a reply on May 16, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition … of that
party or other person is in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subd. (a).)
 
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
 
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The moving party¿must support the motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A
meet and confer declaration must state facts “showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020,
subd. (a).) 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff has
agreed to submit to an orthopedic examination. 
(Balich Decl., ¶ 5.)  Defendants
now seek leave for a second physical examination, this one by Dr. Tony Feuerman,
a neurosurgeon. 
 
Defendants argue that good cause exists for a second physical examination
because (in summary): (1) the orthopedic examination is focused on injuries to
bones, joints, and tendons; (2) Plaintiff is claiming ongoing neck and back
pain for which she expects future treatments of cervical epidural injections
(at a cost of almost $20,000 per injection) and intraarticular steroid injections;
and (3) an examination by a neurosurgeon is necessary and appropriate for
Defendants to assess these claims of ongoing pain and future expected treatment.  (See Balich Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. A.)
 
The meet and confer requirement is satisfied.  (Balich Decl., ¶ 6 & Exh. C.; Oviedo
Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
Plaintiff makes a series of arguments in its opposition.
 
First, Plaintiff argues that there is not good cause for a second
physical examination.  After reviewing the
evidence in the record and the arguments presented by both sides, the Court
finds that Defendants have shown good cause for a second physical examination,
this one by a neurosurgeon.
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that Defendants are “glaringly vague” in their
moving papers “about the type of tests and examinations to be done.”  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310, subdivision
(b), requires that the motion must (among other things) “specify the … manner,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.”  Here, however, Defendant have not satisfied
this requirement.  At most, in Exhibit D
to the declaration of Defendant’s counsel, Defendants state that the
examination (scheduled for eight hours) “will consist of a physical examination
of Plaintiff, diagnostic examination and a review of Plaintiff’s medical
history” and will include “discussion with Plaintiff and, as appropriate, manipulation
of” the areas of Plaintiff’s body that she has “put in issue.”  
 
Perhaps
recognizing the deficiency in their moving papers, Defendants attempt to
address this issue further in their reply, submitting an additional declaration
from counsel with more detail about the nature of the examination.  The short answer, however, is that providing
this information with the reply – when Plaintiff has no opportunity to respond –
is too late.  By Code, this information
must be included in the motion.
 
Accordingly, the
motion is denied, without prejudice, for this procedural reason. 
 
The Court need not reach, and does not reach, Plaintiff’s other
arguments.
Conclusion

The Court DENIES, without prejudice,
the motion for leave for a second physical examination of Plaintiff.
Moving
Party is to give notice.