 Case Number:  21STCV23287    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Substitute Successor in Interest for Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend.
 
Tentative
The motion is continued.
Background
This action arises out of a
motor vehicle accident on June 27, 2019, at or near Rinaldi Street in Porter
Ranch.  On June 23, 2021, Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend
(“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Einna Marie
Altarejos Macavinta, Maribel Altarejos (collectively, “Defendants”), and Does 1
through 50, asserting causes of action for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence.  Defendants filed their answer on March 17, 2023.
The Court has received
information that Plaintiff died on September 21, 2023.
On March 12, 2024, a motion was filed to
substitute a successor in interest, Karma Townsend (“Karma”), Plaintiff’s only
child.  (Chun Decl., ¶ 5.)  Karma is a minor (DOB
10/7/2008).
On May 2, 2024, the Court continued the motion
to May 23, pending appointment of a guardian ad litem for Karma.
On May 3, 2024, an application for appointment of a
guardian ad litem for Karma was submitted. 
It was rejected for procedural reasons on May 7, and notice was mailed
to Plaintiff’s counsel.  (The Court notes
that this is the second time that an application for an appointment of a
guardian ad litem has been rejected for procedural reasons.)
 
Nothing has been filed since.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other
person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that
the statements are true, under penalty of perjury.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).)  The affidavit or declaration must attach a
certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Since the time of the filing of the complaint,
Plaintiff Jarrett Townsend has died. In light of his death, his son, Karma appears
to be his successor in interest. 
The Declaration
of David Estey includes:
(1) the decedent’s name, Jarrett Townsend;
(2) the date of Plaintiff’s death, September 21,
2023;
(3) that Petitioner is the legal guardian of Karma
Townsend;
(4) that there is no proceeding now pending in California
for the administration of Plaintiff’s estate;
(5) that Karma
Townsend is the only child of Plaintiff and lone successor in interest; 
(6) that no
other person has a superior right to be substituted in for Plaintiff;
(7) and Petitioner
declares these statements are true under penalty of perjury. 
Petitioner also attaches copy of death
certificate to this motion. (Exh. 1.) Petitioner also includes the guardianship
documents. (Exh. 2.)
Because Karma is a minor, a guardian ad litem
must be appointed.  So far, however, the application
for appointment of a guardian ad litem has been rejected.
Therefore, the Court again CONTINUES Petitioner’s
motion to substitute a successor in interest.
Conclusion
 
The Court
CONTINUES Petitioner’s motion to substitute a successor in interest for
Plaintiff.
Moving party is ORDERED to give notice.