 Case Number:  22STCV09022    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Determination of Good Faith
Settlement filed by Defendant Abel Reyna.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
On March 14, 2022, Piruza Balyan,
an individual and as successor in interest to Decedent, Edgar Akopovich
Kocharyan (“Plaintiff”), filed a complaint against the City of Log Angeles,
County of Los Angeles, Abel Reyna, and Does 1 to 100 alleging three (3) causes
of action of (1) Statutory Liability/Dangerous Condition of Public Property,
(2) Negligence and Motor Vehicle, and (3) Wrongful Death, arising out of a
vehicle collision that occurred on March 13, 2021. County of Los Angeles was
dismissed from this action on February 23, 2024. 
On March 21, 2024, City of
Los Angeles filed its answer and cross-complaint against Abel Reyna for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. On April 19,
2024, Abel Reyna (“Reyna”) filed an answer to City of Los Angeles’ cross-complaint.
Reyna is currently
incarcerated. (Damon Decl., ¶ 7.) Reyna has yet to file an answer to
Plaintiff’s complaint.
On February 15, 2024, Reyna filed
a motion for determination of good faith settlement. 
No opposition has been
filed. 
Legal Standard
In a case involving two or more alleged joint
tortfeasors, a party may seek a court order under Code of Civil Procedure
section 877.6 determining that a settlement between the plaintiff and one or
more of the alleged tortfeasors is in good faith. A judicial determination of
good faith “bar[s] any other joint tortfeasor … from any further claims against
the settling tortfeasor … for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or
comparative indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 877.6(c).)
In evaluating whether a settlement has been
made in good faith, courts consider the following factors, as set forth by the
California Supreme Court in the landmark case Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d
488: 
             1) “a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery”;
             2) “the settlor’s proportionate
liability”;
            3)
“the amount paid in settlement”;
     
4) “the allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs”;
5) “a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement
than he would if he were found liable after a trial”;
             6) the settling party's “financial
conditions and insurance policy limits”;
7) any evidence of “collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to
injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.”
(Id. at 499.) “Practical
considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of
information available at the time of settlement.” (Ibid.)
The “good faith” concept in Code of Civil
Procedure section 877.6 is a flexible principle imposing on reviewing courts
the obligation to guard against the numerous ways in which the interests of
nonsettling defendants may be unfairly prejudiced. (Rankin v. Curtis
(1986) 183 Cal. App. 3d 939, 945.) Accordingly, under Tech-Bilt, the party asserting the lack of “good faith” may meet
this burden by demonstrating that the settlement is so far "out of the
ballpark" as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the
statute. (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.) Such a demonstration
would establish that the proposed settlement was not a “settlement made in good
faith” within the terms of section 877.6. (Ibid.) 
The Supreme Court explained that Code of
Civil Procedure section 877.6 is designed to further two equitable policies: 
1)
encouragement of settlements; and 
2) equitable
allocation of costs among joint tortfeasors. 

(Ibid.)  
Those policies would not be served by an
approach which emphasizes one to the virtual exclusion of the other. (Ibid.)
Accordingly, a settlement will not be found in good faith unless the amount is reasonable
in light of the settling tortfeasor's proportionate share of liability. (Std.
Pac. of San Diego v. A. A. Baxter Corp. (1986) 176 Cal. App. 3d 577, 589.)
Or, as the California Supreme Court has stated, a “defendant’s settlement
figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the
time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to
be.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38 Cal.3d at 499.)
When a motion seeking a determination under
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6 is not opposed, the burden on the moving
parties to show that the settlement was made in good faith is slight. (City
of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261
[holding that a “barebones motion” including a declaration setting forth “a
brief background of the case is sufficient”].) 
When a good faith motion is contested,
however, the moving parties have the initial burden of producing evidence in
support of the requested good faith determination. (Id. at pp. 1261-1262.)
“Section 877.6 and Tech-Bilt require an evidentiary showing, through expert
declarations or other means, that the proposed settlement is within the
reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good faith.” (Mattco Forge v.
Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1351.) “Substantial
evidence” is required. (Id. at p. 1352.) A declaration from a settling
defendant’s attorney that states, in conclusory fashion, that the client has little,
or no share of the liability may not be sufficient. (Greshko v. County of
Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834-35; see also 3 Weil & Brown,
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023)
¶¶ 12:774, 12:872-873.)  
The ultimate burden of persuasion is on the
party opposing the good faith determination. 
The “party asserting a lack of good faith shall have the burden of proof
on that issue.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §
877.6(d); see also 3 Weil & Brown, supra, at ¶ 12:875.) 
Discussion
On March 13,
2021, Reyna allegedly was speeding and lost control of the vehicle he was
driving and collided with Edgar Akopovich Kocharyan (“Decedent”), was standing
in a parking lot. (Complaint, ¶ 9.) Decedent died at the scene of the accident.
(Id.) Plaintiff seeks damages for economic damages, non-economic
damages, loss of Decedent’s training and guidance, funeral and burial expenses,
special and general damages, incidental damages, consequential damages, pre-
and post-judgment interest, and cost of suit. (Id., Prayer for Relief.)
 
Defendant
Abel Reyna requests the settlement between himself, Hellen Luna, the owner of
the vehicle, and Plaintiff be determined to have been made in good faith. The
terms of the settlement are to settle any and all claims against Defendant
Reyna and Ms. Luna for $20,000.00, the full single limit of the insurance
benefits available to them. (Motion, 3:25-27.) Plaintiff has not alleged a
specific monetary amount of damages, nor has Defendant provided an estimate of
damages to be collected. 
 
(1) Rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery. Reyna does not provide a rough
approximation of Plaintiff’s total recovery at this time.
 
(2)
the settlor’s proportionate liability. Reyna
contends that other parties bear liability in addition to him, and that the
settlement amount is proportionate to his share of liability. (Motion, 6:8-10.)
 
(3) The
amount paid in settlement. The agreement requires Reyna and Hellen Luna to
pay $20,000 to the Plaintiff through the Interinsurance Exchange of the
Automobile Club according to Defendant’s insurance policy limits. (Damon Decl.,
¶ 5.)
 
(4) The
allocation of the settlement proceeds among plaintiffs. There is only one
Plaintiff, so this is not a factor. 
 
(5) A recognition
that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found
liable after a trial. This factor supports the request for a good faith
determination. 
 
(6) The
settling party’s financial conditions and insurance policy limits. This
settlement is for Hellen Luna’s, owner of the car involved, insurance limit.
(Reyna Decl., ¶ 3.) Reyna contends he has no other assets to contribute to the
settlement. (Id., ¶ 8.)
 
(7) Any
evidence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests
of nonsettling defendants. There is no direct evidence of any fraud or
other tortious or improper conduct. Reyna contends the settlement was negotiated
at arm’s length, and was intended to expediate the matter and avoid further
litigation. (Motion, 8:1-2, 5-7.)
 
Defendant
Reyna attests that he does not have any other insurance, real property, trust
fund monies, stocks or bonds. (Exhibit C, ¶¶ 4-8.) Hellen Luna attests that her
insurance policy pays out only $20,000.00 and does not have any excess or
umbrella policies to cover this loss. (Exhibit D, ¶¶ 2-4.) 
 
In reviewing
Reyna’s motion with the Tech-Bilt factors, the Court finds the
settlement was made in good faith as it is the maximum available to Reyna from
insurance with no other assets currently available to him and there is no
evidence of collusion or fraud.
 
Therefore,
the motion is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion
 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for determination of good faith settlement under Code
of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice.  
 