 Case Number:  23STCV09332    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  11 Ramirez-Ortiz (23STCV09332)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           1/10/24
Time:                          11:00
am
Moving Party:           Southern California Medical Center,
Inc. (“Defendant” or “SCMC”)
Opposing Party:        Delia Ramirez-Ortiz (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11        
Judge:                         David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on SCMC’s motion to compel arbitration is continued for
supplemental briefing regarding substantive unconscionability and the PAGA
waiver.[1]
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a putative “wage and hour” class action.
 
Plaintiff used to work for SCMC. 
During the onboarding process, SCMC provided her with a policy packet
that contains an arbitration agreement. 
(See Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, pp. 3-5.) 
On November 5, 2021, she signed the packet.  (See id. at Ex. A1, p. 5.)  
 
Here, SCMC moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual causes
of action.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
SCMC’s
arbitration agreement appears in section 2 of the policy packet.  (See Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, pp. 3-5.) 
Section 2 states:
 
2. Arbitration.
Any controversy, dispute or claim arising out of, in connection with, or
related to the interpretation, performance or breach of Employee's employment
with COMPANY shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration (the
"Arbitration"). The Arbitration shall be initiated and administered
by and in accordance with the then existing Rules of Practice and Procedures of
the Judicial Arbitration and Mediation Services, Inc. (“JAMS”) or, if JAMS is
not located or actively conducting arbitrations in Los Angeles County, with the
Commercial Rules of the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”). The
Arbitration shall be held in Los Angeles County, California, unless the parties
mutually agree to have such proceeding in some other locale; the exact time and
location shall be decided by the arbitrator(s) selected in accordance with the
then existing Rules of Practice and Procedures of JAMS (or the Commercial Rules
of AAA, if applicable). The arbitrator(s) shall apply California substantive
law, or federal substantive law where state law is preempted. Civil discovery
in such Arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
California law that would apply if the matter were being litigated in a
Superior Court in the State of California. The arbitrator(s) selected shall
have the power to enforce the rights, remedies, duties, liabilities and
obligations of discovery by the imposition of the same terms, conditions and
penalties as can be imposed in like circumstances in a civil action by a court
of competent jurisdiction of the State of California. The provisions of
California law governing discovery in a civil action filed in Superior Court of
the State of California (including with limitation depositions) are
incorporated herein by reference and made applicable to this Agreement. The
arbitrator(s) shall have the power to grant all legal and equitable remedies
provided by California law and award compensatory damages provided by
California law, except that punitive damages shall not be awarded. The
arbitrator(s) shall prepare in writing and provide to the parties an award
including factual findings and the legal reasons on which the award is based.
The arbitrator(s) shall not have the power to commit errors of law or legal
reasoning. Any judicial review of the arbitrator(s) decision shall be governed
by California Code of Civil Procedure Sections 1285 et seq., except that the
parties expressly grant the Superior Court the authority to correct errors of
law, and modify the arbitrator(s)' ruling to avoid errors of law. The
prevailing party in any Arbitration hereunder shall be awarded reasonable
attorneys' fees, expert and nonexpert witness costs and expenses incurred
directly or indirectly with said Arbitration, including without limitation the
fees and expenses of the arbitrator(s) and any other expenses of the
Arbitration. 
 
Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event that either party wishes to obtain injunctive relief or
a temporary restraining order, such party may initiate an action for such
relief in a court of general jurisdiction in the State of California. The
decision of the court with respect to the requested injunctive relief or
temporary restraining order shall be subject to appeal only as allowed under
California law. Such courts shall not, however, have the authority to review or
grant any request or demand for damages. 
 
It is the intent of
the parties that any dispute covered by this Arbitration Agreement will be
arbitrated on an individual basis, and, unless prohibited by applicable law,
the parties mutually waive their right to bring, maintain, participate in, or
receive money from, any class, collective, or representative proceeding.
Further, no dispute between an employee and COMPANY may be brought in
arbitration under this Agreement on behalf of other employees as a class or
collective action or other representative proceeding. 
 
BY EXECUTING THIS
DOCUMENT, EMPLOYEE DOES HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE AND WARRANT THAT EMPLOYEE
UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES TO THE TERMS SET FORTH ABOVE. EMPLOYEE HAS HAD ADEQUATE
OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH ATTORNEYS, WHETHER OR NOT EMPLOYEE CHOSES TO SEEK
INDEPENDENT COUNSEL. EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THIS AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE IS
VOLUNTARY AND IS ENTERED INTO VOLUNTARILY AND NOT IN RELIANCE ON ANY PROMISES
OR REPRESENTATIONS MADE BY THE COMPANY OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINED IN THIS
AGREEMENT. 
 
(Ibid.,
underlining and capitalizing in original.)
 
Importantly,
assent is uncontested.  Plaintiff does
not dispute that she signed the agreement.
 
The Court finds that these
provisions and facts suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate.
 
Enforcement
 
Plaintiff
contends the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.
 
“‘[U]nconscionability
has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘oppression’
or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’
results.”  (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)  “The prevailing
view is that . . . both [must] be present in order for a court to
exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the
doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.,
emphasis added.)  “But they need not be
present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.)  “Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which
disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,
that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or
unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves.”  (Ibid.) 
“In other words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Ibid.) 
 
Procedural
Unconscionability
 
For procedural unconscionability,
Plaintiff claims the arbitration agreement is a contract of adhesion, the
onboarding process involved a high degree of oppression, and Defendant failed
to attach the applicable arbitration rules. 
(See Opposition, pp. 2-5.) 
 
The Court disagrees with the first
two points.  Plaintiff bears the burden
to show unconscionability (see Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:155.7 [instructing that
“[t]he party opposing a motion to compel arbitration on the ground of
unconscionability has the burden to prove the defense”]; see also id. at ¶
5:155.30 [stating that “the burden of proving unconscionability is on the party
seeking to block enforcement”]), yet she failed to file a declaration.  She does not declare under oath that
Defendant presented the arbitration agreement on a “take it or leave it” basis,
that Defendant pressured her to sign, or that she failed to receive
opportunities to read the agreement and to consult attorneys before signing.  (See Reply, pp. 3-4.)[2]  In fact, the agreement says the opposite, so
her burden is unsatisfied:
 
BY EXECUTING THIS
DOCUMENT, EMPLOYEE DOES HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE AND WARRANT THAT EMPLOYEE
UNDERSTANDS AND AGREES TO THE TERMS SET FORTH ABOVE. EMPLOYEE HAS HAD ADEQUATE
OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH ATTORNEYS, WHETHER OR NOT EMPLOYEE CHOSES TO SEEK
INDEPENDENT COUNSEL. EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THIS AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE IS
VOLUNTARY AND IS ENTERED INTO VOLUNTARILY AND NOT IN RELIANCE ON ANY PROMISES
OR REPRESENTATIONS MADE BY THE COMPANY OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINED IN THIS
AGREEMENT. 
 
(Busheri Decl.,
Ex. A1, p. 5, capitalizing in original.)[3]
 
The Court also disagrees with
Plaintiff’s third point.  She cites Trivedi
v. Curexo Technology Corp. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 387, claiming
“[f]ailure to provide an employee with a copy of the applicable arbitration
rules in advance of executing the agreement is procedurally
unconscionable.”  (Opposition, p.
5.)  Trivedi is
distinguishable.  In Baltazar v.
Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, the California Supreme
Court held that the Trivedi rule applies when the “unconscionability
challenge concern[s] some element” of the arbitration rules themselves.  (Baltazar, supra, 62 Cal.4th
at 1246.)  Plaintiff’s unconscionability
challenge “has nothing to do with the [JAMS or] AAA rules[.]”  (Ibid.; see also Reply, pp. 5-6.)
 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
Arguably, since Plaintiff fails to
demonstrate procedural unconscionability, it is unnecessary to analyze
substantive unconscionability; however, the Court will address Plaintiff’s
arguments in an abundance of caution.
 
To start, Plaintiff contends the
arbitration agreement contains an unlawful non-disparagement clause.  (See Opposition, p. 7.)
 
The Court disagrees.  The non-disparagement clause is in section
1.8 of the policy packet.  (See Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, pp. 2-3).  It is not in the arbitration section (see
Reply, p. 6), and, regardless, it states that “[t]he restrictions shall not”
cover “truthful statements made in court, arbitration proceedings or
mediation proceedings or in documents produced or testimony given in connection
with legal process associated with Employee's employment with COMPANY that are
based on Employee's reasonable belief and are not made in bad faith.”  (Id. at Ex. A1, p. 3, emphasis added.)  Also, Plaintiff fails to cite authority
rendering an arbitration agreement unenforceable due to a non-disparagement
clause.
 
Next, Plaintiff claims the
agreement “waive[s] Defendant’s requirement to post a bond in order to obtain
an injunction.”  (Opposition, p. 8.)
 
The hearing is continued.  Section 1.6 states that “Employee hereby
waives any requirement for securing or posting a bond in connection with
COMPANY'S obtaining any injunctive or other equitable relief.”  (Id. at Ex. A1, p. 2.)  The provision “lacks mutuality and is
substantively unconscionable” as a matter of law (Carbajal v. CWPS, Inc.
(2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 250 [holding that “[a]n arbitration provision lacks mutuality
and is substantively unconscionable when it authorizes the stronger party to
obtain injunctive relief without establishing all of the essential elements for
the issuance of an injunction”]; see also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:155.1c), but it
is not part of the arbitration section. 
Does that make a difference?  And
could it be severed?  In reply, Defendant
answers yes and yes.  (See Reply, pp. 6,
7, 9-10.)  What does Plaintiff
think?  The Court orders both sides to
file short supplemental briefs on these issues.
 
Third, Plaintiff contends the agreement
is one-sided, requiring Plaintiff to arbitrate the claims she prefers while
allowing Defendant to litigate the claims it prefers.  (See Opposition, p. 9.)
 
The Court disagrees.  The agreement provides:
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
the event that either party wishes to obtain injunctive relief or a
temporary restraining order, such party may initiate an action for such relief
in a court of general jurisdiction in the State of California. The decision of
the court with respect to the requested injunctive relief or temporary
restraining order shall be subject to appeal only as allowed under California
law. Such courts shall not, however, have the authority to review or grant any
request or demand for damages.
 
(Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, p. 4, emphasis
added.)  The plain language permits both
sides to seek full injunctive relief in court. 
It is mutual.
 
Fourth, Plaintiff contends the agreement bars punitive damages.  (See Opposition, pp. 9-10.)
 
The Court disagrees.  Case law is
conflicted.  (See Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at 103-104 [finding a prohibition on punitive
damages for statutory claims unenforceable]; see also Lange v. Monster
Energy Co. (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 436, 448-449 [finding a “waiver
of punitive damages . . . for all nonstatutory claims . . . substantively
unconscionable” despite mutality]; cf. Chin v. Advanced Fresh Concepts
Franchise Corp. (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 704, 712 [upholding a
prohibition on punitive damages because the arbitration language was mutual,
the plaintiff did not show that the prohibition violated public policy, and
punitive damages were not available under the statutes cited in the
complaint].)  On balance, the circumstances
here appear analogous to the circumstances in Chin because:    
 
* the agreement’s language – “[t]he arbitrator(s) shall have the power to grant all legal and
equitable remedies provided by California law and award compensatory damages
provided by California law, except that punitive damages shall not be awarded” (Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, p. 4) – is mutual; 
 
* Plaintiff fails to show that punitive damages are recoverable under the
cited “wage and hour” statutes (see Reply, p. 7); and 
 
* she fails to request punitive damages. 
(See ibid.; see also First Amended Complaint, pp. 22-26.)
 
Fifth, Plaintiff claims the agreement “allows [] the prevailing party to
be awarded all litigation fees and expenses even if they are not entitled to
them by statute.”  (Opposition, p. 10.)
 
The Court disagrees.  The agreement
states:
 
The prevailing party in any Arbitration hereunder shall be awarded
reasonable attorneys’ fees, expert and nonexpert witness costs and expenses
incurred directly or indirectly with said Arbitration, including without
limitation the fees and expenses of the arbitrator(s) and any other expenses of
the Arbitration.
 
(Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, p. 4.)  At least three key sentences precede this
wording:
 
* “[t]he
arbitrator(s) shall have the power to grant all legal and equitable remedies provided
by California law and award compensatory damages provided by California
law” (ibid., emphasis added);
 
* “[t]he
arbitrator(s) shall not . . . commit errors of law or legal reasoning” (ibid.);
and
 
* “the parties
expressly grant the Superior Court the authority to correct errors of law, and
modify the arbitrator(s)’ ruling to avoid errors of law” (ibid.).
 
Read together,
the parties’ intent is clear – the arbitrator must award fees and costs in
compliance with California law, statutory or otherwise.  If the arbitrator makes a mistake, for
example, if the arbitrator grants an unrecoverable fee or cost, it can be
corrected via judicial review.[4]  
 
Sixth,
Plaintiff contends the agreement fails to “explain how to initiate
arbitration[.]”  (Opposition, p. 11.)
 
The Court
disagrees.  The agreement says “[t]he
Arbitration shall be initiated and administered by and in accordance
with the then existing Rules of Practice and Procedures of [JAMs] or, if JAMS
is not located or actively conducting arbitrations in Los Angeles County, with
the Commercial Rules of the [AAA].”  (Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, p. 4, emphasis
added.)  JAMS is active in Los Angeles
County. The JAMS rules are available online and discuss the initiation process.
(See https://www.jamsadr.com/rules-employment-arbitration/english.)[5]
 
In summary, the Court continues the hearing and orders supplemental
briefing on Plaintiff’s second argument.
 
PAGA Waiver
 
Plaintiff asserts that the arbitration agreement waives representative
PAGA claims. (See Opposition, pp. 12-13.)
 
This issue is
premature.  It will not be ripe until the
unconscionability issue is resolved, and only if the Court finds the agreement
enforceable.
 
As a matter of guidance, prior to
Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking
River”), the applicable law was Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348.
“Iskanian’s principal rule prohibits waivers of ‘representative’ PAGA
claims in the first sense.”  (Viking
River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916, underlined case name added.)  “That is, it prevents parties from waiving representative
standing to bring PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “But Iskanian also adopted a secondary
rule that invalidates agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate
‘individual PAGA claims for Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’
on the theory that resolving victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations
does not serve the deterrent purpose of PAGA.” 
(Id. at 1916-1917, underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing California case law for the proposition that a
“single count under PAGA could not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual
claim and a nonarbitrable representative claim”].) 
 
In Viking River, the
plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any dispute arising out of her
employment.”  (Viking River,
supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action
Waiver’ providing that in any arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring
any dispute as a class, collective, or representative PAGA action.”  (Ibid.)  “It also contained a severability clause
specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class, collective,
representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in court.”  (Ibid.)  “But under that severability clause, if any ‘portion’
of the waiver remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After leaving her position” with the defendant, the
plaintiff “filed a PAGA action . . . in California court.”  (Ibid.) 
“Her complaint contained a claim that [the defendant] had failed to
provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as required by” Labor Code
sections 101 and 102.  (Ibid.)  “But the complaint also asserted a wide array
of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . . . employees,
including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage, overtime, meal
periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s] ‘individual’
PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she suffered — and
to dismiss her other PAGA claims.” 
(Ibid.)  “The trial court denied
that motion, and the California Court of Appeal affirmed, holding that
categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to state policy and that PAGA
claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’
claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted
arbitration of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale
enforcement was impossible.” 
(Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian
“prohibits division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts
refused to compel arbitration of that claim as well.”  (Ibid.)
 
The United States Supreme Court
granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one, that the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”) preempts Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into
individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
 
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA claims.
 Under Iskanian, this provision
was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways seem apparent:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  Indeed, the California
Supreme Court reversed it in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14
Cal.5th 1104.
 
Given Iskanian, Viking
River, and Adolph, the significant question here is whether the FAA
applies.  Do the parties agree that it
applies?  Is there a dispute?  The Court intends to ask the attorneys at the
hearing and, if there is a dispute, to order supplemental briefing.
 
Ultimately, the
Court sees three possible outcomes:
 
* Option One ==
if the Court finds the agreement unenforceable, the PAGA issue would be moot;
 
* Option Two =
if the Court finds the agreement enforceable and the FAA applicable,
Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim would be arbitrated (Viking River),
and the representative PAGA claim would be stayed until the arbitration is
finished (Adolph); or
 
* Option Three
= if the Court finds the agreement enforceable and the FAA inapplicable, the
individual and representative PAGA claims would be stayed (Iskanian and Adolph).
 
Class
Waiver
 
As noted above,
the arbitration agreement waives class claims. 
(See Busheri Decl., Ex. A1, pp. 4-5.)
 
Defendant’s
request to strike the class claims pursuant to the class waiver is unopposed.
 
The request is
premature, but the Court intends to grant it if the agreement is found
enforceable.


