  Case Number:  20STCV49011    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE
Hearing Date: 5/20/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV49011 BEHZAD SHIRALIAN
vs. KASIM MOOSAI 
Moving Party: Defendant Christian
Mauricio Torresarias’ insurer, Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London 
Responding Party: Unopposed¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO INTERVENE IS
GRANTED.
 
On December 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed this
auto accident case. On July 20, 2022, Defendant Christian Mauricio Torresarias
was named as a defendant. Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London is
Torresarias’ insurance carrier in connection to the incident at issue. Lloyd’s
now moves for leave to intervene in the case, contending that despite numerous
attempts, the moving party has not been able to locate or make contact with
Defendant Torresarias. 
 
Per CCP §387(a), permissive intervention is
proper if: The nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in the litigation;
and the intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case; and the reasons
for intervention outweigh any opposition by the existing parties.
 
A liability insurer normally cannot intervene
in a tort action against its insured. The judgment in the tort action
collaterally estops the insurer only on issues necessarily adjudicated
therein—i.e., the insured's liability and the amount of the injured party's
damages. It does not bind the insurer on coverage issues. (Western Heritage
Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Parks) (2011) 199 CA4th 1196, 1212.)
 
However, because a liability insurer agrees
to pay any judgment obtained against its insured (see Ins.C. §11580(b)(2)), it
has the right to intervene (not merely permissive) where an insured is barred
from defending itself. In such cases, intervention is necessary to protect the
insurer's own interests because it may be obligated to pay any judgment
rendered against its insured. (Reliance Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct. (Wells)
(2000) 84 CA4th 383, 386–387.) In this case, the Court finds Lloyd’s adequately
established Defendant’s unwillingness to participate in the present litigation
and a direct and immediate interest in the litigation. 
 
Plaintiff has not opposed the motion.
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is GRANTED.
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.