 Case Number:  23STCV14759    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTION TO DEEM THE CONTENTS OF REQUESTS FOR
ADMISSION ADMITTED AND
REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 5/20/24
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV14759 SAVANNAH KYLEE
IBARRA, et al. vs LAZAROUS WILLIAMS, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant LAZAROUS WILLIAMS
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient
Ruling: MOTION TO DEEM THE CONTENTS OF
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS ARE GRANTED
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
Discussion
On October 31, 2023,
Defendant served its Requests for Admission, Set One, on Plaintiff. On January
11, 2024, Plaintiff served unverified responses. Defendant attempted to meet
and confer but received no responses and now moves the Court to deem the
contents of its Request for Admission, Set One, as admitted.
Although Plaintiff
served responses to Defendant's Request for Admissions (RFA), Set One, these
responses were unverified. Upon reviewing the responses, the Court noted that
they contain substantive answers and are not solely objections. According to
Appleton v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal. App. 3d 632, 635-636, unverified
responses are “tantamount to no responses at all.” Plaintiff did not submit any
opposition or other filings to indicate that verifications were served prior to
the hearing date. Consequently, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.
Furthermore, Defendant
made attempts to meet and confer with Plaintiff concerning the verifications
but received no response, necessitating the filing of this motion. Defendant
has requested attorney’s fees in the amount of $1,010.00, which the Court finds
reasonable. Therefore, Plaintiff and her counsel, jointly and severally, are
ORDERED to pay sanctions in the amount of $1,010.00 to Defendant within 20 days
from today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 