 Case Number:  22STCV09109    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL SECOND IME AND MENTAL
EXAMINATION
Hearing Date: 5/20/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV09109 KOURTNIE HEATHER
GOOD vs STATE CENTER LOCATING
Moving Party: Defendant Stake Center Locating
Responding Party: Plaintiff
Notice: Sufficient 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL SECOND NEUROLOGICAL IME
AND ARE DENIED
 
Background
 
On March 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed this car accident case alleging
that a truck driven by Defendant Dondrick Eskridge, an employee of Defendant
Stake Center Locating, Inc., collided with Plaintiff’s car. Plaintiff alleges
traumatic brain injury and various other neurological and psychological
conditions resulting from the accident. On January 22, 2024, Defendant noticed
a second neurological IME and a mental examination to take place in February
2024. Plaintiff served timely objections. The parties are at an impasse because
Plaintiff consents to only one examination and requires the raw data from the
mental examination to be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel. Defendant now moves
the Court to compel both examinations.
 
Legal Standard
 
Except for defense physical examinations in
personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of
course) and examinations arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for
a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and
hearing and for “good cause shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).) 
 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP §2032.020(a).) This means the
examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that
is the subject of the litigation. Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9
Cal.3d 330, 337. Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical
condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or
physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege
that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state
is in controversy.” See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual
harassment by former employer. Discovery responses can also frame the issues
regarding the injuries and damages alleged. 
 
Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex,
several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no
limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a
showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks any potential
harassment of the plaintiff. See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990)
224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255. 
 
The burden is on the moving party to show (by declarations or
other evidence) that the examinee's condition is “in controversy” in the
action. The moving party must also establish good cause for the examination(s)
sought. A court order for physical or mental examination must be based on a
showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy to the subject
matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e., allegations showing
the need for the information sought and lack of means for obtaining it
elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) The
purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing annoying “fishing
expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel
another to undergo psychiatric testing “solely on the basis of speculation that
something of interest may surface.” (Id.) 
 
The notice of motion must state the time, place, identity and
specialty of the examiner, and the “manner, conditions, scope and nature of the
examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).) The requirement for specification of the
“manner, conditions, scope and nature of the examination” apparently requires
disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests and procedures will be utilized
(x-rays, blood and urine samples, etc.). (See CCP § 2032.220(c).) The notice of
motion must be accompanied by a separate document setting forth the discovery
request, the Declarations must state facts showing that “a reasonable and good
faith attempt” to arrange the examination by stipulation was unsuccessful. (CCP
§ 2032.310(b).) 
 
Discussion
 
        Second Neurological IME
 
Both Defendant’s notice of a
second Neurological IME and the Neurologist’s declaration fail to specify the
diagnostic tests to be conducted as required by CCP § 2032.220(c).
 
The notice states: "The
examination will also consist of a physical evaluation and assessment of
Plaintiff and her medical conditions from a neurological standpoint, which may
include testing and examination deemed necessary by Dr. Alexander for the
purpose of diagnosing and evaluating the nature and extent of Plaintiff's
medical conditions and alleged injuries at issue in the present lawsuit."
 
The Neurologist’s declaration
states: "The examination will also consist of a neurological examination,
which may include the following: evaluation of Plaintiff's cognitive function, balance,
coordination, sensation, strength and reflexes, blood pressure, heart rate,
range of motion of the cervical and lumbosacral spine and shoulder girdles, and
spinal condition post-surgical fusion from a neurological perspective."
 
The motion and the supporting
evidence fail to specify the diagnostic tests to be performed and to provide
justification for the necessity and scope of the examination. For example,
Defendant failed to show why tests on blood pressure and heart rate are necessary
for a neurological examination for Plaintiff’s conditions such as headaches,
dizziness, nausea, imbalance, difficulty concentrating, and memory impairment.
The Court is not a medical expert and cannot assess whether the tests to be
conducted are relevant or if there is good cause without an explanation.                                
Furthermore, a limited
neurovascular examination was already conducted in the first IME. Without more
detail, the Court cannot determine if the second IME will be duplicative of the
neurological examination done by the first IME doctor.
 
That said, the Court agrees with
Defendant that, based on the discovery responses provided, Plaintiff has put
several conditions at issue that, on their face, seem neurological in nature,
such as headaches, dizziness, nausea, imbalance, difficulty concentrating, and
memory impairment. However, without specifying the tests to be conducted and
providing an explanation from the Neurologist, the Court cannot assess whether
the particular tests to be administered will be relevant to the conditions in
controversy and not duplicative of those conducted in the previous IME.
Therefore, Defendant has failed to meet its burden of demonstrating good cause,
and the motion is denied without prejudice. 
 
Mental Examination
 
Defendant’s motion to compel a
mental examination suffers from the same defect. It lists a universe of 18
tests that may be administered without informing the Court which specific tests
will be conducted. Defendant has not provided an explanation of why the tests
are relevant to the conditions in controversy. Defendant argues that Plaintiff
alleges headaches, depression, suicidal ideations, post-concussive syndrome,
and traumatic brain injury. However, without a declaration or explanation, the
Court cannot assess the relevance of the proposed tests, such as memory tests,
intelligence tests, and personality tests, to the conditions at issue.
Furthermore, because Defendant failed to specify the tests that the neurologist
will perform on Plaintiff in the second IME, the Court cannot assess if any of
the tests to be conducted in the mental examination will be duplicative. Thus,
Defendant failed to meet its burden of demonstrating good cause, and the motion
is DENIED without prejudice.
 
Given the allegations of TBI in
the present case, the Court would usually be inclined to permit both a mental
examination and a neurological IME upon a sufficient showing of good cause. 
As for the raw data, the Court will
usually permit raw data from the mental examination to be provided to
Plaintiff’s counsel for cross-examination purposes, subject to a protective
order. Given the Court’s inclination, the parties are ORDERED to meet and
confer regarding the mental examination and second IME.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 