 Case Number:  22STCV17698    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL SECOND IME AND MENTAL EXAMINATION; MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 5/20/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV17698 ANGELA T. ELAM, et
al. vs FM RESTAURANTS EL TORITO 
Moving Party: Defendant Macerich Company 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Angela T. Elam and Jennifer P. Richards
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL SECOND IME AND MENTAL
EXAMINATION ARE
DENIED
 
MOTION TO
CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED
 
Background
On May 31, 2022,
Plaintiffs Angela T. Elam and Jennifer P. Richards filed the present personal
injury case alleging that they were struck by a falling tree branch and/or pole
while dining outdoors at Defendant’s restaurant. Both Plaintiffs claim brain injury,
anxiety, depression, and cognitive difficulties. Defendant now moves the Court
to conduct a second IME and a mental examination on both Plaintiffs.
Preliminary Matters
Each motion requests
both an IME and a mental examination for each Plaintiff. Each of Defendant’s
motions should be filed as two separate motions. Defendant’s approach not only
potentially allows Defendant to jump ahead of other litigants in the procedural
queue but also deprives the Court of the full filing fees that assist in paying
for the services it provides to the public.
Legal Standard 
 
Except for defense physicals in
personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of
course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a
physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and
hearing, and for “good cause shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).)¿ 
 
The examination will be limited to
whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action. (CCP §2032.020(a).) This
means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or
condition that is the subject of the litigation. Roberts v. Superior Court
(1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337. Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or
physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing
mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses
to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his
mental state is in controversy.” See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43
Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from
sexual harassment by former employer. Discovery responses can also frame the
issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged.¿ 
 
Where the plaintiff's injuries are
complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields.
There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered
on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks any potential
harassment of the plaintiff. See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.¿ 
 
The burden is on the moving party
to show (by declarations or other evidence) that the examinee's condition is
“in controversy” in the action. The moving party must also establish good cause
for the examination(s) sought. A court order for physical or mental examination
must be based on a showing of “good cause” (CCP § 2032.320(a)): (1) relevancy
to the subject matter; and (2) specific facts justifying discovery: i.e.,
allegations showing the need for the information sought and lack of means for
obtaining it elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833,
840.) The purpose is to protect an examinee's privacy by preventing annoying
“fishing expeditions” - i.e., one party may not compel another to undergo psychiatric testing
“solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may surface.” (Id.)
 
The notice of motion must state
the time, place, identity and specialty of the examiner, and the “manner,
conditions, scope and nature of the examination.” (CCP § 2032.310(b).) The
requirement for specification of the “manner, conditions, scope and nature of
the examination” apparently requires disclosure of whatever diagnostic tests
and procedures will be utilized (x-rays, blood and urine samples, etc.). (See
CCP § 2032.220(c).) The notice of motion must be accompanied by a separate
document setting forth the discovery request, the Declarations must state facts
showing that “a reasonable and good faith attempt” to arrange the examination
by stipulation was unsuccessful. (CCP § 2032.310(b).)¿ 
 
Neurological Examination for Plaintiff
Angela T. Elam
Defendant’s neurologist
will conduct a non-invasive examination of Plaintiff Angela Elam’s head and
scalp. Defendant needs to specify the diagnostic tests to be performed and show
how each test is related to the conditions in controversy. Without more detail
on the specific tests to be conducted, the Court cannot assess whether there
exists good cause for the proposed tests in the second IME and how this
neurological examination differs from the previous orthopedic IME. The motion
is denied without prejudice for failing to make a sufficient showing of good
cause.
Orthopedic Examination for Plaintiff
Jennifer P. Richards
Defendant’s Orthopedic
expert will conduct an examination of the alleged orthopedic injuries related
to Plaintiff Jennifer Richards’ neck, left shoulder, left elbow, and left
thumb, as well as take an oral history of the alleged injuries. For the same
reasons stated above, Defendant needs to provide the specific diagnostic tests
to be performed, how each test is related to the conditions in controversy, and
how it is different from those done in her previous neurological IME. The
motion is denied without prejudice for failing to make a sufficient showing of
good cause.
Mental Examination for Both Plaintiffs
Defendant needs to
provide the exact diagnostic tests to be used and an explanation of why each
test is necessary and relevant to the conditions in controversy, such as
whether each test is intended to assess cognitive injuries or emotional
distress. For example, one of the tests to be conducted is the Personality
Assessment Inventory; on its face and without an explanation, the Court is
unsure how this will assess Defendant’s allegations of cognitive difficulties
and emotional distress. The motion is denied without prejudice for failing to
make a sufficient showing of good cause.
Having said all that, based
on the nature of the conditions alleged, the Court is inclined to grant a
mental examination and a neurological IME, if Defendant has made a sufficient
showing of good cause. As for the mental examination, the Court typically allows
recording for the interview portion of the examination, and the raw data from
the tests to be provided to Plaintiff’s counsel, subject to a protective order.
Although the Court denied Defendant’s motions without prejudice, the Court
ORDERS the parties are to meet and confer on the IMEs and mental examinations
with the Court’s inclinations as guidance in seeking informal resolution.

Motion
to Continue Trial
The parties entered
into a joint stipulation to continue trial to March 26, 2025 and all pre-trial
deadlines to follow the new trial date. In consideration of the age of the
case, only one prior continuance, and the need for more time to conduct
discovery on Plaintiff’s damages, Defendant's motion to continue the trial is GRANTED.
The new trial date will be _______2025, at 8:30 a.m.
and all pretrial dates, except fact discovery deadline, are continued in
accordance with the new trial date.  The Final Status Conference is continued to _______, at 10:00 a.m.
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 