  Case Number:  23GDCV00329    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV00329
Hearing Date: 04/25/2024 – 9:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: MELINE GALSTYAN, et al. v. AVI GHAZARYAN, et
al.
 
[5 TENTATIVE RULINGS]
DEMURRER 1 and MOTION TO
STRIKE 1
Moving
Party:  Defendant, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association sued herein erroneously as
Chase Bank, N.A. (“Chase”)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Meline Galstyan and Andrey Pilikyan
Moving Papers: Demurrer; Proof of Service
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant, Chase, demurs to the Third Amended Complaint (TAC) on the following
grounds:
1. The First Cause of
Action does not state a cause of action because the common law negligence cause
of action is displaced and preempted by the comprehensive scheme of regulation
in California's enactment of Division 11 of the California Commercial Code
applicable to wire transfers.
2. The First and Ninth
Causes of Action do not state a cause of action because as a matter of law
Plaintiffs have alleged no claims outside the scope of the preclusion of common
law causes of action under Commercial Code Article 11 and as a matter of law a
bank has no duty of care to supervise or oversee its customer's account activity.
3. The Ninth Cause of
Action does not state a cause of action against Chase because the TAC does not
allege any deceptive or fraudulent act by Chase.
4. The Tenth Cause of
Action does not state a cause of action because the allegations of the TAC show
no violation of Article 11 by Chase and establish that Chase acted on the
Plaintiffs’ authorization, and the Electronic Funds Transfer Act does not apply
to wire transfers.”
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs filed a
Complaint on 02/17/2023. 
On 06/05/2023,
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging nine causes of action
– (1) Negligence, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4)
Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (5) Conversion, (6) Fraud,
(7) Money Had and Received, (8) Unfair Business Practices (Bus. & Prof Code
§17200 et seq., and (9) Violation of California Commercial Code §11101
On 07/21/2023 this Court
overruled Chase’s demurrer to the first, eighth, and ninth causes of action in
the FAC.
On 08/04/2023, this
Court heard Defendants, Avi Ghazaryan, Talin Torossian, and RLG State Realty’s
demurrer to the FAC. The demurrer was overruled as to the first and third
causes of action and sustained with leave to amend as to the second, fourth,
and eighth causes of action. 
On 8/21/2023, Plaintiffs
filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) which alleged nine causes of action. 
On 1/19/2024, the Court
heard four demurrers to the SAC. The Court sustained all four demurrers and
granted leave to amend.
On 02/22/2024,
Plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint (TAC) alleging eleven causes of
action.
On 4/11/2024, this Court
continued JPMorgan Chase’s demurrer and motion to strike to 4/25/2024. Further,
on 4/11/2024, Avi Ghazaryan, Talin Torossian, and RLG State Realty’s demurrer/motion
to strike previously set for 4/19/2024 was continued to 4/25/2024. Additionally,
Overland Avenue Escrow’s motion to compel responses previously set for
4/19/2024 was continued to 4/25/2024.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure to sufficiently
meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here, moving party
alleged it met and conferred but an agreement was not reached. (Beebe Decl.
¶¶3-4.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR
DEMURRERS
Demurrer – Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The general rule is that
the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550.)  “All that is required
of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that his complaint set forth the
essential facts of the case with reasonable precision and with sufficient
particularity to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source and extent of
his cause of action.”  (Rannard v.
Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On demurrer, a trial
court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not the … complaint
alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any legal
theory.”  (Das v. Bank of America,
N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) 
Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of causes of action, where some
valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an entire cause of action to be
sustained.”  (Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “Generally it is an
abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is
any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for uncertainty,
CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the
pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or
what counts or claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury
v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
TENTATIVE RULING 
Both Defendant and
Plaintiffs’ counsel continue to submit papers to the Court that tend to misstate
case law and are confusingly written.
As an example, the
caption of the TAC lists 11 causes of action as follows: (1) Damages for
Negligence; (2) Damages for Breach of Contract; (3) Damages for Breach of
Contract; (4) Damages for Breach of Contract; (5) Damages for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (6) Conversion; (8) Damages for Fraud; (9) Money Had and
Received; (10) Restitution and Injunctive Relief for Violation of Business And
Prof. Code, Sections 17200 et seq.; and (11) Damages for Violation of Statute
(Commercial Code, Section 11101). 
As can be seen in the
caption, after listing their sixth cause of action for conversion, Plaintiffs
skipped the seventh cause of action and went straight to labeling an eighth
cause of action. However, in the body of the TAC, the seventh cause of action
is not skipped, and the seventh cause of action in the body is labeled as fraud
and deceit, whereas in the caption the fraud cause of action is labeled as the
eighth cause of action. This results in the eighth, ninth, tenth, and eleventh
causes of action in the caption now being labeled in the body as the seventh,
eighth, ninth, and tenth, respectively. 
Defendant now demurs to
the first, ninth, and tenth causes of action, but Defendant fails to note that
it is demurring to the first, ninth, and tenth causes of action as labeled in
the body of the TAC, not as labeled in the caption.
Plaintiffs also continue
to misstate case law as well. 
Plaintiffs state that on
7/21/2023, this Court already overruled Defendant’s demurrer to the first,
eighth, and ninth causes of action in the FAC; therefore, this Court cannot
revisit these issues based on Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v. Boyle (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1036. 
Plaintiffs argue that Berg
states that a defendant may not demur again on the same grounds to the
portions of an amended pleading as to which the prior demurrer was overruled. 
However, as noted in the
Reply, Berg states the opposite of what Plaintiffs assert. “[W]e have
previously concluded that a party is within its rights to successively demur to
a cause of action in an amended pleading notwithstanding a prior unsuccessful
demurrer to that same cause of action.” (Berg & Berg Enterprises, LLC v.
Boyle (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1020, 1036 citing Pavicich v. Santucci (2000)
85 Cal.App.4th 382, 389.)
First Cause of Action –
Negligence
“To state a cause of
action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the
plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the
breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or injuries. [Citation
omitted.] Whether a duty of care exists is a question of law to be determined
on a case-by-case basis. [Citation omitted.]” (Luceras v. BAC Home
Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.)
Further, as
stated in Parsons:
Some of the considerations that courts have employed in
various contexts to determine the existence and scope of duty are: “the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.
 
(Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456,
472-73.)
 

The only element that
Defendant attacks is the element of duty. Defendant argues there can be no duty
because negligence is preempted by the comprehensive scheme of regulation in
California’s enactment of Division 11 of the California Commercial Code applicable
to wire transfers. Defendant cites to Zengen, Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2007)
41 Cal.4th 239, 250. 
Determining whether or
not Plaintiffs sufficiently alleged facts for the Court to determine if the
element of duty has been successfully alleged is difficult for several reasons.

First, Plaintiffs’ TAC
is written in a confusing manner: there are 85 paragraphs of general
allegations, and the first cause of action doesn’t start until the 86th
paragraph; the 86th paragraph incorporates the prior 85 paragraphs.
While paragraphs 87-89
appear to be how Plaintiffs intend to allege a duty against Defendant, it is
difficult to decipher what else in the prior 85 paragraphs Plaintiffs are
alleging to be a basis for the duty to arise.
Zengen
This confusion is
highlighted by Defendant’s demurrer because Defendant appears to misconstrue
the TAC. Defendant frames the TAC in a very narrow manner in which it argues
that all of the conduct in the TAC alleged against Defendant is preempted under
Zengen, and thus a duty has not been alleged. 
However, Opposition
argues that Defendant ignores several allegations in the TAC that are in fact
not preempted.
In the 7/21/2023 Minute
Order on page 4, the Court previously noted:
However, as noted in the
Opposition, Zengen allows for the possibility of a duty beyond those
stated in the Commercial Code, and that is what Plaintiffs have alleged. “This
is not to say that the Uniform Commercial Code necessarily displaces all common
law actions based on all activities surrounding funds transfers. One court has
explained that ‘[t]he exclusivity of Article 4-A is deliberately restricted to
‘any situation covered by particular provisions of the Article.’ Conversely,
situations not covered are not the exclusive province of the Article.” (Zengen,
Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2007) 41 Cal.4th 239, 254.)
(Min. Order 7/21/2023, p. 4.)
The Court will hear
argument. The Court tentatively plans to OVERRULE Defendant’s demurrer to the
first cause of action because the TAC appears to allege far more conduct than
Defendant’s demurrer portrays the TAC as alleging.
At the hearing, if
Defendant believes that all of the conduct in the TAC is preempted under Zengen,
it should point the Court to the exact conduct that is preempted, where the
conduct is alleged in the TAC, and controlling case law to support its
argument. If Plaintiffs believe there are several allegations that Defendant
failed to point out that are not preempted, Plaintiffs should also point this
out to the Court, as well as any controlling case law it would need to support
their arguments.
Further, the Court points
out that when Zengen was heard before the Supreme Court of California,
it was at a different procedural posture than the instant case. In Zengen,
the trial court had granted a motion for summary judgment, and the decision was
appealed. Here, there has been no findings of fact like there would be on a
motion for summary judgment.
Further, Zengen stated,
“ Under these definitions, it seems clear, and the parties do not dispute, that
the four transactions involved in this case were funds transfers and,
accordingly, division 11 of the California Uniform Commercial Code applies to
them.” (Zengen, Inc. v. Comerica Bank (2007) 41 Cal.4th 239, 245.)
Here, it does not appear
that there have been any findings of fact, since the case is at the pleading
stage, as to whether or not the transactions were funds transfers under
division 11 of the California Uniform Commercial Code. 
Defendant also argued:
As between the
Plaintiffs and their bank, Chase, any claim would have to be based on Division
11 of the California Commercial Code (Cal. Comm. Code §§11101, et seq.),
which is the California enactment of Article 4A of the Uniform Commercial
Code titled “Funds Transfers.” This is alluded to in the caption for the
Tenth Cause of Action “Violation of California Commerical Code §11101”. Besides
the Tenth Cause of Action under Article 11, Chase is also named as a Defendant
in the First Cause of Action for “Negligence” and the Ninth Cause of Action for
“Unfair Business Practices.” The TAC corrects an ambiguity in the Second
Amended Complaint (”SAC”) by confirming that Chase is not one of the “Wire
Fraud Defendants.” [TAC, ¶14.]
(Dem. p. 2.)
The Court is not sure
how Defendant reaches its conclusion that “any claim would have to be based on
Division 11 of the California Commercial Code.” The instant claim is for
negligence, and the Court is uncertain as to what Defendant is trying to argue
and how Defendant is able to reach its legal conclusion.
Defendant also argues
that Plaintiffs don’t allege a data breach at Chase because Plaintiffs do not
allege that Chase had the data in question. This argument is asserted by
Defendant on pages 8-9 of the demurrer. The Court is uncertain as to what
Defendant is trying to argue.
Defendant also argues on
pages 9-10 of the Demurrer that Plaintiffs can’t blame Chase for the fact that
Wells Fargo did not freeze funds on deposit at Wells Fargo. The Court is
uncertain as to what Defendant is trying to argue here and how it pertains to
sustaining the demurrer to the entire negligence cause of action when there are
far more allegations in the TAC that Defendant is construing the TAC to allege.
Defendant also argues
that the electronic fund transfer act does not apply to wire transfers.
Defendant also argues there is no private cause of action for failure to file
suspicious activity reports. 
Again, the Court is
unclear as to what Defendant is trying to argue. The Court is also confused as
to why Defendant is making these arguments with respect to the negligence cause
of action. Further, even if this is true, the TAC appears to allege more than
failing to file suspicious activity reports.
Defendant also argues on
pages 6-7 of the Demurrer that claims of a failure to warn are contradicted by
the exhibits to the TAC and precluded by statute. Defendant points to Exhibit 1
in the TAC. Exhibit 1 is titled as “Disclosure Regarding Real Estate Agency
Relationship.”
Defenant points to page
6 in Exhibit 1 which states:
DO NOT EVER WIRE OR
ELECTRONICALLY TRANSFER FUNDS PRIOR TO CALLING TO CONFIRM THE TRANSFER
INSTRUCTIONS. ONLY USE A PHONE NUMBER YOU WERE PROVIDED PREVIOUSLY. Do not use
any different phone number or account number included in any emailed transfer
instruction.
(TAC, Ex. 1, p.6.)
Defendant argues that a
Plaintiff who ignores a clear warning and encounters the consequences can
always complain that he or she wasn’t warned “enough,” because the clear
warning did not successfully dissuade the unwise Plaintiff who charged ahead
anyway, but no party can evade the consequences of their own actions through
such sophistry. 
As to Defendant’s
argument on there being a clear warning, Defendant cited to Temple v. Velcro
USA, Inc.
As stated in Temple:
If the warning was
adequate it certainly would be a proper disclaimer to any express or implied
warranties and would also negate any negligence or willful misconduct.
This brings us to the
key issue on appeal, namely the adequacy of the
warning. Temple claims this issue is a question of fact because a
jury could find (1) the language of the warning may not have been
sufficient to “notify hot air balloon operators of the imminence of 'serious
injury and death' due to the possibility of peel stress and/or envelope
collapse arising out of the Velcro fasteners on the deflation
panels of the balloons,” (2) that the warning was inadequate in the manner it
was sent and the frequency of its mailings, and (3) the warning was really some
esoteric form of legal notice amounting to a legal disclaimer,
rather than a notice of impending doom if the Velcro deflation
panel failed.
Items (1) and (3) can be
quickly answered. Interpretation of a written document, where extrinsic
evidence is unnecessary, is a question of law for the trial court to determine
(Evid. Code, § 310, subd. (a) and Parsons v. Bristol Development
Co. (1965) 62 Cal.2d 861 [44 Cal.Rptr. 767, 402 P.2d 839]). It
was therefore proper for the court in a motion for summary judgment to
determine the adequacy of the warning language as a matter of law. The court
obviously found the language of the warning sufficient to apprise the reader of
the dangers of using a hot air balloon with a Velcro closure. We
agree. The warning was very clear, understandable and completely unambiguous.
It forcefully brought home the intended message.
(Temple v. Velcro USA, Inc. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 1090,
1094-95.)
After citing Temple,
Defendant cites to Dodd which states, “[F]acts appearing in exhibits
attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true and, if contrary to the
allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.” (Dodd v. Citizens
Bank of Costa Mesa (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1624, 1627.)
As to failure to warn
and the cases of Temple and Dodd, the Court will hear argument.
The Opposition does not address these arguments by Defendant. However, the
Court will note its preliminary concerns.
First, Temple was
at a different procedural posture. Temple notes how it was proper for the court in a
motion for summary judgment to determine the adequacy of the warning language
as a matter of law. Here, this is not a motion for summary judgment.
Further,
the Court has concerns about this warning because as usual, although this Exhibit
makes a warning, Defendant has a habit of framing the allegations in the TAC in
the light most favorable to Defendant. Therefore, it is possible that the TAC
contains several allegations that are not encompassed by the warning. At the
hearing, Plaintiffs need to explain if there are any allegations in the TAC
that are not encompassed by this warning, and where those allegations are.
Further,
what neither party addresses is whether or not this warning can apply to the
demurring Defendant. The document with the alleged warning does not appear to
be an agreement that the demurring Defendant was a party to. The parties would
need to address this issue.
Further,
as to failure to warn, Defendant cites to Tarasoff to argue that any supposed duty to warn
depends on a relationship between the parties. Tarasoff states:
As
a general principle, a “defendant owes a duty of care to all persons who
are foreseeably endangered by his conduct, with respect to all risks which make
the conduct unreasonably dangerous.” (Rodriguez v. Bethlehem Steel Corp.
(1974) 12 Cal.3d 382, 399 [115 Cal.Rptr. 765, 525 P.2d 669]; Dillon
v. Legg, supra, 68 Cal.2d 728, 739; Weirum v. RKO General, Inc.
(1975) 15 Cal.3d 40 [123 Cal.Rptr. 468, 539 P.2d 36]; see Civ.
Code, § 1714.) As we shall explain, however, when the avoidance of foreseeable
harm requires a defendant to control the conduct of another person, or to warn
of such conduct, the common law has traditionally imposed liability only if the
defendant bears some special relationship to the dangerous person or to the
potential victim.
(Tarasoff v. Regents of University of California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 435, 434-435.)
Defendant
then cites to Cal. Com. Code §11212 which states:
If
a receiving bank fails to accept a payment order that it is obliged by express
agreement to accept, the bank is liable for breach of the agreement to the
extent provided in the agreement or in this division, but does not otherwise
have any duty to accept a payment order or, before acceptance, to take any
action, or refrain from taking action, with respect to the order except as
provided in this division or by express agreement. Liability based on
acceptance arises only when acceptance occurs as stated in Section 11209, and
liability is limited to that provided in this division. A receiving bank is not
the agent of the sender or beneficiary of the payment order it accepts, or of
any other party to the funds transfer, and the bank owes no duty to any party
to the funds transfer except as provided in this division or by express
agreement.
(Cal. Com. Code §11212.)
As
to Defendant’s arguments on Tarasoff and
Cal. Com. Code § 11212, the Court does not understand Defendant’s arguments. 
Defendant
argues that Chase is the receiving bank in this instance. (See Dem. p. 7.)
However, the TAC and most of the demurrer seems to admit that Chase was not the
receiving bank but was instead the bank that sent the money to Wells Fargo.
Further, whether or not Chase was the receiving bank or sender, the Court fails
to understand what Defendant is trying to argue.
Negligence and Common
Law
Setting aside Zengen,
Defendant appears to also argue under other cases that Defendant has no duty to
Plaintiffs in the instant scenario.
Defendant argues that
there is no duty of care to supervise or oversee a customer’s account activity
to monitor for fraud based on Das.
In relevant part, Das
states:
Similarly, the
relationship between a bank and its depositor is not fiduciary in
character. (Chazen v. Centennial Bank (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
532, 537, 71 Cal.Rptr.2d 462.) “ ‘The relationship of bank and depositor
is founded on contract,’ [citation] which is ordinarily memorialized by a
signature card that the depositor signs upon opening the account. [Citation.]
This contractual relationship does not involve any implied duty ‘to supervise
account activity’ [citation] or ‘to inquire into the purpose for which the
funds are being used’ [citation]....” (Ibid.)
However, despite the
contractual basis of the bank-depositor relationship, a bank can be subject to
tort liability to a depositor for misconduct in connection with an account. A
bank may be liable in negligence if it fails to discharge its contractual duties
with reasonable care. (Chazen v. Centennial Bank, supra, 61
Cal.App.4th at p. 537, 71 Cal.Rptr.2d 462.) In addition, as elaborated
below (see pt. D.2, post ), a bank may be liable for aiding
and abetting a tort when it renders “ ‘ “substantial assistance” ’ ” to a
tortfeasor during a business transaction, that is, knowingly aids the
commission of the tort. (Casey v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2005)
127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144–1145, 26 Cal.Rptr.3d 401 (Casey ).)
(Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727,
741.)
Defendant also argues
that banks don’t owe account holders a duty to police other depositors’
accounts for fraud.
Defendant cites to Kurtz-Ahlers
which states in relevant part:
There is a wealth of
case law defining the duties a bank owes to account holders. Those duties do
not include “policing” other depositors' accounts for fraud.
The relationship between
a bank and its depositor is not fiduciary in character but, rather, “ ‘founded
on contract,’ [citation] which is ordinarily memorialized by a signature card
that the depositor signs upon opening the account. [Citation.]” (Chazen v.
Centennial Bank (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 532, 537, 71 Cal.Rptr.2d
462 (Chazen) [“banks ‘are not fiduciaries for their depositors’
”].) “This contractual relationship does not involve any implied duty ‘to
supervise account activity’ [citation] or ‘to inquire into the purpose for
which the funds are being used’ [citation] ....” (Ibid.)
Nevertheless, “[i]t is well established that a bank has ‘a duty to act with
reasonable care in its transactions with its depositors ....’ (Bullis v.
Security Pac. Nat. Bank (1978) 21 Cal.3d 801, 808, 148
Cal.Rptr. 22, 582 P.2d 109 [(Bullis)].) The duty is an implied term
in the contract between the bank and its depositor. (See Barclay
Kitchen, Inc. v. California Bank [(1962)] 208
Cal.App.2d [347,] 353, 25 Cal.Rptr. 383 [(Barclay Kitchen)].)” (Chazen,
supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 543, 71 Cal.Rptr.2d 462.)
Case law reflects the
narrow scope of a bank's duties under the deposit agreement. Such duties
include the duty to honor checks properly payable from the
depositor's account (Chazen, supra, 61 Cal.App.4th at p. 539, 71
Cal.Rptr.2d 462 [“Banks are strictly liable for the wrongful dishonor of
checks”]; Joffe v. United California Bank (1983)
141 Cal.App.3d 541, 554, 190 Cal.Rptr. 443 (Joffe)); the duty
to dishonor checks lacking required signatures (Bullis v.
Security Pacific National Bank, supra, 21 Cal.3d at p. 811, 148
Cal.Rptr. 22, 582 P.2d 109 [bank liable for failing to require signatures
of both co-executors for withdrawal from trust estate]); and the duty “to
render faithful and accurate accounts under the contract of deposit” (Barclay
Kitchen, Inc. v. California Bank, supra, 208 Cal.App.2d at
p. 354, 25 Cal.Rptr. 383).
The parties have not
cited, and we have not found, any published case involving the issue of whether
a bank owes a depositor a duty to investigate and disclose possible fraudulent
activity in another depositor's account. 
(Kurtz-Ahlers, LLC v. Bank of America, N.A. (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 952, 956.)
In Opposition, Plaintiff
pointed to other portions of the TAC that form the basis of their duty and
breach:
• Chase recklessly
failed to secure Plaintiffs’ confidential information; (TAC ¶ 38) 
• Chase negligently
failed to supervise employees, agents, or persons acting on its behalf, who it
is alleged were among the Wire Fraud Defendants; (Id., ¶ 42; ¶¶ 79, 81-83,
84(a), (f), (g), (h), (i), etc.)
• Chase knew of and
concealed the indicia of fraud and/or failed to investigate apparent fraud.
(Id., ¶ 82.) In addition, Plaintiffs allege that Chase failed to adequately
supervise one or more employees or agents who Plaintiffs allege as intentional
participants in the fraudulent scheme. (Id.) 
• Chase promised to and
failed to take reasonable steps to remedy the fraud (Id., ¶¶ 63, 80.) 
• Chase delayed its
response to Plaintiffs’ fraud complaint. (Id., ¶ 81-82.)
(Oppo. p. 6-7.)
The Court will hear
argument.  Defendant appears to be pointing
selectively to portions of the Plaintiffs’ TAC and ignoring other allegations.
It appears as if Plaintiffs are alleging more than what Defendant argues.
Tentative Ruling – First Cause of Action for Negligence
The Court’s tentative is
to OVERRULE the Demurrer as to this COA, but the Court will hear argument.
Tentative Ruling on
Ninth and Tenth Causes of Action (As labeled in the body of the TAC)
As to the ninth cause of
action pertaining to unfair business practices, Defendant makes arguments
without providing any legal authority. As to the tenth cause of action, Defendant’s
argument is unclear, and Defendant doesn’t provide any persuasive legal
authority, much less mandatory authority, to support its argument. 
Defendant’s demurrer to
the ninth and tenth causes of action as labeled in the body of the TAC are
OVERRULED.
MOTION
TO STRIKE 
Moving Party:  Defendant, JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking association sued herein erroneously as
Chase Bank, N.A. (Chase)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs did not submit an Opposition
Moving Papers: Motion to Strike; Proof of Service
Opposition Papers: No Opposition 
Reply Papers: No Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., a national banking
association sued herein erroneously as Chase Bank, N.A. (“Chase”) moves the
Court for an Order striking the following portions of the Third Amended
Complaint (TAC):
1. Paragraph 141 – “Plaintiffs
are entitled to treble damages against the BANKS.
 
2. Paragraph 4 in the
Prayer For Relief – “For treble damages according to statute as to the BANKS.”


Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is
filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who
filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike the amended
pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
This analysis is the same as the analysis under
the demurrer tentative ruling for the meet and confer requirement.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further,
CCP §431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)

 
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant states that the two portions of the
TAC it wishes to strike are the requests for treble damages in ¶141 of the
tenth cause of action (as labeled in the body of the TAC) and in ¶4 of the
Prayer for Relief. Defendant argues that the TAC never cites to any statute
that would authorize treble damages, so it is a matter of pure conjecture to
try to figure out what, if any, statute is intended. The Court will hear
argument because Defendant’s argument is: 
·        
difficult
to follow,
·        
fails to
cite authority for its argument that the authority for treble damages must be
alleged in the complaint,
·        
cites to
non-binding authority, and
·        
cites to a California
case in which the Court is unclear how it pertains to Defendant’s argument. 
Further, Defendant fails to consider that although
Defendant argues these damages cannot apply to itself, there is also another
bank in the action. Therefore, to strike these requests would seem improper if
these requests for treble damages were applicable to Wells Fargo, since the
request for treble damages applies to both banks, not just Chase.

DEMURRER 2
Moving Party:  Defendant, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Defendant or
Wells Fargo)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Meline Galstyan and Andrey Pilikyan
Moving Papers: Demurrer;
Declaration of Elizabeth C. Farrel
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant, Wells Fargo, moves for an order sustaining its demurrer to the TAC
without leave to amend. Wells Fargo demurs to the TAC pursuant to CCP
§430.10(e) on the basis that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against Wells Fargo.
[The
Court notes that on page 3 of the demurrer, Wells Fargo indicates that it is
demurring to the first cause of action for Negligence, the ninth cause of
action for “Restitution and Injunction Based on Violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200 et seq,” and the tenth cause of action for
“Violation of California Commercial Code §11101.”]
[Further,
the Court notes that Defendant appears to demur to the ninth and tenth causes
of action as labeled in the body of the TAC, and not as labeled in the caption
of the TAC.]
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b):Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
moving party alleged it met and conferred but an agreement was not reached. (Farrell
Decl. ¶¶1-2.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
See Motion 1.
TENTATIVE RULING
First Cause
of Action – Negligence
Zengen
As in Motion 1,
Defendant argues that the negligence claim is displaced by the UCC/California
Commercial Code.
The Court’s analysis 
Common Law
Defendant also argues
that Wells Fargo owed no duty of care to Plaintiffs because a bank owes no duty
to non-depositors/noncustomers to investigate or disclose suspicious activities
on the part of an accountholder. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs are not Wells
Fargo customers because the wire did not involve any Wells Fargo account owned
by Plaintiffs; therefore, no duty arose.
Wells Fargo also admits that in special cases a duty may arise from
misfeasance or nonfeasance. Wells Fargo cites to Seo. Wells Fargo argues
that Plaintiffs do not allege misfeasance because by the time Plaintiffs were
informed of the fraud, communicated with Wells Fargo, and Wells Fargo
purportedly stated the $250,000 would be frozen, Plaintiffs had already
voluntarily wired their funds to account x7527. Wells Fargo argues that there
is no nonfeasance because there is no special relationship between Plaintiffs
as the originators of the wire and Wells Fargo as the beneficiary bank that
received the funds.
In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Wells Fargo engaged in malfeasance
when it negligently handled Plaintiffs’ account and financial information.
Opposition also cites Sun ‘n Sand to argue that this case falls under
the exception to when banks generally have no duty to non-consumers. Plaintiffs
also argue that Wells Fargo ignored the badges of fraud and promised to freeze
funds before it allowed the Wire Fraud Defendants to withdraw the remaining
$250,000 from the account.
As stated in Seo:
In considering whether a party has a legal duty in a particular factual
situation, a distinction is drawn between claims of liability based upon
misfeasance and those based upon nonfeasance. “ ' ”Misfeasance exists when the
defendant is responsible for making the plaintiff's position worse, i.e.,
defendant has created a risk. Conversely, nonfeasance is found when the
defendant has failed to aid plaintiff through beneficial intervention.... “
[Citations.]' ” (Jackson v. Ryder Truck Rental, Inc., supra, 16
Cal.App.4th at p. 1838.) Liability for misfeasance is based on the general
duty of ordinary care to prevent others from being injured by one's conduct.
(Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a); Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975)
15 Cal.3d 40, 49 [123 Cal.Rptr. 468, 539 P.2d 36].) Liability for
nonfeasance is limited to situations in which there is a special relationship
that creates a duty to act. (Eric J. v. Betty M. (1999) 76
Cal.App.4th 715, 717 [90 Cal.Rptr.2d 549]; Jackson v. Ryder Truck
Rental, Inc., supra, 16 Cal.App.4th at p. 1838.) “The basic idea
is often referred to as the 'no duty to aid rule,' which remains a fundamental
and long-standing rule of tort law.... 'As a rule, one has no *1203 duty
to come to the aid of another. A person who has not created a peril is not
liable in tort merely for failure to take affirmative action to assist or
protect another unless there is some relationship between them which gives rise
to a duty to act.' ” (Eric J. v. Betty M., supra, 76
Cal.App.4th at p. 727.) Because the traditional weighing process using the
seven factors set forth in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69
Cal.2d 108, 113 [70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561, 32 A.L.R.3d
496], “has already been done by courts over the centuries in formulating
the 'no duty to aid' rule” in the context of liability for nonfeasance, it is
not necessary to engage in the weighing process in a particular case. (Eric
J. v. Betty M., supra, 76 Cal.App.4th at pp. 729-730.)
“[T]he common law concept of special relationships covers: landowner or
possessor and person coming on the land; manufacturer or supplier of goods and
buyer or user; vendor, lessor, or contractor and purchaser, lessee or owner of
real property.” (Rodriguez v. Inglewood Unified School Dist. (1986)
186 Cal.App.3d 707, 712 [230 Cal.Rptr. 823].) It also “ 'refers to
such additional relationships [giving rise to affirmative duties] as common
carrier and passenger ..., innkeeper and guest ..., and a person who is
required by law to take, or who voluntarily takes, custody of another under
circumstances that deprive the other of his normal opportunities for
protection.' ” (Id. at pp. 712-713.) Other special
relationships requiring affirmative action include psychotherapists and
patients; law enforcement and particular members of the public; parties with a
relationship of dependence; proprietors of bowling alleys, restaurants,
apartment houses, and hospitals and their customers; and school districts and
students. (Id. at pp. 713-715.) A special relationship
may also arise out of a statutory duty or a contractual duty. (6 Witkin,
Summary of Cal. Law (9th ed. 1990) Torts, § 859, p. 223.) Finally, it may arise
out of a voluntary assumption of a duty upon which a person reasonably relies.
(Id. at § 872, p. 238.) If a special relationship arises out of a
contractual duty, the duty is owed not only to the parties to the contract but
also to those persons intended to be benefited by the performance of the
contract. (Id. at § 889, p. 260.)
(Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002)
97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1202-1203.)
Wells Fargo also argues
that it owed a statutory duty to its own customer to make the wired funds
available and to ignore Plaintiffs’ competing, unverified claim.
Wells Fargo argues that
its duty to its own consumer arose from Com. Code §1104(a) which states:
Subject to subdivision (e) of Section 11211, and subdivisions (d) and
(e) of Section 11405, if a beneficiary’s bank accepts a payment order, the bank
is obliged to pay the amount of the order to the beneficiary of the order.
Payment is due on the payment date of the order, but if acceptance occurs on
the payment date after the close of the funds-transfer business day of the
bank, payment is due on the next funds-transfer business day. If the bank
refuses to pay after demand by the beneficiary and receipt of notice of
particular circumstances that will give rise to consequential damages as a
result of nonpayment, the beneficiary may recover damages resulting from the
refusal to pay to the extent the bank had notice of the damages, unless the
bank proves that it did not pay because of a reasonable doubt concerning the
right of the beneficiary to payment.
(Cal. Com. Code §11404(a).)
Wells Fargo also
argues:
And, Wells Fargo could only return the wired funds to Plaintiffs if: (1)
all parties— including the alleged fraudster/recipient of the funds—agreed to
their return; (2) if the wire was not authorized (it was); or (3) if the sender
made a mistake, such as accidentally paying $1,000,000 when $10,000 was
owed/intended to be paid (notably, the Commercial Code does not consider
authorizing a wire to an account that is later determined to be part of a
fraudulent scheme to be a “mistake”). (Com. Code § 11211, cmt. 4.) No such
allegations are present. For this additional reason, the negligence claim
fails.
(Dem. p.15.)
Economic Loss Doctrine Precludes Plaintiffs’
Negligence Claim
Wells Fargo argues:
Finally, Plaintiffs’ negligence claim is precluded by the economic loss
doctrine. “[L]iability in negligence for purely economic losses … is ‘the exception,
not the rule.’ ” (Southern California Gas Leak Cases (2019) 7 Cal.5th 391, 400
(citations omitted); see also Seely v. White Motor Co. (1965) 63 Cal.2d 9,
18-19 (“In California, plaintiffs may seek remedies for strict liability and
negligence only for physical injury to person or property, and not for pure
economic losses.”).) “The primary exception to the general rule of no recovery
for negligently inflicted purely economic losses is where the plaintiff and the
defendant have a ‘special relationship.’ ” (See Southern California Gas Leak
Cases, 7 Cal.5th at 400.) No such relationship exists between a bank and its
customers—so it necessarily follows that a bank and non-customers have no such
relationship. (See Kurtz-Ahlers, LLC v. Bank of Am., N.A. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th
952, 956.)
Here, Plaintiffs suffered no physical injury in relation to the wire,
and there is no special relationship between the parties. Because economic loss
alone will not sustain Plaintiffs’ negligence claim, dismissal is warranted.
(Dem. p. 16-17.)
The Court will hear
argument as to the economic loss rule. Plaintiffs did not address this argument
in their Opposition.
TENTATIVE
RULING – First Cause of Action - Negligence
The Court will hear argument.

Ninth Cause of Action (As labeled in the body of the TAC)
The
purpose of the UCL “is to protect both consumers and competitors by promoting
fair competition in commercial markets for goods and services.” (Drum v. San
Fernando Valley Bar Assn. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 247, 252 citing Kasky
v. Nike, Inc. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 939, 949.) Business and Professions Code
section 17200 provides: “[a]s used in this chapter, unfair competition shall
mean and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice
and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising and any act prohibited
by Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the
Business and Professions Code.” (Progressive West Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 284.) Because 
the UCL is written in the disjunctive, it establishes three varieties of
unfair competition – acts or practices which are unlawful, or unfair, or
fraudulent. (Adhav v. Midway Rent a Car, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 954,
970 citing Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone
Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)
Unlawful
“
‘The “unlawful” practices prohibited by … section 17200 are any practices
forbidden by law, be it civil or criminal, federal, state, or municipal,
statutory, regulatory, or court-made. [Citation.] It is not necessary that the
predicate law provide for private civil enforcement. [Citation.] As our Supreme
Court put it, section 17200 “borrows” violations of other laws and treats them
as unlawful practices independently actionable under section 17200 et seq.’” (South
Bay Chevrolet v. General Motors Acceptance Corp. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 861,
880 citing Hewlett v. Squaw Valley Ski Corp. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 499,
531-532.) “A plaintiff alleging unfair business practices under these statutes
must state with reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory
elements of the violation.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619; “Demurrer was properly sustained as to this cause of
action because the second amended complaint identifies no particular section of
the statutory scheme which was violated and fails to describe with any
reasonable particularity the facts supporting violation.” )
Here, it appears as if Plaintiffs are basing their UCL
claim on the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA). This code section appears
to be found at Cal. Civil Code 1798.150(a)(1) according to Defendant and
Plaintiffs.
Under CA Civil Code §1798.150(a)(1):
Any consumer whose
nonencrypted and nonredacted personal information, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of
Section 1798.81.5, or whose email address in combination with a password or
security question and answer that would permit access to the account is subject
to an unauthorized access and exfiltration, theft, or disclosure as a
result of the business's violation of the duty to implement and maintain
reasonable security procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the
information to protect the personal information may institute a civil action
for any of the following:
(A) To recover damages in
an amount not less than one hundred dollars ($100) and not greater than seven
hundred and fifty ($750) per consumer per incident or actual damages, whichever
is greater.
(B) Injunctive or
declaratory relief.
(C) Any other relief the
court deems proper.
(CA
Civil §1798.150(a)(1).)
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs
did not allege a violation of the California Consumer Privacy Act because the
TAC does not plead facts establishing that Wells Fargo suffered from a data
breach resulting in the theft of Plaintiffs’ personal information.
The Court does not find
Defendant’s argument persuasive considering the fact that Defendant did not
cite any binding case law. 
However, upon reading the
only statute that Plaintiffs cited as their basis for the UCL violation, it
does not appear as if Plaintiffs successfully alleged a cause of action.
Civil Code § 1798.150(a)(1)
refers in part to “Any consumer whose nonencrypted and nonredacted personal
information, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of subdivision (d)
of Section 1798.81.5, or whose email address in combination with a
password or security question and answer that would permit access to the
account is subject to an unauthorized access and exfiltration…”
Under 1798.81.5:
“Personal information”
means either of the following:
(A) An individual's first
name or first initial and the individual's last name in combination with any
one or more of the following data elements, when either the name or the data
elements are not encrypted or redacted:
(i) Social security
number.
(ii) Driver's license
number, California identification card number, tax identification number,
passport number, military identification number, or other unique identification
number issued on a government document commonly used to verify the identity of
a specific individual.
(iii) Account number or
credit or debit card number, in combination with any required security code,
access code, or password that would permit access to an individual's financial
account.
(iv) Medical information.
(v) Health insurance
information.
(vi) Unique biometric
data generated from measurements or technical analysis of human body
characteristics, such as a fingerprint, retina, or iris image, used to
authenticate a specific individual. Unique biometric data does not include a
physical or digital photograph, unless used or stored for facial recognition
purposes.
(vii) Genetic data.
(Civil Code §1798.81.5.)
Here, Plaintiffs made no
allegations with reasonable particularity as to any of the personal information
as it is defined in the CCPA. Plaintiffs simply referred generally to the term
“personal information” in a conclusory fashion and completely ignore the fact
that the statute they cite has specific definitions as to what qualifies as
personal information under the statute. Plaintiffs did not allege any of the
personal information contained in the statute defining personal information.
Further, the statute says
“or whose email address in combination with a password or security
question and answer that would permit access to the account is subject to an
unauthorized access and exfiltration…” Here, Plaintiffs don’t make any
allegations pertaining to this portion of the statute either.
Plaintiffs also
potentially try to base their UCL cause of action under the CRPA; however,
Plaintiffs cite no code section of the CRPA as the basis for their UCL action. 
“A plaintiff alleging
unfair business practices under these statutes must state with reasonable
particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the violation.” (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619; “Demurrer was
properly sustained as to this cause of action because the second amended
complaint identifies no particular section of the statutory scheme which was
violated and fails to describe with any reasonable particularity the facts
supporting violation.” )
Plaintiffs did not statue
sufficient facts under the unlawful prong.
Unfair
There
is authority that the test to determine whether a business practice is unfair
differs depending on whether the plaintiff in a UCL case is a competitor of the
defendant or a consumer. (Drum v. San Fernando Valley Bar Assn. (2010)
182 Cal.App.4th 247, 253.) In competitor cases, a business practice is “unfair”
only if it “threatens an incipient violation of an antitrust law, or violates
the policy or spirit of one of those laws because its effects are comparable to
or the same as a violation of the law, or otherwise significantly threatens of
harms competition.” (Id. citing Cel-Tech, supra, 20 Cal.4th at
187.)
In consumer cases, the Supreme Court has not
established a definitive test to determine whether a business practice is
unfair. (Drum v. San Fernando Valley Bar Assn., supra, 182
Cal.App.4th  at 246 citing Cel-Tech,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at 187, fn. 12.) 
Several definitions of “unfair” under the UCL have
been formulated, and they are:
1.      “An
act or practice is unfair if the consumer injury is substantial, is not
outweighed by any countervailing benefits to consumers or to competition, and
is not an injury the consumers themselves could reasonably have avoided.” (Daugherty
v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 839.)
2.      “’[A]n
“unfair business practice occurs when that practice “offends an established
public policy or when the practice is immoral, unethical, oppressive,
unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.” [Citation.]’
[Citation.]” (Smith v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2001) 93
Cal.App.4th 700, 719.)
3.      An
unfair business practice means the “ ‘the public policy which is a predicate to
the action must be “tethered” to specific constitutional, statutory or
regulatory provisions.’” (Scripps Clinic v. Superior Court (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 917, 940.)
(West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 806.)
“The balancing test required by the unfair business
practice prong of section 17200 is fact intensive and is not conducive to
resolution at the demurrer stage. ‘[U]nfairness’ is an equitable concept that
cannot be mechanistically determined under the relatively rigid legal rules
applicable to the sustaining or overruling of a demurrer.” (Progressive West
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 287 citing Schnall
v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167.)
Here, Plaintiffs do not make any allegations under the
unfair prong of the UCL.
Fraudulent
“A
fraudulent business practice under section 17200 ‘is not based upon proof of
the common law tort of deceit or deception, but is instead premised on whether
the public is likely to be deceived.’” (Progressive West Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 263, 284 citing Pastoria v.
Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490, 1498.) Stated another way, “In
order to state a cause of action under the fraud prong of [section 17200] a
plaintiff need not show that he or others were actually deceived or confused by
the conduct or business practice in question. ‘The “fraud” prong of [section
17200] is unlike common law fraud or deception. A violation can be shown even
if no one was actually deceived, relied upon the fraudulent practice, or sustained
any damage. Instead, it is only necessary to show that members of the public
are likely to be deceived.’ [Citations.]” (Progressive West Ins. Co., supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at 284 citing Schnall v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 78
Cal.App.4th 1144, 1167.)
Plaintiffs do not allege that any of the Defendants
engaged in any conduct that would cause the public to likely be deceived. 
Plaintiffs do not allege an action under the
fraudulent prong.
TENTATIVE RULING – Ninth Cause of Action
B&P Code 17200 et seq.
Defendant’s demurrer to
the ninth cause of action as labeled in the body of the TAC is SUSTAINED.
TENTATIVE
RULING - Tenth Cause of Action (As labeled in the body of the TAC)
The tenth cause of
action as labeled in the body of the TAC is for “Violation of California
Commercial Code § 11101.
Defendant notes that
Plaintiffs’ TAC makes reference to the Electronic Funds Transfer Act (EFTA) and
15 USC § 1693(c). Defendant argues that the EFTA does not apply here. Defendant
also argues that the Bank Secrecy Act allegations within this cause of action
fail because the Bank Secrecy Act creates neither a private right action nor
any parallel duty.
Here, Defendant’s
arguments are entirely unhelpful to the Court. Defendant predominantly cites
federal cases. Most importantly, despite the fact the Defendant is the
demurring party that is attempting to argue that Plaintiffs did not state facts
sufficient to state a cause of action for this claim, Defendant does not once
state what the elements are for this claim or what the pleading standard is for
this claim. The Court will not write Defendant’s motion for Defendant, nor will
it come up with Defendant’s arguments for Defendant. Since Defendant is
demurring on the grounds that this claim fails to state sufficient facts, yet
provides no legal authority as to what must be alleged and why Plaintiffs did
not allege each element for the claim, the Court finds Defendant’s demurrer as
to this cause of action unavailing. Defendant’s demurrer to the tenth cause of
action is OVERRULED.
DEMURRER 3
and MOTION TO STRIKE 3
Moving
Party:  Defendants, Avi
Ghazaryan, Talin Torossian, and RLG State Realty (collectively referred to as
the Ghazaryans)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Meline Galstyan and Andrey Pilikyan
Moving Papers: Demurrer
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply submitted as of
4/22/2024; Reply was due 4/18/2024
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants, Avi Ghazaryan, Talin Torossian, and RLG State Realty (collectively
referred to as the Ghazaryans) demur to the First, Second, Fifth, and Ninth
cause of action in the TAC. Defendants demur generally and specially on the
following grounds:
1. The First Cause of
Action for Negligence is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible as to the
terms of the duty alleged therein against Talin Torossian. Plaintiffs failed to
plead sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against Torossian and
furthermore, the cause of action is defective and brought forth through a
misjoinder of Torossian pursuant to CCP §430.10(d).
2. The Second Cause of
Action for Breach of Contract is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible. Plaintiffs
failed to plead sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Torossian, and the cause of action is defective and brought forth through a
misjoinder of Torossian pursuant to CCP §430.10(d).
3. The Fifth Cause of
Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible
as to Torossian. Plaintiffs failed to plead sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action against Torossian, and the cause of action is defective and
brought forth through a misjoinder of Torossian pursuant to CCP §430.10(d).
4. The Ninth Cause of
Action for Unfair Business Practices is uncertain, ambiguous, and
unintelligible. Plaintiffs failed to plead sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action against Ghazaryans.”
[The Court notes that Defendants
referred to the Ninth Cause of Action as referred to in the body of the TAC,
not the caption of the TAC.]
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure to sufficiently
meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here, Defendants’
counsel alleged a meet and confer letter was sent and that Plaintiffs’ counsel
did not respond to the meet and confer. (Avsharian Decl. ¶¶3-4.)
TENTATIVE RULING 
The Court notes that a
significant amount of Defendants’ demurrer and motion to strike is extremely
difficult to follow.
Uncertainty
Defendants argue that a
demurrer to the entire TAC should be sustained on grounds of uncertainty. 
Defendants cite to a
portion of ¶14 which states in relevant part, “Jared Seeger and Does 1 through
10, inclusive, shall hereinafter be referred to as the “Wire Fraud Defendants.”

Defendants then cite to
a portion of ¶16 that states defines Avi Ghazaryan, RLG State Realty, and Talin
Torossian as the “Real Estate Agents.” Defendants then cite to the last
sentence of ¶16 which states, “Defendants suspect that one or more of the Real
Estate Agents may be among the Wire Fraud Defendants;
investigation and discovery are ongoing.”
Defendants argue that it
is unclear whether Ghazaryan, RLG, and Torossian are alleged to be the Wire
Fraud Defendants or not.
The Court does not find
this argument availing. 
First, the TAC was
clearly not ambiguous and unclear enough to not know what causes of action were
being alleged against them because Defendants only demurred to the causes of
action that were alleged against them. 
Second, not only does the
Opposition state that as of now the demurring Defendants are not alleged to be
the Wire Fraud Defendants, but the TAC explicitly clears the issue up as well
in ¶34. “On information and belief, Real Estate Agents were not willing
participants to the Wire Fraud Defendants’ scheme and were merely negligent in
exercising their fiduciary duty to protect Plaintiffs from the scheme. However,
Plaintiffs reserve the right to sue certain individuals employed by Real Estate
Agents who may have been intentional participants among the Wire Fraud
Defendants and/or employees/agents of Banks, who actively prevented, delayed,
or interfered with a requested and promised account hold or “freeze” of the
converted funds so that other Wire Fraud Defendants could continue to siphon
the recipient account undetected.” (TAC ¶34.)
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP § 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or
what counts or claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury
v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) 
Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
Defendants’ demurrer to
the TAC on grounds of uncertainty is OVERRULED.
First Cause of Action –
Negligence
Misjoinder
Defendants argue as
follows:
With respect to third
parties, a responsible broker who also holds an ownership interest in a
brokerage may be liable for the tortious acts of the salespersons working under
the broker’s supervision, under the Real Estate Law and California Department
of Real Estate (DRE) regulations and based on the vicarious liability theory
that a principal is responsible for the acts of its agent. See California Real
Estate Loans, Inc. v Wallace (1993) 18 CA4th 1575. See generally Bus & P C
§10032; CC §2079.13.
In Paragraph 35 of TAC
PLAINTIFFS allege that TOROSSIAN “acted on behalf of GHAZARYAN and RLG with the
authority, consent, and/or ratification of GHAZARYAN and RLG.”
(Dem. p. 7-8.)
Here, the Court notes
that it is unclear what Defendants are trying to argue.
Further, the Court cites
information below with respect to agency allegations:
As to alleging agency at
the pleading stage, “An allegation of agency is an allegation of ultimate fact
that must be accepted as true for purposes of ruling on a demurrer.” (City
of Industry v. City of Filmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 212-13.) “We
have already noted, however, that an allegation of agency as such is a
statement of ultimate fact. Consequently further allegations explaining how
this fact of agency originated become unnecessary.” (Skopp v. Weaver (1976)
16 Cal.3d 432, 439.)
“To state a cause of
action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the
plaintiff a duty of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3) the
breach proximately caused the plaintiff's damages or injuries. [Citation omitted.]
Whether a duty of care exists is a question of law to be determined on a
case-by-case basis. [Citation omitted.]” (Luceras v. BAC Home Loans
Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62.)
Further, as stated in Parsons:
Some of the
considerations that courts have employed in various contexts to determine
the existence and scope of duty are: “the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the
closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of
preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.
 
(Parsons
v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 472-73.)
 
Here,
Defendants first make arguments as to whether the element of breach was alleged
against Torossian. The Court does not find Defendants’ arguments availing that the
actions of breach are too vague as to Torossian. Breach is alleged in ¶89 and
in ¶84. Any attempt to single out Torossian appears irrelevant as he was
alleged to be one of the Real Estate Agents. 
 
Defendants
then argue that a real estate broker’s duties are limited by the express
provisions in the listing agreement and deposit receipt. Defendant generally
cites to Carleton v. Tortosa (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 745. Defendant does
not cite to a specific page in this case. Defendant then argues that Carleton
may limit other duties when used in context with CAR forms such as the Buyer’s
Inspection Advisory or the Buyer and Seller’s Statewide Advisory.
 
The Court
does not understand what Defendants are trying to argue. Plaintiffs appear to
allege the duty element in ¶87 of the TAC. 
 
The Court
will hear argument.
 
Tentative Ruling – First
Cause of Action for Negligence
The Court will hear
argument.
Second Cause of Action –
Breach of Contract
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must allege “(1) the existence of the contract,
(2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  A cause of action
for breach of contract is subject to demurrer if “it cannot be ascertained from
the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §430.10(g).)
A written contract must be pled verbatim in the body of the complaint, be
attached to the complaint and incorporated by reference, or be pled according
to its legal effect.  (Bowden v.
Robinson (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 705, 718.) 
An allegation of an oral agreement must “set[] forth the substance of
its relative terms.”  (Gautier v.
General Tel. Co. (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 302, 305.)
Defendants attack the first element
of a breach of contract cause of action as to the existence of the contract.
The Defendants argue that the TAC
fails to state whether the contact is written or oral. 
Defendants’ argument is unavailing.
Paragraph 92 states the contract is written and is attached as Exhibit 1.
The arguments about Torossian
specifically are unavailing. Torossian is alleged to be one of the Real Estate
Agents.
Defendants also argue that the TAC
doesn’t allege which specific contact Torossian has breached.  The Court does not find Defendants’ argument
availing. Plaintiffs alleged the Real Estate Agents breached the written
agreement, and the written agreement that the Plaintiffs alleged Torossian to
have entered was Exhibit 1 in ¶92.
TENTATIVE RULING SECOND CAUSE OF
ACTION
Defendants’ demurrer to the second
cause of action is OVERRULED. 
Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
As
stated in O’Neal:
“The elements of a claim for breach of fiduciary duty
are (1) the existence of a fiduciary relationship, (2) its breach, and (3)
damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Mendoza v. Continental Sales Co. (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1405, 45 Cal.Rptr.3d 525.) Although subject to
exceptions, the determination whether a breach of fiduciary duty occurs under a
particular set of facts is “ ‘mainly for the trier of facts.’ ” (Mueller v.
MacBan (1976) 62 Cal.App.3d 258, 276, 132 Cal.Rptr. 222; see Marzec
v. Public Employees’ Retirement System (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 889,
915, 187 Cal.Rptr.3d 452 [“ ‘Whether a fiduciary duty exists is generally
a question of law. [Citation.] Whether the defendant breached that duty towards
the plaintiff is a question of fact. [Citation.]’ ”]; Harvey
v. The Landing Homeowners Assn. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 809, 822, 76
Cal.Rptr.3d 41 [“Breach of duty is usually a fact issue for the jury.
[Citation.] Breach may be resolved as a matter of law, however, if the
circumstances do not permit a reasonable doubt as to whether the defendant's
conduct violates the degree of care exacted of him or her.”].) Expert testimony
demonstrating a breach is not required, but is admissible in circumstances
where the conduct supporting the alleged breach is beyond common knowledge.
(See Stanley v. Richmond (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1070, 1087, 41
Cal.Rptr.2d 768.)
 
(O’Neal v. Stanislaus County Employees’ Retirement
Assn. (2017) 8. Cal.App.5th  1184,
1215.)
 
Here, Defendants’ arguments continue
to be difficult to follow. Defendants keep referring to ¶35 for reasons unknown
to the Court.
TENTATIVE RULING FIFTH
CAUSE OF ACTION
The Court will hear
argument.
TENATIVE RULING NINTH
CAUSE OF ACTION (as labeled in the body of the TAC)
The demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is SUSATINED on the basis explained in Motion 2 because the
ninth cause of action didn’t state sufficient facts as to any
Defendant in the TAC.
MOTION
TO STRIKE 3
Moving Party: Defendants, Avi
Ghazaryan, Talin Torossian, and RLG State Realty (collectively referred to as
the Ghazaryans)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Moving Papers: Motion to Strike
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply submitted as of 4/22/2024; Reply was due
4/18/2024
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants move for an order striking the following portions of the
TAC pursuant to CCP §435 and 436:
1. The term “WIRE FRAUD DEFENDANTS” entirely
from the TAC must be stricken.
2. The sentence “Defendants suspect that one
or more of the REAL ESTATE AGENTS may be among the WIRE FRAUD DEFENDANTS;
investigation and discovery are ongoing” in Paragraph 16 of the TAC, must be
stricken.
3. Defendant Talin Torossian (“TOROSSIAN”)
must be stricken from the entire TAC.
4. The entirety of First Cause of Action for
Breach of Contract of the TAC as to TOROSSIAN must be stricken.
5. The entirety of Second Cause of Action for
Breach of Contract of the TAC must be stricken as to TOROSSIAN.
6. The entirety of Fifth Cause of Action for
Breach of Fiduciary Duty of the TAC must be stricken as to TOROSSIAN.
7. The entirety of Nineth Cause of Action for
Unfair Business Practice of the TAC must be stricken as to GHAZARYANS.
8. Any and all references or relationship to
the following terms must be stricken from the TAC: a. Punitive –Prayer for
Relief Item 3 
b. Prayer for Relief Item 5 
c. Prayer for Relief Item 6 
d. Prayer for Relief Item 7 
e. Attorney fees – Prayer for Relief Item 8”
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is
filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who
filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike the amended pleading.
(CCP §435.5(a).)
Defendants’ counsel alleged that a meet and
confer letter was sent, but Plaintiffs’ counsel never responded. (Avsharian
Decl. ¶¶3-4.)
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on
the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc.
§ 437; Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010)
191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a
motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth”].)   
Further, CCP §431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material
allegation in a pleading is one essential to the claim or defense and which
could not be stricken from the pleading without leaving it insufficient as to
that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation
in a pleading is any of the following:
(1) An allegation
that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation
that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or
defense.
(3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial
allegation” means “irrelevant matter” as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION TO STRIKE 3
Motion to strike portion 1 is DENIED.

Motion to strike portion 2 is DENIED.
Motion to strike portion 3 is DENIED.
As to motion to strike portion 4, the Court
notes that Defendants’ seek to strike the first cause of action for breach of
contract. Defendants incorrectly labeled this, as the first cause of action is
for negligence. As to the extent that this motion seeks to strike the
negligence cause of action, the Court will hear argument based on its ruling
for the negligence cause of action. As to the extent this motion seeks to
strike the breach of contract cause of action, this motion is denied.
Motion to strike portion 5 [this refers to the
second cause of action for breach of contract] is DENIED.
Motion to strike portion 6 [this refers to the
breach of fiduciary cause of action] the court will hear argument. 
Motion to strike portion 7 is granted because
the demurrer to the ninth cause of action was sustained.
Motion to strike portion 8 is DENIED because
Defendants provided no arguments as to why those portions should be stricken.

DEMURRER 4
and MOTION to STRIKE 4
Moving Party:  Defendants, Overland Avenue Escrow and Salina
Rodriguez (collectively Overland or Defendants)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Meline Galstyan and Andrey Pilikyan
Moving Papers: Demurrer;
Proposed Order [The Court notes that the proposed order did not contain a proof
of service.]
Opposition Papers: Opposition

Reply Papers: Reply
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendants, Overland Avenue Escrow and Salina Rodriguez (collectively Overland
or Defendants) demur to the Fourth Cause of Action for Breach of Contract in
the TAC and the Ninth Cause of Action for Unfair Business Practices.
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300):Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP §1013, §1013a, §1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., §430.41, subd. (a).)  “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
Defendants’ counsel alleged a meet and confer email was sent, but Plaintiffs’
counsel never responded. (Spiro Decl. ¶¶3-4.)
TENTATIVE RULING 
Uncertainty
Defendants’ make nearly
identical arguments as to the TAC being uncertain as to the Wire Fraud
Defendants that were made in Demurrer 3. As explained in Demurrer 3, the
demurrer on grounds of uncertainty is OVERRULED.
Fourth Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must allege “(1) the existence of the contract,
(2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff.”  (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  A cause of action
for breach of contract is subject to demurrer if “it cannot be ascertained from
the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or is implied by
conduct.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §430.10(g).)
A written contract must be pled verbatim in the body of the complaint, be
attached to the complaint and incorporated by reference, or be pled according
to its legal effect.  (Bowden v.
Robinson (1977) 67 Cal.App.3d 705, 718.) 
An allegation of an oral agreement must “set[] forth the substance of
its relative terms.”  (Gautier v.
General Tel. Co. (1965) 234 Cal.App.2d 302, 305.)
(1)
The Existence of the contract
Defendants argue:
Overland was not a party to the escrow instructions and did
not sign the escrow instructions. It was not an “Authorized Agent” of
Plaintiffs or sellers as that term is defined in the escrow instructions.
Overland was merely the Escrow Holder. Only Plaintiffs and the sellers were the
parties to the escrow instructions and only Plaintiffs and the sellers signed
the escrow instructions. Clearly,
there is no underlying contract as between Plaintiffs and Overland. As such,
there can be no cause of action for Breach of Contract.
(Dem. p. 4-5.)
 
Under Merced Irr. Dist. v. County of
Mariposa :
 
Under California
law, to allege a claim for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, a plaintiff must allege the following elements: (1) the plaintiff and
the defendant entered into a contract; (2) the plaintiff did all or
substantively all of the things that the contract required him to do or that he
was excused from having to do so; (3) all conditions required for the
defendant's performance had occurred; (4) the defendant unfairly interfered
with the plaintiff's right to receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) the
defendant's conduct harmed the plaintiff. See Judicial Counsel
of California Civil Jury Instructions § 325 (2013); see
also Reinhardt v. Gemini Motor Transport, 879 F.Supp.2d 1138,
1145 (E.D.Cal.2012).
 
(Merced Irr.
Dist. v. County of Mariposa (E.D. Cal. 2013) 941 F.Supp.2d 1237, 1280,
discussing California law.)
 
‘[T]he implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing
is limited to assuring compliance with the express terms of the
contract, and cannot be extended to create obligations not contemplated by the
contract.’” (Ragland v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182,
206 (quoting Pasadena Live v. City of Pasadena (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th
1089, 1094).) 
A breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond
breach of the contractual duty itself and it has been held that bad faith
implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment. (Careau & Co. v.
Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.)
 
The Court will
hear argument.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION
The Court will hear argument.
TENATIVE RULING NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION (as labeled in the body of
the TAC)
The demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is SUSATINED on the basis explained in Motion 2 because the
ninth cause of action didn’t state sufficient facts as to any
Defendant in the TAC.
MOTION TO STRIKE 4
Moving Party: Defendants,
Overland Avenue Escrow and Salina Rodriguez (collectively Overland or
Defendants)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs
Moving Papers: Motion to
Strike; Proposed Order [The Court notes that the proposed order did not contain
a proof of service.]
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendants move to strike:
1. The term “WIRE FRAUD
DEFENDANTS” as used throughout the TAC, as that term is vague, ambiguous,
confusing, irrelevant, false, improper and/or not drawn in conformity with the
law, local rules or order of this court. 
2. Paragraph 17:
“Defendants suspect that one or more of the ESCROW AGENTS may be among the WIRE
FRAUD DEFENDANTS;”
Meet and
Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
Defendants’ counsel
alleges a meet and confer email was sent to Plaintiffs’ counsel, but Plaintiffs’
counsel did not respond. (Spiro Decl. ¶3-4.)
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP
§431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION TO STRIKE 4
Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED in its entirety.
OVERALL RULING AS TO ALL 4 DEMURRERS and ALL
3 MOTIONS TO STRIKE
The Court notes that to the extent that it overruled
the demurrer to the ninth cause of action in Demurrer 1, the Court now notes
that the demurrer to the ninth cause of action even in Demurrer 1 is SUSTAINED
based on the reasoning explained in Demurrer 2 with respect to the ninth cause
of action as labeled in the body of the TAC.
Leave to Amend
As
stated in Dalton v. East Bay Mun. Utility Dist. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th
1566, 1570-71:
If the complaint, liberally construed, can state
a cause of action, or if it is reasonably possible that the plaintiffs can cure
the complaint by amendment, the trial court should not sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend. (Heckendorn v. City of San Marino (1986) 42
Cal.3d 481, 486 [229 Cal.Rptr. 324, 723 P.2d 64].) The burden is on
the plaintiffs to establish the reasonable possibility that the defect is
curable. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.) A
demurrer is properly sustained without leave to amend if it appears that under
applicable substantive law there is no reasonable possibility that *1571 an
amendment could remedy the defects. (Heckendorn v. City of San Marino, supra,
42 Cal.3d at p. 486.)
 
(Dalton v. East Bay Mun. Utility Dist. (1993)
18 Cal.App.4th 1566, 1570-71.)
 
MOTION 5 – Discovery Motion
RELIEF
REQUESTED¿ 
Defendants, Overland Avenue Escrow and Salina Rodriguez, move for an order
compelling answers and verified responses of Plaintiffs Meline Galstyan and Andrey
Pilikyan (“Plaintiffs”) to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, (hereinafter
referred to as “RFP’s”) served on July 27, 2023, without objections, and within
(15) days of the date of the hearing, and issuing monetary sanctions in the
amount of $1,325.00 against Plaintiffs and their counsel of record, Eugene S.
Alkana, Esq., of Eugene S. Alkana, APLC, located at 131 North El Molino Avenue,
Suite 310, Pasadena, California 91101, jointly and severally, for failing to
provide code-compliant responses to the RFP’s. A true and correct copy of the
RFP’s directed to Plaintiffs Meline Galstyan and Andrey Pilikyan are attached
to the Declaration of Ian R. Feldman as Exhibit A, respectively.
 
Procedural
Moving Party: Defendants, Overland Avenue Escrow and
Salina Rodriguez 
 
Responding Party: No Opposition by Plaintiffs
 
Moving Papers: Motion to Compel; Proposed Order
 
Opposition Papers: No Opposition submitted
 
Reply: No Reply submitted as of 4/22/2024; Reply was due
4/18/2024

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Ok

LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL RESPONSES, INSPECTION DEMANDS
Within
30 days after service of a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, the party to whom the demand is directed shall serve the original of
the response to it on the party making the demand, and a copy of the response
on all other parties who have appeared in the action, unless on motion of the
party making the demand, the court has shortened the time for response, or
unless on motion of the party to whom the demand has been directed, the court
has extended the time for response. (CCP §2031.260(a).)
If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
party making the demand may move for an order compelling response to the
demand. (CCP §2031.300(b).)
If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). (CCP §2031.300(a).) “The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. (2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (CCP
§2031.300(a)(1)-(2).)
Unlike a motion to compel further responses, a motion
to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit, and the propounding
party does not have to demonstrate either good cause or that it satisfied a
“meet and confer” requirement. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404
citing Weil and Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The
Rutter Group 2006) ¶¶8:1137 to 8:1144, pp. 8F-59 to 8F-60, ¶¶ 8:1483 to 8:1489,
pp. 8H-29 to hH-30 (Weil & Brown).)
 

TENTATIVE RULING MOTION 5
Defendants
have lumped what should have been two motions into one motion.
Defendants filed one motion seeking to compel
responses to RFPs, set one, despite the fact that Defendants propounded
discovery to each Plaintiff. RFPs, Set One, was propounded on Meline Galstyan,
and RFPs, Set One, was propounded on Andrey Pilikyan. This motion should have
been two motions with two separate hearing reservations and two separate filing
fees paid. Combining multiple motions under the guise of one motion with one
hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation System and unfairly jumps
ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions to avoid payment of
separate filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled
to collect. “[P]ayment of filing fees is both mandatory and
jurisdictional.”  (Hu vs. Silgan
Containers Corp. (1999) 70 Cal. App. 4th 1261, 1269.)  
If Defendants want both motions to be heard, they can
pay the additional filing fee to the Court before the hearing and show proof of
payment of the additional filing fee before the hearing.
Alternatively, Defendants are welcome to request the
Court to advance and continue the instant hearing to a date that the other motion
will be scheduled for; however, Defendants are warned that all motions must
provide sufficient notice to Plaintiffs. Further, Defendants would need to
clarify which discovery method the instant motion will pertain to on the future
hearing date, i.e., will the instant motion pertain to Plaintiff Andrey or
Plaintiff Meline. Presumably, the other motion will clearly indicate what
individual discovery method and what Plaintiff the motion will pertain to.
As to the merits of Defendants’ motion, Defendants
propounded the instant two sets of discovery on July 27, 2023. Not only have
Plaintiffs not responded within 30 days, but Plaintiffs did not respond by the
extensions that Defendants granted to Plaintiffs. As of Defendants’ counsel’s
declaration on January 25, 2024, Defendants have still not received responses.
Since Plaintiffs have not provided timely responses, the Court tentatively
plans to grant Defendants’ motions.
Defendants are to address the filing fee issue.
If the filing fee issue is addressed, the Court orders
Plaintiffs to provide verified, code compliant responses, without objections,
to RFPs, Set One, within 15 days of this hearing.
Sanctions
In relevant part, § 2031.300(c) states as follows:
Except as provided
in subdivision (d), the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
(CCP § 2031.300(c).)
 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).) 
Defendants’ counsel requests sanctions in the amount
of $1,325.00 against Plaintiffs and their counsel, Eugene S. Alkana, APLC.
Defendants’ counsel bases this request on: 
2.0 hours of attorney time with preparing this entire
Motion, anticipates 2.0 hours for drafting its reply brief, and 1.0 hour for
remotely appearing at the hearing on this Motion. Based upon a reasonable
hourly rate of $265.00. (Feldman Decl. ¶10.)
The Court will hear argument.
 
 