  Case Number:  21STCV20600    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


June
  14, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV20600




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment or Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Slauson and Crenshaw Ventures,
  LLC




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Dante Paul and Tumani Haskins



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment or Adjudication; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts in Support 
3.      Declaration of Edward E. Ward in Support 
4.      Declaration of David Gross in Support
5.      Compendium of Evidence in Support
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Defendant’s Motion
for Summary Judgment or Adjudication
2.      Plaintiffs’ Separate Statement of Material
Facts Supporting Denial 
3.      Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendant’s Separate
Statement 
4.      Plaintiffs’ Objections to Defendant's
Evidence 
5.      Request for Judicial Notice 
6.      Declaration of Tumani Haskins 
7.      Declaration of Anthony A. Liberatore
8.      Declaration of Daisy Alvarez 
9.      Declaration of Scott A. Defoe 
10.  Declaration of Andrew Zimbaldi 
11.  Declaration of Frank Mateljan 
12.  Declaration of Dante Paul 
13.  Declaration of Herman Douglas 
14.  Declaration of Yanira Chavez 
15.  Declaration of Donna Dymally 
16.  Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence, Volume I
17.  Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence, Volume II
18.  Plaintiffs’ Compendium of Evidence, Volume
III
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.      Reply to Opposition
2.      Objection to Evidence 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 2, 2021, Plaintiffs Dante
Paul and Tumani Haskins (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants
Slauson and Crenshaw Ventures, LLC, Domanique Blanton, and Does 1 to 100 for
wrongful death. Plaintiffs allege that their son, Decedent Dominique Paul
(“Decedent”) was stabbed on June 16, 2019, by Domanique Blanton (“Blanton”) on
property owned by Defendant Slauson and Crenshaw Ventures, LLC (“Defendant”).
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “owned, operated, controlled, maintained
and/or leased the real property commonly known as 3420 W. Slauson Avenue, Los
Angeles, CA 90043” which is a commercial shopping center. (Complaint ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs
allege the former owner of this property received notice from the City of Los
Angeles that the property was a site of gang activity and was ordered to abate
the nuisance. (Complaint ¶ 10–11.) The former owner requested the tenants of
the property to take measures to reduce the gang activity.
 
Plaintiffs allege that some tenants refused to reduce the gang
activity and became “the incorporators, members, and/or managers” of Defendant in
order to purchase the property to avoid eviction. (Complaint ¶ ¶ 14–15.) The
complaint alleges these tenants were affiliated with the gang activity on the
property “and/or benefited financially from the gang related activity.” (Id.
¶ 14.) Plaintiffs allege that on February 13, 2019, after Defendant purchased
the property, the City of Los Angeles sent another letter informing Defendant,
as the new owner, that the gang activity on the premises was a nuisance. (Id.
¶ 15.) 
 
As to moving Defendant, Plaintiffs assert a single cause of action for
“Negligence- Wrongful Death”. Plaintiffs allege that on June 16, 2019,
Defendant 
 
“so negligently, carelessly, and unlawfully owned, possessed,
maintained, operated, supervised, managed, controlled, leased, and serviced the
Property as follows: Defendants knowingly maintained a public nuisance on the
Property as more specifically described in Paragraphs 11 and 15, all the while
knowing that the Property and the unlawful criminal street gang element allowed
to hangout at the Property posed a risk of danger to members of the public and
interfered with the public’s safe and quiet use and enjoyment of the
Property.   Defendants also encouraged
gang presence on the Property as it was a form of security to protect
Defendants’ leasehold interests at the Property by offering a level of
protection to shop owners without Defendants ever actually having to pay out of
pocket for such services.  Defendants’
conduct as alleged herein, by empowering gang members to control, govern,
monitor or hangout and occupy the Property and by knowingly maintaining a
public nuisance, created an environment that made decedent’s position worse by
exposing him to the risk of confrontation by gang members with known criminal
and violent propensities.”
(Complaint ¶ 26.)
 
Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant “knew or
should have known that the conditions existing on the Property on June 16,
2019, could expose members to the public, like decedent herein, to an increased
risk of harm, injury or death.” (Complaint ¶ 27.) 
 
Defendant now moves for summary judgment, or
alternatively for summary adjudication, arguing the following: (1) Defendant
owed no duty because the incident did not occur on Defendant’s property; (2) Defendant
owed no duty because there was no special relationship between Defendant and
Decedent; (3) Defendant owed no duty because the criminal conduct was not
sufficiently foreseeable; (4) Defendant did not cause the incident; and (5) the
punitive damages claim is without merit. 
 
Plaintiffs oppose and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A
party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action
within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for
damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of
action has no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of
action, that there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of
action, that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section
3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.) 
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)            
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The Court denies Plaintiffs’ requests for judicial notice as they have
no effect on the ruling herein.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to rule on the evidentiary objections brought by
Plaintiffs and Defendant on the basis that they have no effect on the ruling
herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Negligence 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
A.
Duty 
In general, “[e]veryone is responsible, not
only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management
of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or
by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ.
Code, § 1714.) Section 1714 “establishes the default rule that each person has
a duty to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of
others.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.)  “[T]he law imposes a general duty of care on a defendant only
when it is the defendant who has created a risk of harm to the plaintiff,
including when the defendant is responsible for making the plaintiff's position
worse. [Citation.]” (Id. [internal quotation marks omitted].)
“The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed
by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v.
United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128,
internal quotations omitted.) “Because
a landlord has relinquished possessory interest in the land, his or her duty of
care to third parties injured on the land is attenuated as compared with the
tenant who enjoys possession and control. Thus, before liability may be thrust
on a landlord for a third party's injury due to a dangerous condition on the
land, the plaintiff must show that the landlord had actual knowledge of the
dangerous condition in question, plus the right and ability to cure the
condition. (Mata v. Mata (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1121, 1131–32.)  
Here,
Defendant argues three grounds for why it did not owe a duty to Decedent: it
did not own the land where Decedent was stabbed, no special relationship
existed, and the criminal conduct was not foreseeable. A motion for summary adjudication can only be granted if
it completely disposes of an issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)(1); see Catalano
v. Superior Court (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 91, 97 [“The purpose of the
enactment of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f) was to stop
the practice of piecemeal adjudication of facts that did not completely dispose
of a substantive area.”].) 
However, Plaintiffs’ complaint
alleges a separate ground for imposing a duty that is not addressed in this
motion. The complaint alleges that Defendant “knowingly
maintained a public nuisance on the Property as more specifically described in
Paragraphs 11 and 15, all the while knowing that the Property and the unlawful
criminal street gang element allowed to hangout at the Property posed a risk of
danger to members of the public and interfered with the public’s safe and quiet
use and enjoyment of the Property.” (Complaint ¶ 26.) Plaintiffs also allege
that Defendant encouraged the gang presence on the property. (Id.) Plaintiffs
further allege that “Defendants’ conduct as alleged herein, by empowering gang
members to control, govern, monitor or hangout and occupy the Property and by
knowingly maintaining a public nuisance, created an environment that made
decedent’s position worse by exposing him to the risk of confrontation by gang
members with known criminal and violent propensities.” (Id.)
Therefore, the complaint sets forth an allegation
that Defendant increased the risk of injury to Decedent and therefore owed a
general duty of care. As a result, it was necessary to address this allegation in the motion and
show that there was no triable issue of fact. (Lyons v. Security
Pacific Nat. Bank (1995)
40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1018 [“In a motion for summary judgment, the issues are
framed by the pleadings.”].) Defendant’s arguments regarding ownership of the
property and a special relationship do not completely dispose of the issue of
duty, and Defendant has not set forth the absence of a triable issue of fact
regarding Plaintiff’s theory that Defendant encouraged and maintained gang
activity, thereby creating or increasing a risk of harm.
Moreover, Plaintiffs have set forth triable issues of fact
regarding Defendant’s ownership/ control. (See Plaintiff’s Resp. to UMF 11;
PUMF 25, 27, 28.) Defendant relies heavily on the assertions that the stabbing
occurred in the alley, which it did not own, and that decedent was not a patron
of any store on June 16, 2019. Plaintiff, on the other hand, sets forth
evidence that Decedent was on the property when the dispute which escalated
into the stabbing occurred. (See PUMF 35-39.) Plaintiff further provides
evidence that Defendant employed an individual to supervise the property,
including the alley, and Defendant controlled who could access the alley.[1] (PUMF 25, 27,
33.)
Next, Defendant argues the third-party criminal conduct was unforeseeable.

i.                   
Third-Party Criminal Conduct
Liability in a premises liability action is
based not on responsibility for the conduct of others, but on the failure of
the landowner or occupier to act reasonably under the circumstances when he or
she has reason to anticipate the probability of injury and has an opportunity
to prevent the injury or warn of the peril (Cody F. v. Falleti (2001) 92
Cal.App.4th 1232, 1242, Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6
Cal.4th 666, 676 [a landowner’s duty to take steps to prevent the wrongful acts
of a third party is imposed only where such conduct can be reasonably
anticipated].) ¿ 
¿ 
Traditionally,
foreseeability of the risk does not necessarily turn on whether the same type
of activity or event already occurred on the premises.¿ Rather, the issue is
whether, in light of all the facts and circumstances (including the nature,
condition and location of the premises, as well as the landlord's prior
experience), the owner had reason to anticipate the general character of the
event or harm, not its precise nature or manner of occurrence.¿ (Isaacs v.
Huntington Memorial Hosp. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 112, 129.)¿ However, where a
“burdensome” duty is to be imposed on the landowner (e.g., requiring private
security guards or other heightened security measures), a “high degree of
foreseeability” is required. And “the requisite degree of foreseeability rarely,
if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent
crime on the landowner's premises.”¿ (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Ctr.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 679.)¿¿
 
Here, Defendant
provides no facts in its separate statement regarding the foreseeability of
criminal conduct. The Defendant therefore fails to meet its initial burden.
 
Accordingly,
viewing the evidence and all reasonable inferences in the light most favorable
to Plaintiff, the Court finds there are triable issues of fact regarding the
existence of a duty of care.
B.
Causation
“ ‘[T]he
decision whether that breach caused the damage (that is, causation in
fact) is again within the jury’s domain; but where reasonable men will not
dispute the absence of causality, the court may take the decision from the jury
and treat the question as one of law. [Citations.]’ [Citations.]” (Constance
B. v. State of California (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 200, 207 (“Constance”)
[italics in original].)¿Causation
is established by showing that a defendant’s breach of duty was a substantial
factor in bringing about plaintiff’s injury, and there is no legal rule
relieving defendant from liability. (Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1205.) Defendant’s negligence is the actual cause, or cause in
fact, of plaintiff’s injury if it is a substantial factor in bringing about the
harm. (Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041, 1052.) “In other
words, [the] plaintiff must show some substantial link or nexus between
omission and injury.” (Saelzler v. Advanced Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th
763, 778.)  
The doctrine of proximate cause relieves
defendants from liability for injuries they, in fact, caused, based on
considerations of policy and justice. (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p.
1205.) But proximate cause only becomes relevant after it has first been
determined that defendant’s conduct was the cause in fact of plaintiff’s
injury. (See Rest.2d Torts, § 431, subd. (a).)  
Here, Defendant provides no facts in its separate statement
regarding the absence of causation. Therefore, Defendant fails to meet its
burden.[2]
C. Punitive Damages
Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)¿ “Malice” is conduct
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)¿ “‘Punitive
damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme
indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should
not have to tolerate.’¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Lackner v. North (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code
section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests.¿ The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must
be found.”¿ (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th
704, 725.) (emphasis added.)¿ The statute’s reference to despicable conduct
represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people.¿ Such conduct has been described as ‘having the
character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’”¿ (Tomaselli v.
Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)¿ Further, “[t]here
must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous
consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these
consequences.”¿ (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins.
Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.)¿¿ 
¿ 
“[M]alice is the basis for assessing punitive damages for
nonintentional conduct; that is, acts performed without intent to harm.
[Citation omitted.] Nonintentional conduct comes within the definition of
malicious acts punishable by the assessment of punitive damages when a party
intentionally performs an act from which he knows, or should know, it is highly
probable that harm will result.” (Ford Motor Co. v. Home Ins. Co.¿(1981) 116
Cal.App.3d 374, 381.)¿A conscious disregard for the safety of others can constitute
malice if the plaintiff establishes that “the defendant was aware of the
probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and
deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor
v. Superior Court¿(1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 895–96.) 
¿ 
“[A]lthough the “clear and convincing” evidentiary standard
is a stringent one, it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation to “prove”
a case for punitive damages at summary judgment. [Citation omitted.] However,
where the plaintiff's ultimate burden of proof will be by clear and convincing
evidence, the higher standard of proof must be taken into account in ruling on
a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is
to prevail on a claim for punitive damages, it will be necessary that the
evidence presented meet the higher evidentiary standard.” (American
Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton¿(2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 1017, 1049.) “Summary judgment or summary adjudication on the issue
of punitive damages is proper only when no reasonable jury could find the
plaintiff's evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or
oppression.” (Butte Fire Cases¿(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1159)
(internal quotations omitted.)¿¿ 
 
“When the defendant is a corporation, ‘[a]n award of punitive damages
against a corporation ... must rest on the malice of the corporation's
employees. But the law does not impute every employee's malice to the
corporation.’ [Citation.] Instead, the oppression, fraud, or malice must be
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).) ‘ “[M]anaging
agent” ... include[s] only those corporate employees who exercise substantial
independent authority and judgment in their corporate decisionmaking so that
their decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (Wilson v. Southern
California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164.)
 
Here, the complaint does not allege a claim for punitive damages as
to the first cause of action. Punitive damages are alleged as to the third
cause of action, for intentional tort against defendant Blanton. (Complaint ¶
43.)
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant Slauson and Crenshaw
Ventures, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


