 Case Number:  24TRCV00687    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 August 14, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00687   CASE NAME:                        Shela Carter v. Marie Watson, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,  Stephen Francis Watson, successor trustee of the Marie Agnes Watson Trust dated  October 31, 1991 (DOE 1), Gregory James Wholey, trustee of the Gregory James  Wholey trust dated April 28, 2017 (DOE 2)  RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Shela Carter (No Opposition)    TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set.  MOTION:                              (1) Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Response to Form Interrogatories, Set One                                                  (2) Defendants’  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Response to Special Interrogatories, Set One a                                                 (3) Defendants’  Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Response to Requests for Production of Documents,  Set One                                                  (4) Requests for  Monetary Sanctions   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED                                                 (2) GRANTED                                                 (3) GRANTED                                                 (4) Requests for  Monetary Sanctions is tentatively denied until Defense counsel can provide this  Court more proof.    I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual                On February 28, 2024, Plaintiff,  Shela Carter (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Maria Watson,  Stephen Watson, W.W. Property Management, and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint  alleges a cause of action for premises liability. The complaint alleges that  Defendants negligently and carelessly owned, operated, maintained, controlled  and inspected the subject premises so as to create and/or permit the existence  of a dangerous condition of the subject premises and/or on the subject  premises. The dangerous condition consisted of a dilapidated ceiling at the  subject premises. Plaintiff contends the ceiling fell onto the Plaintiff  causing injury.                On April 9, 2024, Defendants,  Stephen Francis Watson, successor trustee of the Maria Agnes Watson Trust dated  October 31, 1991 (DOE 1), Gregory James Wholey, trustee of the Gregory James  Wholey Trust dated April 28 2017 (DOE 2) (hereinafter, “Moving Defendants”)  note that they served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories, Special  Interrogatories, and Demand for Production of Documents, Set One. Moving  Defendants note that the discovery responses were due on Mary 13, 2024.  However, on June 21, 2024, as the discovery responses had not yet been  received, moving defense counsel notes that he wrote a letter to Plaintiff’s  counsel requesting the said responses be served within ten (10) days. However,  as of the date of the filing of these motions, Moving Defendants assert that  Plaintiff had not responded to the discovery. As such, Defendants have filed  these motions to compel Plaintiff’s initial responses to each of their  propounded Motions to Compel Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and  Demand for Production of Documents, Set One.   B. Procedural     On July 9, 2024, Moving Defendants filed these Motions to  Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special  Interrogatories, and Demand for Production of Documents, Set One. To date, no opposition has been filed.     II. ANALYSIS  A.    Legal Standard     A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days  after service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom  interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting  party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any  objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to  compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery  motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code  Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a  motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 390, 411               Further,  where there has been no timely response to a Code of Civil Procedure §  2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order compelling a response.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all objections,  including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to whom the demand  was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to  the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to compel responses.  Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to resolve  the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the motion seeks only  a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good cause" is  required.    B.      Discussion    Here, the Court notes that based on the  moving papers, and lack of opposition brief, that Plaintiff has entirely failed  to respond to the Moving Defendants’ propounded discovery. As such, Plaintiff  is in violation of Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.290 and 2031.010. Thus,  this Court GRANTS Moving Defendants’ motions and compels Plaintiff to provide  code-compliant, verified responses to the discovery, without objection, on or  before September 6, 2024.     C.    Sanctions               In connection with Defendant’s  motions to compel, Moving Defendants have requested monetary sanctions be  imposed on Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s attorney in the amount of $561.65 per  motion ($1,684.95 total). The Court notes however, that Moving Defense  Counsel’s declaration (“Ward Decl.”) does not specify her hourly rate or how  long it took her to prepare the motions. For example, she notes that for each  motion, her office is seeking a total of $500 for the reasonable cost of  preparing the motion in addition to the filing cost of $61.65 per motion.  (Ward  Decl., ¶ 5.) However, Defense  counsel does not illustrate why that is. As such, this Court will need further  clarification if Moving Defendants seek the amount of monetary sanctions that  they are on these motions.    III. CONCLUSION   For the foregoing reasons, Moving  Defendants’ Motions to  Compel Plaintiff’s  Responses are GRANTED  and Plaintiff is to provide code-compliant, verified responses, without  objection to the propounded discovery on or before September 6, 2024.    Further, monetary sanctions may be  awarded, but will require further proof from Moving Defendants’ counsel prior  to awarding.    Moving Defendants are ordered to give  notice. 