 Case Number:  23TRCV03809    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative  Ruling    HEARING DATE:                 August 14, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV03809   CASE NAME:                        Ellen Goodwill v. Costco Wholesale Corporation, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Costco Wholesale Corporation     RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Ellen Goodwill    TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.    MOTION:                               Motion to Disqualify Counsel                                                    Tentative Ruling:                    ARGUE.        I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual   On  November 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Ellen Goodwill (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint  against Defendants, Costco Wholesale Corporation, DOE 1 (Store Manager), and  DOES 2 through 50. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) General  Negligence; and (2) Premises Liability. The complaint is based on Plaintiff’s  allegation that on November 16, 2021, Plaintiff was lawfully on the premises of  Defendants, Costco Wholesale Corporation, DOE 1 (Store Manager), and DOES 2  through 50, located at or near 2640 Lomita Blvd., Torrance, CA 90505. Plaintiff  contends that as Plaintiff was walking within the subject premises, she was  struck by a metal cart and/or similar object being pushed and operated by  Defendants’ employees, thereby causing Plaintiff to sustain the serious  injuries and damages.    Defendant,  Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco”) has filed a Motion to Disqualify  Plaintiff’s attorney of record, Downtown L.A. Law Group.  The parties have stipulated to waive the  Court’s financial conflict of interest after the Court made its disclosure of  stock ownership in Costco.     B. Procedural               On  July 3, 2024, Defendant Costco filed a Motion to Disqualify Plaintiff’s  Attorney of Record, Downtown L.A. Law Group. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed  an opposition brief. On July 24, 2024, Costco filed a reply brief.                On  July 31, 2024, this motion was originally heard. This Court noted in its minute  order that the moving party was to file a proper request for judicial notice  with supported evidence of the Elizabeth Grimes v. Costco case.   On August 1, 2024, Defendant Costco filed that  Request for Judicial Notice.   On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a  response.    On August 12, 2024, Defendant Costco  filed another Request for Judicial Notice.    II. ANALYSIS    A. Legal Standard    Code of Civil Procedure section 128,  subdivision (a)(5) authorizes the Court “[t]o control in furtherance of  justice, the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in  any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, in every matter  pertaining thereto.” This authority necessarily includes  disqualifying an attorney. (Metro-Goldwyn Mayer, Inc. v. Tracinda Corp.  (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1837–1838.)     The Court of Appeal has stated:    The  issue of disqualification ultimately involves a conflict between the clients’  right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain ethical standards of  professional responsibility. The paramount concern, though, must be the  preservation of public trust in the scrupulous administration of justice and  the integrity of the bar. The recognized and important right to counsel of  one’s choosing must yield to considerations of ethics that run to the very  integrity of our judicial process.    (Id. at p. 1838, citation marks  omitted.)     “Whether an attorney should be  disqualified is a matter addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court.”  (Henriksen v. Great Am. Sav. & Loan (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 109, 113.)  “In exercising that discretion, the trial court is required to make a reasoned  judgment which complies with the legal principles and policies applicable to  the issue at hand.” (Ibid.)     “A lawyer who has formerly represented a  client in a matter shall not thereafter represent another person in the same or  a substantially related matter in which that person's interests are materially  adverse to the interests of the former client unless the former client gives  informed written consent.  (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, rule 1.9 (a).)   “When disqualification is sought because  of an attorney's successive representation of clients with adverse interests,”  the trial court balances the current clients’ right to the counsel of their  choosing against the former client's right to ensure that his confidential  information will not be divulged or used by his former counsel.  (Capra  v. Capra (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 1072, 1093 (authority of trial court to  disqualify attorney derives from power inherent in every court to control  conduct of its ministerial officers in furtherance of justice per Code Civ.  Proc., § 128).)      B.  Discussion                At  the previous hearing in this case, the Court refused to take judicial notice of  Defendant’s case number of CIVSB 2420703 due to no foundation or admissible  evidence being given. However, this Court also allowed defense counsel to file  a supplemental request for judicial notice on or before August 2, 2024. The  Court ordered that Plaintiff’s counsel could file a response as to the request  and provide the Court with supplemental declarations as to their client on  issues raised in the previous tentative ruling and the implications of the Elizabeth  Grimes case no later than August 12, 2024. This Court also ordered no reply  by Costco.                In  Defendant Costco’s August 1, 2024 filing of the request for judicial notice, it  requested this Court take judicial notice of a conformed copy of Elizabeth  Grimes v. Costco Wholesale Corporation complaint, Case No. CIV SB2420703 in  the Superior Court of California, County of San Bernardino. (Exhibit A.) The  Court GRANTS this request, and takes judicial notice of this case and of the name  and electronic signature of Mr. Werbin on the Grimes Complaint at page 3 as  well as his name on the first page’s caption as the attorney of record for the  plaintiff in that case .                In  opposition, Plaintiff provides the Declaration of Amira Rezkallah (“Rezkallah  Decl.”), the Human Resources Manager and Administrative Director at DTLA Law.  Rezkallah notes that it is the firm’s policy that Werbin’s team not be assigned  to any cases involving Costco. (Rezkallah Decl., ¶ 3.) She also indicates that  Werbin was never assigned to Elizabeth Grimes v. Costco Wholesale  Corporation, but that instead, it was assigned to another attorney working  in the firm, Alex Vandenberg, who was the sole attorney who had access to that  case. (Rezkallah Decl., ¶ 4.) Rezkallah also contends that upon investigation,  she found out that the administrative employee responsible for finalizing and  filing summons and complaints for all cases at DTLA Law carelessly mixed two  different complaints of Elizabeth Grimesv. Costco Wholesale Corporation  and Michael Schuman v. Sedigheh Ghaiemy-Mahdavy, et al. (the case  assigned to Werbin), by inadvertently and wrongfully flipping electronic  signatures on both complaints, despite never being advised to do so. (Rezkallah  Decl., ¶ 5.) Rezkallah also notes that that same administrative employee  flipped the electronic signatures on each complaint as well. (Rezkallah Decl.,  ¶ 6.)                Plaintiff’s  counsel further provides the declaration of Werbin, who again claims that he  was mistakenly added on the complaint of Elizabeth Grimes v. Costco  Wholesale Corporation. (Werbin Decl., ¶ 5.) He confirms that he was never  been assigned in that matter for handling, and has never been able to review  this matter as he has never had access to any documents related to that matter.  (Werbin Decl., ¶ 6.) Attorney, Alex Vandenberg also confirms this. (Vandenberg  Decl., ¶¶ 2-6.)               Lastly, with regards to software  implementation, Plaintiff includes another declaration from Rezkallah, who contends has laid out the  firm’s policy for creating a wall to ensure no sharing of confidential  information is had. (Rezkallah Decl., ¶ 3.) She contends that Werbin disclosed  his prior representation of Costco to the firm during his hiring process in  2020 and the firm started implementing the ethical wall safeguards that were  reasonably available at the time and at the same time continuously educated  itself in professional responsibility to commensurate with the State Bar  schedule. (Rezkallah Decl., ¶ 4.) Moreover, Rezkallah notes that after Werbin  was hired at the firm, the firm also hired an ethics attorney who advised them  regarding ethical wall safeguards necessary for the firm to implement.  (Rezkallah Decl., ¶ 7.) Rezkallah contends that the Stats case was the  only case Werbin worked on, and that there have been no other incidents where  Werbin inadvertently had access to or worked on a case against Costco.  (Rezkallah Decl., ¶ 8.)               The  Court is confused on the second request for judicial notice filed by Costco on  August 12, 2024. The Court did not allow a reply to be filed, and this filing  is also untimely as the request for judicial notice was to be filed on or  before August 2, 2024. That request seeks this Court’s judicial notice of  the conformed complaint of Michael Schuman vs. Sedigheh Thainy - Mahdazy, et  al., Case No. 24VECV03138 in the Superior Court of California, County of  Los Angeles. (Exhibit A.)  When the Court  sets a deadline and termination point for supplemental briefing after the Court  has previously continued a hearing and set a briefing and filing schedule, that  schedule is a matter of prior court order that cannot be ignored by the  parties.  No ex parte application was  made to permit still further documents nor to continue the hearing a second  time.   Accordingly, the Court has not  read or considered the August 12, 2024 RFJN.     