  Case Number:  19STCV24262    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  11 Legacy Vulcan LLC (19STCV24262)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion for Leave to Amend
 
Date:                           11/07/24
Time:                          10:00
am
Moving Party:           Legacy Vulcan LLC (“Vulcan”) 
Opposing Party:        American Home Assurance Co. (“American
Home”), Lexington Insurance Co. (“Lexington”), and National Union Fire
Insurance Co. of Pittsburgh, PA (“National Union”)
Department:              11        
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
American Home, Lexington, and National Union’s request for judicial
notice is granted as to exhibits 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11 and denied
as to exhibits 3 and 12.  The documents
are court records.  The Court will
judicially notice the documents’ existence.
 
Vulcan’s motion for
leave to amend is granted.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an insurance case.  The
proposed second amended complaint (“SAC”) alleges:
 
1. . . . This action
addresses Employers Reinsurance Corporation [(“ERC”)], Transport Insurance
Company [(“Transport”)], and Lexington[’s] . . . duty to defend Vulcan in
product liability lawsuits claiming property damage to water supplies allegedly
caused by 1,4-dioxane, a chemical compound once used to stabilize chlorinated
solvents such as 1,1,1-trichloroethane (“1,4-dioxane Actions”). 
 
2. This insurance
coverage case is related to another pending civil case filed in this Court, No.
BC328022, which has been assigned to the Complex Civil Litigation Program, the
Honorable David S. Cunningham III, Department 11, presiding. By Court order, three
Complex actions, Nos. BC328022, BC354664 and BC481850, have been consolidated
for all purposes, captioned as “In re: Vulcan Materials Consolidated Coverage
Litigation,” and identified as Case No. BC328022. Vulcan previously filed and
served a Notice of Related Case, and requested that this case and Case No.
BC328022, In Re: Vulcan Materials Consolidated Coverage Litigation, be
related. California Rules of Court, rule 3.300. 
 
3. Vulcan is the
country’s leading producer of construction aggregates — primarily crushed
stone, sand and gravel — used in nearly all types of construction, especially
large infrastructure projects such as roads, airports, railroads, and water and
sewer systems. Vulcan at one time had a chemical division that manufactured and
sold chemical products. Vulcan divested the chemical division in 2005. Vulcan
continues, however, to face potential liabilities arising out of its legacy
chemicals operations. 
 
4. Starting in late
2017, Vulcan has been named as a defendant in at least twenty-nine (29) product
liability lawsuits asserting claims that Vulcan is legally liable to pay
damages because of damage to groundwater and water supply systems, including
drinking water wells, allegedly caused by 1,4-dioxane, a chemical compound once
used as a stabilizer in a chlorinated solvent product at one time manufactured
and sold by Vulcan, 1,1,1-trichloroethane (“TCA”). Vulcan expects that it will
be named as a defendant in one or more additional lawsuits making similar
allegations. The pending and future 1,4-dioxane product liability lawsuits will
be referred to herein as “1,4-dioxane Actions.” The pending 1,4-dioxane Actions
are identified in the chart attached to this Complaint as Exhibit A, which is
incorporated here by reference. 
 
5. This insurance
coverage action addresses only [ERC], Transport . . . , and Lexington[’s] . . .
duty to defend Vulcan in and against the 1,4-dioxane Actions, and a dispute as
to whether the other defendant insurers also owe Vulcan either a duty to defend
Vulcan against those Actions and/or an obligation to indemnify Vulcan against
defense costs incurred in relation to those Actions and, if so, whether that
duty/obligation affects the scope of [ERC], Transport, and/or Lexington’s duty
to defend. This coverage action does not address any insurer’s contractual
obligation to cover any indemnity obligation that Vulcan may incur through
settlement of or judgment in the 1,4-dioxane Actions. To the extent any insurer
at this time seeks to litigate over insurance coverage for any indemnity
obligation Vulcan may incur in the 1,4-dioxane Actions, Vulcan will and hereby
does move the Court to stay the insurer’s action pending resolution of the
1,4-dioxane Actions because such coverage litigation would be both premature as
well as prejudicial to Vulcan inasmuch as the dispute over coverage for any
such indemnity obligation would or could turn on facts to be litigated in the
1,4-dioxane Actions. 
 
6. Transport . . .
issued a liability insurance policy in effect from January 1, 1981, to January
1, 1982, number XGL-731-81-1 (“1981 Transport Policy” or “Transport Policy”).
The 1981 Transport Policy’s Insuring Agreement includes two clauses giving Transport
a duty to defend Vulcan under certain circumstances. Clause (1) provides
“umbrella” coverage that “drops down” to provide primary defense coverage for
claims not covered by underlying primary insurance. In the context of claims
that another chemical product at one time manufactured and sold by Vulcan,
perchloroethylene (a dry cleaning product marketed as “PerSec”), had
contaminated groundwater and water wells, the California Court of Appeal held
that Transport “had a duty to defend under clause (1) if any claim was
potentially covered by [the 1981 Transport Policy] but was not within the terms
of coverage of ‘underlying insurance’” policies identified in the Transport
Policy’s Schedule A. Legacy Vulcan Corp. v. Superior Court (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 677, 693. 
 
7. The claims
asserted in the 1,4-dioxane Actions are covered by the 1981 Transport Policy
and not within the terms of coverage of the underlying insurance policies
identified in the Transport Policy’s Schedule A. Transport therefore has a
contractual duty to defend Vulcan in and against the 1,4-dioxane Actions. 
 
8. Despite having a
duty to defend as held by the Court of Appeal, Transport has denied and
repudiated any duty to defend and has refused and failed to defend Vulcan in
and against the 1,4-dioxane Actions. 
 
9. Transport has
refused and failed to defend Vulcan without any reasonable good faith basis for
doing so. Transport has refused and failed to defend Vulcan solely in order to
deprive Vulcan of the financial benefit of its insurance policy, and to wrongfully
use the funds to which Vulcan is entitled for Transport’s own benefit — i.e.,
to create an artificial financial “surplus” — and for the benefit of a third
party (Randall & Quilter Investment Holdings plc) that owns and controls
Transport and seeks to maximize Transport’s “surplus” with the intent to siphon
off the supposed “surplus” for the benefit of Randall & Quilter and its
investors to the detriment of Vulcan and other Transport policy holders. 
 
10. Transport has
broadly reserved or purported to reserve rights to deny coverage for any
indemnity obligation that Vulcan may incur through settlement of or judgment in
the 1,4-dioxane Actions. In addition, Transport has repudiated and denied any
duty to defend Vulcan or to otherwise provide for Vulcan’s defense in and
against the 1,4-dioxane Actions, I stating only that it is “willing to
participate in the defense of Vulcan in these cases” “subject to . an
appropriate allocation of defense costs across all implicated time periods.”
Transport’s “acceptance of a ... share of the defense burden [is] the
equivalent of a defense denial.” Haskel, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995)
33 Cal.App.4™ 963, 976 n. 9. Transport also has stated that it “exercises its
right to associate in the defense of” the 1,4-dioxane Actions pursuant to the
terms and conditions of insurance policies other than the 1981 Transport
Policy, further indicating its disavowal of the duty to defend Vulcan imposed
by the 1981 Transport Policy. For all the foregoing reasons, Transport’s
interests in defending the 1,4-dioxane Actions are in conflict with Vulcan’s
interests. This conflict of interests creates a duty on the part of Transport
to provide independent counsel selected by Vulcan to represent and defend
Vulcan in and against the 1,4-dioxane Actions. 
 
11. Transport has
refused and failed to provide Vulcan with independent counsel, and has refused
and failed to consent to Vulcan’s selection of independent counsel and/or to
pay the fees and costs of independent counsel. Transport has refused and failed
to provide Vulcan with independent counsel without any reasonable good faith
basis for doing so. Transport has refused and failed to provide Vulcan with
independent counsel solely in order to deprive Vulcan of the financial benefit
its insurance policy, and to wrongfully use the funds to which Vulcan is
entitled to create an artificial financial “surplus” for Transport’s own
benefit and the benefit of Randall & Quilter Investment Holdings plc and
its investors, as alleged hereinabove at Paragraph 9, to the detriment of
Vulcan and other Transport policy holders. 
 
12.- In the Vulcan
Materials Consolidated Coverage Litigation, Transport has sued all of the
six (6) other defendants named in this vcase, seeking equitable indemnity
and/or equitable contribution from those insurers as to sums Transport paid to
Vulcan in early 2017 to settle disputed claims that Transport owed Vulcan a
duty to defend certain third-party liability lawsuits other than 1,4-dioxane
Actions. Vulcan therefore is informed and believes, and on that basis alleges,
that in stating its willingness “to participate” in Vulcan’s defense of the
1,4- dioxane Actions “subject to ... an appropriate allocation,” Transport
contends that its duty to defend does not require Transport to fully bear
Vulcan’s defense, contrary to established law holding that if an insurer “owes
any defense burden, it must be fully borne with allocations of that burden
among other responsible parties to be determined later.” Haskel, supra
at 976 n. 9 (citation omitted).
 
(Gupta Decl., Ex. A, ¶¶ 1-12
[attaching the proposed SAC], underlining of case names added.)
 
Here, Vulcan moves for leave to file the SAC.  In particular, Vulcan seeks leave to add
breach-of-contract claims against Lexington and ERC for allegedly failing to
defend Vulcan in certain New York and New Jersey lawsuits.  
 
LAW
 
“The
court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action.  A party may discover the need to amend after
all pleadings are completed and new information requires a change in the
nature of the claims or defenses previously pleaded.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2024 Update) ¶ 6:636,
emphasis in original.)  “Such changes
usually cannot be made on ex parte procedure [citation].  Rather, a formal motion to amend must be
served and filed.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“Motions for leave to amend are
directed to the sound discretion of the judge.” 
(Id. at ¶ 6:637.)  “The court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.”  (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 473, subd. (a)(1).)  “However,
the court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment
of pleadings.”  (Howard v. County of
San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.)  
 
“The policy favoring amendment is
so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.”  (Ibid.)  “Leave to amend should be denied only where
the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear,
but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change
the result.”  (Edwards v. Superior
Court (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 172, 180.)  In fact, “[i]f the
motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not
prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and
where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert
a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error
but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan
v. Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Vulcan contends the motion for leave to amend should be granted because: 
 
* California’s policy in favor of
granting leave to amend is liberal (see Motion, p. 5); 
 
* Vulcan did not delay in requesting leave to amend (see ibid.); and 
 
* Defendants will not suffer prejudice. 
(See id. at p. 6.)[1]
 
American Home, Lexington, and National Union disagree.  They assert that California is an
inconvenient forum and that the case should be litigated in Alabama.  As a result, they claim the proposed SAC is
futile.  (See Opposition, pp. 5-11.)
 
Their argument concerns the doctrine of forum
non conveniens, which “invoke[es] the discretionary power of a court to
decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action
when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly tried
elsewhere.”  (Stangvik v. Shiley Inc.
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.)  “The moving
party bears the burden of proving that California
is an inconvenient forum.”  (Ford
Motor Co. v. Insurance Co. of North America (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 604, 610
(“Ford”).)  “There must be
evidence – not merely bald assertions – to support the trial court’s
determination.”  (Ibid.)  
 
“The quantum of evidence needed to
satisfy that burden may vary, however, depending on whether plaintiff is or is
not a California resident and whether defendant seeks a stay of the action or
dismissal.”  (Edmon & Karnow,
supra, at ¶ 3:408.5.)  “Where plaintiff is a California resident
. . . , there is a ‘strong presumption’ in favor of plaintiff's choice of
forum.”  (Id. at ¶ 3:408.6.)  By contrast, “[a] nonresident plaintiff's
choice of forum is entitled to ‘due deference’ under all circumstances, but not
a ‘strong presumption’ of appropriateness.” 
(Id. at ¶ 3:408.7.)[2]
 
Courts use a
two-step test to analyze forum non conveniens. 
The first step is to assess whether a suitable alternative forum
exists.  (See id.)  If one does, “the next
step is to consider the private interests of the litigants and the interests of
the public in retaining the action for trial in California.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The first step requires the trial
court to “determine whether the alternate forum is a ‘suitable’ place for
trial.”  (Ford, supra, 35
Cal.App.4th at 610.)  This is
non-discretionary inquiry.  “An
alternative forum is ‘suitable’ if it has jurisdiction and an action in
that forum will not be barred by the statute of limitations.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 3:420,
emphasis in original.)
 
Regarding
jurisdiction, a leading treatise advises that the moving party must show that all
defendants are subject to jurisdiction in the alternative forum, “not just the
‘primary’ defendants[.]”  (Id. at ¶ 3:421.1.)  
 
The case law
is more nuanced.  In American Cemwood
Corp. v. American Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431
(“American Cemwood”), where only five defendants were named in the case,
the Court of Appeal held that the moving party needed to demonstrate
jurisdiction as to all defendants.  In Hansen
v. Ownes-Corning Fiberglass Corp. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 753, on
the other hand, where there were more than 200 named defendants, the Court of
Appeal held the opposite.[3]
 
For the second step, the trial
court must consider private-interest factors and public-interest factors.  The private-interest factors include “the
ease of access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of
witnesses, and the availability of compulsory process for attendance of
unwilling witnesses.”  (Ford, supra, 35 Cal.App.4th at 610.)  The public-interest factors include
“avoidance of overburdening local courts . . . , protecting the interests of
potential jurors so that they are not called upon to decide cases in which the
local community has little concern, and weighing the competing interests of California and the
alternate jurisdiction in the litigation.” 
(Stangvik, supra, 54 Cal.3d at 751.)
 
Given these rules, the Court
agrees with Vulcan.  The motion for leave
to amend is granted because:
 
* California’s
amendment policy is very liberal (see Howard, supra, 184 Cal.App.4th
at 1428);
 
* American Home, Lexington, and National Union do not argue delay (see
Opposition, pp. 5-11);
 
* in effect, their opposition
brief constitutes an unnoticed motion to dismiss based on forum non conveniens;
 
* to establish forum non
conveniens, American Home, Lexington,
and National Union must present evidence (see Ford, supra, 35
Cal.App.4th at 610);
 
* necessarily, the burden on
Vulcan, in turn, is to present opposing evidence, yet it is inappropriate to
require Vulcan to submit evidence in connection with a motion for leave to
amend (see, e.g., Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 6:639.5 [noting that it is
“error to condition leave to amend on plaintiff ‘producing admissible
evidence’”]);
 
* at most, the request for judicial notice (“RJN”) can
only be granted as to the existence of the exhibits, not as to the truth of the
contents (see RJN, Exs. 1-12; see also, e.g., Fairbank, et al. Cal. Practice
Guide: Civ. Trials and Evidence (The Rutter Group October 2023 Update) ¶¶
8:861-8:862.1, 8:863.2, 8:864-8:865.1, 8:866, 8:867, 8:871, 8:874-8:876);
 
* American Home, Lexington, and National Union’s current showing fails to
satisfy the first and second steps (see Opposition, pp. 7-11 [citing the RJN
exhibits and unverified website pages and stating, conclusively, that “there is
nothing to indicate that Vulcan’s claims would be barred by Alabama’s statute
of limitations”]; see also Reply, pp. 3-7 [arguing that (1) it is premature to
analyze the first and second steps, (2) American Home, Lexington, and National
Union fail to prove that Alabama is suitable, and (3) the private-interest
factors and public-interest factors weigh against dismissal]);); and
 
* the prejudice, if any, is minimal since American Home, Lexington, and
National Union will be free to challenge the new allegations and/or to file a
noticed forum-non-conveniens motion, with evidence, once the SAC is filed.
 
 
 
 


