  Case Number:  21STCV35634    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  39 Fredy Wembe v.
Target Stores, et al.
Case No.
21STCV35634
Motion to Compel
Deposition of Judith Andrades
 
            NOTICE:
The Court posts this tentative order on Monday, March 18, 2024, in advance of
the hearing on Wednesday, March 20, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  The Court provides notice: If Ms. Andrades
does not appear, either remotely or in-person, she shall waive the right to be
heard and shall submit to entry of this order. 
If Ms. Andrades is experiencing difficulty appearing remotely, she may
contact the Court’s clerk, Roberto Mendoza, at (213) 633-0159, and he will
arrange for her to appear via telephone. 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
            Plaintiff
Fredy Wembe (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Target Corporation and Manuel Quijada (collectively, “Defendants”). Now,
Defendants move to compel Judith Andrades, formerly known as Judith Parada (the
“Deponent”), who is Plaintiff’s daughter, to appear for a deposition and to produce
documents.  This motion was personally
served on the Deponent, as required by California Rules of Court, rule
3.1346.)    
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 provides, “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by [a party or a witness]
. . . may make an order . . . directing compliance with it upon those terms or
conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
Defendants’ counsel served the
Deponent—using the name “Judith Andrades”—with a subpoena requiring her to
appear for a deposition and to produce documents.  (See Declaration of Samatha Grant, ¶ 4 &
Exh. B.)  The Deponent appeared for a
deposition on February 26, 2024, but did not cooperate.  (See id., Exh. G.)  Although the Deponent provided documents to
Plaintiff’s counsel, they were not accompanied by a proper declaration.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated February 20,
2024.)  Based upon the foregoing,
Defendants’ counsel is entitled to take the deposition of Judith Andrades.
 
Judith Andrades filed an opposition
that was not served on Defendants’ counsel. 
The Court previously ordered the Clerk to file the opposition and serve
Defendants’ counsel, but no reply brief is necessary because the opposition
provides no good cause to deny the motion. 
Ms. Andrades argues that “all pertinent documents and information have
already been provided, rendering the deposition redundant and unduly burdensome.”  That is not correct.  The documents have not been provided in an
admissible form—requiring Defendants’ counsel to lay the foundation during the
deposition—and Defendants’ counsel is entitled to inquire as to the facts and
circumstances of Plaintiff’s lawsuit.  
 
Judith Andrades argues that
Defendants’ counsel have not been using her legal name.  However, the subpoena was issued to “Judith
Andrades.”  (See id., Exh. B.)  The Deponent confirmed during the (failed)
deposition that her name is “Judith Andrades.” 
(See id., Exh. G, p. 73-74.)  
 
Judith Andrades argues that the
deposition does not accommodate her minor child’s educational needs.  That is not good cause.  The deposition can be scheduled to
accommodate Mr. Andrades’s child care needs. 
 
Finally, Judith Andrades argues
that Defendants’ counsel have violated the California Rules of Professional
Conduct, rule 8.4, which prohibits conduct involving dishonesty, deceit, or
misrepresentation.  The Court finds no
such violation.  To the contrary,
Defendants’ counsel have been professional and ethical in this case.  Rather, the Court finds that Ms. Andrades has
been engaged in gamesmanship to avoid participating in a deposition that may
hurt her father’s case. 
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court grants Defendants’ motion to
compel the deposition of Judith Andrades, formerly known as Judith Parada.  
 
            2.         The deposition shall occur on April 10,
2024, at 9:30 a.m., and shall be conducted in-person, unless Defendants’
counsel stipulates to a different date/time/location.
 
            3.         The Court signs Defendants’ proposed
order and orders Ms. Andrades to comply with all of the rules of the deposition.  
 
            4.         The Court provides notice: If Ms. Andrades
does not comply with the Court’s order, she may be subject to sanctions to
compensate Defendants’ counsel for the costs of the failed deposition and
related motions.  However, the Court will
not order sanctions absent a noticed motion.
 
            5.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 