 Case Number:  22STCV33046    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  39 Nam Suk Park v.
Huge USA, Inc., et al. 
Case No. 22STCV33046
 
Order #1 of 2
Motion to Compel
Production of Documents at Deposition
 
            Plaintiff
moved to compel Defendant Jer Sier Park (“Defendant”) to produce certain
documents demanded in the deposition notice. 
After the motion was filed, Defendant produced the requested documents
except for surveillance videos. (See Declaration of Samuel F. Izzo, ¶ 10.)  Therefore, the Court denied the motion as
moot except with respect to the surveillance videos.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated February 28,
2024.)  The Court ordered Defendant’s
counsel to produce the video in its native format or to obtain two quotes from
vendors to transfer the surveillance video to a usable format.
 
            At the
hearing, the parties should be prepared to discuss this issue.  
 
 
Order #2 of 2
Motions to Compel
Further Responses
 
            Defendants
filed motions to compel further responses to Requests for Production of
Documents, Set Two (“RPDs”) and Special Interrogatories, Set Two (“SROGs”).  Before filing motions to compel further
responses, Defendants were required to make “a reasonable and good faith
attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  Neither party
has met-and-conferred in good faith.  On
November 6, 2023, Defendants’ counsel requested an extension of the deadline to
file these motions.  (See Declaration of
Sang H. Park, Exh. #1.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel did not respond.  (See
ibid.)  Therefore, on November 8, 2023,
Defendants’ counsel again asked for an extension.  (See ibid.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel then responded that he had been in depositions and
never received a meet-and-confer letter outlining the issues to be
discussed.  (See ibid.)  The instant motions were filed on November 9,
2024.
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, the Court has no tentative order on these motions.  
 