 Case Number:  24TRCV02393    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JANE
  DOE, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02393




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CLEAR
  RECOVERY CENTER, LLC, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November
19, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Clear Recovery Center, LLC
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jane Doe
Motion
to Compel Arbitration and to Stay Action
 
            The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
On July 17, 2024, plaintiff Jane
Doe filed a complaint against Clear Recovery Center, LLC and Kyle Gillies for
(1) physical abuse of dependent adult, (2) neglect of dependent adult, (3)
IIED, (4) NIED, (5) sexual harassment (Civil Code §51.9), and (6) sexual
battery.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP § 1281, a “written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and revocable, save upon such grounds
as exist for the revocation of any contract.” 
Under CCP § 1281.2, “On petition of
a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written
agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to
arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent
to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate
the controversy exists, unless it determines that: . . . (c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action . . . with a
third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related
transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact. . . . (d) . . . . If the court determines that a party to
the arbitration is also a party to litigation in a pending court action . . .
with a third party as set forth under subdivision (c) herein, the court (1) may
refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement . . . ; (2) may order intervention
or joinder as to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among
the parties who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action .
. . pending the outcome of arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay arbitration
pending the outcome of the court action or special proceeding.”  
DISCUSSION
Defendant Clear Recovery Center,
LLC requests that the Court compel arbitration and to stay the case.
The complaint alleges that on July
19, 2022, plaintiff checked into Clear Recovery’s inpatient detox center
located at 328 N. Prospect Avenue, Redondo Beach.  Complaint, ¶7.  Plaintiff had previously received services
from Clear Recovery for drug addiction issues, but she had recently relapsed,
posed a danger to herself, and intended to spend at least two weeks as an
inpatient at this facility to address these issues.  She turned in her cell phone when she checked
in and became dependent on Clear Recovery to assist her with her
addiction-related mental limitations, which restricted her ability to carry out
her daily activities, to protect her from herself.  Id., ¶8.
After checking into the facility,
plaintiff was approached by Kyle Gillies, one of Clear Recovery’s employees,
who attempted to befriend plaintiff.  He
claimed to have lived next door to one of plaintiff’s former boyfriends.  Id., ¶9. 
After that initial meeting, Gillies approached plaintiff while she was
sitting on a couch and typed messages to her on the Notes app of his
phone.  Through these messages, he told
her that he had watched her when she was with her ex-boyfriend, that he wanted
to take her out on a date, and that he wanted to “fool around.”  Id., ¶10. 
Plaintiff was uncomfortable with Gillies’ advances and told him that she
was not interested.  Id., ¶11.
The complaint further alleges that
the next day, plaintiff was in the common area when Gillies approached her and
tried to kiss her multiple times.  She
pulled away and told him no each time. 
Undeterred, Gillies forced himself onto plaintiff and kissed her.  Id., ¶12. 
The next day, Gillies threatened plaintiff that if she told anyone what
he did, she would get kicked out of the facility and he would lose his job,
which would cause him to “relapse and die.” 
Id., ¶13.  With this threat
hanging over plaintiff, Gillies continued his sexual pursuit of her.  Id., ¶14. 
Over several nights, defendant came into her room.  She pretended to sleep.  During one night, she woke up in the middle
of the night to find defendant sitting on her bed, attempting to touch and kiss
her.  She tried fighting him off and told
him no.  He did not stop and continued
his advances.  Fearful of her wellbeing
and completely overwhelmed, plaintiff went into a disassociated state, and
defendant sexually abused her.  Id., ¶¶17-23.
The following morning, she told two
different Clear Recovery employees what had happened the night before.  Id., ¶24. 
The employees attempted to convince her that her encounter was
consensual.  When she refused, she was
moved into a sober living facility.  Id.,
¶25.  While she was there, multiple Clear
Recovery employees tried to discuss her situation with Gillies.  Id., ¶26. 
Feeling that she would not heal and address her addiction in such an
environment, plaintiff decided to leave the sober living facility early.  Id., ¶27. 
Since leaving the facility, plaintiff has suffered from severe emotional
distress coping with the sexual assaults that occurred while she was at Clear
Recovery.  Id., ¶28.
 
            Existence of an agreement to
arbitrate
“As stated in Cione v. Foresters Equity Services, Inc. (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th
625, 634 ‘The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  There is no public policy
favoring arbitration of disputes that the parties have not agreed to
arbitrate.’”  Lopez v. Charles Schwab & Co., Inc. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th
1224, 1229.
Defendant contends that plaintiff
executed an Admission and Financial Agreement on five separate occasions
(November 4, 2020, February 3, 2021, July 6, 2022, July 19, 2022, and August 5,
2022) throughout her various admissions between November 4, 2020 and August 5,
2022.  Defendant asserts that the
agreements contain an arbitration provision. 
See Christopher Mijares decl., Exhs. A-E.  Defendant contends that the documents were
executed in front of a Clear Recovery employee to confirm Jane Doe knew and
understood what she was signing.
The arbitration provision states:
“25. Dispute Resolution.  In the event that any disagreement, dispute
or claim arises among the parties hereto with respect to the enforcement or
interpretation of this Agreement or any specific terms and provisions hereof or
with respect to whether an alleged breach or default hereof has or has not
occurred (collectively, a ‘Dispute’), such Dispute shall be settled in
accordance with the following procedures: 
25.1. Meet and Confer. . . . 25.2. Mediation. . . . 25.3.
Arbitration.  Any Dispute which cannot be
resolved by the parties within sixty days following the end of the Meet and
Confer Period shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration. . . .”
In the opposition, plaintiff argues
that defendant has failed to prove the existence of a valid or enforceable
agreement to arbitrate plaintiff’s tort claims. 
Plaintiff contends that as to four of the purported agreements attached
to Mijares declaration, they have nothing to do with the subject inpatient stay
and are irrelevant.  As to the
potentially relevant admission agreement (at Exh. D – July 19, 2022), plaintiff
asserts that it was never signed by plaintiff and that the signature block is
blank.  Plaintiff also points out that
the “Dispute Resolution and Jury Waiver” portion of the agreement has a
signature line that was never executed, and that plaintiff did not initial the
purported waiver.  Plaintiff further
argues that the arbitration provision is not triggered because Clear Recovery
did not properly initiate the dispute resolution process that it now seeks to
enforce.  In any event, plaintiff argues,
the Court should deny the motion under “third-party litigation” exception under
CCP §1281.2(c) in order avoid the risk of inconsistent rulings on common issues
of law or fact.
In reply, defendant argues that
plaintiff does not dispute signing the agreements and that plaintiff and her
counsel are in possession of unredacted and signed agreements.  Defendant presents the declaration of Jamie
Arthur, who states that he is a detox and residential program director with
Clear Recovery and that on July 6, 2022, he witnessed Jane Doe complete various
forms, including the admission and financial agreement (referring to Exh. C
attached to Mijares decl.), which included an arbitration clause.  Jamie Arthur decl., ¶6.  Defendant further argues that there is no
possibility of conflicting rulings because the allegations and claims against
the defendants differ.
The Court finds that defendant has
not met its burden to show the existence of an arbitration provision.  Plaintiff alleges that she checked into Clear
Recovery on July 19, 2022.  Defendant has
not shown that she executed the Admission and Financial Agreement on July 19,
2022.  Defendant also does not show that
plaintiff signed the dispute resolution clause or initial the jury waiver in
the July 19, 2022 agreement.  Further,
the Jamie Arthur declaration does not address the purported agreement for plaintiff’s
admission on July 19, 2022.
Also, defendant has not shown how
the other purported admission agreements would cover or be binding as to the
admission on July 19, 2022.
 
            Scope
of agreement 
Defendant argues that plaintiff’s dispute
applies to the arbitration provision.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that under the arbitration provision, the arbitrable issues are limited to
contractual disputes related to any breach or default of the financial
agreements.
In reply, defendant argues that
“the language of the agreement is clear that Plaintiff agreed to submit to
arbitrate all claims” but does not explain how.
The Court finds that even if an
arbitration provision exists, the arbitration provision is narrow and does not
encompass plaintiff’s tort claims as they do not arise from “the enforcement or
interpretation of” the Admission and Financial Agreement.
The motion is thus DENIED.
ORDER
The motion to compel arbitration is
DENIED.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.