 Case Number:  24TRCV02713    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MARCI
  BERTUZZI, derivatively on behalf of Petra IQ, LLC,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02713




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
TIMOTHY
  MUTTON,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 19,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant Timothy Mutton
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Marci Bertuzzi
Demurrer
to Complaint
            
The Court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND as to the first and sixth causes of action.  Defendant is ordered to file an answer within
twenty days.
BACKGROUND
On August 14, 2024, plaintiff Marci
Bertuzzi, derivatively on behalf of Petra IQ, LLC, filed a complaint against Timothy
Mutton for (1) removal of manager, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3)
conversion, (4) money had and received, (5) unjust enrichment, (6) gross
mismanagement, and (7) accounting.  By
this demurrer defendant attacks only two of the causes of action.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
A word about advocacy for a
demurrer.  This Court must accept as true all well
pleaded facts.  It is not free to decide
that the Plaintiff’s claims may not be supported by evidence.  Therefore, arguments charging that “Plaintiff’s
lawsuit and the ginned up charges contained therein are nothing but a
transparent attempt to distract from her own misconduct…”  (Moving Points and Authorities pg. 5:12-13) provide
the Court no proper basis for ruling in favor of demurring defendant.
DISCUSSION
Defendant Timothy Mutton demurs to
the first and sixth causes of action in the complaint on the ground that they fail
to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The complaint alleges that this is
a derivative action to redress the past and ongoing egregious misconduct by
defendant Timothy Mutton.  In his role as
the other 50% owner and managing member of Petra IQ, Mutton improperly enriched
himself at the expense of Petra IQ and plaintiff by misappropriating
significant sums of money from Petra IQ, therefore depriving plaintiff of her
rightful distributions.  Complaint, ¶1.  Petra IQ was formed by plaintiff and
defendant on July 24, 2018.  Petra IQ
provides data and risk management consultant services to clients in various
industries.  Id., ¶15.  Plaintiff and defendant each own 50% of Petra
IQ and are the only members of the company. 
Id., ¶16.  On July 24, 2018, the
parties entered into an operating agreement in connection with the inception of
Petra IQ.  Id., ¶17.  In November 2022, plaintiff resigned as
manager of Petra IQ.  Id., ¶19.  After plaintiff resigned from Petra IQ,
defendant began raiding the company’s bank account in a series of brazen
transactions.  Over a few day period,
from March 24 to March 30, 2023, defendant transferred over $37,000 from Petra
IQ’s Wells Fargo bank account to his personal bank account.  He began treating the company’s assets as his
own.  Id., ¶20.
The complaint further alleges that
when plaintiff learned that defendant had misappropriated Petra IQ funds, she
made numerous Inspection Demands to defendant for the Company’s complete books
and records, as was her right under Corp. Code §17704.10 and Petra IQ’s
Operating Agreement.  The demands
initially went unanswered.  Id., ¶21.  In several instances, plaintiff requested the
company’s bank statements, transactional records, and the company’s current
accounting statements.  Id., ¶22.  On May 26, 2023, following months of
strategic delays and misdirection from defendant, defendant provided March and
April 2023 bank statements and two redacted pages from defendant’s personal
savings account.  Id., ¶23.  At the document production, defendant and the
company were represented by attorneys Yana Komsitsky (defendant’s wife) and
Andrew Escobar of Seyfarth Shaw.  During
the inspection, Komitsky made incorrect representations regarding the purpose
of the transfers and tried to cover up her husband’s “obvious fiduciary
breaches and embezzlement of Petra IQ funds.” 
Id., ¶24.  Plaintiff never
consented to Seyfarth representing both Petra IQ and defendant.  Id., ¶25. 
To date, defendant has not provided records responsive to plaintiff’s Inspection
Demands, in violation of the operating agreement and Revised Uniform Limited
Liability Act §§17704.10 and 17701.13. 
Id., ¶26.  Nevertheless, the
limited records that defendant did provide demonstrate that defendant embezzled
company funds.  Id., ¶27.  See list of withdrawals, deposits, and
transactions.  Id., ¶¶27-28, 30.  
The complaint further alleges that
defendant has continued looting Petra IQ assets to present day.  On June 21, 2024, defendant wrote himself a
check for $50,000.  Defendant continues
to use the Petra IQ corporate credit card for personal expenses, including
dining, household purchases, and food delivery. 
Id., ¶32.  Defendant’s unlawful
use of company funds has deprived the company of at least $155,000 in
funds.  Id., ¶33.  Defendant began diverting payments that Petra
IQ received from its clients to different bank accounts beginning May
2024.  Id., ¶34.  Defendant continues to grossly mismanage
Petra IQ’s affairs by neglecting to pay mandatory estimated quarterly tax
payments and employment taxes, which exposes the Company to interest and other
penalties.  Id., ¶35.  Since plaintiff’s resignation, defendant has
failed to issue plaintiff her quarterly share of distributions in breach of the
operating agreement.  Id., ¶36.  Defendant has unilaterally paid himself
disproportionate distributions in unknown amounts despite neglecting to issue
plaintiff equal share, in further breach of his fiduciary duties.  Id., ¶38.
            First
cause of action for removal of managing member
Corporations Code §§11704.01 –
17704.10 govern relations of members to each other and to the LLC.  As to “removal,” Corp. Code §17704.07(c)(5)
states:  “A manager may be chosen at any
time by the consent of a majority of the members and remains a manager until a
successor has been chosen, unless the manager at an earlier time resigns, is
removed, or dies, or, in the case of a manager that is not an individual,
terminates.  A manager may be removed at
any time by the consent of a majority of the members without cause, subject to
the rights, if any, of the manager under any service contract with the limited
liability company.”
Corp. Code §17701.10 states, in
part:  “(a) Except as otherwise provided
in this section, the operating agreement governs all of the following:  (1) Relations among the members as members and
between the members and the limited liability company.  (2) The rights and duties under this title of
a person in the capacity of manager.  (3)
The activities of the limited liability company and the conduct of those
activities.  (4) The means and conditions
for amending the operating agreement.  
(b) To the extent the operating
agreement does not otherwise provide for a matter described in subdivision (a),
this title governs the matter. . . .”
The complaint alleges that since
July 2018, defendant has been a managing member of Petra IQ and sole member
since November 2022.  Complaint, ¶51.  Defendant, as managing member and 50% owner
of Petra IQ, has engaged in dishonest and/or gross abuses of his authority or
discretion in connection with the affairs of Petra IQ.  Id., ¶52. 
Defendant’s dishonest acts and gross abuse of authority with reference
to Petra IQ justify and require the removal of him as manager of Petra IQ and
barring him from serving in a managerial position for Petra IQ for a period
described by the Court.  Id., ¶53.
Defendant argues that the complaint
does not allege facts that would satisfy the “threshold requirement that a
majority of the members of Petra IQ must consent to” defendant’s removal.  Rather, the alleged facts are that the
members are split 50/50 on his removal. 
Further, defendant argues, the complaint does not allege “about what
rights [defendant] has under the Petra IQ operating agreement or how the
operating agreement treats situations where members are split 50/50 on the
removal of a manager.”  
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that she has plead sufficient facts justifying defendant’s removal.  Plaintiff contends that she has alleged
specific provisions of the operating agreement applicable to defendant’s fiduciary
duties, which complement more general fiduciary duties under the Corporations
Code.  Plaintiff argues that the Court
may enforce the operating agreement by removing defendant as manager to protect
Petra IQ from further harm for defendant’s breach of fiduciary duties.
In reply, defendant argues that the
allegations are insufficient “despite Plaintiff’s effort to recharacterize it
as a breach of contract claim.”
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for “removal of
manager.”  Plaintiff has not plead
allegations that plaintiff is in the majority of the members (see Corp. Code,
supra) or any provision in the operating agreement that governs “removal of a
manager.” 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first cause of action. 
Plaintiff must allege facts showing that she is entitled to have the
Court remove Defendant as manager.
 
            Sixth
cause of action for gross mismanagement
            The complaint alleges that defendant
owed a duty to Petra IQ and plaintiff to act in good faith and to act loyally
in the best interests of Petra IQ. 
Complaint, ¶92.  Defendant, by his
actions or inactions, directly abandoned and abdicated his responsibilities and
duties as managing member of Petra IQ. 
Id., ¶93.  As a direct and
proximate result of defendant’s gross mismanagement and breaches of duties,
Petra IQ has sustained and continues to sustain significant damages and
injuries.  Id., ¶94.
            Defendant argues that this claim is
not a valid cause of action or separate tort, and instead it is a “repackaged
version” of the second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  Defendant asserts that there is no CACI
instruction for such a claim. 
            In opposition, plaintiff argues that
defendant misstates the breadth of CACIs as they are not all-inclusive or
exclusionary.  Plaintiff also argues that
California has long recognized a cause of action and an equitable remedy where
a defendant has grossly mismanaged an entity under the defendant’s
control.  
            In reply, defendant reiterates his
arguments that this claim is not a standalone cause of action.
            The Court finds that there is a lack
of statutory and/or case authority that “gross mismanagement” is an independent
cause of action.  None of the cases cited
by plaintiff is persuasive.  Rather, it
is a theory that may support a breach of fiduciary duty, which is Plaintiff’s second
cause of action.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITHOUT
LEAVE TO AMEND as to the sixth cause of action.
 
ORDER
            The
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND as to the sixth causes of action in the complaint.
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of ruling.