  Case Number:  23TRCV03335    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
PITT
  STOP EL SEGUNDO, INC., 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03335




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
HOWARD
  ITEN, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          November 19,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants and
cross-complainants Howard Iten, Patricia Iten, and Susan Iten
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Compel Answers without to Form Interrogatories, Set No. One
 
            The Court considered the moving papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.
Cross-defendant Victor Hooper is
ordered to respond without objections to defendants and cross-complainants
Howard Iten, Patricia Iten, and Susan Iten’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, within
twenty days. 
            The
Court orders that cross-defendant Victor Hooper and attorney of record, Richard
P. Keavney (SBN 100701), jointly and severally, pay $1,050 in sanctions to
defendants, within thirty days.
BACKGROUND
On October 9, 2023, plaintiff Pitt
Stop El Segundo, Inc. filed a complaint against Howard Iten, Patricia Iten, and
Susan Iten for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) fraud and deceit, (4) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (5) negligent interference with prospective
economic advantage, (6) declaratory relief, (7) rescission, and (8) for
injunction. 
On November 29, 2023, Howard Iten,
Patricia Iten, and Susan Iten filed a cross-complaint against Frank Perez,
Victor Hooper, and Jose Alfredo Lopez for breach of contract.
On February 5, 2024, Frank Perez,
Victor Hooper, and Jose Alfredo Lopez filed a cross-complaint against Howard
Iten, Patricia Iten, and Susan Iten for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) declaratory relief,
and (4) rescission.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906.   
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
and cross-complainants Howard Iten, Patricia Iten, and Susan Iten (“Itens”) request
that the Court compel cross-defendant Victor Hooper to respond without
objections to their initial form interrogatories.
            Itens
assert that on May 15, 2024, they served form interrogatories, set one, on
Victor Hooper.  Responses were due on
June 19, 2024.  On June 19, Hooper’s
counsel requested a three-week extension, to July 10, 2024, which was
granted.  On July 9, 2024, Hooper’s
counsel requested another extension, to July 24, 2024.  On July 17, 2024, Hooper’s counsel requested
an extension to July 19, 2024.  On July
31, 2024, cross-defendants Frank Perez and Jose Alfredo Lopez served
responses.  On September 4, 2024, Itens’
counsel sent an email to Hooper’s counsel requesting an update on the status of
Hooper’s responses but did not receive a response.  On September 18, 2024, Itens’ counsel sent
Hooper’s counsel a letter notifying counsel that Hooper’s responses had not
been received.  As of the filing date of
the motion, Itens’ counsel had not received responses.
            There
is no opposition.
            The
Court finds that the form interrogatories were properly served, and that cross-defendant
Victor Hooper failed to serve responses and thus has waived objections.  
            The
motion is thus GRANTED.
            Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Defendants
and cross-complainants Itens request $1,545 against cross-defendant Hooper and
his counsel, Richard P. Keavney.  The Court
finds that $1,050 ($495/hr. x 2 hrs.; filing fee) is a reasonable amount to be
awarded against cross-defendant Victor Hooper and his attorney of records,
Richard P. Keavney. 
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.
Cross-defendant Victor Hooper is
ordered to respond without objections to defendants and cross-complainants
Howard Iten, Patricia Iten, and Susan Iten’s Form Interrogatories, Set One,
within twenty days. 
            The
Court orders that cross-defendant Victor Hooper and attorney of record, Richard
P. Keavney (SBN 100701), jointly and severally, pay $1,050 in sanctions to
defendants, within thirty days.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.