  Case Number:  23PSCV02440    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
Defendants TBC Corporation’s and TBC Brands,
LLC’s (collectively, the “TBC Defendants”) MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
AND COMPLAINT (“TBD Motion”) is GRANTED.  
 
(2)  
Defendants Shandong Linglong Tyre Co., Ltd.’s
(“Shandong”) and Linglong Americas’s, Inc. (“Linglong”) (collectively, the
“Linglong Defendants”) MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT (“Linglong
Motion”) is GRANTED. 
 
As a California resident was not killed, as the accident did
not happen with the borders of California nor on California roads, and the
accident did not happen because of a tire purchased or manufactured in
California (see Ford, infra), the motions are granted and the request for
jurisdictional discovery is denied. 
 
Background
 
This case arises from a June 4, 2020 car accident that
happened in Virginia wherein the subject tire separated from the vehicle,
causing decedent (Maryland resident) to lose control of his vehicle and crash
into a guardrail. 
 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Benjamin Andrews, An
Individual, As Personal Representative Of The Estate Of Craig Ricardo Arthurs,
Deceased, And On Behalf Of Decedent’s Heirs And Successors In Interest Trinity
Arthurs, And Craig Arthurs, Jr. Filed Suit Against Defendants Shandong
Linglong Tyre Co., Ltd, F/K/A Zhaoyuan Leo Rubber Co., Ltd., A/K/A Shandong
Linglong Rubber Co., Ltd., Linglong Americas, Inc., Horizon Tire
Nj, Llc D/B/A Horizon Tire, Inc., TBC Corporation, D/B/A Tbc-Tire And
Battery Corporation, Tbc Brands, Llc, D/B/A Tbc-Tire And Battery Corporation for
the following causes of action (COAs):[1] 1.    
Strict Products Liability 2.    
Negligence 3.    
Wrongful Death and Survival Action  
On January 1, 2024, HORIZON TIRE NJ, LLC D/B/A HORIZON TIRE,
INC. (“Horizon”) filed its answer.
 
On January 26, 2024, TBD and Linglong Defendants (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed the instant motions to quash.  
 
On March 1, 2024, moving Defendants filed a ‘Notice of
Non-Opposition to Defendants’ Motion to Quash Service of Summons and Complaint’
indicating that they have not received an opposition to their motions.
 
On March 11, 2024, the court held its hearing on the
motions, and continued the matter to allow for the filing of an opposition and
reply.
 
On April 3, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a ‘Corrected Memorandum
Of Points And Authorities In Opposition To Linglong Defendants’ Motion To Quash
Service Of Summons And Complaint; And In Support Of Plaintiff’s Request To
Continue Hearing To Permit.’ 
 
On April 24, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
Legal Standard
 
Personal jurisdiction refers to a court’s authority to
adjudicate the rights and liabilities of a defendant. 
 
The doctrine arises from the US Constitution’s Due Process
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment which limits the power of a state court to
assert personal jurisdiction (i.e., power) over a nonresident defendant. (Asahi
Metal Indus. Co. v. Superior Court (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.) Under
California’s long-arm statute, California state courts may exercise personal
jurisdiction “on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this state
or of the United States.” (Civ. Proc. Section 410.10.) Thus, California’s
exercise of personal jurisdiction must comport with the limits imposed by
federal due process. In International Shoe Co. v. Washington, 326
U.S. 310, 316 (1945), the Supreme Court explained that a state court may
exercise personal jurisdiction over an out-of-state defendant who has “certain
minimum contacts with [the State] such that the maintenance of the suit does
not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.’” 
 
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or specific.” (Vons
Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446 (Vons).)
General
jurisdiction is also referred to as “all-purpose jurisdiction”[2]
and specific jurisdiction is referred to as “conduct-linked jurisdiction.” (See
Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v. Brown 564 U.S. 91, 919
(2011).)  
 
Here,
as to all moving Defendants, Plaintiff focuses on specific jurisdiction.[3]

 
Specific jurisdiction is concerned with the “relationship
among the defendant, the forum, and the litigation.” (Daimler, supra, 571
U.S. at p. 132-133, quoting Shaffer v. Heitner, 433 U.S. 186, 204
(1977). “[I]t is the defendant's conduct that must form the necessary
connection with the forum State that is the basis for its jurisdiction over
him…. To be sure, a defendant's contacts with the forum State may be
intertwined with his transactions or interactions with the plaintiff or other
parties. But a defendant's relationship with a plaintiff or third party,
standing alone, is an insufficient basis for jurisdiction.” (Walden v.
Fiore, 571 U.S. 277, 285-286, emphasis added.)
 
The Supreme Court most recently addressed specific
jurisdiction in (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. v. Superior Court of California, San Francisco County (2017)
— U.S. —, 137 S.Ct. 1773, 1779, 198 L.Ed.2d 395 (Bristol-Myers)) and Ford Motor Co. v. Montana
Eighth Jud. Dist. Ct. (2021) — U.S. —, 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1024,
209 L.Ed.2d 225 (Ford).)
 
In Bristol-Myers, over 600 plaintiffs brought a
consolidated action against the defendant pharmaceutical company (company that
was not a California corporation nor developed the drug in California) in
California alleging injuries caused by the defendant's drug. While some of the
plaintiffs were California residents, most (i) had no connection to California
(were not residents), (ii) they did not allege that they obtained/were
prescribed the drug in California, (iii) they were not injured in
California (i.e., did not ingest the drug in California), nor (iv) were the
plaintiffs treated in California. In reversing the California Supreme
Court’s decision, which found specific jurisdiction based upon a "sliding
scale approach,” the Court stating that a defendant's general connections with
the forum are not enough.” (Id. at p. 1781.) “What is needed—and what is missing here—is a CONNECTION
between the forum and the specific claims at issue …The plaintiffs were not
residents of California, did not claim to have suffered harm in California …[AND]
all the conduct giving rise to the nonresidents’ claims occurred elsewhere.”
(Id. at p. 1779, emphasis added and capitalization added.) Thus, the “bare fact that [the
company] contracted with a California distributor is not enough to establish
personal jurisdiction in the State.” (Id. at p. 1783.)[4]

 
Then, in Ford, the Court again “alter[ed] or refine[d]”
specific jurisdiction jurisprudence. (Ford, 141 S.Ct. at p. 1032 (Alito
J., concurring). case that arose from
car accidents involvoing Ford vehicles in Montana and Minnesota, the Court rejected
Ford's position that “only a strict causal relationship” would be sufficient to
establish the requisite connection between the lawsuits and Ford's
forum-directed activities. (Id. at p. 1026.) The Court found the
“essential foundation” of specific jurisdiction to be present because “Ford had
advertised, sold, and serviced those two car models in both States for many
years.” (Id. at p. 1028.) After all, the very point of Ford’s
activities in the forum states was to put more Fords the forum states’ roads. As more directly
put by Justice Alito in his concurring opinion, “Their residents,
while riding in vehicles purchased within their borders,
were killed or injured in accidents on their roads.
Can anyone seriously argue that requiring Ford to litigate these cases in
Minnesota and Montana would be fundamentally unfair?” (Id. at p. 1032,
italics original.) In distinguishing from Bristol-Myers (which Ford
relied upon), the court observed the following: 
 
Yes, Ford sold
the specific products in other States, as Bristol-Myers Squibb had. But here,
the plaintiffs are residents of the forum States. They used the allegedly
defective products in the forum States. And they suffered injuries when those products
malfunctioned in the forum States. In sum, each of the
plaintiffs brought suit in the most natural State—based on an “affiliation
between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally, [an] activity
or an occurrence that t[ook] place” there. (Id. at at p. 1031,
emphasis added and underline added.)[5]

 
California courts routinely apply a three-part test to
determine whether a court may exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident
defendant: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of
forum benefits,[6]
(2) the controversy is related
to or arises out of the defendant’s purposeful contacts with the forum,[7]
AND (3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and
substantial justice. (Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th
262.) 
 
As for the second prong (relatedness requirement), California
has adopted a “substantial connection” test and held that the relatedness
requirement is satisfied if “there is a substantial nexus or connection between
the defendant's forum activities and the plaintiff's claim.” (Vons,
supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 456.) As summarized by the state high court in Snowney,
supra, 35 Cal.4th p. 1068 (TBC Opp. p. 6): 
 
In adopting this test, we observed that “for the
purpose of establishing jurisdiction the intensity of forum contacts and the
connection of the claim to those contacts are inversely related.” [internal
citation omitted]. “[T]he more wide ranging the defendant's
forum contacts, the more readily is shown a connection between
the forum contacts and the claim.” Thus, “[a] claim need not arise directly
from the defendant's forum contacts in order to be sufficiently related to the
contact to warrant the exercise of specific jurisdiction.” Moreover, the “forum
contacts need not be directed at the plaintiff in order to warrant the exercise
of specific jurisdiction.”  Indeed, “‘“[o]nly when the operative facts of
the controversy are not related to the defendant's contact with the state can
it be said that the cause of action does not arise from that [contact].”
(emphasis and underline added.) 
 
Discussion[8]
 
Defendants move to quash service of summons and complaint
because, as they argue, the court lacks personal jurisdiction over moving
defendants. Plaintiff argues that California has specific jurisdiction over TBC
Defendants and Linglong Defendats.
 
The following facts appear to be uncontested by both parties:

 
-       
Decedent was a resident of Maryland
-       
The June 2020 accident happened in Virginia when
allegedly the subject tire’s tread and belt system separated from the tire
carcass (¶47)
-       
The subject tire is a a CrossWind L780 tire bearing
Department of Transportation (DOT) code 0UKL LLTR 3614 and all its component
parts. The tire was built at Shandong’s tire plant in Zhaoyuan City, Shandong,
China during the 36th week of 2014; more specifically, it was manufactured sometime
between August 31, 2014 and September 6, 2014. (TBC Reply p. 2:14-15, Complaint
¶¶ 6, 32-33, Plaintiff’s TBC Opp. 4:16-17.) 
-       
The decedent bought the tow truck with the subject tire
already installed from Maryland Company Divaz Towing; the company does not know
where the tire came from (TBC Motion pp. 2-3) 
-       
There are 3 distributors (potentially) involved: TBC,
Horizon, and Linglong. 
-       
Linglong is a subsidiary of Shangdong and is
headquartered and has a principal place of business in Ohio.
-       
Horizon is a California corporation with a principal
place of business located in Irwindale. On 12/1/2006, Horizon entered into an
agreement with Shandong wherein Horizon became the exclusive distributor of
Shandong’s Crosswind tires.[9] 
-       
TBC is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Florida.
-       
The action was previously litigated in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, on December 17,
2021 (Benjamin Andrews v. Shandong Linglong Tyre Co., Ltd. et al., Case
3:21-cv-00794-DJN) wherein named defendants were Defendants Shandong, Linglong,
Horizon, and TBC (hereinafter “Virginia Action”). On March 1, 2023, Plaintiffs
and Defendants filed a Joint Stipulation of Dismissal Without Prejudice. The
court dismissed the action without prejudice. 
 
1.    
TBC Defendants[10]
 
According to TBC Corp’s vice-president of product marketing,
Tommy Maddox, “TBC
Defendants did not import buy, market, distribute receive, possess, or sell the
Tire at issue in this case” nor did TBC Defendants enter into any
contract with Shangdong to distribute CrossWind tires in the U.S. prior to
2015. (See Maddox Decl., (filed 1/26/2024) ¶5; see also Supp. Decl., Ackerman
(filed 4/24/24), Ex. 12 [Maddox Declaration in Virginia Action], p. 48 of 52 of
PDF, ¶5) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff relies upon the “data” it
obtained that “reveals that TBC was either the notifying party or consignee for
tires shipped by Shandong into California before 2015” (TBC Opp. p. 4:18-21,
citing Nelson Decl., Ex. 34), that is inapposite. 
 
Turning to Exhibit 34, it is a spreadsheet prepared by
Import Genius, a company that tracks global trade data. (Nelson Decl., p. 6,
¶37; see also Nelson Supp. Decl., Ex. 36 [Declaration of Nickie Bonenfant, CEO
of ImportGenius, authenticating data].) The spreadsheet provides some of the
following identifiers: product description, arrival date, US port that product
arrived, consignee, shipper, weight, carrier, and the notifying party. Based
upon the court’s review of the spreadsheet, there are references to TBC as a
consignee of shipments from Shandong that date to before the CrossWind
tire was even manufactured. (See Nelson Supp. Decl., p. 60 of 183 of PDF
[arrival dates 11/2/2012 and 4/26/2014]; see also p. 83 of 138 of PDF.)
Therefore, as a matter of fact, none of those could have been the
subject tire; thus, that data is irrelevant. There are also three entries that
provide “tires” or “tyres” arriving into Los Angeles on 9/14/2015 wherein
TBC is listed as the consignee, the shipper is Shangdong, Linglong as
‘notify party”, and “place of receipt” as Qingdao (Shandong Provice, China).[11]But
even assuming that there could have been CrossWind tires on that fleet
sent from Shandong to TBC as part of a distributorship agreement, the subject
tire could not have been a part of that fleet because all CrossWind tires
made up until September 2014 (which the complaint alleges is the last possible
time the subject tire was manufactured), were sold and delivered in China. 
 
Lucy Shi, Shandong’s Director of Sales for North America
states the following:
 
Shandong did not advertise or sell the
Tire in California, and did not ship the Tire to California. Instead, the Crosswind L780 LT
235/85Rl6 tires manufactured through September 2014, were sold and shipped
F.O.B Qingdao, Shandong Province, China or other nearby ports LOCATED
ENTIRELY WITHIN CHINA. The only Defendant in this action who
bought these tires is Defendant Horizon Tire, Inc.[12] I
am aware that the Plaintiff in this lawsuit has alleged that Shandong made
certain shipments of tires to California ports. None of those shipments
included the Tire at issue, because Crosswind L780 LT 235/85Rl6 tires
manufactured in China through September 2014 were only sold and delivered in
China. (Shi Decl. (filed 1/26/2024), ¶¶16-17, emphasis added and
capitalization added.) 
 
Put plainly, the subject tire was sold and
delivered in China; not sold and delivered outside of
China.[13] 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues that it need not show
that this subject tire entered into California, that is accurate, but
irrelevant when looking at the requirements for the second prong. The opinion in Jayone Foods,
Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, a case that
Plaintiff heavily relies upon, is instructive, but ultimately undermines
Plaintiff’s position. The case arose from a wrongful death suit brought by the
family of decedent alleging that a humidifier cleaning agent manufactured in
Korea and sold in California caused decedent’s death. One of the named
defendants was Jayone Foods, Inc. (Jayone), a California importer and
distributor of Korean consumer products that sold the cleaning agent to a Los
Angeles retail store where decedent allegedly purchased the product. Jayone
then filed a cross-complaint against Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd., a Korean
manufacturer and distributor of personal care and household products that sold
the cleaning agent to Jayone. (Id. at p. 548.) The trial court
granted the motion to quash and concluded that Jayone failed to satisfy the
second prong (relatedness to controversy) “because it did not demonstrate that
[decedent] purchased or used the bottles of the Humidifier Mate that Aekyung
shipped to Jayone” (Id. at p. 559.) In reversing the appellate court,
the appellate court contended that the “trial court applied the relatedness
prong too narrowly.” (Ibid.) “Jayone was not required to prove that the
bottles of the Humidifier Mate that it purchased directly from Aekyung in 2006
and 2007 in fact ended up in the hands of [decedent]… it was sufficient for
Jayone to show that, within the time period covering [decedent’s] alleged injuries,
Jayone sold bottles of the Humidifier Mate that Aekyung had shipped to Jayone
in California to Kim's Home Center in Los Angeles.” (Id. at p. 561,
emphasis added.) 
 
Here, however, the opposite facts are present: “the
evidence [] fails to establish how or by whom the product was distributed to
the business that ultimately sold it to the plaintiff” (Id. at p.
563, emphasis added) and decedent is not a resident of California nor was
injured in California. 
 
This then leads to the final point: whether the court should allow for jurisdictional discovery.
 
“The plaintiff has the right to conduct discovery with regard
to the issue of jurisdiction to develop the facts necessary to sustain this
burden.” (TBC Opp. p. 6, quoting Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985)
169 Cal.App.3d 703, 711.) However, that right is not automatic. “In order to
prevail on a motion for a continuance for jurisdictional discovery, the
plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery is likely to lead to the production
of evidence of facts establishing jurisdiction.” (TBC Objection and Opp. to
Jurisdictional Discovery, p. 1, quoting In re Auto. Antitrust Cases I &
II, (2005) 135 Cal. App. 4th 100, 127; see also Motion p. 7 quoting Aquila,
Inc. v. Super. Ct., 148 Cal. App. 4th 556, 568 (2007) [“The plaintiff must
establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”].)) 
 
Here, at the very least, Plaintiff must provide facts
showing that at minimum that decedent died from a tire that was sold by a
distributor (who has availed itself of the forum). Plaintiff has not provided
such facts and concedes as much. (TBC Opp. p. 7:22-23 [“[H]e does not have
evidence on the totality of the TBC Defendants’ contacts in California.”].) 
 
Even if the discovery were permitted, it would not change
the place of the injury and the state of decedent’s residency, which are
elements part of the second prong. 
 
2. Linglong Defendants
 
As the arguments, allegations, and cited case law are
largely similar to those presented in the TBC motion, the analysis ends with
the following fact: there is no connection between Defendants, the decedent,
California, the tire, and the accident that gives rise to
Plaintiff’s claims.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motions are granted and the
request for jurisdictional discovery is denied. 
 
 


