  Case Number:  23STCV24690    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



Robert Drummond, as trustee of the Drummond Family Trust of 1991,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
Armin Monfared, Innovative Realty, Inc., Bye Bye House, Inc., Stephen
  Couig, Paul Hanson, Michael Marshall and Does 1 to 50,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV24690
 Hearing Date:   5/24/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Set
  Aside Default of Paul Hanson Pursuant to Discretionary Provision of Code of
  Civil Procedure Section 473 or, in the Alternative, Pursuant to the Mandatory
  Provision of Section 473.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Robert Drummond, as
trustee of the Drummond Family Trust of 1991 sues Defendants Armin Monfared,
Innovate Realty, Inc. (sued as Innovative Realty, Inc.; hereafter, Innovative),
Bye Bye House, Inc. (BBH), Stephen Couig, Paul Hanson, Michael Marshall and
Does 1 to 50 pursuant to an October 10, 2023, Complaint alleging claims of (1)
Specific Performance, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing, (4) Fraud - Deception, (5) Business and
Professions Code sec. 17200, et seq., and (6) Negligence.
The claims arise from allegations
relating to Defendants’ failure to meet contractual obligations for the
purchase of 11911 Wagner Street, Los Angeles, California 90230, with Defendants
misrepresenting that they would purchase the Property at the escrow price when
Defendants knew that they would not purchase the property at the escrow price
if they were not able to sell the property during escrow, and when Defendants
discovered they would not be able to sell the property at an adequate profit,
Defendants submitted a cancellation of escrow.
B. Service and Default
On October 20, 2023, Defendant
Hanson was served with the summons and Complaint by personal service.
On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff
Drummond secured an entry of default against Defendant Hanson.
C. Motion to Set
Aside Default
On January 18, 2024, Defendant
Hanson filed a motion to set aside the default entered against him. The motion
is premised on mistake, inadvertence, surprise and/or excusable neglect, both
in relation to discretionary and mandatory relief pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 473. The essence of the motion is that defense counsel thought
he had an agreement via email for Plaintiff’s counsel not to file defaults
against defense counsel’s clients even beyond the statutory window to respond,
but that Plaintiff’s counsel went ahead and filed those defaults, resulting in
this motion.
On May 13, 2024,
Plaintiff Drummond filed an opposition to Defendant Hanson’s motion. The motion
challenges the characterization of the facts by the moving papers.
On May 15, 2024,
Defendant Hanson replied to the opposition.
Defendant Hanson’s
motion is now before the Court.
 
II. Motion to Set Aside Default:
GRANTED.
A.
Legal Standard
Section
473 subdivision (b) of the Code of Civil Procedure provides for both
discretionary and mandatory relief from a judgment, dismissal, and/or order or
other proceeding taken against a party through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b) [mandatory relief more narrowly targeted to defaults, default judgments,
and dismissals]; Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298,
302.)
The
provision of section 473, subdivision (b) provides that a court must vacate any
resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against an attorney’s client
whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entering of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the attorney’s
sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect, unless the court finds that the fault or dismissal was not in fact
caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
The
affidavit need only attest to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or neglect in causing the default or default judgment—the reasons for it need
not be explained. (Martin Potts & Associates, Inc. v. Corsair, LLC
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432, 439.)
Attestation
that one of these reasons existed is sufficient to obtain relief unless the
trial court finds that the dismissal did not occur because of these reasons. (Graham
v. Beers (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1656, 1660.) This is because “the purpose of
the mandatory relief provision under section 473, subdivision (b) is achieved
by focusing on who is to blame, not why.” (Martin Potts, supra,
244 Cal.App.4th at p. 439.)
Mandatory
relief under section 473, subdivision (b) may be denied where dismissal [or
default] resulted from intentional conduct rather than a mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. (See Pagarigan v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare of Cal., Inc.
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 38, 45-46.)
B.
Analysis
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant Hanson based on the mandatory portion of section 473 where there are
reasonable arguments to be made on both sides as to mistake.
The emails referenced by the moving
papers exist in the gray area of what defense counsel should or should have not
understood from the language in Plaintiff’s counsel’s emails. (Mot., Gore
Decl., Exs. A [now-defense counsel but status unclear at time of email,
requests that no defaults be entered against Defendants including Hanson until
confirmation that, as defense counsel suspects, defense counsel’s firm has been
retained], B [Plaintiff’s counsel refuses to entertain holding off on defaults
for “defendants you don’t represent” but notes that Plaintiff’s counsel is
proposing an early settlement and would follow up with more detail], C [Plaintiff’s
counsel follows up with an early settlement offer for “your potential
clients[]”].)
With the benefit of time and
context, a review of the emails shows it is more likely than not that
Plaintiff’s counsel (1) refused to consider holding off on default when
representation was not certain while (2) nevertheless sharing a global
settlement in light of the future entry of defense counsel into the litigation.
The interpretation by defense
counsel is not outside the realm of what a practitioner acting in good faith
could interpret from these emails. It is a reasonable mistake to think that the
defaults would not be entered where opposing counsel first refused to consider
not entering default against Defendants where representation was not confirmed
only to share a global settlement and explain the terms of that settlement in
depth shortly thereafter. For defense counsel, likely moving from one task to
the next, it is reasonable to perhaps not have thought that opposing counsel
will grant some grace to the request to withhold on defaults, and based on
counsel’s declaration taking full responsibility, the Court is satisfied that
relief is appropriate under the mandatory portion of section 473. (Mot., Gore
Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.)
The Court notes mandatory relief is
appropriate as to defaults. Even if it were not, courts liberally grant relief
from default when the error is corrected promptly and within six months. Code
of Civil Procedure section 473. 
The Court also notes that Defendant
Hanson has properly filed a proposed Answer as an Exhibit to this motion.
(Mot., Gore Decl., Ex. D.)
The Court next determines that
while section 473 entitles Plaintiff’s counsel to fees, the Court will only be
granting half of the fees requested, i.e., $750, not $1,500.
Default was entered a day after the
statutory period to respond, with Plaintiff’s counsel not following up with
defense counsel regarding whether representation had been confirmed. (Compare
11/8/23 Proof of Service, Defendant Hanson [served on 10/20/23], with 11/21/23
Entry of Default, Defendant Hanson; see Mot., Gore Decl., ¶ 5 [no follow up
before default].) After the prior emails between counsel, this entire motion
practice could have been avoided with a simple follow up.
The declarations from counsel also
make clear that they have been having discussion as to setting this default
aside, with counsel ultimately failing to agree to a resolution, and with both
directing the fault for the lack of success in stipulating to set aside the
default on the other. (Compare Mot., Gore Decl., ¶ 9, with Opp’n, Kielty Decl.,
¶¶ 5-8, Exs. A-B.)
Still, because defense counsel
could have been more diligent regarding confirming representation, the Court
finds that the best balance would be to split the fault on the fees here.
Fees are thus GRANTED in part in
the amount of $750, as limited to defense counsel, who has taken full
responsibility for the mistake here. 
III. Conclusion
Motion to Set Aside Default of Paul
Hanson Pursuant to Discretionary Provision of Code of Civil Procedure Section
473 or, in the Alternative, Pursuant to the Mandatory Provision of Section 473 is
GRANTED in part as follows:
(1) GRANTED as to setting aside the
November 21, 2023, default against Defendant Paul Hanson; and
(2) GRANTED in part as to sanctions
in the amount of $750.
The Ryan Firm is ORDERED to remit
sanctions of $750 to Plaintiff Robert Drummond within ten days of this ruling. 