 Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRIEL RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH (an
  individual); KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); PARAMOUNT GLOBAL (a Delaware corporation)
  (f/k/a ViacomCBS Inc., f/k/a/ CBS Corp); SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware
  corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   5/24/24
 Trial Date:        8/27/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants
  Showtime Networks Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Third
  Amended Complaint [CRS# 8142];
Defendants
  Showtime Networks Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s Motion to Strike Portions of
  Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 8142];
Freddie Roach’s
  Demurrer to Gabriel Rueda’s Ninth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction
  of Emotional Distress [CRS# 4961];
Freddie Roach’s
  Joinder to the CBS Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions of Gabriel Rueda’s
  Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 4961];
Defendant Emmanuel
  D. Pacquiao’s Joinder to Defendants Showtime Network Inc.’s and Paramount
  Global’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint [No
  CRS Reservation Number]; and
Defendant Emmanuel
  D. Pacquiao’s Motion to Strike Certain Portions of Plaintiff’s Third Amended
  Complaint [CRS# 7091].



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda sues
Defendants Emmanuel Pacquiao, Frederick (Freddie) Roach, Keith M. Davidson,
Paramount Global (Paramount; formerly CBS Corporation), Showtime Networks, Inc.
(Showtime) (with Paramount, the Showtime Defendants), and Does 1-25 pursuant to
a February 2, 2024, Third Amended Complaint (TAC).
The TAC alleges claims of: (1)
Breach of Oral Contract against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (2)
Omitted [Breach of Implied Contract; Dismissed by the Court]; (3) Common Counts
for Labor, Work, and Services against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie
Roach; (4) Quantum Meruit against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach;
(5) Fraud in the Inducement against Freddie Roach; (6) Fraudulent
Misrepresentation against Freddie Roach; (7) Omitted [Unjust Enrichment;
Dismissed by the Court]; (8) Omitted [Attempted Extortion; Dismissed by the
Court]; and (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against the
Showtime Defendants, Freddie Roach, Defendant Pacquiao, and Defendant Davidson.
B. Motions Before
the Court
1.
Showtime Defendants
On March 5, 2024, the
Showtime Defendants filed a demurrer challenging the TAC’s ninth cause of
action on the ground of insufficient pleading.
That same day, the
Showtime Defendants filed a motion to strike various portions of the TAC.
On March 6, 2024,
Freddie Roach filed a joinder to the Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike.
On March 15, 2024,
Defendant Pacquiao filed a joinder to the Showtime Defendants’ motion to
strike.
On May 10, 2024,
Plaintiff Rueda filed oppositions to the Showtime Defendants’ demurrer and
motion to strike, to the Freddie Roach joinder, and to the Emmanuel Pacquiao
joinder.
On May 17, 2024, the
Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach filed their respective replies to
Plaintiff Rueda’s oppositions.
That same day,
Defendant Pacquiao filed a reply in relation to an individual motion to strike
he filed on March 6, 2024, which addresses the same issues as those raised in
the joinder.
The Showtime Defendants’
demurrer and motion to strike, Freddie Roach’s joinder, and Emmanual Pacquiao’s
joinder are now before the Court.
2.
Freddie Roach
On March 6, 2024,
Freddie Roach filed a demurrer challenging the TAC’s ninth cause of action on
the ground of insufficient pleading.
On May 10, 2024,
Plaintiff Rueda filed an opposition to Freddie Roach’s demurrer.
On May 17, 2024,
Freddie Roach filed a reply to Plaintiff Rueda’s opposition.
Freddie Roach’s
demurrer is now before the Court.
3.
Emmanual Pacquiao
On March 6, 2024,
Defendant Pacquiao filed a motion to strike various allegations in the TAC.
On May 10, 2024,
Plaintiff Rueda filed an opposition to Defendant Pacquiao’s motion to strike.
On May 17, 2024,
Defendant Pacquiao filed a reply to Plaintiff Rueda’s opposition.
Defendant Pacquiao’s
motion is now before the Court.
4.
Freddie Roach and Joinder, Motion to Compel Additional Deposition
On May 3, 2024, Freddie
Roach filed a motion to compel (1) a second deposition of Plaintiff Rueda for a
remote four-hour deposition on Rueda’s contract, quasi-contract, and fraud
claims within ten (10) to twelve (12) days of the court’s ruling and (2) the
deposition of Neal Marshall (the recipient of the February 27, 2015, email (the
Email)), with the deposition to relate to the Email and its implication on
Rueda’s contract/quasi-contract/fraud claims.
On May 7, 2024,
Plaintiff Rueda filed an ex parte application for an order bifurcating
plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s deposition on his contract, quasi-contract and fraud
claims, or, in the alternative, advancing the hearing date on Roach’s Motion to
Take Separate Deposition of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda on Contract, Quasi-Contract
and Fraud Claims, which was set for hearing on July 2, 2024.
On May 8, 2024, the
Court granted the ex parte application and set the bifurcated portion of Freddie
Roach’s motion for hearing on May 24, 2024.
On May 9, 2024, the
Showtime Defendants filed a joinder to Freddie Roach’s motion.
On May 15, 2024,
Plaintiff Rueda filed an omnibus opposition to the Freddie Roach motion to
compel second deposition and the Showtime Defendants’ joinder.
On May 21, 2024,
Freddie Roach filed a reply to the omnibus opposition.
On May 21, 2024, the
Showtime Defendants filed a reply to the omnibus opposition.
Freddie Roach’s
demurrer and the Showtime Defendants’ joinder are now before the Court.
 
II. Showtime Defendants, Demurrer [CRS# 8142]
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Per the Showtime Defendants’
request, the Court takes judicial notice of various filings and orders in this
action. (Demurrer & Mot., RJN, p. 1, Exs. A-H.)
Per Plaintiff Rueda’s request, the
Court takes judicial notice of various filings and orders in this action. (Opp’n,
RJN, pp. 2-3, Exs. 1-11.)
B. Legal Standard
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
To sufficiently allege a cause of
action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts
needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
A demurrer may only be used to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228, disapproved on other grounds in Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)
C. Demurrer,
TAC, Ninth Cause of Action, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress: SUSTAINED,
without leave to amend.
The Court SUSTAINS the Showtime
Defendants’ demurrer, without leave to amend.
The Court notes that the below
discussion involves allegations taken as true for demurrer purposes. No
evidentiary findings are being made. The tense of the discussion is one for
ease of discussion, accepting the allegations in the TAC as true where
sufficiently pleaded.
1. Relevant Law
An amended complaint filed after
the statute of limitations has expired is time-barred unless it relates back to
a timely-filed original complaint. (Scholes v. Lambirth Trucking Co. (2017)
10 Cal.App.5th 590, 597.) Under California law, relation back applies only if
the amendment (1) is based on the same general set of facts, (2) involves the
same injury and accident, and (3) refers to the same instrumentality alleged
against the defendant in the original complaint. (Foxborough v. Van Atta
(1994) 26 Cal.App.4th 217, 230; Coronet Mfg. Co. v. Super. Ct. (1979) 90
Cal.App.3d 342, 345, 347-348.)
2. Analysis
IIED has a two-year statute of
limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.)
In their demurrer, the Showtime
Defendants argue that the TAC’s allegations of 2015 or 2016 intimidation or
coercion ran their limitations period as of, at the latest, 2018, which is long
before the 2024 TAC in this case, or even the Doe amendments in 2019.
The Showtime Defendants are correct
that they were not “named defendants” in the IIED claim until the January 10,
2024, Second Amended Complaint was filed.
However, Rueda argues that because the
Showtime Defendants were named as Doe Defendants (specifically, CBS as Doe 1
and Showtime as Doe 2) on September 11, 2019, and the Does were included as
defendants in the IIED claim, those amendments relate back to what was then the
operative complaint, the First Amended Complaint, which was filed on August 25,
2016. 
Yet the Doe Amendments were always
a bit of a bad fit, in that, as noted by this Court in its ruling on the motion
for judgment on the pleadings, it was unclear as to what conduct the Showtime Defendants
were alleged to have engaged in directly or indirectly. Specifically, the Court
noted that in the FAC, Does 1-3 were alleged to be “men,” and Does 1-6 were alleged
to have engaged in harassment, whereas CBS and Showtime are corporate entities,
who can only act through others. (12/21/23 minute order at pp. 11-12.)
Indeed, the Showtime Defendants had
expressed even before that motion for judgment on the pleadings that it has been
unclear as to what allegations were being made against them in the Ninth Cause
of Action when the Doe Amendments were made. For example, in the second appeal
in this case, the court of appeal noted that the CBS Defendants argued that “Rueda
has not alleged the CBS Defendants themselves participated in any assault, harassment,
or other bad act.” (July 26, 2023 Opinion at p. 18.) The court noted that the
CBS Defendants should or could make such an argument in a demurrer. (Id.
at p. 20.)
Here, the sequence of events is important.
The FAC, filed in 2016, included CBS and Showtime as named defendants to five causes
of action, but not in the ninth claim for IIED. Plaintiff then added those
corporations as Doe Defendants in 2019, which added them to the ninth cause of action,
but, as later found by this Court, the Doe 1 and 2 allegations did not fit contentions
that would relate to a corporate overseer, but rather fit allegations relating
to an individual person allegedly hired by or acting at the behest of a
corporate overseer.  
So things stood until after the second
appeal was issued in 2023, when the CBS Defendants filed a motion for judgment
on the pleadings to clarify this ambiguity (or have the claim dismissed altogether).
The Court allowed leave to amend, and the amendments eventually led to the TAC,
which revealed the names of two new alleged bad actors – Richard Palmer and Liam
Vaughan – in the paragraphs previously using the Doe moniker, and alleged that
the Showtime Defendants were liable in an agency fashion for the acts of these
men and others still unknown to the Plaintiff. (TAC, 42-47, 83-85.)
It is in this context that Rueda is
seeking to have the TAC relate back to the allegations made in the FAC as filed
on August 25, 2016, arguing that the 2019 Doe Amendments adding CBS and
Showtime to the ninth cause of action themselves related back to the FAC.
After consideration, the Court
rejects this argument. As the court of appeal noted in Scherer v. Mark
(1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 834, 839 (Scherer), the purpose of the Doe amendment
is where a plaintiff is “ignorant of the true name of the defendant.”  (See also Code Civ. Proc. § 474.) There, the
court held that “[e]ven though the original complaint correctly pleaded a cause
of action against unknown Does, plaintiff did not meet the statutory
requirements of section 474 with reference to [her doctor] respondent Dr. Mark
. . . [where t]he undisputed facts are that the defendant Mark was known to
plaintiff at the time of the filing of her original complaint.” (Scherer at p.
840.) 
Even if other cases have held that even
ignorance of the facts giving rise to the cause of action against the person can
still provide a basis for a later Doe amendment (Scherer at pp. 840-841),
the Court does not find that doctrine applicable here. The undisputed facts are
that the identity of CBS and Showtime was well known to plaintiff as of the
filing of the FAC because some five other claims were made against them in the
FAC; that the Doe Amendments, as the FAC was drafted, purportedly alleged that CBS
and Showtime themselves engaged in harassing conduct; and that the first time
that plaintiff alleged that the Showtime Defendants were responsible for the harassing
comments of others was in the TAC. Plaintiff did not, for example, include in
the FAC two sets of Doe Defendants – one for those hiring the “thugs” and one
for the “thugs” – and then brought in CBS and Showtime in the former set of
Does. Plaintiff could also have filed a motion for leave to amend back in 2019
when he claims he finally realized that CBS and Showtime were involved in the
threats, which could have clarified things a great deal. Instead, Rueda used a
Doe amendment, which only muddied the waters until the claims were dismissed
with leave to amend. In this fact-specific context, the Court does not find
that relation back should apply some 8 years after the FAC was filed and 5
years after the ambiguous Doe amendments. 
The Showtime Defendants also argue,
and the Court agrees, that the November 2017 allegations in paragraph 50 of the
TAC do not relate back for the independent reason that it was not alleged for
the first time until 2024—both as to an unidentified individual flashing a gun
at Rueda and Rueda leaving Los Angeles—well beyond the two-year limitations
period.
The Court does not find that it has
ever previously ruled that the IIED claims were timely as to the Showtime
Defendants, and the citation to its 12/21/23 ruling regarding whether the CBS/Showtime
Defendants appeared in the three-year time period under Code of Civil Procedure
583.220 is inapposite.
The Showtime Defendants’ demurrer
is thus SUSTAINED, without leave to amend, as to the TAC’s ninth cause of
action, as alleged against the Showtime Defendants.
Based on this result, the Court
does not address the remaining points for demurring to the TAC’s ninth cause of
action.
 
III. Showtime Defendants, Motion to Strike [CRS# 8142]
A. Requests
for Judicial Notice
Per
the Showtime Defendants’ request, the Court takes judicial notice of various
filings and orders in this action. (Demurrer & Mot., RJN, p. 1, Exs. A-H.)
B.
Legal Standard
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading; or (b) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the
claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or
disregarded”].)
For
the purposes of a motion to strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, the term “pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint, (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an
immaterial allegation or irrelevant matter in a pleading entails (1) an
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense, (2) an
allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
C.
Analysis
1. Motion to Strike, TAC, ¶ 50: GRANTED,
without leave to amend.
The
Court adopts its discussion from Section II above to determine that the TAC’s
50th paragraph alleges liability against the Showtime Defendants based on
factual grounds beyond the statute of limitations.
For
this reason, the Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED, without
leave to amend, specifically as to the remaining two sentences (first and last)
of the 50th paragraph of the TAC—(portions of which were already stricken in
the anti-SLAPP motion)—insofar as they are alleged against the Showtime
Defendants.
2. Motion to Strike, TAC, ¶¶ 42-43, 45-47
GRANTED, without leave to amend.
The
Court adopts its discussion from Section II above to determine that the TAC’s 42nd
to 43rd and 45th to 47th paragraphs allege liability against the Showtime
Defendants based on factual grounds beyond the statute of limitations.
For
this reason, the Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED, without
leave to amend, specifically as to the noticed portions of the TAC’s 42nd to
43rd and 45th to 47th paragraphs insofar as they are alleged against the
Showtime Defendants.
3. Motion to Strike, TAC, ¶ 11: DENIED.
a. Relevant Law
Through
participation in a civil conspiracy, a coconspirator effectively adopts as his
or her own the torts of other coconspirators within the ambit of the
conspiracy. In this way, a coconspirator incurs tort liability co-equal with
the immediate tortfeasors. (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011)
198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211-212, quoting Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton
Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511.)
In
order to maintain an action against a defendant on a theory of vicarious
liability arising out of his joining a conspiracy, the alleged facts must show
either expressly or by reasonable inference that he had knowledge of the object
and purpose of the conspiracy, that there was an agreement to injure the
plaintiff, that there was a meeting of the minds on the objective and course of
action, and that as a result one of the defendants committed an act that
resulted in the injury. (See Schick v. Lerner (1987) 193 Cal.App.1321,
1328 [within context of already formed conspiracy].)
Courts
analyze whether the conspiracy allegations are supported by properly pleaded
ultimate facts while disregarding the conclusory allegations in the pleading,
e.g., allegations that rely solely upon talismanic allegation of conspiracy, which
amount to nothing more than attempting to fashion a potpourri of theories
unsupported by properly pleaded ultimate facts. (Ibid.)
b. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Rueda, assuming that there remain any portion
of these allegations that relate to causes of action other than the ninth, which
has been dismissed.
The
Court, for consistency, directly adopts the reasoning of its December 2023
order, as applied to the identically pled TAC in relation to agency, as ruled
in relation to Defendants Pacquiao’s and Davidson’s motions for judgment on the
pleadings.
“An
allegation of agency constitutes an averment of ultimate fact, which we accept
as true on a demurrer. But where factual allegations are based on information
and belief, the plaintiff must allege information that leads the plaintiff to
believe that the allegations are true.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2019)
40 Cal.App.5th 1077, 1106.) “[G]eneral allegations of agency that are
contradicted by, or inconsistent with, facts specifically pleaded, will be
disregarded.” (5 Witkin, Cal. Proc. (6th ed. 2021), Plead §918.)
For
purposes of this motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court accepts as
true Plaintiff’s allegation that the Doe defendants, i.e. including the “goons”
from Wildcard Gym, were agents of the named Defendants, including the Showtime
Defendants. This allegation of ultimate fact must be accepted as true, even if
it is a general allegation and regardless of Plaintiff’s ultimate ability to
prove it. Indeed, “we accept as true even improbable alleged facts, and we do
not concern ourselves with the plaintiff’s ability to prove the factual
allegations.” (Marina Pacific Hotel and Suites, LLC v. Fireman’s Fund
Insurance Company (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 96, 104-105.)
Moreover,
Plaintiff is not alleging an ordinary agency akin to a real estate broker or an
employee. Plaintiff is alleging that the Showtime Defendants instructed these
Does to illegally intimidate Plaintiff into accepting the settlement offer
proposed by Davidson. Plaintiff supports his general allegation of agency with
specific allegations of the circumstances indicating that the “goons” were
acting on behalf of the Showtime Defendants. Whether Plaintiff can prove the
claims is of course not germane to a decision at this stage of the case.
The
Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is thus DENIED as to striking paragraph
11 from the TAC.
4. Motion to Strike, TAC, ¶¶ 86, 88: MOOT.
The
Court adopts its discussion from Section II above to determine that the TAC’s 86th
and 88th paragraphs are irrelevant as to the Showtime Defendants because the
Court has sustained the Showtime Defendants’ demurrer to the Complaint’s IIED
claim, as alleged against these Defendants.
For
this reason, the Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is MOOT as to the TAC’s
86th and 88th paragraphs, with both paragraphs stricken according to notice.
 
IV.
Freddie Roach, Demurrer [CRS# 4961]
A.
Requests for Judicial Notice
Per
Plaintiff Rueda’s request, the Court takes judicial notice of the Court’s
December 21, 2023, order in this action, vis-à-vis Defendants Pacquiao and
Davidson. (Opp’n, RJN, p. 2, Exs. A.)
B.
Legal Standard
See
Section II.A.
C. Demurrer, TAC, Ninth Cause of Action,
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress: OVERRULED.
1. Relevant Law
“A
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when
there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when
it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.’ And the defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict
injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’” (Hughes,
supra, 46 Cal.4th at pp. 1050-1051.)
2. Court’s Determination
The
Court finds in favor of Plaintiff Rueda.
The
Court has accepted the FAC’s agency allegations above, and the conspiracy
allegations remain in the 13th paragraph of the TAC. (See Section V.B.2.
infra.)
Moreover,
the TAC sufficiently alleges conspiracy grounds against Defendant Roach.
The
TAC alleges a connection between Les Moonves and Creative Artists Agency (CAA)
agent Nick Khan. That connection was one in which Les Moonves explicitly told
Nick Khan to “handle this guy,” meaning Rueda, and Moonves would “pay half” of
whatever it would take to “take [Rueda] off his hands.” (FAC, ¶ 35.) The
connection is an explicit directive rather than a suggestive, will no one rid
me of this meddlesome priest, comment, strengthening the sufficiency of the
pleading. Moreover, the financial incentive is clear and a clear motivator: If
Nick Kahn settles the matter, he gets a fee comprised of 50% of the payout that
Gabriel Rueda accepts.
The
TAC alleges Nick Kahn’s affirmative assent to this agreement, with Nick Kahn
making statements regarding incidents in boxing of coercing others into
settling debts for less money than originally agreed upon, with cash being king
to street guys, connoting enforcers who do the coercing in exchange for
payment. (FAC, ¶ 36.) This allegation fleshes out a conspiracy, the aim and
actors of which are clear: Les Moonves, acting through Nick Kahn, will use
enforcers to intimidate and coerce Gabriel Rueda into taking a reduced amount
of money, with “street guys” to be hired as enforcers a la alleged King-Ali
intimidation, and if they are successful in achieving the ends of this
conspiracy to coerce Rueda of allegedly agreed upon finder’s fee, then Nick
Kahn would be paid an amount equal to half of Rueda’s reduced payout. 
In
paragraphs 35 and 36, the TAC sufficiently alleges the formation of the
conspiracy, its initial actors, its objective, and the benefits to the actors
in achieving the end of the conspiracy. To the extent any of the applicable
replies argues that these allegations do not sufficiently tie in Les Moonves,
the Court disagrees. Les Moonves is clearly tied to a conspiracy to Nick Kahn
as discussed above. Even if the allegations involve some innuendo, the actors,
objectives, and benefits of the conspiracy are clear through the allegations in
these paragraphs.
Next,
the TAC alleges growth of the conspiracy. The TAC alleges a connection between
Nick Kahn and Defendant Keith Davidson: Nick Kahn forwards emails between
Plaintiff and CBS (now Paramount Global) to Defendant Davidson. (TAC, ¶ 37.)
After
that, Davidson is alleged to have engaged in conduct to that may be “so ‘extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community,”
i.e., taking actions to threaten a person’s employment, such as calling that
person’s employer to inform the employer that the employee was blackmailing a
highly influential television executive that patrons the business—an allegation
explicitly alleged as applicable to Defendant Roach. (TAC, ¶ 41.)
Thereafter,
a number of allegations not challenged on demurrer or motion to strike vis-à-vis
Freddie Roach, detail a campaign of intimidation and harassment against Rueda.
(TAC, ¶¶ 42-47.)
These
allegations sufficiently allege IIED for pleading purposes.
Thus,
even if Defendant Roach is not directly involved in these allegations, the
Court has found two bases for find vicarious liability against him—agency and
conspiracy—as based on the alleged conduct of Defendant Davidson, who allegedly
engaged third-party enforcers, and whose conduct and the conduct of the
enforcers sufficiently amounts to a case for IIED at the pleadings stage.
Freddie
Roach’s demurrer is thus OVERRULED.
 
V.
Freddie Roach, Joinder to Showtime Defendants’ Motion to Strike [CRS# 4961]
A.
Legal Standard
See
Section III.A.

B. Analysis
1. Motion to
Strike, TAC, ¶ 50: GRANTED, without leave to amend.
The Court adopts its discussion
from Section II above to determine that the TAC’s 50th paragraph alleges
liability against Freddie Roach based on factual grounds beyond the statute of
limitations.
The Court specifically notes that
the statute of limitations window is the same between the Defendants because
there is no reason to apply a different date of discovery as between Defendants
in relation to the allegations of the 50th paragraph, which is part of the same
web of agency and conspiratorial liability between Defendants.
For this reason, Defendant Roach’s
joinder to the Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED, without leave
to amend, specifically as to the remaining two sentences (first and last) of
the 50th paragraph of the FAC—sans SLAPP-stricken allegations—insofar as they
are alleged against Freddie Roach.
2. Motion to
Strike, TAC, ¶ 11: DENIED.
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Rueda.
The Court, for consistency,
directly adopts the reasoning of its December 2023 order, as applied to the
identically pled TAC in relation to agency, as ruled in relation to Defendants Pacquiao’s
and Davidson’s motions for judgment on the pleadings.
“An allegation of agency
constitutes an averment of ultimate fact, which we accept as true on a
demurrer. But where factual allegations are based on information and belief,
the plaintiff must allege information that leads the plaintiff to believe that
the allegations are true.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th
1077, 1106.) “[G]eneral allegations of agency that are contradicted by, or
inconsistent with, facts specifically pleaded, will be disregarded.” (5 Witkin,
Cal. Proc. (6th ed. 2021), Plead §918.)
For purposes of this motion for
judgment on the pleadings, the Court accepts as true Plaintiff’s allegation
that the Doe defendants, i.e. including the “goons” from Wildcard Gym, were
agents of the named Defendants, including the Showtime Defendants. This
allegation of ultimate fact must be accepted as true, even if it is a general
allegation and regardless of Plaintiff’s ultimate ability to prove it. Indeed,
“we accept as true even improbable alleged facts, and we do not concern
ourselves with the plaintiff’s ability to prove the factual allegations.” (Marina
Pacific Hotel and Suites, LLC v. Fireman’s Fund Insurance Company (2022) 81
Cal.App.5th 96, 104-105.)
Moreover, Plaintiff is not alleging
an ordinary agency akin to a real estate broker or an employee. Plaintiff is
alleging that Freddie Roach instructed these Does to illegally intimidate and
harass Plaintiff into accepting the settlement offer proposed by Davidson.
Plaintiff supports his general allegation of agency with specific allegations
of the circumstances indicating that the “goons” were acting on behalf of Freddie
Roach. Whether Plaintiff can prove the claims is of course not germane to a
decision at this stage of the case.
Freddie Roach’s joinder to the
Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is thus DENIED as to striking paragraph
11 from the TAC.
3. Motion to
Strike, TAC, ¶¶ 86, 88: GRANTED as limited to “and non-payment of his
finder’s fee,” without leave to amend.
a. Relevant
Law
“[D]amages for mental suffering and
emotional distress are generally not recoverable in an action for breach of an
ordinary commercial contract in California.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 558-559.)
b. Analysis
The Court finds in favor of Freddie
Roach.
The oppositions to the motions
challenging the above noted portion of these paragraphs do not convince the
Court that the alleged “harm” in paragraph 86 is not alleging harm that sounds
in contract where the harm is specifically alleged to have resulted from
“non-payment of his finder’s fee.” Paragraph 86 is clear. Plaintiff suffered
either harm in the form of “non-payment of his finder’s fee,” or Plaintiff
suffered harm as a result of pain and suffering, defined as “difficulty at
work” and “non-payment of his finder’s fee.” The allegation is not drawn in
conformity with California law as explained in Erlich and is thus
improper.
Freddie Roach’s motion to strike is
GRANTED as to the TAC’s 86th paragraph. The Court STRIKES “and non-payment of
his finder’s fee” from that allegation, as requested in the notice for the
joinder, as against Freddie Roach.
The Court also GRANTS relief as to
emotional distress damages that clearly arise from a breach of contract. The
opposition does not address Erlich. Simply, there is a difference
between emotional distress damages arising from the threats and intimidation,
and those arising from non-payment of contractually owed monies, where
paragraph 88 falls into the latter category.
 
VI. Emmauel Pacquiao, Joinder
to Showtime Defendants’ Motion to Strike
A. Legal Standard
See Section III.A.
B. Analysis
1. Motion to
Strike, TAC, ¶ 50: GRANTED, without leave to amend.
The Court adopts its discussion
from Section II above to determine that the TAC’s 50th paragraph alleges
liability against Defendant Pacquiao based on factual grounds beyond the
statute of limitations.
The Court specifically notes that
the statute of limitations window is the same between the Defendants because
there is no reason to apply a different date of discovery as between Defendants
in relation to the allegations of the 50th paragraph, which is part of the same
web of agency and conspiratorial liability between Defendants.
For this reason, Defendant
Pacquiao’s joinder to the Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is GRANTED, without
leave to amend, specifically as to the remaining two sentences (first and last)
of the 50th paragraph of the FAC—sans SLAPP-stricken allegations—insofar as
they are alleged against Defendant Pacquiao.
2. Motion to
Strike, TAC, ¶ 11: DENIED.
The Court finds in favor of Plaintiff
Rueda.
The Court, for consistency,
directly adopts the reasoning of its December 2023 order, as applied to the
identically pled TAC in relation to agency, as ruled in relation to Defendants Pacquiao’s
and Davidson’s motions for judgment on the pleadings.
“An allegation of agency
constitutes an averment of ultimate fact, which we accept as true on a
demurrer. But where factual allegations are based on information and belief,
the plaintiff must allege information that leads the plaintiff to believe that
the allegations are true.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th
1077, 1106.) “[G]eneral allegations of agency that are contradicted by, or
inconsistent with, facts specifically pleaded, will be disregarded.” (5 Witkin,
Cal. Proc. (6th ed. 2021), Plead §918.)
For purposes of this motion for
judgment on the pleadings, the Court accepts as true Plaintiff’s allegation
that the Doe defendants, i.e. including the “goons” from Wildcard Gym, were
agents of the named Defendants, including the Showtime Defendants. This
allegation of ultimate fact must be accepted as true, even if it is a general
allegation and regardless of Plaintiff’s ultimate ability to prove it. Indeed,
“we accept as true even improbable alleged facts, and we do not concern
ourselves with the plaintiff’s ability to prove the factual allegations.” (Marina
Pacific Hotel and Suites, LLC v. Fireman’s Fund Insurance Company (2022) 81
Cal.App.5th 96, 104-105.)
Moreover, Plaintiff is not alleging
an ordinary agency akin to a real estate broker or an employee. Plaintiff is
alleging that Defendant Pacquiao instructed these Does to illegally intimidate
and harass Plaintiff into accepting the settlement offer proposed by Davidson.
Plaintiff supports his general allegation of agency with specific allegations
of the circumstances indicating that the “goons” were acting on behalf of Defendant
Pacquiao. Whether Plaintiff can prove the claims is of course not germane to a decision
at this stage of the case.
Defendant Pacquiao’s joinder to the
Showtime Defendants’ motion to strike is thus DENIED as to striking paragraph
11 from the TAC.
 
VII. Emmauel Pacquiao, Motion
to Strike [CRS# 7091]
A. Legal Standard
See Section III.A.
B. Analysis
1. Motion to
Strike, TAC, ¶¶ 86, 88: GRANTED as to “non-payment of his finder’s fee,”
without leave to amend.
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant Pacquiao.
The oppositions to the motions
challenging these paragraphs do not convince the Court that the alleged “harm”
in paragraph 86 is not alleging harm that sounds in contract where the harm is
specifically alleged to have resulted from “non-payment of his finder’s fee.” Paragraph
86 is clear. Plaintiff suffered either harm in the form of “non-payment of his
finder’s fee,” or Plaintiff suffered harm as a result of pain and suffering,
defined as “difficulty at work” and “non-payment of his finder’s fee.” The allegation
is not drawn in conformity with California law as explained in Erlich
and is thus improper.
Defendant Pacquiao’s motion to
strike is thus GRANTED as to the TAC’s 86th paragraph. The Court STRIKES “and
non-payment of his finder’s fee” from that allegation, as requested in the
notice.
The Court also GRANTS relief as to
paragraph 88. The Court relies on the Erlich v. Menezes discussion above
to grant this relief. Moreover, the Court notes that the emotional distress at
issue is that arising from non-payment of the finder’s fee, as juxtaposed
against the importance and cultural dominance of the Fight of the Century. Within
the context of this action, and within the context of the Court’s prior
findings that the Boxing Act protects Defendant Pacquiao from damages relating
to the alleged finder’s fee agreement between him and Plaintiff Rueda, this
allegation is irrelevant as to Defendant Pacquiao.
The Court thus STRIKES paragraph 86
as requested in the notice.
2. Motion to
Strike, TAC, ¶¶ 3, 22, 24, 26, 32, 53, 56, 64: GRANTED in part, without
leave to amend.
The Court finds in favor of
Defendant Paquiao.
The Court agrees that the
challenged allegations are extraneous absent the breach of contract claims
against Defendant Pacquiao.
Moreover, the allegations are not
relevant or material in any way to the remaining basis for liability alleged in
the TAC as against Defendant Paquiao. For example, “based on Pacquiao’s
agreement,” “Pacquiao [has] not paid Rueda anything,” and “Pacquiao ratified
that agreement also agreeing to the fee” all seek to rehash liability against
Defendant Pacquiao for nonpayment of the finder’s fee because they are contract-based
grounds for liability, where contract issues were summarily adjudicated in
favor of Defendant Pacquiao. There is no reason for these allegations to remain
in the pleadings, except as qualified below in one specific instance.
Paragraph 3 is also not proper
based on the attempted coercion component of this action being disposed of in
favor of Defendants.
However, the challenge to paragraph
56 is overbroad. The motion would have sufficed with challenging only the words
“and Pacquiao” and the second word thereafter, “their,” to obtain the necessary
relief here. To the extent the Court grants relief as to this allegation, it is
limited to these three words: “Roach and Pacquiao, through their
agent Davidson . . .”
Defendant Pacquiao’s motion to
strike is thus GRANTED in part as to paragraphs 3, 22, 24, 26, 32, 53, 56, and 64
of the TAC. The Court STRIKES all these paragraphs according to notice except
as to paragraph 56, which is only STRICKEN according to the preceding
paragraph.
 
 
VIII. Freddie Roach, Second Deposition, Joined by Showtime
Defendants: GRANTED with conditions.
A. Legal Standard
“Once any party has taken the
deposition of any natural person, including that of a party to the action,
neither the party who gave, nor any other party who has been served with a
deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may take a subsequent deposition
of that deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (a).)
However, “for good cause shown, the
court may grant leave to take a subsequent deposition, and the parties, with
the consent of any deponent who is not a party, may stipulate that a subsequent
deposition be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610, subd. (b).)
Section 2025.610 does not preclude
taking one subsequent deposition of a natural person who has previously been
examined as a PMQ or pursuant to a court order under Section 485.230 for the
identity, location, and value of property in which the deponent has an
interest, and does not authorize the taking of more than one subsequent
deposition for the limited purpose of a right to attachment. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.610, subds. (c)-(d) [not applicable here].)
The total time for deposition by
all counsel is generally limited to seven hours. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290,
subd. (a).) However, a court shall allow additional time, beyond any limits
imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the
deponent, another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the
examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (a).) Subdivision (a) and
parts of subdivision (b) have been found by California courts to impose merely
presumptive restrictions that are applicable only if the court does not order
otherwise, thus giving courts ample discretion as to additional deposition
time. (Certainteed Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1053,
1060-1062 (Certainteed) [seven-hour limit and 14-hour limit in complex
cases merely presumptive], superseded by statute on other grounds as discussed
in Cahill Construction Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th
777, 786-787 (Cahill) [Legislature responds to Certainteed by
enacting law becoming Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.295].)
B. Analysis
The Court GRANTS Freddie Roach’s
motion, with conditions.
The Court will reopen discovery as
it stated in the Court’s December 21, 2023, ruling regarding Defendant Davidson’s
motion to compel deposition. (12/21/23 Minutes, Davidson Compel Deposition, p.
8.)
However, the Court will discuss
with counsel at oral argument how much time will be needed for the deposition, particularly
where the Showtime Defendants are no longer operative Defendants on the ninth
cause of action. 
 
VIII. Conclusion
A. Showtime
Defendants, Demurrer
Defendants Showtime Networks Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 8142] is SUSTAINED as to the ninth cause
of action, without leave to amend.
B. Showtime
Defendants, Motion to Strike
Defendants Showtime Networks Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 8142] is:
(1) GRANTED, without leave to amend, as to paragraphs 42-43, 45-47, and
50 of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended Complaint, as challenged in the
notice, and only as directed against the Showtime Defendants;
(2) DENIED as to paragraph 11 of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended
Complaint; and
(3) MOOT as to paragraphs 86 and 88 of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third
Amended Complaint.
C. Freddie
Roach, Demurrer
Freddie Roach’s Demurrer to Gabriel Rueda’s Ninth Cause of Action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress [CRS# 4961] is OVERRULED.
D. Freddie
Roach, Joinder to Showtime Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Freddie Roach’s Joinder to the CBS Defendants’ Motion to Strike Portions
of Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 4961] is:
(1) GRANTED, without leave to amend, as to paragraphs 50, 86, and 88 of
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended Complaint, as challenged in the notice,
and only as directed against Freddie Roach; and
(2) DENIED as to paragraph 11 of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended
Complaint.
E. Emmauel
Pacquiao, Joinder to Showtime Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Defendant Emmanuel D. Pacquiao’s Joinder to Defendants Showtime Network
Inc.’s and Paramount Global’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Third
Amended Complaint [No CRS Reservation Number] is:
(1) GRANTED, without leave to amend, as to paragraph 50 of Plaintiff
Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended Complaint, as challenged in the notice, and only
as directed against the Defendant Pacquiao; and
(2) DENIED as to paragraph 11 of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended
Complaint.
F. Emmauel
Pacquiao, Motion to Strike
Defendant Emmanuel D. Pacquiao’s Motion to Strike Certain Portions of
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint [CRS# 7091] is GRANTED in part as follows:
(1) GRANTED, without leave to amend, as to paragraph 3, 22, 24, 26, 32,
53, 64, 86 and 88 of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended Complaint, as
challenged in the notice, and only as directed against the Defendant Pacquiao;
and
(2) GRANTED, in part, without leave to amend, as to paragraph 56 of
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda’s Third Amended Complaint, as discussed and limited
above, and only as directed against Defendant Pacquiao.
G. Freddie Roach, Second Deposition
Defendant Frederick Roach’s Motion to Take Separate Deposition of
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda on Contract, Quasi-Contract and Fraud Claims [CRS#
7191] is GRANTED with conditions.
The Court will discuss a proposed order with the parties at oral
argument.
H. Showtime Defendants’ Joinder, Second Deposition
Defendants Showtime Networks Inc. and Paramount Global’s Joinder in
Frederick Roach’s Motion to Take Separate Deposition of Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda
on Contract, Quasi-Contract and Fraud Claims [CRS# 7191] is GRANTED with
conditions.
The Court will discuss a proposed order with the parties at oral
argument.