  Case Number:  20STCV31783    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Steven  Anthony Montoya v. San Dimas Community Hospital, et al. Motion for Summary Judgment by Defendant Prime Healthcare Services  – San Dimas dba San Dimas Community Hospital  TENTATIVE  RULING             The Court  DENIES the motion for summary judgment without prejudice.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a medical malpractice and personal injury action. On August  20, 2020, Plaintiff Steven Anthony Montoya (Plaintiff) filed this action  against Defendants San Dimas Community Hospital, Ralph E. Conner, D.O.,  Emergent Medical Associates, Dr. Hakak, Crunch Fitness, County of Los Angeles,  Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, and Does 1 through 200, alleging  causes of action for medical negligence, negligence, false imprisonment  depravation [sic] of right under color of state law, depravation [sic]  of right under Article 1, Section 13 of the California Constitution violation  of civil rights eighth amendment [sic], and negligence personal injuries  [sic].  On June 23, 2021, the Court sustained a demurrer by the County of  Los Angeles to Plaintiff’s third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action. On  July 26, 2021, the Court entered a judgment of dismissal in favor of County of  Los Angeles after Plaintiff declined to amend the complaint.  On February 6, 2023, the Court granted summary judgment in favor  of Dr. Hakak, and entered judgment on February 8, 2023.  On May 9, 2023, Defendant Prime Healthcare Services – San Dimas,  LLC, dba San Dimas Community Hospital (erroneously sued as San Dimas Community  Hospital) (Hospital), filed the instant motion for summary judgment as to the  First Cause of Action for medical negligence. Plaintiff has not opposed the  motion.  Trial  is scheduled for June 25, 2024.  LEGAL  STANDARD The  function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a  determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support  for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the  need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th  826, 843.) CCP § 437c(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if  all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the  evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there  is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.  (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion  for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the  affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of  fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of  Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.  Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)  As  to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary  judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate  an essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v.  D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520) Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.  Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of  action or a defense thereto. To establish a triable issue of material fact, the  party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE             The Court GRANTS Hospital’s  request for judicial notice. (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d).) However, the Court  takes judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence,  content and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it  does not take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in  those documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th  389, 400.) DISCUSSION             Analysis             “The  elements of Plaintiff's medical negligence cause of action allege ‘(1) the duty  of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members  of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach  of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection  between the negligent conduct  and the resulting injury;  and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.’  [Citation.]” (Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 234,  238.) “As in medical malpractice cases, standards of due care and competence  are commonly established by the generally accepted practices and procedures  within the professional community. [Citations.]” (Milligan v. Hearing Aid  Dispensers Examining Com. (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1006.)              Hospital moves for summary judgment  on the grounds that there is no triable issue of fact regarding Hospital’s  compliance with the applicable standard of care, and Hospital’s actions did not  to a reasonable degree of medical certainty cause his death or the injuries of  which Plaintiff complains. In support of this contention, Hospital recites the  events of August 30, 2019 when Plaintiff was presented to Hospital’s emergency  department. (SSUMF 1-13.) Hospital’s expert, Ryan M. Klein, M.D., states that:  The standard  of care for the nursing staff and/or non-physician staff require [sic]  that they monitor and document the patient’s vital signs and overall progress,  keep the practitioners involved in the patient’s care and treatment  appropriately informed as to the patient’s condition, including any change in  condition, and carry out all of the physicians’ orders in a timely manner. In  other words, it is the role of the nurses to be the eyes and ears of the  practitioner managing the care of the patient and to report any significant  changes in condition to the practitioner. It is neither a nurse’s role nor  responsibility to order or interpret tests and/or diagnostic studies, order  medications, render diagnoses, make treatment recommendations, to determine  whether the patient is an appropriate candidate for consultation, or to admit  the patient. Those duties are the role of the practitioner managing the care of  the patient.  Looking at  the allegations of the complaint for medical negligence, it is the duty of the  treating physician to properly diagnose a stroke, initiate TPA protocol, and  secure appropriate consultations. It is outside the scope of practice in  California for registered nurses to perform such duties.  Further,  there were no issues which would have required nursing staff to implement the hospital  chain of command relative to physician conduct.  (Klein  Decl., ¶¶ 21-23.)              The Court finds Hospital has failed  to meet its moving burden in establishing the absence of a triable issue of  material fact. First, the Court notes that this is not a wrongful death action,  as Plaintiff does not allege that Hospital’s actions caused his death. (Notice,  ¶¶ 2-3.) Rather, Plaintiff is alleging that Hospital caused him permanent  injuries in connection with the treatment he received from Hospital. (Compl., ¶  21.) It seems Hospital mentioned death in its notice by mistake, as nowhere  else in Plaintiff’s memorandum of points and authorities does Hospital mention  anything about wrongful death.  Second, Dr. Klein’s declaration is not executed. (See Klein  Decl., 7:26-27.) An unexecuted declaration is of no evidentiary value. (See Code  Civ. Proc., § 2015.5; 3. [§ 3] Use of Declaration., 6 Witkin, Cal. Proc. 6th  Prov Rem § 3 (2023), italics added [“The declaration must be in writing, must  be signed, and must recite that it is under penalty of perjury. (C.C.P.  2015.5.)”]; see also Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (b)(1)  [“The motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions,  answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice  shall or may be taken.”]) This is problematic because Dr. Klein’s declaration  provides the key evidence necessary for Hospital’s motion regarding the  applicable standard of care for this case and whether the actions of Hospital’s  staff caused Plaintiff’s alleged injuries. This means that Hospital has failed  to meet its moving burden in establishing the absence of a triable issue of  material fact. It matters not at this point that Plaintiff has not opposed the  motion. (Thatcher v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1081, 1086-1087  [moving party must satisfy initial burden of proof, even if motion is  unopposed].)  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion for summary  judgment.  CONCLUSION The Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment without prejudice.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.