 Case Number:  SC127926    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Ketikyan v. Khachatryan,
et al.
CASE NO.:                SC127926
MOTION:                  Motion
to Enter Judgment (CCP § 664.6)
HEARING DATE:   4/19/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over
the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of
the settlement.
 
(CCP, § 664.6(a).)
 
“Because of its summary nature,
strict compliance with the requirements of section 664.6 is prerequisite to
invoking the power of the court to impose a settlement agreement.” (Sully-Miller
Contracting Co. v. Gledson/Cashman Construction, Inc. (2002) 103
Cal.App.4th 30, 37; Critzer v. Enos (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1262.)
In ruling on a motion under § 664.6, the trial judge may receive oral
testimony, or may determine the motion upon declarations alone. (Corkland v.
Boscoe (1984) 156 Cal.App.3d 989, 994.) Where the agreement was reached at
a court hearing, the court can resolve the dispute on the basis of its own
notes or recollection of what was agreed to (as well as any transcripts of the
proceedings). (Richardson v. Richardson (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 91, 97.)
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Artur Ketikyan, through
his successor in interest, Anna Sarajyan, moves to enforce the settlement
agreement entered on the record in Dept. M on September 26, 2023, and seeks all
fees and costs associated with this request in an amount of $32,469.60 as well
as statutory interest. Defendants Gurgen Khachatryan, Abraham Stepanian, Ted
Khachatryan, WRH, LLC, Westside Residential Holdings, LLC, and Artyom
Khachatryan oppose the motion, arguing that the settlement is invalid because
Plaintiff cannot provide a notarized signature by Mr. Ketikyan due to his
passing. 
 
On September 26, 2023, the Parties
settled the instant action in open court as jury selection was scheduled to
commence, placing all material terms on the record and expressly invoking section
664.6’s retention of jurisdiction and enforcement of settlement. (See Baker
Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Ex. A [“Transcript”].) The undisputed material terms include the
following: (1) Defendants will jointly and severally pay $1,000,000 “within
sixty days of the settlement agreement, which we will have done by the end of
this week” [Ex. p. 23]; (2) A full waiver pursuant to Civil Code section 1542
by all Parties [Id., p. 23]; (3) the parties agreed to bear their own fees and
costs [Id.]; (4) a confidentiality clause to not communicate with the press or
anyone else concerning the terms of the agreement other than to law enforcement
if requested [Id. p. 23]; (5) a dismissal of the case upon receipt of the
payment [Id. p. 24]; (6) the Court would retain jurisdiction pursuant to CCP
664.6 [Id. p. 24] and; (7) if a Party was required to enforce the agreement
they would be entitled to attorney fees and costs associated with the motion to
enforce [Ex. p. 24]. With the exception of Artyom Khachatryan, all clients were
present and expressly consented to “all the material terms” as described above.
(Id., pp. 25-26.) 
 
Defendants argue that they should
be allowed to renege on their settlement because there is an additional term, added
after all counsel and clients agreed that “all the material terms” were already
on the record. Following the parties’ agreement on the record, the Court set an
OSC re: Dismissal, and the parties waived notice to that OSC. (Id. at 26.) Then,
Defense counsel stated to Mr. Baker that “[he] would like notarized signatures
on this settlement agreement.” (Id. at 27.) Plaintiff’s counsel responded “You
got it.” (Id.) The hearing ended shortly after this comment.
 
First, the Court finds that the notarization
requirement was not a material term, such that it was a prerequisite to enforcing
the oral settlement. Caselaw explains why such a requirement would be contrary
to the policy of Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. “[I]f the respective
parties orally agreed upon all of the terms and conditions of a proposed
written agreement with the mutual intention that the oral agreement should
thereupon become binding, the mere fact that a formal written agreement to the
same effect has not yet been signed does not alter the binding validity of the
oral agreement.” (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 348, 358.) “If difficulties or unresolvable conflicts arise in
drafting the written agreement, the oral settlement remains binding and
enforceable under section 664.6. Having orally agreed to settlement terms
before the court, parties may not escape their obligations by refusing to sign
a written agreement that conforms to the oral terms. The oral settlement, like
any agreement, ‘imposes upon each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in
its performance and its enforcement.’ ” (Elyaoudayan v. Hoffman (2003)
104 Cal.App.4th 1421, 1431.) Thus, it would be contrary to caselaw on this subject
to hold that any further signatures were required for enforcement, including
any notarized signatures. 
 
Following the stating of the express
oral agreement in open court, the parties agreed that the seven points above
were “all the material terms.” The Court concludes that there was a meeting of
the minds on all material points before defense counsel asked for notarization.
(See Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th
348, 359 [to establish that a contract exists, the plaintiff must prove that
there has been a “meeting of the [parties'] minds on all material points.”];
see Alexander v. Codemasters Group Limited (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 129,
141 [whether the parties' minds have met is judged objectively by looking to
the “outward manifestations or expressions of the parties, ... and not their
unexpressed intentions or understandings”].) Moreover, counsel only indicated
that he would “like” notarized signatures. A defense counsel’s mere desire or
intention to have the agreement notarized is not material to an agreement
settling an action. Thus, the Court would question whether this purported
notarization term could even be considered material. 
 
Even assuming that the term was
material and somehow affected the validity of the oral agreement, Plaintiff has
apparently complied with this term. On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff served
Defendant with the written settlement agreement, which bore Mrs. Ketikyan’s
notarized signature on behalf of Mr. Ketikyan. Defendants object to her
signature because they contend she was not the personal representative of Mr.
Ketikyan at the time she executed the agreement. Defendants do not explain why
this would invalidate the successor in interest’s signature on behalf of the
estate at that juncture. (See CCP § 377.11.) Moreover, Defendants are incorrect
that the terms would allow only Mr. Ketikyan to sign the expected written agreement
for it to be valid. The express term, on the record, states that they would
have “notarized signatures on this settlement agreement.” (Transcript, p. 27.) There
is no mention of Mr. Ketikyan’s signature. 
 
Defendants note that Mr. Ketikyan,
in fact, signed the written draft settlement agreement. This written draft
settlement agreement states that it would only be valid if Mr. Khachatryan’s
signature was notarized. This underscores a problem with Defendants’ position.
If Mr. Ketikyan’s notarized signature was required for a valid written
agreement, then there was never a valid written agreement. Without that written
agreement, then the parties never agreed to a term requiring Mr. Ketikyan’s
notarized signature. All that remains is the oral settlement agreement, which might
have a term that requires notarization of an anticipated written
agreement. Of course, the oral agreement does not state that only Mr. Ketikyan may
sign such an agreement for it to be valid and enforceable. 
 
Under such facts, there was an indisputable,
valid, oral settlement agreement made in open court. Moreover, Defendants have
refused to abide by the express terms of the oral settlement agreement by refusing
to pay the promised $1 million to Plaintiff within 60 days of the settlement.
Therefore, the Court enters judgment pursuant to the terms of the oral
settlement agreement per section 664.6. Defendants note that prejudgment interest
should not run from November 25, 2023, but November 26, 2023, through the date
of judgment. At the legal rate of 10% per annum, Plaintiff demonstrates that Defendants
incurred $39,703.90 in prejudgment interest. (Civ. Code § 3289.)
 
Furthermore, the settlement had an
unambiguous attorneys’ fees clause for fees and costs incurred during
enforcement of the agreement. Excluding time spent on the removed lis pendens
motion, Plaintiff’s counsel provides that they have spent the following hours
on this motion. (Baker Decl., ¶ 10.) Mr. Baker claims 18.1 hours spent on
enforcing the agreement, plus an anticipated 8 hours for reply, at an hourly
rate of $550.00, totaling $14,355.00. Mr. Lowe claims 4 hours, plus 3 for reply
at $350.00 per hour, totaling $2,450.00. Mr. Eashoo claims 24.9 hours, plus 3
hours for reply at $450.00 per hour, totaling $12,555.00. Defendants argue that
these amounts are excessive, and should be reduced by their own expenses
incurred on previous motions. The Court concurs that the amounts requested are somewhat
excessive. Specifically, 61 hours of attorney time to make this motion is
unreasonable.  Using the lodestar method,
the Court finds that a reasonable fee for enforcement would be $15,000.00, plus
costs of $61.65.  Since the lis pendens was
removed to federal court, the Court excludes all fees related to that motion.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
Plaintiff is ordered to prepare a proposed judgment consistent with this ruling.
