  Case Number:  23SMCV05604    Hearing Date:   April 19, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           McCullough v.
General Motors LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV05604
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel the Deposition of GM’s PMQ
HEARING DATE:   4/18/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
Service of a proper deposition
notice obligates a party or “party-affiliated” witness (officer, director,
managing agent or employee of party) to attend and testify, as well as produce
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing for
inspection and copying. (CCP § 2025.280(a).) If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party deponent fails to appear, testify, or produce documents or
tangible things for inspection without having served a valid objection under
CCP § 2025.410, the deposing party may move for an order compelling attendance,
testimony, and production. (CCP § 2025.450(a).) The motion must be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration, or, when a party deponent fails to attend the
deposition, the motion must also be accompanied by a declaration stating that
the moving party has contacted the party deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).) 
 
A motion to compel production
of documents described in a deposition notice must be accompanied by a showing
of good cause. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1).) In other words, the moving party must
provide evidence (generally in the form of declarations) showing specific facts
justifying inspection of the documents described in the notice. Courts
liberally construe good cause in favor of discovery where facts show the
documents are necessary for trial preparation.
 
The motion to compel must be
“made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the
deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(b).) This time limit also applies to motions based
on a deposition subpoena for production of documents or a business records subpoena.
The 60-day time limit runs from the date objections are served because the
deposition record is then complete. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1192.) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff Colleen McCullough moves to
compel the deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC’s person most qualified
(PMQ), with production of documents, and for sanctions in the amount of
$2,970.00.  
 
This is a lemon law action, arising
from the lease of a 2021 Chevrolet Bolt. Plaintiff alleges her Bolt has
suffered from defects related to a fire risk, electrical, battery, and seatbelt
pretensioner. As a result of these issues, Plaintiff delivered the vehicle to
an authorized GM service and repair facility on numerous occasions, but GM
failed to fix the issues and refused to repurchase the vehicle. 
 
Following several notices and meet
and confer efforts, on February 15, 2024, Plaintiff served her Second Amended
Notice of Deposition. (Kaufman Decl., ¶ 12, Ex.7.) The Second Amended Notice
withdrew a contested category/document request regarding other similar vehicle
buybacks. On February 20, 2024, GM again served its boilerplate objections to
the Notice. (Id., Ex. 8.) The deposition notice sought information on the
following categories of questions:
 
1) Questions about why GM did not
repurchase or replace the vehicle before this action
was filed;
2) Questions about why GM has yet
to repurchase the vehicle;
3) Questions about the service and
warranty history;
4) Questions about communications
between GM and anyone else regarding the vehicle;
5) Questions regarding GM's lemon
law policies and procedures;
6) Questions relating to GM's
investigation into whether or not the vehicle qualified for
repurchase before this action was
filed; and
7) Questions about the warranty
nonconformities in the vehicle.
 
The notice also requested document
production for the following categories:
 
1) Documents showing the repairs to
the vehicle;
2) Documents evidencing
correspondence relating to Plaintiff or the vehicle, excluding
attorney-client communication;
3) Copies of GM' s California lemon
law policy and procedure manual used by GM' s
dealers and customer service
representatives;
4) GM's customer service file
pertaining to Plaintiff or the vehicle;
5) Writings provided to GM's
customer service representatives that reflect or relate to
rules, policies and procedures
concerning the issuance of refunds pursuant to
California's Song-Beverly Act;
6) Copies of the technical service
bulletins that apply to the vehicle;
7) Copies of recall notices that
apply to the vehicle;
8) Copies of the documents GM
reviewed when it decided pre-litigation not to repurchase
the vehicle pursuant to the lemon
law;
9) GM's lemon law policy and
procedure manual; and
10) Copies of any photographs or
videos GM has of the vehicle.
 
Plaintiff establishes that they
served a valid Notice of Deposition on GM, and that GM refused to produce its
PMQ. Furthermore, the objections to the notice are not valid objections under
section 2025.410. 
 
The Court finds good cause for
these categories based on the issues put forth in the complaint. Each of the
categories of testimony and document requests are discoverable, as they pertain
to questions specific to the subject vehicle, its nonconformities, its
warranties, GM’s actions regarding the vehicle, and GM’s policies related to
repurchasing generally. These are all within the scope of permissible discovery
in lemon law actions. Further, GM fails to justify their objections. GM does
not show why the categories are overbroad, vague, irrelevant, ambiguous, unduly
burdensome, or oppressive. GM also does not evidence their trade secrets
claims. At best, they present a prefabricated, generic declaration concerning
GM’s business generally. Notably, this 2018 declaration pre-dates the relevant
records for the 2021 Bolt. Thus, this generic declaration does nothing to show
trade secret materials in this action. To the extent that there are any trade
secrets, the Court orders the parties to meet and confer on executing the
standard protective order regarding confidential discovery.  
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel
is GRANTED. GM is ordered to produce its PMQ for deposition at a mutually
agreeable time and location within 30 days. Plaintiff’s request sanctions is
GRANTED. Sanctions are imposed against Defendant General Motors, LLC in the
amount of $2,970.00 to be paid in 30 days.
 