 Case Number:  23STCV14304    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Jane M.R. Doe’s
Consolidated Motion to Quash or Modify Defendant LAUSD’s Deposition Subpoenas
for Production of Business Records
Plaintiff Jane M.R. Doe moves to quash or
modify 25 deposition subpoenas for business records propounded by defendant Los
Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD). 
The subpoenas are to dozens of medical providers and to several pharmacies
including CVS and Walgreens.  Each
subpoena requests, “Any and all medical, therapy, and pharmaceutical records
for the last 25 years to present only” regarding the plaintiff.  
Code
of Civil Procedure § 2017.220
Plaintiff argues LAUSD’s subpoenas violate
Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.220. 
Subdivision (a) of that section provides, “In any civil action alleging
conduct that constitutes sexual harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery,
any party seeking discovery concerning the plaintiff’s sexual conduct with
individuals other than the alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts
showing that there is good cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought
to be discovered is relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
This statute does not apply.  LAUSD’s subpoenas seek medical records, not
evidence about plaintiff’s sexual conduct. 
In contrast, in Barrenda L. v. Superior Court (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 794, 798, the defendant moved to compel answers to deposition
questions including “ ‘Do you recall telling [a medical provider] that you had
three prior abortions?’ ” and “ ‘Prior to telling’ ” someone about the alleged
sexual assault, “ ‘had you had sexual intercourse with anyone besides’ ” the
accused abuser?  Similarly, in Knoettgen
v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 11, 13, the employer moved to
compel answers to deposition questions about the plaintiff being “attacked by
men twice in her childhood.”  In Mendez
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 557, 563, the defendant moved for
an order permitting “discovery of plaintiff’s sexual history with” coworkers
other than the one she accused of sexually assaulting her.
LAUSD’s subpoenas may result in
discovering evidence related to sexual conduct, but they do not constitute
“discovery concerning the plaintiff’s sexual conduct with individuals other
than the alleged perpetrator.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.220, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff
gives no reason to suggest the records would include details about sexual
conduct or identify any person with whom plaintiff engaged in sexual
conduct.  Plaintiff provides no authority
that Code of Civil Procedure section 2017.220 applies to general discovery of
medical records like these subpoenas.
Privacy Rights
Plaintiff argues
these subpoenas violate her constitutional privacy rights.  “The party asserting a privacy right must
establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.”  (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)  If the objecting party shows all three
elements, then the court must balance the need for disclosure against the right
to privacy.  (Ibid.)  The court must consider “the availability of
alternatives and protective measures.”  (Id. at p. 556.)
First, plaintiff
establishes a legally protected privacy interest in the requested records.  Individuals
have rights to privacy of their medical records.  (John B. v. Superior Court (2006)
38 Cal.4th 1177, 1198.)  
Second, plaintiff shows
a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances.  Bringing a lawsuit can reduce one’s
expectation of privacy in medical records, but plaintiffs do not completely
waive those privacy rights.  (Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 841–842 (Vinson).)  A reasonable person would not expect that
suing a school district over childhood sexual assault would require disclosing nearly
unlimited medical records.  These
circumstances are not like, for example, a plaintiff who asserts emotional
distress losing some expectation of privacy in therapy records, or a plaintiff
who asserts a traumatic brain injury losing the expectation of privacy in
neurology records.  LAUSD seeks “[a]ny
and all medical, therapy, and pharmaceutical records”, regardless of their
subject or any connection to the circumstances of this lawsuit.  
Third, plaintiff establishes
a serious threatened intrusion.  Requesting
25 years of medical records is a serious intrusion.
LAUSD does not meet
its burden of showing its need for disclosure of “[a]ny and all medical,
therapy, and pharmaceutical records for the last 25 years” outweighs
plaintiff’s privacy rights.  Some of the medical
records, however, are “ ‘essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit.’ ”  (Look v. Penovatz (2019) 34
Cal.App.5th 61, 73.)  LAUSD is
entitled to conduct some discovery of plaintiff’s medical history.  “[B]y asserting a causal link between her
mental distress and defendants’ conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims it was not
caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of
alternative sources for the distress.”  (Vinson,
supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 840.) 
Plaintiff alleges sexual assault resulting in severe emotional
distress.  
LAUSD contends a
protective order would alleviate plaintiff’s privacy concerns.  A protective order is appropriate but not
sufficient.  It would not adequately
mitigate the serious invasion of disclosing 25 years of medical records.  
Plaintiff’s motion,
meanwhile, refers to modifying the subpoenas but proposes no specific way to do
so.  Her broad allegations provide LAUSD
little guidance in how it could narrow its requests for medical records.  Plaintiff’s second amended complaint alleges,
“As a direct and legal result of the acts and omissions of Defendants,
Plaintiff suffered physical and emotional injuries and other harm.”  (SAC, ¶¶ 50, 59.)  It further alleges that, because of
defendants’ conduct, “Plaintiff has been severely damaged emotionally and
physically.”  (¶¶ 71, 80, 88, 100.)
The court finds
LAUSD’s need to discover plaintiff’s mental health records outweighs her
privacy rights as to records from a limited period.  The most relevant records are those proximate
to the alleged assaults and those pertinent to plaintiff’s present
condition.  Plaintiff alleges she was
sexually assaulted beginning in the fall of 2005.  (SAC, ¶ 25.) 
She filed this action in September 2023. 
The court will therefore permit LAUSD to discover records about
plaintiff’s mental health, including medical, therapy, and pharmacy records,
from January 1, 2005, to December 31, 2009, and from January 1, 2022, to the present.
With respect to
physical injuries, plaintiff must specifically identify any physical injuries
she alleges she suffered due to LAUSD’s conduct.  LAUSD then may discover plaintiff’s medical and
pharmaceutical records about those injuries and related parts of plaintiff’s
body from January 1, 2005, to December 31, 2009, and from January 1, 2022, to
the present.    
Disposition
            Plaintiff Jane M.R. Doe’s motion to
quash or modify subpoenas is granted in part.  Within 10 days, plaintiff shall specifically
identify the physical injuries she attributes to the alleged sexual assault.  LAUSD’s subpoenas shall be modified by
limiting the records to the periods of January 1, 2005, to December 31, 2009,
and January 1, 2022, to the present.  The
subpoenas shall be further limited to medical, therapy, and pharmaceutical records
concerning (a) plaintiff’s mental health and (b) the physical injuries and body
parts she specifically identifies were injured. 
