 Case Number:  23VECV01477    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2023    Dept:  107 TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED with
leave to amend. 
 
Timeline
 
            Plaintiffs filed their
complaint on April 4, 2023, alleging the following causes of action against
Park Reseda Condominium Association Inc., LB Property Management Inc., GTO Security
Corp. (“GTO” or “Defendant”), Raymundo Reducindo Oliva (“Reducindo”), and Does
1 through 40 (collectively, “Defendants”):
 
1.     
Battery;
2.     
Assault;
3.     
Negligence;
4.     
Negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employee; and
5.     
Loss of consortium.
 
This action arises out of an alleged altercation
between Plaintiffs and Reducindo in the parking lot of Park Reseda. Plaintiffs allege
the following: Plaintiffs are husband and wife. Plaintiffs further allege that
Reducindo was a security guard for Park Reseda and an employee of GTO. According
to Plaintiffs, on the night of the incident, Plaintiffs observed that Reducindo
was inebriated on the job. Plaintiffs called Reducindo’s supervisor to notify
him. After overhearing the call, Plaintiffs allege that Reducindo became
enraged and attacked Plaintiffs, who incurred medical expenses. Plaintiffs seek
relief in the form of general, special, consequential, incidental, exemplary
and punitive damages against Defendants as well as interest, attorneys’ fees,
costs, and other remedies that may be available under California law.
 
            On November 13, 2023,
GTO filed a motion to strike sections of Plaintiffs’ complaint pertaining to
punitive damages and GTO’s alleged ratification of Reducindo’s conduct.
Plaintiffs filed opposition papers on December 4, 2023. Defendant replied on
December 11, 2023.
 
Meet and Confer
            
The meet and confer requirement has been met. See
Snyder Decl.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
A court may, upon motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. The grounds for a motion to
strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has
not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. Code Civ. Proc., § 436. The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. Code Civ. Proc., § 437.
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. See, e.g., Vaccaro v.
Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768 (“When the defect which justifies
striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to
amend.”). The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading
can be amended successfully. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.
 
Analysis
 
i.                   
Timeliness
of the motion
 
Similar to a demurrer, a motion to strike must
be filed within 30 days after service of the complaint. However, courts may
still consider an untimely motion to strike if doing so does not prejudice the
non-moving party. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs served the complaint on GTO on
June 5, 2023. The parties subsequently agreed on an extension to file a
responsive pleading until September 25, 2023. Snyder Decl. ¶ 2-3. GTO filed the
instant motion on November 13, 2023, 49 days after the agreed upon deadline.
Plaintiffs have not taken steps to obtain a default judgment, nor have they
demonstrated that the delay prejudiced them. Therefore, the Court will review
the motion on the merits because doing so does not affect Plaintiffs’
substantial rights. See Jackson v. Doe (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
742, 750.
 
ii.                 
Whether
punitive damages are available for loss of consortium
 
The pleadings allege that Reducindo “battered”
Gomez, including “grabbing” and “striking” him. The pleadings do not allege
that Reducindo battered Valencia, even though it is alleged that he pepper
sprayed both Gomez and Valencia. Complaint ¶ 17. Defendant argues that loss of
consortium is a derivative claim that cannot itself warrant punitive damages.
As a result, any punitive damage allegations cannot inure to the benefit of
Valencia and should be stricken. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs point to a California
Supreme Court ruling which expressly states that “a common law action for loss
of consortium is a civil action sounding in tort, and therefore punitive damages
are available.” Boeken v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788,
796. Although the language cited is not binding precedent but rather dictum, as
Defendant points out in its Reply, the Court will abide by it.
 
iii.               
Whether
punitive damages are warranted by the pleadings
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes
punitive damages only where “it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” Civ. Code §
3294, subd. (a). In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a
complaint must allege facts to demonstrate these elements. College Hospital,
Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721. 
 
Defendant is a corporate entity. Under
California Civil Code section 3294(b), 
 
“[a]n employer shall not be liable for
[exemplary damages] based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and
employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety
of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.” (Emphasis added.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that GTO ratified
Reducindo’s conduct by “allowing a drunk, unlicensed security guard to engage
with the public.” Opposition 6:4-5. However, Plaintiffs failed to allege that
GTO knew that Reducindo did not have a security guard license, or that GTO had
advance knowledge that Reducindo goes to work in an inebriated state.
Plaintiffs also failed to identify any officer, director or managing agent of
GTO to whom acts that warrant punitive damages could be imputed. The
deficiencies in the pleadings are accentuated by the well-established rule that
claims for punitive damages must be pled specifically. See, e.g., Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d. 864. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff have not made sufficient
pleadings to allege that punitive damages against Defendant GTO are warranted.
 
iv.               
Leave to
amend
 
            Notwithstanding the above, the Court
notes that Defendant’s motion may not be the proper recourse for calling out
Plaintiffs’ inadequate prayer for punitive damages. “A motion to strike does
not lie to attack a complaint for insufficiency of allegations to justify
relief; that is a ground for general demurrer.” Pierson v. Sharp Memorial
Hospital, Inc. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also Warren v.
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 41 (the grounds
that the allegations were insufficient as a matter of law to constitute the
cause of action were grounds for demurrer and were not proper grounds for a
motion to strike). “[A] motion to strike is generally used to reach defects in
a pleading which are not subject to demurrer.” Pierson 216 Cal.App.3d at
342. 
 
            Plaintiffs contend that leave to
amend is usually allowed when the defect is correctible. However, the burden is
on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318. Plaintiffs have
made no such showing in their Opposition. Nevertheless, in light of Defendant’s
use of a motion to strike rather than a demurrer to attack the complaint’s
failure to justify the relief of punitive damages, the Court grants Plaintiffs
leave to amend.  
 
Tentative
Ruling
            
            Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED with leave to amend. 
 
 
 
__________________________________
                                                Judge
Eric Harmon, Department 107, Van Nuys
December 18, 2023                                         Los Angeles County
Superior Court