

Hearing Date:              September
17, 2024
Case Name:                 Elisa Ortego v. Magic
Laundry Services, Inc.  
Case No.:                    22STCV01605
Motion:                       Motion
to Vacate Order Compelling Arbitration Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 1281.98
and Request for Monetary Sanctions  
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Elisa Ortego 
Responding
Party:      Defendant Magic Laundry
Services, Inc.  
 

Tentative Ruling:      The
Motion to Vacate Order Compelling Arbitration is granted.  The Request for Monetary Sanctions is taken
under submission. 
                                     

 
Background
 
In this employment action, Plaintiff Elisa
Ortego (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint on January 13, 2022, alleging a single
PAGA cause of action complaint against her former employer, Defendant Magic
Laundry Services, Inc. (“Defendant”). The PAGA claim incorporated numerous
Labor Code violations. 
 
On September 28, 2023, Defendant
filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’ arbitration
agreement. Plaintiff opposed the motion to compel arbitration. 
 
On October 23, 2023, after hearing
oral argument, the Court granted the motion to compel arbitration and stayed
this action pending the outcome of arbitration. (10/23/23 Minute Order.)  
 
On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to vacate the order compelling arbitration pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1281.98, on the grounds that Defendant failed to timely pay
outstanding arbitration fees. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the amount of $30,560.50. 
 
On September 4, 2024, Defendant filed
an opposition to the motion, to which Plaintiff replied on September 10, 2024. 
 
Judicial Notice 
 
            The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for judicial notice. (Evid. Code, §§ 452, 453.) 
 
 
Legal Standard 
 
“Sections 1281.97 and 1281.98 each
prescribe procedures for payment and remedies for nonpayment of arbitration
fees and costs by the drafting party, i.e., the company or business that
included a predispute arbitration provision in a contract with a consumer or
employee.” (Williams v. West Coast Hospitals, Inc. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th
1054, 1065.) “Both sections provide that a drafting party who fails in its
obligation to pay fees and costs required to initiate or continue the
arbitration within 30 days after the due date is in material breach of the
arbitration agreement, is in default of the arbitration, and waives its right
to compel the employee or consumer to proceed with that arbitration as a result
of the material breach.” (Id. at p. 1066.) “Consequently, even where an
arbitration has commenced, the employee or consumer may unilaterally elect[,]
among other alternatives, to [w]ithdraw the claim from arbitration and proceed
in a court of appropriate jurisdiction.” (Ibid., emphasis in original.)
“If the consumer elects to proceed in court to commence or resume litigation,
the consumer must . . . seek vacatur of a prior order compelling arbitration
and staying the litigation.” (Ibid.)  
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98
is concerned with the payment of fees and costs during the pendency of
arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.98(a)(1).) “The arbitration provider
shall provide an invoice for any fees and costs required for the arbitration
proceeding to continue to all of the parties to the arbitration. The invoice
shall be provided in its entirety, shall state the full amount owed and the
date that payment is due, and shall be sent to all parties by the same means on
the same day.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.98(a)(2).) “To avoid delay, absent an
express provision in the arbitration agreement stating the number of days in
which the parties to the arbitration must pay any required fees or costs, the
arbitration provider shall issue all invoices to the parties as due upon
receipt. Any extension of time for the due date shall be agreed upon by all
parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.98(a)(2).) “[L]ate payment as provided in
section 1281.98 constitutes a ‘material breach’ without regard to any
additional considerations.” (De Leon v. Juanita’s Foods (2022) 85
Cal.App.5th 740, 749.)  
 
Should an employee move to vacate an
order compelling arbitration and succeeds on such motion, “the court shall
impose sanctions on the drafting party in accordance with Section 1281.99.” (Espinoza
v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 761, 774-75.) “Section
1281.99, in turn, states that the court shall impose a monetary sanction
against a drafting party in the form of the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees and costs incurred by the employee or consumer as a result of
the material breach.” (Ibid.)  
 
“The FAA [Federal Arbitration Act] was
enacted to override judicial hostility to enforcing arbitration agreements.” (Hernandez
v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 222, 239.) “The FAA
embodies a strong federal policy favoring arbitration.” (Ibid.) “When
the FAA applies to an agreement . . . the substantive provisions of the FAA
preempt state law to the extent that state law actually conflicts with federal
law or operates as an obstacle to accomplishing the purpose of the FAA.” (Id.
at p. 240.) “The FAA also contains procedural provisions” which “do not apply
in state court.” (Ibid.) “The procedural provisions of California
arbitration laws apply in California courts by default.” (Ibid.)
“Parties can avoid preemption by expressly agreeing to apply state law to their
agreements, whether state substantive law, state procedural law, or both.” (Ibid.)
“If parties expressly agree to apply the CAA, or agree to apply California law,
including California’s arbitration rules, then the state arbitration laws will
not be preempted by the FAA.” (Ibid.) “When the FAA applies to an
arbitration agreement, it will, however, preempt state substantive law that
conflicts with the policies of the FAA.” (Ibid.) “When an agreement
falls within the scope of the FAA and the parties have not expressly elected
California law . . . the FAA preempts the portion of section [1281.98] that
requires findings of material breach and a waiver of the right to arbitrate as a
matter of California law.” (Id. at p. 242.) 
 
“The Legislature enacted section
1281.97 along with Section 1281.98. The former provision concerns fees due at
the initiation of arbitration. Otherwise, the provisions are analogous,
and courts analyze them similarly.” (Cvejic v. Skyview Capital, LLC (2023)
92 Cal.App.5th 1073, 1077.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s
failure to pay arbitration fees is a material breach of the arbitration
agreement. Plaintiff further argues that Keeton v. Tesla, Inc. (2024)
103 Cal.App.5th 26 confirms that CCP § 1281.98 is not preempted by the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”). 
 
In opposition to the motion,
Defendant neither disputes that it materially breached the arbitration
agreement by timely failing to pay arbitration fees nor does it dispute that
Plaintiff is entitled to sanctions. The crux of Defendant’s opposition is that
the FAA and not the California Arbitration Act (“CAA”) governs the outcome of
the motion. Defendant contends that Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc.,
supra, 102 Cal.App.5th 222 requires denial of the motion.
Alternatively, Defendant argues that the case should be stayed pending the
California Supreme Court’s resolution of the issue of the FAA preempting CCP §
1281.98. 
 
Pertinent Language of the Arbitration
Agreement 
 
Of significance, the Arbitration
Agreement states at the outset that it “is governed by the Federal Arbitration
Act (9 U.S.C. §§ 1, et seq.).”  The
Agreement provides that Plaintiff and Defendant mutually “agree that any legal
dispute or controversy covered by this Agreement, or arising out of, relating
to or concerning the scope, formation, validity, enforceability or breach of
this Agreement, shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration in
accordance with the Employment Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration
Association (“AAA Rules”) then in effect, and not by court or jury trial . . .
.” (Portillo Decl., Ex. B, p. 1, ¶ 1.) The Agreement states that the parties
“shall follow the AAA Rules applicable to initial filing fees . . . .” (Portillo
Decl., Ex. B., p. 1, ¶ 1.) Discovery concerning the arbitration will be conducted
in accordance with AAA Rules. (Portillo Decl., Ex. B., p. 1, ¶ 1.) 
 
Defendant’s payment was late; its excuses
for lateness are inadmissible.
 
Plaintiff’s counsel, Erin R. Hutchins
(“Hutchins”) provides a declaration in support of the motion. Ms. Hutchins
relevantly states the following: On February 14, 2024, AAA confirmed receipt of
Plaintiff’s filing fees and that Plaintiff’s filing requirements had been met,
and soon thereafter the parties mutually selected Sonya Goodwin, Esq. as the
arbitrator. (Hutchins Decl., ¶ 6.) An Arbitration Management Conference
occurred on May 23, 2024 with the Arbitrator. (Hutchins Decl., ¶ 9.) On May 31,
2024, the AAA emailed to Defendant’s counsel an invoice in the amount of
$22,500.00 for the “Arbitrator’s Compensation Deposit #1” and the invoice
stated that the balance was “due upon receipt.” (Hutchins Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. A.)  Accordingly, payment was due June 30, 2024. Defendant
did not pay the invoice until July 11, 2024. (Hutchins Decl., ¶11.) 
 
Defendant’s counsel, Richard B.
Mojica (“Mojica”), states that Defendant mailed a check to the AAA for the
amount of the May 31, 2024 invoice on or about June 20, 2024. (Mojica Decl., ¶
4.) The check was not received due to mail theft that occurred at the mailbox
where the check was deposited for mailing. (Mojica Decl., ¶ 5.) On July 11,
2024, the AAA informed defense counsel that payment had not been received and,
that day, Defendant made an electronic payment. (Mojica Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant
was current on all fees owing to the AAA prior to Plaintiff filing the instant
motion. (Mojica Decl., ¶ 8.) 
 
Plaintiff neither objects to nor
disputes Mojica’s declaration. If the Court accepted the declaration, the Court
would be tempted to conclude that Defendant’s lateness – due to alleged
criminal conduct beyond its control – was not a material breach. The
cases suggest, however, the contrary. 
Several recent decisions have held that the statutory language and
history set forth a bright line rule, and no considerations of whether
Plaintiff was prejudiced or whether the arbitration was delayed should be
considered.  (De Leon v. Juanita’s Foods,
supra, 85 Cal.App.5th 740, 753 [“statute’s language establishes
a simple bright-line rule that a drafting party’s failure to pay outstanding
arbitration fees within 30 days after the due date results in its material
breach of the arbitration agreement”]; Doe v. Superior Court (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 346 [writ issued against trial court’s denial of employee’s
motion to vacate arbitration when employer was required to effect payment on
October 3, but mailed on Friday, September 30, such that arbitrator received it
on October 5]; Espinoza v. Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
761, 771 [Legislature intended courts to apply payment deadlines strictly even
if the delay is “inadvertent, brief, and did not prejudice plaintiff”].) It can
be argued, however, that this case is not like the situation of a party sending
payment too close to the deadline as in Doe.
 
            That said,
the Court declines to accept the Mojica declaration because it is riddled with
inadmissibility and to receive it would permit a miscarriage of justice. (Evid.
Code, § 353.) Ordinarily, of course, the failure to object waives the
objection. (Leonardini v. Shell Oil Co. (1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 547, 584.)
 But this is an attorney declaration with
no foundation regarding who at Defendant’s office mailed the payment to the
arbitrator, when, and how.  It provides
no evidence of personal knowledge regarding the theft of the mailbox.  The key parts of the declaration are based on
information and belief, which is inadmissible. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
5.111(b)(2); Kellett v. Kellett (1934) 2 Cal.2d 45, 48.) 
 
            Even if the
Court accepted the evidence regarding Defendant’s late payment, the appellate
authorities interpret this statute strictly.  The Court concludes that Defendant materially
breached the Arbitration Agreement.
 
The FAA does not preempt section 1281.98.
 
There is a split of authority in the
Court of Appeal whether Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98 is preempted by
the Federal Arbitration Act.  Recognizing
this issue will be resolved by higher authorities, the Court must choose among
closely analyzed, if divergent, decisions. 

 
In Gallo v. Wood Ranch USA, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 621, plaintiff Sunny Gallo signed an arbitration agreement as a
condition of employment with defendant Wood Ranch. (Id. at p. 630.) The
arbitration agreement specified “that the arbitrator is to apply California
and/or federal substantive law to determine issues of liability and damages
regarding all claims, but is to look to the California Arbitration Act . . . to
conduct the arbitration and any pre-arbitration activities.” (Ibid.) In Gallo,
“[t]he employee handbook reinforce[d] the parties’ agreement that they [would]
look to the California Arbitration Act, including its procedural provisions, to
conduct the arbitration and any pre-arbitration activities.” (Ibid.)
Wood Ranch moved to compel arbitration and the trial court granted the motion.
(Id. at p. 631.) Wood Ranch was not timely in paying initial arbitration
fees and Gallo moved to vacate the trial court’s order compelling arbitration.
(Id. at p. 632.) The trial court granted the motion and rejected Wood
Ranch’s argument that section1281.97 was preempted by the FAA. (Ibid.)
 
As a matter of first impression our
Second District, Division Two, affirmed the trial court’s order vacating the
order compelling arbitration. (Gallo v. Wood Ranch, Inc., supra,
81 Cal.App.5th 621, 629.) The Gallo court held that sections 1281.97,
1281.98, and 1281.99 were not preempted by the FAA “because the procedures they
prescribe further—rather than frustrate—the objectives of the FAA
to honor the parties’ intent to arbitrate and preserve arbitration as a speedy
and effective alternative forum for resolving disputes.” (Ibid.) The Gallo
court noted that there was no federal policy favoring arbitration under a
certain set of procedural rules and that states had liberty to enact some rules
affecting arbitration even though such rules will be arbitration-specific. (Id.
at p. 639.) Sections 1281.97 and 1281.99 were deemed to not be preempted by the
FAA because they neither prohibited nor discouraged arbitration but merely
“define[d] the procedures governing the date by which the party who
drafted an agreement to arbitrate against an employee or consumer must pay the
initial fees and costs to arbitration, and [specified] the consequences
of untimely payment.” (Id. at p. 641.) Thus, Code of Civil Procedure sections
1281.97 and 1281.98 were deemed “akin to a statute of limitation.” (Ibid.)   
 
Two months later in Espinoza v.
Superior Court (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 761, Division One of the
Second District relied on Gallo to conclude that section 1281.97 is not
analogous to state claw preempted by the FAA in other cases.  (Id. at p. 783.) Unlike Gallo,
the arbitration agreement in Espinoza did not broadly incorporate the
Californica Arbitration Act, but the court deemed the CAA applicable by
default.  (Id. at p. 786.)
Accordingly, the court rejected the argument that the FAA preempted section
1281.97.
 
In Hohenshelt v. Superior Court
(2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 1319, Division 8 of the Second District also relied on Gallo
to hold that Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98 is not preempted by the
FAA. Justice Wiley dissented.  He pointed
out that the delay in contract performance might merit sanctions but questioned
why arbitration itself must be “abolished.” 
Pointing out that the U.S. Supreme Court has repeatedly “rebuked
California state law that continues to find new ways to disfavor arbitration,”
(Id. at p. 1327.) Justice Wiley stated that the California statute
singles out arbitration agreements for disfavored treatment:  “No other contracts are voided on a
hair-trigger basis due to tardy performance. Only arbitration contracts face
this firing squad.” (Id. at p. 1328.)
 
In neither Gallo, Espinoza, nor
Hohenshelt, does it appear that the parties expressly incorporated FAA
either substantively or procedurally in the arbitration agreement. But in 
Hernandez v. Sohnen Enterprises, Inc. (2024) 102 Cal.App.5th 222, the arbitration
agreement incorporated the FAA and that “[d]uring arbitration, the parties
could conduct discovery and bring motions under the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure.” (Id. at p. 231.)  In Hernandez,
Division Eight parted company with other panels in the Second
District to find that section 1281.97 of the CAA did not apply, and if it did,
the FAA preempted it. (Id. at p. 238.) The employer in Hernandez failed
to pay arbitration costs within 30 days of the due date and the employee filed
a motion to vacate arbitration under section 1281.97. (Id. at p. 230.)
The trial court granted the employee’s motion to vacate arbitration and the
employer appealed. (Ibid.) On appeal, the employer argued that the FAA
governed the parties’ arbitration agreement and that the FAA preempted CCP §
1281.97. (Ibid.) 
 
The Hernandez majority agreed
with the employer and held that “the arbitration agreement . . . [was] governed
by the FAA, including both the substantive and procedural provisions of the
FAA, rather than California’s arbitration laws.” (Hernandez, supra,
102 Cal.App.5th 222, 230.) The Hernandez court found that the
substantive and procedural provisions of the FAA applied to the arbitration
agreement at issue because the agreement stated that it was “governed by the
FAA” and that such statement was “broad, encompassing both the procedural and
substantive provisions of the FAA.” (Id at p. 241.) The court reasoned
that the arbitration agreement consistently referred to provisions in the FAA
and the parties expressly agreed in the agreement and via stipulation that the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure would apply to the arbitration. (Ibid.)
And importantly, there was “no provision explicitly referring to California law
in the agreement.” (Ibid.) 
 
In its preemption analysis, Hernandez
court also found that section 1281.97 does not further the goals of the FAA
by encouraging or facilitating arbitration because it imposes “a higher
standard for enforcement of arbitration agreements in consumer and employee
disputes” by allowing an employee to avoid arbitration where there is a minor,
inadvertent, or consequential delay. (Id. at p. 243-44.) The Hernandez
court stated a rule of law that “unless the parties have expressly selected
California’s arbitration provisions to apply to their agreement,” the FAA
preempts the portion of section 1281.97 that dictates findings of material
breach and waiver. (Id. at p. 244.) The Hernandez court reversed
the order granting the motion to vacate. (Id. at p. 230.) 
 
Justice Baker dissented. He noted
that the opinion created a conflict with “many other Court of Appeal
decisions,” and opined that the arbitration agreement was “too ambiguous” to
conclude that the FAA applies. He questioned whether the majority’s application
of an “equal-treatment principle” in which arbitration agreements are not
treated differently from other contracts, uses meaningful comparisons. He
concluded that it was a “stretch too far” to say that the FAA is “offended by a
state law that requires prompt payment of arbitration fees.”  (Hernandez, supra,102 Cal.App.5th
at p. 248.)
 
In Keeton v. Telsa, Inc. (2024) 103 Cal.App.5th 26, appellant
Tesla appealed a trial court order finding that Tesla materially breached the
parties’ arbitration agreement under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.98,
and granting appellee Keeton’s motion to vacate arbitration. The parties’
arbitration agreement stated “that all disputes regarding . . . employment
[would] be resolved by binding arbitration conducted by the Judicial
Arbitration and Mediation Services, Inc. (JAMS) under the current rules of JAMS
for employment disputes.” (Id. at p. 30-31.) Nothing in the arbitration
agreement incorporated the FAA.
 
On appeal, Tesla argued that the
trial court erred in finding that the FAA did not preempt section 1281.98. (Keeton,
supra, 103 Cal.App.5th at p. 30.)  In
Keeton, the First District noted that “our high court has yet to decide
whether the FAA preempts section 1281.98, [but] the Second District concluded
in Gallo that an almost identical statute—section 1281.97—was not
preempted by the FAA.” (Id. at p. 35-36.) The Keeton court held
that the FAA does not preempt section 1281.98 and that:  “arbitration-specific state procedural rules
are not preempted where the parties agreed to arbitrate by those rules and the
rules are consistent” with the objective of the FAA. The Keeton court
indicated that even where parties do not explicitly incorporate the CAA
therein, “the procedural provisions of the CAA apply in California courts
by default.” (Id. at p. 38.) The Keeton court held that
“application of section 1281.98 . . . would not undermine the federal policy to
ensure the enforceability, according to their terms, of private agreements to
arbitrate.” (Id. at p. 38.) The Keeton court affirmed the trial
court order granting the motion to vacate arbitration. (Id. at p. 42.) 
.   .   .
 
The division among the appellate decisions
reflects a difference not about the benefits of arbitration, but on whether
legislative efforts to curb abuses of arbitration promote or impede arbitration
as an efficient method of dispute resolution. 
For some, requiring the party that pays its fees late to forfeit the
arbitral forum is extreme, and can be addressed with other sanctions.  On the other hand, the party that pays its
fees late ordinarily has no excuse for being late.  It drafted the arbitration agreement, has
litigated whether arbitration will be compelled, and receives ample time to get
the ball rolling.  One can imagine other time
limits that courts would deem too short. One can imagine a different regime without
a bright line, but a balancing test of whether a delay is unreasonable, or
whether prejudice from delay resulted. 
There will be cases, like this one, in which the asserted reason for the
delay is beyond the paying party’s control, and, if the evidence were
sufficient, might justify extraordinary relief. 

 
The Court finds that arguments on the
two sides of the preemption issue, which will in due course be resolved by our
Supreme Court, well stated. On this issue, judicial modesty is in order. The
Court defers to the Legislature on the drawing of lines.  The Court defers to the majority of Second
District opinions finding no FAA preemption. 
The Court concludes that section 1281.98 does not burden arbitration in
general, because clear rules for facilitating prompt arbitral resolution will,
in the main, make that method fairer and more favored, even if, in individual
cases like this one, arbitration is forfeited. 
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court vacates its order
compelling arbitration in this matter. 
The Court takes under submission Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions.
 