 Case Number:  BC717376    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  14 Instant Motion
 
Plaintiffs now move this court for orders awarding terminating, issue,
and monetary sanctions of $5,161.65 against Defendant Ryan for failure to
comply with discovery. In response, Defendant Ryan seeks monetary sanctions of
$6,960.00.
 
Decision
 
            The motion is DENIED. Defendant Ryan’s
request for sanctions is also DENIED.
 
Governing Statutes
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2023.030 provides in relevant part as follows:
 
“To the extent authorized by the
chapter governing any particular discovery method or any other provision of
this title, the court, after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney,
and after opportunity for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against
anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process:
 
(a) The court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The
court may also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that
another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney
who advised that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by
any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.
 
(b) The court may impose an issue
sanction ordering that designated facts shall be taken as established in the
action in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the
misuse of the discovery process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by
an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process
from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.
…
(d) The court may impose a
terminating sanction by one of the following orders:
 
(1) An order striking out the
pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process.
…
(4) An order rendering a judgment
by default against that party.”
 
            Code of Civil
Procedure § 2023.040 provides:
 
“A request for a sanction shall, in
the notice of motion, identify every person, party, and attorney against whom
the sanction is sought, and specify the type of sanction sought. The notice of
motion shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and
accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any
monetary sanction sought.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2030.300(e) provides:
 
“If a party then fails to obey an
order compelling further response to interrogatories, the court may make those
orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010). In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”
 
Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2031.310(i) provides:
 
“Except as provided in subdivision
(j), if a party fails to obey an order compelling further response, the court
may make those orders that are just, including the imposition of an issue
sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of, or in addition to, that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2031.320(c) provides:
 
“Except as provided in subdivision
(d), if a party then fails to obey an order compelling inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”
 
Discussion
 
            On July 19,
2023, this court granted three motions filed by Plaintiffs: (1) a motion to
compel further responses to interrogatories under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2030.300, (2) a motion to compel further responses to requests for
production under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310, and (3) a motion to
compel compliance under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.320. (Minute Order
of July 19, 2023). Under this order, both responses and monetary sanctions were
due in 30 days. The due date was therefore Friday, August 18, 2023.
 
            Also on
July 19, 2023, the court relieved Defendant Ryan’s former counsel of their role
in representing him. Defendant Ryan retained new counsel on August 2, 2023.
 
            Defendant
Ryan served further responses to the interrogatories and requests for
production on August 16, 2023. (Declaration of Daniel B. Lopez ¶ 9). He
served supplemental responses to the interrogatories and requests for
production on September 5, 2023. (Id. ¶ 11). Those responses indicate that
Defendant Ryan’s prior agreement to produce documents – the basis for the court’s
order on July 19, 2023, to produce them – was made in error. (Id. Exhibit D). According
to the most recent set of responses, Defendant Ryan has quite literally nothing
to produce. (Id.).
 
            The court
cannot punish Defendant Ryan for having nothing to produce. Plaintiffs have
produced no evidence of spoliation. There is no indication that Defendant Ryan
deliberately destroyed any given item of evidence, or that Defendant Ryan is
deliberately concealing any piece of evidence. This court ordered Defendant
Ryan to make further responses and turn over the documents he’d agreed to turn
over. Defendant Ryan made further responses which indicated that his prior
agreement to turn over documents was a mistake. There is no basis for the
imposition of further sanctions.
 
This is not to say that there will
be no practical consequences, only that the consequences are not presently
before this court. A party who refuses to turn over evidence in discovery may
be precluded from introducing it at trial. And discovery responses may be
introduced as evidence at trial. Defendant Ryan is entitled to say that he has no
records of anything, anywhere. And Plaintiffs are entitled to use that response
against him at trial.
 
It would be unjust under the
circumstances to grant Defendant Ryan’s request for sanctions in response. There
is a genuine discrepancy in the responses: Defendant Ryan first agreed to
produce documents, then later told Plaintiffs he hadn’t any. Whether the
miscommunication resulted from the change of counsel or Defendant Ryan’s own substantive
error or some other issue is not material. The reaction is understandable.
 
Conclusion
 
            Defendant
Ryan has not violated any court order, nor can he be compelled to produce documents
he doesn’t have. Therefore, the motion for sanctions is DENIED. Nevertheless, Plaintiffs’
reaction to the sequence of events is understandable, and it would be unjust to
sanction them for bringing the motion. Therefore, Defendant Ryan’s request for
sanctions is also DENIED.