 Case Number:  22STCV05553    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  31  SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  GLENDIS BEKER, Plaintiff(s), vs.  THE HERTZ CORPORATION, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV05553  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 25, 2024  I. BACKGROUND FACTS Plaintiff Glendis Beker (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”) and Romaine Kirlew for injuries arising from an automobile collision.  On February 26, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel further, and ordered Hertz to serve further responses to Plaintiff’s request for production of documents, set one, as to request nos. 5 and 7. (Min. Order, Feb. 26, 2024.) Further, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request for sanctions and ordered Hertz and/or its counsel, jointly and severally, to pay Plaintiff $1,560 in monetary sanctions. (Ibid.) On March 7, 2024, Hertz filed the instant motion for reconsideration, requesting reconsideration of the amount awarded in monetary sanctions in the February 26, 2024 ruling. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Hertz filed a reply.   II. MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION A. Timeliness of Motion CCP § 1008(a) states:   When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. CCP § 1008(a), thus, requires a motion for reconsideration to be filed within ten days after notice of the subject ruling. Hertz filed the motion on March 7, 2024, which is within 10 days of the February 26, 2024 ruling. The motion is therefore timely.    B. Legal Standard CCP § 1008(a), thus, requires the Court to reconsider a prior ruling if it finds there are new or different facts, circumstances, or law than those before the Court at the time of the original ruling.  Once the Court determines the existence of new or different facts, circumstances, of law, it can either modify or affirm its prior decision. (Corns v. Miller (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 195, 202.) The legislative intent was to restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the court some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 150.)  “[A] court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon ‘new or different facts, circumstances, or law.’” (Ibid.) The burden under § 1008 “is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Sup.Ct. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.) There is a strict requirement of diligence, so the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence or different facts earlier.  (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.)    C. Discussion The Court has considered the moving papers, the opposition, and the reply. Based on the Court’s inherent authority to reconsider its own rulings, the Court finds that there was substantial justification for defendant to oppose the motion to compel based on the dispute over privilege. The Court denies the motion for reconsideration based on the failure to provide the requisite showing of new or different facts, circumstances, or law for reconsideration. The Court further denies the request for relief under section 473(b). The Court enters its own order vacating the February 26, 2024 award of monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $1,560.00.  III. CONCLUSION Accordingly, Hertz’ motion for reconsideration is DENIED. The Court enters its own order vacating the February 26, 2024 award of monetary sanctions to Plaintiff in the amount of $1,560.00.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 24th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   