 Case Number:  20STCV48143    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  REINA RESNIK, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV48143  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENSE MENTAL EXAMINATION OF PLAINTIFF   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  April 25, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Reina Resnik (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendants City of Los Angeles (“the City”), County of Los Angeles, State of California, Cherry Street Garage, Los Angeles Convention Center, Staples Center for a slip and fall incident.  At this time, the City moves for an order compelling Plaintiff to appear for a mental examination with neuropsychologist Earl C. Thorndyke, Ph.D., (“Dr. Thorndyke”) at 11835 W. Olympic Blvd., Ste. 1270E, Los Angeles, CA 90064. The City argues Plaintiff testified at deposition that she attributes PTSD, anxiety, an depression to the incident, and that she had been diagnosed as having PTSD with her provider, Dr. Mac. The City argues Plaintiff asserts psychological harm greater than general emotional distress claims.  In opposition, Plaintiff contends that she will not claim any emotional or psychological damages above the routine garden variety, and that she will not claim any neuropsychological treatment received from Dr. Mac either before or after the incident. In reply, the City argues that Plaintiff rejected a stipulation that she would not seek to introduce these claims and damages at trial, thus necessitating the need for this motion. The City asserts it cannot “take their word for it” that Plaintiff and her counsel will not bring claims beyond the typical emotional disturbance from the incident, when Plaintiff will not formally stipulate to the same.  The motion was previously heard on March 28, 2024, wherein the parties were ordered to meet and confer to draft and sign a stipulation giving effect Plaintiff’s representations that she will limit her emotional and mental claims to those usually associated with the physical injuries claimed, and that she will not present expert testimony on these issues at trial pursuant to CCP § 2032.320(c). The Court continued the motion to April 25, 2024, and the City was ordered to notify the Court at least five (5) court days prior to the rescheduled hearing date as to whether the stipulation has been effectuated, and whether this motion will be taken off-calendar. (Min. Order, March 28, 2024.) On April 18, 2024, the City filed notice that the parties met and conferred, but could reach an agreement regarding the stipulation. The City avers Plaintiff only agreed to the language: “Plaintiff is not and will not present at trial any claim for mental and/or emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed in this action. Further, Plaintiff will not present at trial any expert testimony on this usual mental and emotional distress. Plaintiff will not seek to present the testimony of Dr. Mac or any of her medical records with Dr. Mac at trial.” Plaintiff did not agree to the additional language drafted by the City, which provides: “Plaintiff will not present any evidence at trial of a traumatic brain injury, concussion, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, depression, or any other diagnosable mental, emotional, or psychological disorders, including but not limited to, those disorders under the Diagnostic and Statistic Manual of Mental Disorders (“DSM”).” The Court will address the motion and proposed stipulation.    II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENSE MENTAL EXAMINATION Legal Standard Except for defense physicals in personal injury cases (in which one examination is permitted as a matter of course) and exams arranged by stipulation, a court order is required for a physical or mental examination. Such order may be made only after notice and hearing, and for “good cause shown.” (CCP §2032.320(a).) The examination will be limited to whatever condition is “in controversy” in the action.  (CCP §2032.020(a).) This means the examination must be directly related to the specific injury or condition that is the subject of the litigation. (Roberts v. Superior Court (1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)  Often, a party's pleadings put his or her mental or physical condition in controversy ... as when a plaintiff claims continuing mental or physical injury resulting from defendant's acts: “A party who chooses to allege that he has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy.” (See Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 837, wherein the plaintiff claimed ongoing emotional distress from sexual harassment by former employer.) Discovery responses can also frame the issues regarding the injuries and damages alleged. Where the plaintiff's injuries are complex, several exams may be necessary by specialists in different fields. There is no limit on the number of physical or mental exams that may be ordered on a showing of good cause. The good cause requirement checks any potential harassment of the plaintiff. (See Shapira v. Superior Court (1990) 224 Cal.App.3d 1249, 1255.)    Discussion & Conclusion CCP § 2032.320 provides, in relevant part, that if a party stipulates as provided in subdivision (c), the court shall not order a mental examination of a person absent a showing of exceptional circumstances.  Further, CCP § 2032.320(c) states that a stipulation by a party shall include both of the following: “(1) A stipulation that no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress over and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed. (2) A stipulation that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages.” In light of Plaintiff’s representations that she will limit her claims for emotional distress to a “garden variety” ordinarily associated with physical injuries arising from the incident, the Court continued the motion so that the parties may draft a formal stipulation giving effect to the representations Plaintiff has made to this Court. Once a stipulation is signed by the parties, this motion will be rendered moot. However, at issue appears to be the language, “Plaintiff will not present any evidence at trial of a traumatic brain injury, concussion, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, depression, or any other diagnosable mental, emotional, or psychological disorders, including but not limited to, those disorders under the Diagnostic and Statistic Manual of Mental Disorders (“DSM”).” The question is whether this proposed provision was proper.  “Garden-variety emotional distress has been described by one court as “ordinary or commonplace emotional distress,” that which is “simple or usual.”” (Fitzgerald v. Cassil (N.D. Cal. 2003) 216 F.R.D. 632, 637; see also Turner v. Imperial Stores (S.D.Cal.1995) 161 F.R.D. 89, 97 [finding a claim of humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional distress to be a “garden variety” claim and insufficient to warrant a mental examination].) In other words, the determination is whether the mental and emotional condition are incidental to the damages suffered. (Ruhlmann v. Ulster Cnty. Dep't of Soc. Servs. (N.D.N.Y. 2000) 194 F.R.D. 445, 451.) Here, Plaintiff’s injuries arise from a slip and fall at a parking lot. “Garden variety” emotional and mental conditions here would be those ordinarily associated with a slip and fall, and not severe condition that would disrupt Plaintiff’s daily life, such as humiliation and general anguish arising from injuries to her back and ankle. The Court also notes that Plaintiff had objected to the examination notice on the grounds that she has not made any claims of traumatic brain injury. (Mot. Exh. E.) On its face, the proposed additional stipulation specifies non-garden variety conditions for the particular injuries claimed by Plaintiff in this action.  Nonetheless, CCP § 2032.320 provides express language that if the stipulation states no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed, and that no expert testimony regarding usual and emotional distress will be presented at trial, the Court “shall not” order a mental examination. Plaintiff agreed to the relevant portion of the stipulation which provides for this language. The City’s proposed additional language is outside the scope of CCP § 2032.320, and the Court shall not order an examination absent a showing of exceptional circumstances. No exceptional circumstances to override CCP § 2032.320(c) has been provided here.  However, no stipulation has been effectuated to date. Unless a stipulation is filed within the meaning of CCP § 2032.320 (c), the Court must otherwise grant the motion. The Court’s reading of CCP § 2032.320(c) is that it permits a stipulation by “a party.” Therefore, it appears that the defense does not need to sign the stipulation in order for the Court to honor it. The Court wishes to discuss the issue with the parties at the hearing. The tentative will be adjusted accordingly depending on the conversation held.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the Court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 24th day of April 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    