 Case Number:  21STCV40615    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 10/24/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 21STCV40615
Trial Date: 02/07/2025
Case Name: JUAN PEREZ ROJAS, et al. v. CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION,
et al.
COMPEL
FURTHER RESPONSES 
Motion with CRS # 8766
BACKGROUND
Movant,
Cross-Defendant, explains the Background of this case as follows:
This matter arises out of a three-car
traffic accident. Plaintiffs allege that on or about July 18, 2020, Ronald
Wilkinson and Christopher Le were “driving their respective motor vehicles
eastbound on SR-60 in the County of Los Angeles. At that time and place, each
of the defendants so negligently and carelessly entrusted, drove, operated,
controlled, managed, supervised, and maintained their respective motor vehicles
so as to cause them to collide with plaintiffs' vehicle and injure plaintiffs.”
Against CalTrans only, Plaintiffs allege that “defendant CALTRANS, including
the employees and/or agents under its control, were negligent and careless in
the design construction, modification, repair, inspection, operation, and/or
maintenance of the subject roadway that CALTRANS: (1) re-painted the roadway
such that it was difficult for drivers to discern between the new traffic lanes
vs. old traffic lanes; (2) reduced the overall roadway width; and (3) caused
the roadway to exist in an aggressive serpentine manner” resulting in the
incident. On January 6, 2023, Guy F. Atkinson Construction answered C.R.
England and Ronald Wilkinson’s Cross-Complaint. These same entities later
cross-complained against moving party BC Rentals LLC and filed their First
Amended Cross-Complaint on March 27, 2023.
(Mot. p. 3.)
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Cross-Defendant
BC RENTALS LLC (“Cross-Defendant”) hereby does move the Court for an order
compelling Plaintiff KATELYN PEREZ (hereinafter “Plaintiff”) to immediately
produce verified further responses to Cross-Defendant’s special
interrogatories, set one, nos. 1-6; and verified further responses and all
responsive documents in its possession, custody, or control to
Cross-Defendant’s request for production of documents, set one, nos. 1, 11, 12,
16, 43, 49, 50, and 56, without objections. This Motion should be granted
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2030.300, 2031.310, and
2031.320, for the following reasons: Plaintiff waived objections to the subject
discovery demands as they were not served timely (Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2030.290(a) and 2033.280(a)); and, there are no substantive responses
provided. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040, and as detailed
in the accompanying Declaration of Jeffrey Morris, counsel for Cross-Defendant
sent a meet and confer correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel on August 12,
2024, in a good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented
by this Motion. There was no response to the meet and confer effort, thereby
necessitating this Motion. This Motion is based on this Notice; the Memorandum
of Points and Authorities; the concurrently filed Separate Statement; the
Declaration of Jeffrey Morris, and accompanying exhibits; the pleadings and
papers on file in this matter; and such other evidence and argument as is
allowed in connection with this Motion. In addition, it is requested that this
court take notice of the previously filed 12 motions to compel
discovery against plaintiffs.”
(Mot.
p. 1-2.)
Preliminary
Procedural Analysis
Moving
Party: Cross-Defendant, BC Rentals LLC
Responding
Party: No response by Plaintiff, Katelyn Perez
Proof
of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): No – Movant served Plaintiff’s
attorney via electronic transmission at the following four email addresses: (1)
abrown@daydayandbrown.com (2) elizabeth@daydayandbrown.com (3)
megan@daydayandbrown.com (4) admin@daydayandbrown.com. On eCourt, Plaintiff’s
counsel is listed as Trevor Herrera, and Herrera is listed with an email
address of therrera@daydayandbrown.com. Since Movant did not serve the email
address listed on eCourt for Plaintiff’s counsel, the Court will hear argument.
Moving
Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order; Separate Statement
Opposition
Papers: No Opposition
Reply
Papers: No Reply
Improperly
Combining Motions
A motion must be brought separately as to each
discovery method at issue. The instant motion should have been filed as two
separate motions and two filing fees paid. Instead, Cross-Defendant filed only
one motion to compel further responses to two different discovery instruments:
special interrogatories and requests for production. “[P]ayment of filing fees
is both mandatory and jurisdictional.” (Hu vs. Silgan Containers Corp. (1999)
70 Cal. App. 4th 1261, 1269.) 

Two separate hearing reservations should have
been reserved for these two motions to compel further. In the future,
Cross-Defendant is ordered to obtain separate hearing reservations and pay
separate filing fees. 
Combining multiple motions under the guise of
one motion with one hearing reservation manipulates the Court Reservation
System and unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants. Moreover, combining motions
to avoid payment of separate filing fees deprives the Court of filing fees it
is otherwise entitled to collect.
The Court will hear both of the motions pertaining
to CRS # 8766 if Cross-Defendant pays an additional $60 filing fee and provides
proof of payment at the hearing.

LEGAL
STANDARD - COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES
Under CCP § 2017.010, “any party may
obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the
subject matter involved in the pending action..., if the matter either is
itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”  The
Section specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,”
and that discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons
having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence,
description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document,
electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.”
On receipt of a
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any of the
following apply:
(1)   An answer to a particular interrogatory is
evasive or incomplete.
(2)   An exercise of the option to produce documents
under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those
documents is inadequate.
(3)   An objection to an interrogatory is without
merit or too general.
(CCP § 2030.300(a).)
If a timely motion to compel has been filed,
the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection or failure fully
to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court of Contra Costa County (1962) 58
Cal.2d 210, 220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to
interrogatories]; see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22
Cal.4th 245, 255.)  
“While the party propounding interrogatories may have
the burden of filing a motion to compel if it finds the answers it receives
unsatisfactory, the burden of justifying any objection and failure to respond
remains at all times with the party resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541 citing Coy v. Superior Court
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
Furthermore, to the extent there is any doubt in
whether these records should be discoverable, California’s liberal approach to
discovery provides that doubt should be resolved in favor of permitting
discovery. (Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Superior Court (1970) 2
Cal.3d 161, 173.)
The party to whom interrogatories have been propounded
shall respond in writing under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of
the following:
(1) An answer
containing the information sought to be discovered.
(2) An exercise of
the party’s option to produce writings.
(3) An objection to
the particular interrogatory.
 
(CCP § 2030.210(a).)
PROCEDURAL
ANALYSIS
45-Day
Requirement
“Unless notice of this motion is given within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives
any right to compel a further response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.300(c).)
Here, Movant’s motion appears timely. 
Meet and Confer
“A
motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.” (CCP § 2030.300(b)(1).)
Here, Movant included the declaration of Jeffrey
Morris wherein a meet and confer was alleged in ¶5 of the declaration. (Morris
Decl. ¶ 5.) Morris states that no response was received to his meet and confer.
SUBSTANTIVE ANALYSIS SROGs
On
April 29, 2024, Cross-Defendant served Plaintiff, Katelyn Perez, Special
Interrogatories, Set One. Under CCP § 2030.260(a), the party to whom the
interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original responses within 30
days after service of interrogatories. (See CCP § 2030.260(a).) 
Here, Plaintiff did not provide responses until July
14, 2024, which was not within 30 days of service of the interrogatories. Therefore,
Plaintiff waived asserting objections to the responses because the initial
responses were not timely. “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed
fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: (a) The party
to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the
option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to
the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for
work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).” (CCP §
2030.290(a).)
Cross-Defendant seeks to compel further responses to
special interrogatories numbered 1-6. For all 6 of these SROGs, Plaintiff
responded with, “Objection. This interrogatory calls for Plaintiff to conduct
legal analysis and proffer legal conclusions.”
Cross-Defendant argues that further responses are
necessary because Plaintiff waived all objections by serving late responses,
and no substantive response was provided.
The Court finds Cross-Defendant’s argument availing. 
Here, Plaintiff’s responses were untimely; thus,
objections were waived. Further, Plaintiff did not file a motion for relief from
waiver of objections under 2030.290(a). Therefore, Plaintiff’s objections were
improper.
LEGAL STANDARD – COMPEL FURTHER – REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION
Under
CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  The Section specifically provides that
“[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery
or of any other party to the action,” and that discovery “may be obtained of
the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable
matter, as well as of the existence, description, nature, custody, condition
and location of any document, electronically stored information, tangible
thing, or land or other property.”
 
CCP § 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document
inspection may move for an order compelling further responses to the demand if
the demanding party deems that:
“(1)   A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete.
  (2)   A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
  (3)   An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.”  
 
(CCP
§ 2031.310(a).)
 
Under
CCP § 2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”  
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the
request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney
work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
SUBSTANTIVE ANALYSIS RFPs
On
April 29, 2024, Cross-Defendant served Plaintiff, Katelyn Perez, Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One. Plaintiff did not provide responses until
July 14, 2024.
 
Cross-Defendant
seeks to compel further responses to RFPs numbered 1, 11, 12, 16, 43, 49, 50,
and 56.
 
Below,
the Court will include the RFPs at issue and the corresponding responses from
Plaintiff.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1: 
Any and all DOCUMENTS that
demonstrate that BC RENTALS, LLC caused any of the injuries or damages (‘harm’)
allegedly sustained by YOU as a result of the INCIDENT.
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 1: 
Objection. This request calls for
Plaintiff to conduct legal analysis and proffer legal conclusions.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 11:
All DOCUMENTS identified in YOUR
responses to BC RENTALS, LLC’S Form Interrogatories, Set One, propounded to YOU
and served concurrently with this Request.
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 11: 
Objection. This request is overly
broad and unduly burdensome.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 12:
All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO communications
by and between YOU and any of the PARTIES RELATING TO the INCIDENT.
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 12: 
Objection. This request is overly
broad, unduly burdensome, and violative of the attorney-client privilege and
attorney work-product doctrine.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 16:
All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO the
INCIDENT. 
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 16: 
Objection. This request is overly
broad, unduly burdensome, invasive, and violative of the attorney-client privilege
and attorney work-product doctrine.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 43:
Any and all diaries/journals you
kept wherein you reference the facts of how the INCIDENT occurred. 
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 43: 
Objection. This request is invasive,
overly broad, and unduly burdensome.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 49: 
Any and all DOCUMENTS that suggest,
or evidence, that BC RENTALS, LLC breached a duty to YOU. 
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 49: 
Objection. This request calls for
Plaintiff to conduct legal analysis and proffer a legal conclusion.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 50: 
Any and all DOCUMENTS that suggest,
or evidence, that BC RENTALS, LLC caused (i.e., was a substantial factor in
causing) the INCIDENT. 
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 50: 
Objection. This request calls for
Plaintiff to conduct legal analysis and proffer a legal conclusion.
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 56:
All DOCUMENTS identified in YOUR
response to BC RENTALS, LLC’S Special Interrogatories, Set One, propounded to
YOU and served concurrently with this request.
 
RESPONSE TO REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION
NO. 56: 
Objection. This request is overly
broad and unduly burdensome.
 
As
to the aforementioned RFPs (1, 11, 12, 16, 43, 49, 50, and 56), Cross-Defendant
argues that the reason why further responses is warranted is because “Plaintiff
has waived any and all objections by serving late responses per Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.280(a), and no substantive response is
provided.” (Sep. Stmt. p. 4-6.)
 
Here,
the Court will hear argument for the reasons explained below.
 
Movant
is correct to note that by Plaintiff not providing responses within 30 days of
service of the demands, Plaintiff did not provide timely responses; thus,
Plaintiff waived objections. (See CCP § 2031.260(a) and 2031.300(a).)
 
However,
even though Plaintiff improperly asserted objections for her responses,
Cross-Defendant (Movant) was the one with the burden to establish good cause in
this motion.
 
Under
CCP § 2031.310(b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” 
 
“In the more
specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the party who
asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for the request—but
unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of attorney work product,
that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG
Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
Here,
Movant/Cross-Defendant does not attempt to explain a fact-specific showing of
relevance for each RFP at issue in this motion. All that Movant does in its
argument for compelling further responses is point out that Plaintiff improperly
asserted objections; Movant does not attempt to explain a fact-specific showing
of relevance for each RFP at issue.
Further,
Movant did not comply with CRC, Rule 3.1345(c)(4) and 3.1345(c)(5).
For example,
RFP 11 requests “All DOCUMENTS identified in YOUR responses to BC RENTALS,
LLC’S Form Interrogatories, Set One, propounded to YOU and served concurrently
with this Request.” Therefore, RFP 11 appears to implicate CRC, Rule 3.1345(c)(5).
“The separate statement must include-for each discovery request (e.g., each
interrogatory, request for admission, deposition question, or inspection
demand) to which a further response, answer, or production is requested-the
following: If the response to a particular discovery request is dependent on
the response given to another discovery request, or if the reasons a further
response to a particular discovery request is deemed necessary are based on the
response to some other discovery request, the other request and the response to
it must be set forth[.]” (CRC, Rule 3.1345(c)(5).)
RFP 56 also
appears to implicate CRC, Rule 3.1345(c)(5).
Additionally,
RFPs 1, 12, 16, 43, and 50 include the defined term “Incident,” which appears
to implicate CRC, Rule 3.1345(c)(4). “The separate statement must include-for
each discovery request (e.g., each interrogatory, request for admission,
deposition question, or inspection demand) to which a further response, answer,
or production is requested-the following: If necessary, the text of all
definitions, instructions, and other matters required to understand each
discovery request and the responses to it[.]” (CRC, Rule 3.1345(c)(4).)
TENTATIVE RULING MOTION CRS 8766
The Court will hear argument about
the service issue that it pointed out.
The Court
will hear argument about the filing fee issue that it pointed out in the
section titled “Improperly Combining Motions.”
The Court is
inclined to compel further, verified responses without objections to SROGs, Set
One, Numbers 1-6.
The Court
will hear argument as to RFPs, Set One, numbers 1, 11, 12, 16, 43, 49, 50, and
56 based on the Court’s analysis in its section titled “SUBSTANTIVE ANALYSIS
RFPs.”
Sanctions
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2030.300(d).)
 
Except as provided in subdivision (j), the court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP §2031.310(h).)
“The court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).) 
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that the
caption on the notice page requests sanctions in the amount of $1,656.00;
however, the first and only paragraph on the notice page does not indicate that
Cross-Defendant is seeking sanctions.
“A notice of motion must state in the opening
paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the grounds for issuance of
the order.” (CRC, Rule 3.1110(a).)
The Court will hear argument as to this discrepancy
with respect to sanctions not being requested in the opening paragraph.
Cross-Defendant requests sanctions be imposed against
Plaintiff in the amount of $1,656.00. Cross-Defendant argues that there is no
excuse or justification for Plaintiff’s refusal to provide substantive
responses to the subject discovery or include waived objections.
Cross-Defendant’s counsel, Jeffrey Morris, bases this
request on the following: (1) Hourly rate of $230.00; (2) 3.5 hours drafting
moving papers; (3) Anticipating 0.7 hours reviewing opposition papers; (4) 2
hours drafting a Reply; (5) 1 hour attending the hearing. (See Morris Decl. ¶
6.)
The Court will hear argument. The Court notes that no
Opposition was submitted to review, and the Court notes that no reply was
drafted. 
TENTATIVE RULINGS - MOTIONS WITH CRS #
6121, 9230, 9216
Motion
6121, and the issues and analysis implicated therein, is identical to Motion 8766.
The only difference is that the order is sought against Plaintiff, Kevin Perez.
Motion 9230, and the issues and analysis implicated
therein, is identical to Motion 8766. The only difference is that the order is
sought against Plaintiff, Jennifer Navarro.
Motion 9216, and the issues and analysis implicated
therein, is identical to Motion 8766. The only difference is that the order is
sought against Plaintiff, Juan Perez Rojas.
Therefore, with respect to Motions 6121, 9230, and
9216, this Court adopts the same ruling as Motion 8766 with respect to the
preliminary procedural analysis, improperly combining motions, procedural
analysis, substantive analysis SROGs, substantive analysis RFPs, Tentative
Ruling Motion CRS 8766, and Sanctions. 
 
 
 