 Case Number:  23GDCV01105    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23GDCV01105
Hearing Date:  10/24/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ROBIK AGHASIAN; SH SHAHBAZIAN
NORAMAYER; RAZMIK AGHASIAN GHARAEHPET; and RAFIK AGHASIAN GHARAPET v. NINA
SAVARANI, individually and as Trustee of The Edward T. Savarani Living Trust
dated September 6, 2006; ANOOSH STEPANIAN; TIODORE DOE; and DOES 1-50,
inclusive
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKE
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, Nina Savarani
Responding Party: Plaintiffs, Robik Aghasian; Sh Shahbazian
Noramayer, Razmik Aghasian Gharehpet, and Rafik Aghasian Gharapet   

Moving Papers: Notice/Motion; Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule
3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant NINA SAVARANI (“Savarani”) will and
hereby does demur to each cause of action in Plaintiffs’ ROBIK AGHASIAN, SH
SHAHBAZIAN NORAMAYER, RAZMIK AGHASIAN GHARAEHPET, and RAFIK AGHASIAN GHARAPET
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) Complaint. This Demurrer is brought pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure §§ 430.10(e)-(f), on the grounds that Plaintiffs have
failed to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against
Savarani and the Complaint is uncertain as against Savarani. As these defects
cannot be cured, this Demurrer should be sustained without leave to amend.
This Demurrer is based upon this Notice of
Demurrer and Demurrer, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
Declaration of Eileen Keusseyan, the Complaint, including all exhibits attached
thereto, the Court’s records and files in this case, and such oral and
documentary evidence as may be submitted at or before the hearing of this
Demurrer.”
“Def. Notice, p. 2.)

PROCEDURAL
Meet
and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall
be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).)
Defendant’s
counsel sufficiently met and conferred. (See Keusseyan Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.) Defendant’s
counsel notes how Plaintiffs’ counsel never responded to Defendant’s meet and
confer letter. Plaintiffs’ counsel does not address the fact that Defendant’s
counsel stated that Plaintiffs’ counsel did not meet and confer. 
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The
court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it
stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531,
550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard v. Lockheed
Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.) Demurrers do not lie as to
only parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must
dispose of an entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  “Generally it is an
abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is
any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
Plaintiffs – Robik
Aghasian; Sh Shahbazian Norameyer; Razmik Aghasian Gharaehpet; and Rafik
Aghasian Gharapet – filed the instant action on 5/26/2023 against Defendants –
Nina Savarani, individually and as Trustee of The Edward T. Savarani Living
Trust dated September 6, 2006; Anoosh Stepanian; Tiodore Doe; and Does 1-50. 
On
9/13/2023, Plaintiffs amended the fictitious name of Defendant Tiodore Doe
named in the Complaint to Tiodore Pariai.
The
caption of the Complaint lists the causes of action as follows: (1) Breach of
the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, (2) Assault and Battery, (3) Negligence, (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and (5) Trespass.
However,
the body of the Complaint lists the causes of action as follows: (1) Assault
and Battery, (2) Negligence, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
(4) Trespass, (5) Slander Per Se.
Allegations – Generally

Plaintiffs allege that on October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs entered into a written
lease agreement with Edward T. Savarani and Kristine D. Hayrap (husband and
wife) for the lease of real property located at 1134 Irving Ave., #A, Glendale,
CA 91201 (Subject Property). (Compl. ¶ 10.)
[The
Court notes that neither Edward T. Savarani nor Kristine D. Hayrap are
Defendants in this action. The Court also notes that ¶ 10 of the Complaint
alleges that a copy of the lease referred to in ¶ 10 is attached as Exhibit A
to the Complaint; however, there is not a copy of a lease attached to the
Complaint.] 
Generally
speaking, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant(s) showed up at the Subject
Property, demanded payment of rent, called Plaintiff(s) a liar/slurs/names, tried
making Plaintiffs sign a new lease, and gained access to the Subject Property
by false representations. (See Compl. ¶¶ 10-26.) Plaintiffs also allege that
Defendant Tiodore Pariai made threatening gestures toward Plaintiff Robik
Aghasian and physically pushed Plaintiff, and forced his way into the subject
property. (Compl. ¶ 22.) Plaintiffs also allege that both Defendants Teodore
Pariai and Nina Savarani physically forced their way into the Subject Property
against Plaintiffs’ will and without Plaintiffs’ consent. (Id.) 
First Cause of Action – Assault and Battery
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for assault
and battery alleges the following:
27. Plaintiffs reallege
and incorporate herein by this reference, paragraphs 1 through 26, inclusive of
the common allegations as though set forth in full. 
28. On the aforesaid
dates and at the time and place alleged, Defendants Nina Savarani and Tiodore
Doe, and Does 1 through 24, through Defendants Nina Savarani and Tiodore Doe,
improperly, illegally, violently, wantonly, intentionally, negligently, and in
conscious disregard of the rights of the Plaintiff Robik Aghasian, threatened,
assaulted and battered, Plaintiff. All of the aforesaid acts were committed in
the presence of each of the other Plaintiffs, causing them to fear for their
well-being and causing them shock to their nervous systems.
29. As a direct and
proximate result of the acts and conduct of Defendants, and each of them,
described above, Plaintiff Robik Aghasian sustained physical injury and
damages, including but not limited to shock to his nervous system, mental
anguish, physical pain and suffering, and personal humiliation and
embarrassment from the acts and occurrences happening, which cause Plaintiff
Robik Aghasian great mental, physical and nervous pain and suffering. As a
result of such injuries, Plaintiff Robik Aghasian has suffered general damages
in an amount according to proof. 
30. As a further direct
and proximate result of the acts and conduct of defendants, and each of them,
Plaintiff is informed and believes and thereon alleges, that he may incur
medical expenses in the future, the exact amount of which cannot be ascertained
at this time, all to Plaintiffs further damages. When said amounts of past,
present and future hospital and medical are ascertained, Plaintiff will seek
leave of court to amend this complaint and insert said amounts herein. 
31. In committing the
acts and conduct described above, Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian,
Tiodore Doe and Does 1 through 25, inclusive, acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice, and their conduct was despicable conduct, entitling Plaintiff Robik
Aghasian to an award of punitive damages against Defendants, and each of them.
(Compl. ¶¶ 27 – 31.)
Defendant,
Nina Savarani, argues that Plaintiffs did not allege facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is uncertain.
As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that the allegations in
¶¶ 27-31 make it completely uncertain as to what conduct Plaintiffs’ believe is
considered assault and battery. Presumably, since ¶ 27 of the Complaint incorporates
the prior allegations of the Complaint into the first cause of action, the
Plaintiffs are basing their assault and battery allegations off of conduct in
¶¶ 1 – 26 of the Complaint. Further, the Opposition seems to indicate that the
conduct that constitutes assault and battery stem from the allegations in ¶¶
22-23 of the Complaint which allege:

22. Plaintiff Robik
Aghasian advised Defendants Nina Savarani and Teodore Doe that it was late in
the afternoon, that there was no need to change the locks on the front door,
and that they could not enter the subject property. Defendants did not change the
locks, but insisted on entry into the subject property. Defendant Tiodore Doe
made threatening physical gestures toward Plaintiff Robik Aghasian and
physically pushed Plaintiff, and forced his way into the subject property. Both
Defendants Teodore Doe and Nina Savarani physically forced their way into the
subject property against Plaintiffs' will and without Plaintiffs' consent.
Defendants further stole a key to the subject property from Plaintiff Robik
Aghasian's possession. 
23. Plaintiffs Sh
Shahbazian Noramayer, Razmik Aghasian Gharehpet, and Rafik Aghasian Gharapet
were present inside the subject property, were subjected to Defendants
intrusion and harassing, threatening conduce and were placed in fear of their
safety and well-being by the aggressive and threatening behavior of Defendants
Nina Savarani and Teodore Doe.
(Compl. ¶¶ 22-23.)
The
elements of civil battery are: (1) defendant intentionally performed an act
that resulted in a harmful or offensive contact with the plaintiff’s person;
(2) plaintiff did not consent to the contact; and
(3) the harmful or offensive contact caused injury,
damage, loss, or harm to plaintiff. (Brown v. Ransweiler (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 516, 526-527 (Brown) citing Piedra v. Dugan (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 1483, 1495.) 
The elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) the defendant
acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch
the plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) the
plaintiff reasonably believed he was about to be touched in a harmful or
offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to the plaintiff that the defendant
was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff
did not consent to the defendant’s conduct; (4) the
plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm. (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 890 citing So v. Shin (2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.)
 
As to the first element of both assault and battery, the Court finds
that Plaintiffs did not sufficiently allege that element.

 
The first
sentence of Paragraph 28 of the Complaint simply states, “On the aforesaid
dates and at the time and place alleged, Defendants Nina Savarani and Tiodore
Doe, and Does 1 through 24, through Defendants Nina Savarani and Tiodore Doe,
improperly, illegally, violently, wantonly, intentionally, negligently, and in
conscious disregard of the rights of the Plaintiff Robik Aghasian, threatened,
assaulted and battered, Plaintiff.” (Compl. ¶ 28.) The court “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” 
(Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) Plaintiffs’
allegations that Defendants intentionally assaulted and battered Plaintiff is a
conclusion of law. Further, Plaintiffs should specify which act(s) they are
alleging that Defendant(s) intentionally performed that resulted in a harmful
or offensive contact with the Plaintiff’s person (element 1 of battery).
Plaintiff should also allege the first element of an assault cause of action. 
 
Further,
as to the second element of battery, it is arguable that Plaintiffs alleged
that element in ¶ 22 of the Complaint by stating, “Both Defendants Teodore Doe
and Nina Savarani physically forced their way into the subject property against
Plaintiffs' will and without Plaintiffs' consent.” (Compl. ¶ 22.) However,
element 2 was not alleged in ¶¶ 27-31 of the Complaint; therefore, it would be
helpful for Plaintiffs to allege the second element of battery under the
allegations for the first cause of action in ¶¶ 27-31.
 
The second
element of a cause of action for assault was not alleged in the Complaint.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION – ASSAULT AND BATTERY
The demurrer to the first cause of action for
assault and battery is SUSTAINED with leave to amend granted. Plaintiffs did
not allege facts sufficient to constitute those causes of action.
 
While the
Court is sustaining the demurrer to assault and battery on the grounds that
Plaintiffs did not allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, the
Court notes that Plaintiffs draft their Complaint in a fairly uncertain manner.
Plaintiffs make general allegations that are common to all causes of action,
and those allegations precede each individual cause of action in the Complaint.
Although Plaintiffs incorporate those general allegations into each cause of
action that is specifically enumerated, it would be helpful for Plaintiffs to
explicitly allege the conduct that they believe constitutes each cause of
action into the allegations where each cause of action is specifically
enumerated. This will make it more certain for Defendants and the Court to
understand what Plaintiffs consider to be the allegations for each cause of
action.
 
Further,
Plaintiffs are ordered to clear up the discrepancy between the caption of the
Complaint stating that the first cause of action is breach of the covenant of
quiet enjoyment, yet the first cause of action in the body being assault and
battery. To the Court’s understanding, based on Plaintiffs’ Opposition not
attempting to argue that they are in fact bringing a cause of action for breach
of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, the Court assumes that Plaintiffs are not
brining a cause of action for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment.
 
While not
necessary, the Court notes that it would also be helpful for Plaintiffs to
divide their cause of action for assault and battery into two distinct causes
of action because then, if Defendant demurs again, the Court and Defendant
could easily distinguish between the two causes of action and what conduct
Plaintiffs believe go to each cause of action.
 
 
 
Second
Cause of Action – Negligence
The only paragraphs listed under Plaintiffs’
second cause of action for negligence are paragraphs 32 and 33, and those
paragraphs allege the following:
 
32.
Plaintiffs reallege and incorporate herein by this reference paragraphs 1
through 26, inclusive of the general allegations, as though set forth in full. 
 
33.
Defendants, and each of them, owed Plaintiffs a duty of due care. Defendants,
and each of them, breached their duty of care proximately causing Plaintiffs'
injuries and damages as herein before set forth.
 
(Compl. ¶¶
32-33.)
 
Defendant,
Nina Savarani, argues that Plaintiffs did not allege facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is uncertain.
As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that the allegations in ¶¶ 32-33 make it
uncertain as to what conduct Plaintiffs believe is considered negligence.
Presumably, since ¶ 32 of the Complaint incorporates the prior allegations of
the Complaint into the second cause of action, the Plaintiffs are basing their negligence
allegations off of conduct in ¶¶ 1 – 26 of the Complaint. 
“To
succeed in a negligence action, the plaintiff must show that (1) the defendant
owed the plaintiff a legal duty, (2) the defendant breached the duty, and (3)
the breach proximately or legally caused (4) the plaintiff's damages or
injuries.” (Thomas v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)
Further, as explained in Giacometti v. Aulla,
LLC:
To state a cause of action for professional negligence, a party must show “(1)
the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as
other members of
the profession commonly possess and exercise;
(2) breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection between
the negligent conduct and
the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional negligence.” (Nichols v. Keller (1993)
15 Cal.App.4th 1672, 1682, 19 Cal.Rptr.2d 601.) “The threshold element of
a cause of action for negligence is the existence of a duty to use due care
toward an interest of another that enjoys legal protection against
unintentional invasion.” (Bily v. Arthur Young & Co. (1992)
3 Cal.4th 370, 397, 11 Cal.Rptr.2d 51, 834 P.2d 745 (Bily ).)
(Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.)
“While
negligence is ordinarily a question of fact, the existence of a duty is
generally a question of law that may be addressed by demurrer.” (Paul v.
Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1095.)
Additionally, as stated in Parsons:
Some of the considerations that
courts have employed in various contexts to determine the existence and scope
of duty are: “the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of
certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection
between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame
attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the
extent of the burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of
imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the
availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.
(Parsons v. Crown
Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 472-73.)
In
Plaintiffs’ Opposition to Defendant’s demurrer, Plaintiffs cite to various
paragraphs within paragraphs 10-24 of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. Then, Plaintiffs conclude,
“It is clear from the allegations that Defendant Savarani was acting as
landlord or owner of the subject property on her own behalf or on behalf of
Edward T. Savarani, an ownership interest that was subject to Plaintiff’s lease.”
(Pl. Oppo. p. 10-11.) 
The
Court notes that Plaintiffs’ Opposition is unhelpful to the Court.
TENTATIVE RULING – SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION – NEGLIGENCE
Defendant’s demurrer to
the second cause of action for negligence is SUSTAINED on grounds of failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and on grounds of
uncertainty. Leave to amend is granted.
First,
it would be helpful if Plaintiffs indicate whether or not they are bringing a
cause of action for negligence or professional negligence. While distinguishing
the difference between the two does not appear to be necessary for this hearing
on a demurrer, either way, it is unclear what conduct of each Defendant
Plaintiffs are basing their negligence cause of action on for each Defendant.
Further, it is entirely unclear based on the Complaint what allegations for
each Defendant gives rise to a duty for each Defendant.
Plaintiffs’
Opposition briefly mentions how Defendant Savarani was acting as a landlord of
the Subject Property. However, this is the only argument that Plaintiffs make.
This still makes it unclear if Plaintiffs are arguing that Defendant(s) are
liable for some type of professional negligence based on allegations in the
general allegations, or if Plaintiffs are arguing that Defendant(s) should be
liable for some type of negligence based on physical injuries.
A
special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will
only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him/her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
Here,
not only is it entirely uncertain what conduct by each Defendant that
Plaintiffs believe give rise to a duty to Plaintiffs, but it is entirely uncertain
what conduct Plaintiffs are alleging to be a breach of duty for each Defendant.
Therefore, at the very least, Plaintiffs did not allege the first and second
elements of a negligence cause of action, and it is entirely uncertain as to
what conduct Plaintiffs believe is the basis for the first and second elements
of a negligence cause of action.
Further,
although Plaintiffs incorporate their general allegations into each cause of
action that is specifically enumerated, it would be helpful for Plaintiffs to
explicitly allege the conduct that they believe constitutes each cause of
action into the allegations where each cause of action is specifically
enumerated. This will make it clearer for Defendants and the Court to
understand what Plaintiffs consider to be the allegations for each cause of
action.
Third Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress alleges the following:
34. Plaintiffs reallege
and incorporate herein by this reference Paragraphs 1 through 26, inclusive, of
the common allegations as though set forth in full.
35. Defendants' acts and
conduct, as herein alleged, was [sic] knowing, intentional, willful and done
with a reckless disregard of the probability of causing Plaintiffs harm or
emotional distress. 
36. As a proximate
result of Defendants' conduct, as alleged herein, Plaintiffs suffered extreme
mental anguish and emotional and physical distress, all to their general damage
in an amount not yet ascertained, but in excess of $100,000, the exact amount
of which will be alleged when fully ascertained. 
37. By reason of
Defendants' acts and conduct, including, but not limited to the acts and
conduct alleged herein, by and through Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh
Stepanian and Tiodore Doe and their conscious disregard for Plaintiffs [sic]
rights, Defendants' acts and conduct were malicious and oppressive, in that it
was conduct carried on by the Defendants, and each of them, in willful and
conscious disregard of Plaintiffs' rights and subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and
unjust hardship. Plaintiffs are therefore entitled to recover punitive damages
from Defendants, and each of them, in an amount according to proof, to set an
example of Defendants and to deter such future conduct.
(Compl. ¶¶ 34 – 37.)
Defendant, Nina
Savarani, argues that Plaintiffs did not allege facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action and that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is uncertain.
As a preliminary matter,
the Court notes that the allegations in ¶¶ 34-37 make it uncertain as to what
conduct Plaintiffs’ believe is considered intentional infliction of emotional
distress. Presumably, since ¶ 34 of the Complaint incorporates the prior
allegations of the Complaint into the first cause of action, the Plaintiffs are
basing their intentional infliction of emotional distress allegations off of
conduct in ¶¶ 1 – 26 of the Complaint. In Opposition, Plaintiffs simply argue
that Defendant’s demurrer refuses to acknowledge the factual underpinnings of
paragraphs 10 – 26 that support each cause of action. 
The Court does not find
Plaintiffs’ argument availing.
The
case of Yau v. Santa Margarita
Ford, Inc. describes the elements
of an IIED claim:

“ ‘ “[T]o state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress a plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the
defendant; (2) the defendant's intention of causing or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ [Citation.] ‘
“Conduct, to be ‘ “outrageous” ’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” ’ [Citation.] In order to
avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must allege with ‘great[ ] specificity’
the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized community. [Citation.]” (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 819,
832, 166 Cal.Rptr.3d 242 (Vasquez ).)
(Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160-61.)
A
special demurrer for uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will
only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably
respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him/her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
While
Plaintiffs seem to be arguing that the conduct in the general allegations of
the Complaint in paragraphs 10 -26 are the basis for all of their causes of
action, this is unhelpful to the Court. Those paragraphs consist of a broad
range of conduct by each Defendant.
It
is uncertain what conduct Plaintiffs believe to be the outrageous conduct by
each Defendant in paragraphs 10-26 when paragraphs 10-26 consists of a broad
range of conduct that varies for each Defendant.
TENTATIVE RULING THIRD CAUSE OF ACTION – IIED
Defendant’s demurrer to
the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress is
SUSTAINED on grounds of failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action and on grounds of uncertainty. Plaintiffs are granted leave to amend.
At
the very least, Plaintiffs did not allege the first element of IIED, and it is
entirely uncertain what conduct Plaintiffs believe constitutes the first
element of an IIED claim for any Defendant.
Further,
although Plaintiffs incorporate their general allegations into each cause of
action that is specifically enumerated, it would be helpful for Plaintiffs to
explicitly allege the conduct that they believe constitutes each cause of
action into the allegations where each cause of action is specifically
enumerated. This will make it more clear for Defendants and the Court to
understand what Plaintiffs consider to be the allegations for each cause of
action.
Fourth Cause of Action – Trespass
Plaintiffs’ fourth cause
of action for trespass alleges the following:
38. Plaintiffs reallege and incorporate herein by this reference
Paragraphs 1 through 26, inclusive, of the common allegations as though set
forth in full. 
39. At all times herein mentioned, Plaintiffs were the possessors
and occupiers of the subject property. At all times concerned herein,
Plaintiffs did not give any consent nor authority to any of the Defendants to
enter upon or into the subject property and on the one occasion when Defendant
Nina Savarani and the real estate agents entered, with the consent of
Plaintiffs, said consent was wrongfully obtained and would not have been given
except for said Defendants' misrepresentations, and nondisclosure and suppression
of material facts. Any such entry, therefore, would be without such consent and
with no legal or other cause.
40. At the aforesaid times Defendants, Nina Savarani, Anoosh
Stepanian, Tiodore Doe and Does 1 through 25, entered upon and into the subject
property without any consent or authority from Plaintiffs and threatened,
intimidated and harassed Plaintiffs, and each of them 
41. As a direct and proximate result of the acts and conduct of
Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiffs suffered the damages as set forth
herein above. 
42. The trespass of Defendants, and each of them, through
Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, Tiodore Doe, and Does 1 through 10,
inclusive, was malicious and oppressive, in that it was conduct carried on by
the Defendants, and each of them, in willful and conscious disregard of
Plaintiffs' rights and subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship.
Plaintiffs are therefore entitled to recover punitive damages from Defendants,
and each of them, in an amount according to proof, to set an example of
Defendants and to deter such future conduct.
(Compl.
¶¶ 38 – 42.)
Defendant,
Nina Savarani, argues that Plaintiffs did not allege facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and that Plaintiffs’ Complaint is uncertain.
As
stated in Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants,
Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245:
“Trespass is an unlawful interference with possession of
property.” ( *262 Staples v. Hoefke (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d
1397, 1406, 235 Cal.Rptr.
165.) The elements of trespass are: (1) the
plaintiff's ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant's
intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property;
(3) lack of permission for
the entry or acts in excess of permission;
(4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing
the harm. (See CACI No. 2000.)
(Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 261-62.)
Here,
at the very least, Plaintiffs did not allege the second element of a trespass
cause of action. Plaintiffs did not allege the entry onto the property was
intentional, reckless, or negligent.
Defendant’s
argument that Plaintiffs did not allege lack of consent/lack of permission (the
third element of a trespass claim) is unavailing. Defendant’s argument attempts
to construe Plaintiffs’ Complaint as essentially admitting that Savarani had
consent to enter the property; however, the Complaint explicitly mentions that
Defendants did not have consent to enter the property in paragraph 40 of the
Complaint. 
TENTATIVE RULING – FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION – TRESPASS
Defendant’s demurrer to
the fourth cause of action for trespass is SUSTAINED on grounds of failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Plaintiffs did not
allege the second element of a trespass claim, i.e., Plaintiffs did not allege
that the entry onto the property was intentional, reckless, or negligent.
Defendant’s argument that Plaintiffs did not allege the third element of a
trespass claim (lack of consent/permission) is unavailing. Plaintiffs are
granted leave to amend.
Further,
the Court notes that there is some uncertainty in the fourth cause of action.
In relevant part of ¶ 39 of the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege, “At all times
concerned herein, Plaintiffs did not give any consent nor authority to any of
the Defendants to enter upon or into the subject property and on the one
occasion when Defendant Nina Savarani and the real estate agents entered, with
the consent of Plaintiffs, said consent was wrongfully obtained and would not
have been given except for said Defendants' misrepresentations, and
nondisclosure and suppression of material facts.” (Compl. ¶ 39.)
Based
on the allegation quoted above in ¶ 39, it would seem to imply that the
trespass claim is based on this one occasion of allegedly trespassing
based on Defendants’ misrepresentations. 
However,
in ¶ 40 of the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege, “At the aforesaid times
Defendants, Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, Tiodore Doe and Does 1 through 25,
entered upon and into the subject property without any consent or authority
from Plaintiffs and threatened, intimidated and harassed Plaintiffs, and each
of them [.]” (Compl. ¶ 40.)
Therefore,
there seems to be some uncertainty as to whether Plaintiffs are alleging there
to be one incident of trespass as indicated in ¶39, or if there
are several instances of trespass based on the reference to multiple times
referenced in ¶ 40.
Not only is there this discrepancy as to whether or
not the trespass claim is based on the sole incident alleged in ¶ 39, there
also seems to be an allegation in ¶ 16 of the Complaint wherein Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant entered Plaintiffs’ Subject property. However, it is
unclear based on the allegations in ¶¶ 38 – 42 if this incident in ¶ 16 is also
a basis of the trespass allegations.
Therefore, it would be helpful for Plaintiffs to
identify each specific allegation that they believe to be trespass. 
Regardless of the uncertainty, at the very least,
Defendant’s demurrer is successful because the Court fails to see where
Plaintiffs alleged the second element of a trespass claim, i.e., the Court
fails to see where Plaintiffs alleged that the entry onto the property was intentional,
reckless, or negligent.
Fifth Cause of Action – Slander Per Se
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause
of action for slander per se alleges the following:
43. Plaintiffs reallege and incorporate herein by this reference
Paragraphs 1 through 26, inclusive, of the common allegations as though set
forth in full. 
44. Within two years of the filing of the complaint in the
above-entitled action, Defendants and each them as herein alleged, in the
presence of Plaintiffs Sh Noramayer Shahbazian, Razmik Aghasian Gharehpet, and
Rafik Aghasian Gharapet said Defendants made the statements and accusations in
paragraphs 16 and 17 herein above, pertaining to Plaintiff Robik Aghasian. 
45. The statements were and are false and slanderous per se. 
46. As a proximate result of the slanderous statements by
Defendants, and each of them herein, Defendant Robik Aghasian sustained general
damages as herein set forth, the exact amount which will be alleged when
ascertained. 
47. In committing the acts and conduct described above, Defendants
Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, and Does 1 through 25, inclusive, acted with
oppression, fraud, or malice, and their conduct was despicable conduct,
entitling Plaintiff Robik Aghasian to an award of punitive damages against
Defendants, and each of them.
(Compl.
¶¶ 43 – 47.)
Since
the allegations in ¶ 44 indicate that the slander claim is based on ¶¶ 16-17 of
the Complaint, the Court includes those allegations below:
16. Upon his return he found Defendants Nina Savarani and Anoosh
Stepanian inside his home sitting on the couch waiting for him to return. In
his presence, Defendant Anoosh Stepanian told Robik Aghasian's mother,
Plaintiff Sh Noramayer Shahbazian that Robik Aghasian was a "liar",
an animal and that he was a low life criminal, that he had low morals, low
ethics and had "no standards." Plaintiff Robik Aghasian had never met
nor interacted with either Defendant Nina Savarani or Anoosh Stepanian and was
therefore puzzled, offended, hurt and humiliated by these statements.
17. At the aforesaid time and place, Defendant Nina Savarani
produced a new "blank" lease agreement claiming that Plaintiff Robik
Aghasian had to sign, that the "court ordered it." Defendant Anoosh
Stepanian told Plaintiff Robik Aghasian, "come sit here you fucking liar
and sign this." Defendant Anoosh Stepanian produced a document that had
blank spaces that were not filled in and he saw the words, "Lease
Agreement." Plaintiff Robik Aghasian asked for some proof that either
Defendant owned the subject property. Plaintiff further said that he wanted to
take a picture of the documents, but they told him that he could only sign
it-not take a picture of it. Plaintiff Robik Aghasian refused to sign the blank
document and told said Defendants that as soon as he saw a paper form the
court, that he would sign it.
(Compl. ¶¶ 16-17.)
Defendant first argues that none of the statements that Plaintiffs
claim to be defamatory were said by Defendant Savarani, and instead the
Complaint alleges that Defendant Anoosh Stepanian made the alleged statements.
Defendant also argues that the Complaint does not establish that Defendant
Anoosh Stepanian was acting as Savarani’s agent or under her control.
 
In Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s argument is unavailing
because the Complaint alleges that Defendant Anoosh Stepanian was acting on
behalf of Defendant Savarani.
 
Here, the Court does not find Defendant’s argument availing that
Plaintiff did not sufficiently allege that Defendant Anoosh Stepanian was
Defendant Savarani’s agent.
 
First, Defendant did not cite any legal authority as to what
Plaintiffs must in fact allege at the pleading stage for Plaintiffs to
successfully allege agency amongst the Defendants.
 
Upon the Court’s own perusal of case law, the Court found the two
cases below.
 
As to
alleging agency at the pleading stage, “An allegation of agency is an
allegation of ultimate fact that must be accepted as true for purposes of
ruling on a demurrer.” (City of Industry v. City of Filmore (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 191, 212-13.) “We have already noted, however, that an allegation
of agency as such is a statement of ultimate fact. Consequently further
allegations explaining how this fact of agency originated become unnecessary.”
(Skopp v. Weaver (1976) 16 Cal.3d 432, 439.)
 
Paragraph
7 of the Complaint alleged, “Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and thereon
allege that at all times herein mentioned, Defendants Anoosh Stepanian, Tiodore
Doe engaged in their acts and conduct as herein alleged as agents of Defendant
Nina Savarani, Trust and Does 1 through 5, inclusive, were and now are the
employees, agents, servants and representatives of Defendant Trust and Nina
Savarani and Does 1 through 5, inclusive, and in doing the things herein
alleged, were acting within the course and scope of their agency and
employment.” (Compl. ¶ 7.)
 
Therefore,
it appears that Plaintiffs alleged that Defendants Anoosh and Tiodore were
agents of Defendant Nina Savarani.
 
Setting
aside the issue of agency, the Court turns to the merits as to whether or not
slander per se was successfully alleged.
 
“Slander
is a form of defamation (Civ.Code, § 44), consisting of a false and
unprivileged oral publication (Civ.Code, § 46).” (City of Costa Mesa v.
D’Alessio Investments, LLC (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 358, 375.)
 
As stated
in Civil Code § 46:
 
Slander is
a false and unprivileged publication, orally uttered, and also communications
by radio or any mechanical or other means which:
 
1. Charges
any person with crime, or with having been indicted, convicted, or punished for
crime;
2. Imputes
in him the present existence of an infectious, contagious, or loathsome
disease;
3. Tends
directly to injure him in respect to his office, profession, trade or business,
either by imputing to him general disqualification in those respects which the
office or other occupation peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with
reference to his office, profession, trade, or business that has a natural
tendency to lessen its profits;
4. Imputes
to him impotence or a want of chastity; or
5. Which,
by natural consequence, causes actual damage.
 
(Civil
Code § 46.)
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that neither Defendant nor Plaintiffs’
papers help the Court determine whether or not Plaintiffs successfully alleged
a cause of action for slander per se.
 
While not
entirely clear, it appears that based on the allegations in ¶¶ 16, that the
allegations by which Plaintiffs intend to hold Defendant liable for slander are
for Defendant Anoosh Stepanian telling Plaintiff Robik Aghasian’s mother
(Plaintiff Sh Noramayer Shahbazian) that Plaintiff Robik Aghasian was a liar,
an animal, a low life criminal, that he had low morals, low ethics, and had no
standards.
 
The
concern that the Court has, and that neither party brings up in any type of
comprehensible manner, is whether or not these allegations can serve as a basis
for a slander cause of action.
 
The Court
cites the parties to Balla v. Hall:
 
“Though
mere opinions are generally not actionable,” a “statement that implies a false
assertion of fact is actionable.” (Issa v. Applegate (2019) 31
Cal.App.5th 689, 702, 242 Cal.Rptr.3d 809 (Issa); McGarry,
supra, 154 Cal.App.4th at p. 112, 64 Cal.Rptr.3d 467 [“ ‘[s]imply
couching such statements in terms of opinion does not dispel these [false,
defamatory] implications’ ”].) “ ‘[I]t is not the literal truth or falsity of
each word or detail used in a statement which determines whether or not it
is defamatory; rather, the determinative question is whether the “gist or
sting” of the statement is true or false, benign or defamatory, in
substance.’ ” (Issa, at p. 702, 242 Cal.Rptr.3d 809; cf. Grenier
v. Taylor (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 471, 486, 183 Cal.Rptr.3d
867 [“rhetorical hyperbole, vigorous epithets, lusty and imaginative
expressions of contempt and language used in a loose, figurative sense will not
support a defamation action”].)
 
“The
‘pertinent question’ is whether a ‘reasonable fact finder’ could conclude that
the statements ‘as a whole, or any of its parts, directly made or sufficiently
implied a false assertion of defamatory fact that tended to
injure’ plaintiff's reputation.’ ” (Issa, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p.
703, 242 Cal.Rptr.3d 809.) “We apply a ‘ “totality of the circumstances” ’ test
to determine whether a statement is fact or opinion, and whether a statement
declares or implies a provably false factual assertion; that is, courts look to
the words of the statement itself and the context in which the statement was
made.” (Ibid.) Under this test, “ ‘ “[f]irst, the language of the
statement is examined. For words to be defamatory, they must be understood in a
defamatory sense ....[¶] Next, the context in which the statement was made must
be considered.” ’ [Citation.] Whether challenged statements convey
the requisite factual imputation is ordinarily a question of law for the
court.” (Ibid.)
 
(Balla
v. Hall (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th 652, 677-68.)
 
Here,
while Plaintiffs allege that one of the Plaintiffs was called – a liar, an
animal, a low life criminal, that he had low morals, low ethics, and had no
standards – the Court fails to see how the statements about having low morals,
low ethics, and no standards can be provably false. 
 
Therefore,
that would leave the Court with the statements that one of the Plaintiffs was
called a liar, an animal, and a low life criminal.
 
With
respect to the “liar” accusation, the Court has its doubts because there is no
context in the Complaint as to what Defendant(s) allegedly called Plaintiff(s)
a liar with respect to. Therefore, the Court has doubts as to how Plaintiff(s)
can show he/she is not a liar when the Complaint does not indicate what
Defendant(s) even accused Plaintiff(s) lying about.
 
Further,
the Court has doubts as to the accusation of calling Plaintiff “an animal.”
Based on the Court’s limited understanding of biology, all humans are in fact
animals.
 
As to the
allegation of Plaintiff being a “low life criminal,” Civil Code § 46 states
that “Slander is a false and unprivileged publication, orally uttered, and also
communications by radio or any mechanical or other means which: 1. Charges
any person with crime, or with having been indicted, convicted, or punished for
crime.” 
 
As to the
“criminal” allegation, that appears to be the statement that has the best
chance at successfully alleging a cause of action for defamation. 
 
Overall,
the Court will hear argument as to the demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for slander per se.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING – FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION – SLANDER PER SE
The Court will hear argument as to the fifth
cause of action for slander per se and whether or not leave to amend should be
granted.
 



OTHER ISSUES
Untimely Opposition
Defendant is correct to
note that the Opposition to this demurrer was due on October 11, 2024;
therefore, Plaintiffs’ Opposition that was submitted on October 16, 2024 was
untimely.
Defendant
notes that since Plaintiffs filed their Opposition on October 16, 2024,
Defendant was only left with 31 hours to prepare and file a Reply because the
deadline to file a Reply was October 17, 2024.
Defendant
argues that in the event that this Court is inclined to deny the demurrer,
Defendant respectfully requests a continuance of the demurrer hearing to allow
for additional time to submit a supplemental reply. 
Here,
the Court will hear argument because the Court tentatively plans to sustain the
demurrer with leave to amend as to the first through fourth causes of action.
Therefore, based on the hearing, it seems as if the only potential cause of
action that the Court may “deny the demurrer” to is the fifth cause of action. 
Uncertainty
Plaintiffs’ Opposition
argues that Defendant did not submit a notice that she was demurring for
uncertainty; therefore, this demurrer is only a general demurrer.
The
Court finds Plaintiffs’ argument unavailing. Defendant’s notice explicitly
mentions that one of the grounds Defendant is demurring on is uncertainty and
CCP § 430.10(f).
MOTION
TO STRIKE

PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Defendant, Nina Savarani
Responding
Party: No Opposition by Plaintiffs
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: No
Opposition by Plaintiffs
Reply Papers: Notice of
Non-Opposition
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant NINA SAVARANI (“Savarani”) will and
hereby does move this Court for an Order striking any and all references in
Plaintiffs’ ROBIK AGHASIAN, SH SHAHBAZIAN NORAMAYER, RAZMIK AGHASIAN
GHARAEHPET, and RAFIK AGHASIAN GHARAPET (collectively “Plaintiffs”) Complaint
that implicate and/or directly request punitive damages and the recovery of
attorneys’ fees Specifically, Savarani respectfully requests that the following
statements in Plaintiffs’ Complaint be stricken as to Savarani:
1. Page 1, line 14,
caption of Complaint, which states: “Breach of the Covenant of Quiet
Enjoyment.” 
2. Page 4, lines 1-3,
paragraph 11, which states: “The Lease contains an express covenant of peaceful
possession and quiet enjoyment of the subject property. Furthermore, the lease
contains an attorney fee provision, entitling the prevailing party to attorneys’
fees incurred herein.” 
3. Page 8, lines 13-17,
paragraph 31, which states: “In committing the acts and conduct described
above, Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, Tiodore Doe and Does 1
through 25, inclusive, acted with oppression, fraud, or malice, and their
conduct was despicable conduct, entitling Plaintiff Robik Aghasian to an award
of punitive damages against Defendants, and each of them.” 
4. Page 9, lines 8-16,
paragraph 37, which states: “By reason of Defendants’ acts and conduct,
including, but not limited to the acts and conduct alleged herein, by and
through Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian and Tiodore Doe and their
conscious disregard for Plaintiffs rights, Defendants’ acts and conduct were
malicious and oppressive, in that it was conduct carried on by the Defendants,
and each of them, in willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights and
subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship. Plaintiffs are therefore
entitled to recover punitive damages from Defendants, and each of them, in an
amount according to proof, to set an example of Defendants and to deter such
future conduct.” 
5. Page 10, lines 6-12,
paragraph 42, which states: “The trespass of Defendants, and each of them,
through Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, Tiodore Doe, and Does 1
through 10, inclusive, was malicious and oppressive, in that it was conduct
carried on by the Defendants, and each of them, in willful and conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights and subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust
hardship. Plaintiffs are therefore entitled to recover punitive damages from
Defendants, and each of them, in an amount according to proof, to set an
example of Defendants and to deter such future conduct.” 
6. Page 10, lines
26-28, page 11, lines 1-2, paragraph 47 which states: “In committing the acts
and conduct described above, Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, and
Does 1 through 25, inclusive, acted with oppression, fraud, or malice, and
their conduct was despicable conduct, entitling Plaintiff Robik Aghasian to an
award of punitive damages against Defendants, and each of them.” 
7. Page 11, line 8,
paragraph 3, which prays: “For punitive and exemplary damages according to
proof.” 
8. Page 11, line 13,
paragraph 1, which prays: “For reasonable attorneys’ fees.” This Motion is made
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §§ 435 and 436. 
This Motion is based
upon this Notice, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
Declaration of Eileen Keusseyan, the Complaint, including all exhibits attached
thereto, the Court’s records and files in this case, and such oral and
documentary evidence as may be submitted at or before the hearing of this
Motion.”
(Def. Notice, p. 2-3.)
Meet and
Confer
Before filing a motion
to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in
person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be
reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If
an amended pleading is filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again
with the party who filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike
the amended pleading. (CCP §435.5(a).)
Here, Defendant’s
counsel successfully met and conferred. (Keusseyan Decl. ¶¶ 3-6.)
LEGAL
STANDARD – MOTION TO STRIKE
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure. (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP §
431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP § 431.10(a)-(c).)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant moves to strike eight portions of the
Complaint as indicated in Defendant’s notice of the motion to strike.
As a preliminary matter, Defendant’s Notice of
Non-Opposition accurately points out that Plaintiffs did not file an opposition
to Defendant’s motion to strike.
The first portion Defendant seeks to strike is “Page
1, line 14, caption of Complaint, which states: “Breach of the Covenant of
Quiet Enjoyment.””
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike portion 1
because it does not appear that Plaintiffs are bringing a cause of action for
breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. Plaintiffs’ reference to breach of
the covenant of quiet enjoyment in the caption of the Complaint appears to be
an error based on the fact that the body did not bring a cause of action for
breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. Further, Defendant’s demurrer
pointed out this discrepancy between the caption and the body of the Complaint,
and Plaintiffs’ Opposition to the demurrer did not indicate that Plaintiffs
were trying to bring a cause of action for breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment. The Court will hear argument as to if leave to amend should be
granted.
The second portion Defendant seeks to strike is “Page
4, lines 1-3, paragraph 11, which states: “The Lease contains an express
covenant of peaceful possession and quiet enjoyment of the subject property.
Furthermore, the lease contains an attorney fee provision, entitling the
prevailing party to attorneys’ fees incurred herein.””
Defendant’s motion to strike portion 2 (Paragraph 11)
is GRANTED. Paragraph 11 seeks attorney fees based on an alleged lease.
Paragraph 10 alleges that the lease was attached as Exhibit A to the Complaint.
However, no lease was attached to the Complaint. 
“Except as attorney’s fees are specifically provided
for by statute, the measure and mode of compensation of attorneys and
counselors at law is left to the agreement, express or implied, of the parties;
but parties to actions or proceedings are entitled to their costs, as
hereinafter provided.” (CCP § 1021.)
Here, Plaintiffs have not shown a basis to recover
attorney fees. The Court will hear argument as to if leave to amend should be
granted.
The third portion that Defendant seeks to strike is
“Page 8, lines 13-17, paragraph 31, which states: “In committing the acts and
conduct described above, Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, Tiodore
Doe and Does 1 through 25, inclusive, acted with oppression, fraud, or malice,
and their conduct was despicable conduct, entitling Plaintiff Robik Aghasian to
an award of punitive damages against Defendants, and each of them.””
Defendant’s motion to strike portion 3 (Paragraph 31)
is GRANTED. As the Court explained in the ruling on the demurrer to the first
cause of action, Plaintiffs did not allege a cause of action for assault and
battery. Since Plaintiffs did not successfully allege the first cause of action
for assault and battery, the motion to strike with respect to punitive damages
as to this cause of action is granted. Leave to amend is GRANTED.
The fourth portion that Defendant seeks to strike is “Page
9, lines 8-16, paragraph 37, which states: “By reason of Defendants’ acts and
conduct, including, but not limited to the acts and conduct alleged herein, by
and through Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian and Tiodore Doe and
their conscious disregard for Plaintiffs rights, Defendants’ acts and conduct
were malicious and oppressive, in that it was conduct carried on by the
Defendants, and each of them, in willful and conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’
rights and subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship. Plaintiffs are
therefore entitled to recover punitive damages from Defendants, and each of
them, in an amount according to proof, to set an example of Defendants and to
deter such future conduct.””
Defendant’s motion to strike portion 4 (Paragraph 37)
is GRANTED. As the Court explained in the ruling on the demurrer to the third
cause of action, Plaintiffs did not allege a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. Since Plaintiffs did not successfully allege
the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress, the
motion to strike with respect to punitive damages as to this cause of action is
granted. Leave to amend is GRANTED.
The fifth portion that Defendant seeks to strike is
“Page 10, lines 6-12, paragraph 42, which states: “The trespass of Defendants,
and each of them, through Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh Stepanian, Tiodore
Doe, and Does 1 through 10, inclusive, was malicious and oppressive, in that it
was conduct carried on by the Defendants, and each of them, in willful and
conscious disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights and subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and
unjust hardship. Plaintiffs are therefore entitled to recover punitive damages
from Defendants, and each of them, in an amount according to proof, to set an
example of Defendants and to deter such future conduct.””
Defendant’s motion to strike portion 5 (Paragraph 42)
is GRANTED. As the Court explained in the ruling on the demurrer to the fourth
cause of action, Plaintiffs did not allege a cause of action for trespass.
Since Plaintiffs did not successfully allege the fourth cause of action for
trespass, the motion to strike with respect to punitive damages as to this
cause of action is granted. Leave to amend is GRANTED.
The sixth portion that Defendant seeks to strike is
“Page 10, lines 26-28, page 11, lines 1-2, paragraph 47 which states: “In
committing the acts and conduct described above, Defendants Nina Savarani,
Anoosh Stepanian, and Does 1 through 25, inclusive, acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice, and their conduct was despicable conduct, entitling Plaintiff
Robik Aghasian to an award of punitive damages against Defendants, and each of
them.””
The Court will hear argument as to whether or not it
will strike portion 6 (Paragraph 47) from the Complaint. Paragraph 47 of the
Complaint pertains to the request for punitive damages with respect to the
fifth cause of action for slander per se.
In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code §3294(a).) 
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).) 
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. (CCP §3294(c)(2).) 
“‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (CCP §3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike an
allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) 
Defendant’s main argument appears to be that Plaintiffs’
request for punitive damages is not supported by the requisite factual
allegations. Defendant argues that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged any
intent to injure, or any despicable conduct, or actions taken with conscious
disregard of Plaintiffs’ rights, or intentional fraud with the intent of
depriving Plaintiffs of property or legal rights.
Since the Court is hearing argument as to whether or
not Plaintiffs have successfully alleged a cause of action for slander per se,
the Court will hear argument as to striking Paragraph 47. If the Court finds
that Plaintiffs did not successfully allege the fifth cause of
action, then the Court plans to grant Defendant’s motion to strike Paragraph
47. The Court will hear argument as to whether or not leave to amend should be
granted.
Where it gets more complicated is if the Court finds
that Plaintiffs did in fact successfully allege a claim for slander per se. 
In relevant part, Plaintiffs alleged, “In committing
the acts and conduct described above, Defendants Nina Savarani, Anoosh
Stepanian, and Does 1 through 25, inclusive, acted with oppression, fraud, or
malice, and their conduct was despicable conduct, entitling Plaintiff Robik
Aghasian to an award of punitive damages against Defendants, and each of them.”
(Compl. ¶ 47.)
On the one hand, even if the Court finds that
Plaintiffs successfully alleged a claim for slander per se, Defendant’s argument
that Plaintiffs simply alleged conclusory allegations with respect to punitive
damages seems like it could be somewhat availing. Malice is defined as “conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).)
Here, Plaintiffs did not make any allegations with respect to Defendant’s state
of mind with respect to malice. Plaintiffs simply seem to just use the
conclusory terms of oppression, fraud, and malice in Paragraph 47. [The Court notes
it only mentioned malice because Plaintiffs don’t bring a cause of action for
fraud, and the Court notes that Plaintiffs also don’t make sufficient
allegations with respect to oppression.] If the Court were to take this
approach, then even though the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is
overruled, it would have to grant Defendant’s motion to strike Paragraph 47,
and it would grant Plaintiffs leave to amend with respect to the request for
punitive damages.
On the other, hand, if the Court finds that Plaintiffs
successfully alleged a cause of action for slander per se, as
stated in Dino, Inc. v. Boreta Enterprises, Inc. :
It is, of course, the rule that
ultimate facts must be pleaded, rather than legal conclusions, yet the
distinction between ultimate facts and conclusions of law is not always clear
or easy to state. In Burks v. Poppy Construction Co., 57
Cal.2d 463, 473-474 [20 Cal.Rptr. 609, 370 P.2d 313], the court said:
“The distinction between conclusions of law and ultimate facts is not at all
clear and involves at most a matter of degree. (Estate of Bixler, 194
Cal. 585, 589 [229 P. 704]; see Clark on Code Pleading (2d ed. 1947)
231; Chadbourne, Grossman, Van Alstyne, Cal. Pleading (1961) 812 et seq.; 2
Witkin, Cal. Procedure (1954) 1140.) For example, the courts have permitted
allegations which obviously included conclusions of law and have termed them
'ultimate facts' or 'conclusions of fact.' (See Peninsula etc. Co. v.
County of Santa Cruz, 34 Cal.2d 626, 629 [213 P.2d 489] [one
is the 'owner' of property]; Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp., 26
Cal.2d 149, 154 [157 P.2d 1] [act was 'negligently' done]; May
v. Farrell, 94 Cal.App. 703, 707 [271 P. 789] [employee was
'acting within the scope of his employment'].) In permitting allegations to be
made in general terms the courts have said that the particularity of pleading
required depends upon the extent to which the defendant in fairness needs
detailed information that can be conveniently provided by the plaintiff, and
that less particularity is required where the defendant may be assumed to
possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that
possessed by the plaintiff. ...”
 
(Dino, Inc. v. Boreta
Enterprises, Inc. (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 336, 340.)


Therefore, on the other hand, if Plaintiffs
successfully alleged a cause of action for slander per se, when reading the
Complaint as a whole, it could possibly be argued that Defendant’s actions
could be construed as malicious. Defendant’s argument that nothing in the
Complaint provides clear and convincing evidence with respect to malice,
oppression, and fraud would be unavailing because the instant case is at the
pleading stage, and this hearing does not deal with coming forward with actual
evidence.
The seventh portion that Defendant seeks to strike is
“Page 11, line 8, paragraph 3, which prays: “For punitive and exemplary damages
according to proof.””
The seventh portion pertain to the portion of the
Prayer that requests punitive and exemplary damages as to all causes of action
except for the second cause of action. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike Portion
7. Portion 7 requests punitive and exemplary damages as to all causes of action
except for the second cause of action, and the Court already noted how at the
very least, the requests for punitive damages are stricken as to the first,
third, and fourth causes of action. Leave to amend is granted.
The eighth portion that Defendant seeks to strike is
“Page 11, line 13, paragraph 1, which prays: “For reasonable attorneys’ fees.””
As the Court previously explained with respect to
striking Portion 2, Plaintiffs have not provided a basis for requesting
attorney fees.
Defendant’s motion to strike Portion 8 is GRANTED. The
Court will hear argument as to if leave to amend should be granted.
 