 Case Number:  23STCP01261    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  85 
Los Angeles Police
Protective League et al. v. City of Los Angeles and Matt Szabo, 23STCP01261
Tentative decision on motion for substitution of petitioner: granted



            
 
            
            Kelly
Mako (“Kelly”), as trustee and representative of the Mako Family Trust
(“Trust”) moves to replace the now-deceased Zoltan Mako (“Zoltan”) as a
Petitioner.  The court has read and
considered the moving papers (no opposition is on file) and renders the
following tentative decision.
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1.
Petition
            Petitioners
Los Angeles Police Protective League (“LAPPL”), Bruce Oakley (“Oakley”),
Gustavo Camacho (“Camacho”), LaSalle Culpepper (“Culpepper”) Robert Gimenez
(“Gimenez”), Zoltan, David Keortge (“Keortge”), Kit Stajcar (“Stajcar”), and
Donald Poirier (“Poirier”) commenced this proceeding on April 19, 2023 against
Respondents City of Los Angeles (“City”) and Mat Szabo (“Szabo”), alleging (1)
breach of written contract, (2) declaratory relief, (3) injunctive relief, and
(4) traditional mandamus.  The Petition
alleges in pertinent part as follows.
            Oakley,
Camacho, Culpepper, Gimenez, Zoltan, Keortge, Stajcar, and Poirier
(collectively “Petitioner Employees”) were employed by the Los Angeles Police
Department (“LAPD”) in classes the LAPPL represents.  Each had established membership in the Los
Angeles Fire and Police Pensions (“Pension”) by virtue of his employment with
the City.  
            Under
Los Angeles Administrative Code (“LAAC”) section 4.2100 et seq., Pension
plan members can enroll in a Deferred Retirement Option Plan (“DROP”)
program.  This gives plan members a lump
sum benefit, in addition to the normal monthly retirement allowance, upon
actual retirement.  
            LAAC
section 4.2110(a) provides for suspension of DROP membership for any calendar
month if that member does not spend at least 112 hours on active-duty
status.  LAAC section 4.2110(b) creates
an exception for participants who sustain a serious injury on duty and are admitted
to the hospital for three consecutive days as a result.  LAAC section 4.2110(a) then does not apply
for the first 12 calendar months after the date of the injury.  
            LAAC
section 4.2110 is incorporated into DROP rules and regulations and the written
DROP enrollment agreement between the Petitioner Employees and the Pension.  It is also in the 2019-2024 Memorandum of
Understanding (“MOU”) between the LAPPL and the City.  
            Within
the last two years, Petitioners discovered the City violated LAAC section
4.2110.  Specifically, Oakley, Camacho,
Culpepper, Gimenez, Zoltan, and Keortge were wrongfully suspended from DROP
because the City failed to accurately record in its payroll records, or report
to the Pension, that these employees were hospitalized for three or more
consecutive days due to an on-duty illness or injury within the previous 12
consecutive months.  These employees have
been or will be financially deprived their respective month pension benefits
with interest during the period of their wrongful suspension.  
            The
City has a ministerial duty to determine that the Petitioner Employees and
similarly situated LAPPL members enrolled in DROP are eligible for a stay of DROP
suspension when, per LAAC section 4.2110(b) and the MOU, (a) the employee
suffers a serious illness arising in the course and scope of employment
resulting in at least three consecutive days’ hospitalization as a direct
result, (b) the employee suffers a serious illness or injury resulting in at
least three consecutive days’ hospitalization within 12 months of said illness
or injury, albeit not immediately after the date of the serious injury or date
of diagnosis of the serious illness, (c) the employee suffers continuous trauma
from an on-duty serious injury, or symptoms from such an illness, necessitating
three consecutive days’ hospitalization, or (d) the employee suffers a serious
illness arising in the course and scope of employment resulting in at least
three consecutive days’ hospitalization directly after, but complications from
the first hospitalization result in additional hospitalization afterwards.
            The
City also has a ministerial duty to accurately record in its payroll records,
and report to the Pension, when Petitioner Employees and similarly situated
LAPPL-represented employees qualify for the exception.
            Petitioners
seek, inter alia, (1) special damages for Petitioner Employees, including
loss of monthly pension benefits with interest, (2) compensatory damage for Petitioner
Employees of at least $25,000, (3) interest at the legal rate on both types of
damages; (4) declaratory adjudication that the LAPPL-represented employees participating
in DROP are eligible for a stay of DROP suspension under the circumstances
described in LAAC section 4.2110 and incorporated into the MOU, (5) declaratory
adjudication that the City must accurately record in payroll records, and
report to Pension, when Petitioner Employees and other LAPPL-represented
employees qualified for the exception, (6) declaratory adjudication that the
failure to do so has caused Petitioner Employees to incur special damages and
compensatory damages of over $25,000, (7) declaratory adjudication that
Petitioner Employees and other LAPPL-represented employees did in fact qualify
for the exception, (8) a writ of mandate against Respondents to the same effect,
and (9) attorney’s fees and costs.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
April 21, 2023, Petitioners served Respondent City with the Petition and
Summons.  They also served Respondent Szabo
with the Petition and Summons by substitute service, effective May 1, 2023.
            On
June 20, 2023, the City and Szabo filed a joint Answer.
            On
July 11, 2023, Department 11 (Hon. David S. Cunningham III) denied without
prejudice Respondents’ request to designate this case as complex.
            On
September 28, 2023, the parties stipulated that Petitioners would not seek
monetary damages against Respondent Szabo because he acted within the scope of
his official duties as a City employee.
            On
November 30, 2023, the parties stipulated to continue the discovery cutoff to
permit Petitioners to consolidate this action with an anticipated action
involving a new plaintiff, John Perez, and conduct all relevant discovery.
 
            B.
Applicable Law
            On
motion after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the
court shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be
continued by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the
decedent’s successor in interest.  CCP
§377.31.  A decedent’s successor in
interest means the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in
interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the
property that is the subject of a cause of action.  CCP §377.11. 

            A
person who so seeks to continue a pending action or proceeding as the
decedent’s successor in interest under penalty of perjury under the laws of
this state stating (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of
decedent’s death; (3) the phrase “No proceeding is now pending in California
for administration of the decedent’s estate[;]” (4) if the decedent’s estate
was administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the
decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest; (5) a statement that
the affiant or declarant either is the decedent’s successor-in-interest for this
action or proceeding, or is authorized to act on the successor-in-interest’s
behalf for this proceeding, with facts in support thereof; (6) a statement that
“[n]o other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or
to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding[;]” and
(7) a statement that “[t]he affiant or declarant affirms or declares under
penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
is true and correct.”  CCP
§377.32(a).  A certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.  CCP §377.32(c).
 
            C. Statement of Facts
            Zoltan died on December 21, 2022 at
2:19 p.m. at Los Robles Hospital Medical Center.  Kelly Decl., ¶1, Ex. A.  There is no proceeding pending for
administration of the decedent’s estate. 
Kelly Decl., ¶2.  
            Zoltan was both a trustor/settlor
and a co-trustee of the Trust.  Kelly
Decl., ¶3, Ex. B.  Kelly is Zoltan’s
widow and the surviving co-trustee and representative of the successor-in-interest
for the Trust.  Kelly Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3, Ex.
B.  Trustees have the authority to, inter
alia, continue any business of the grantor and to institute or defend legal
actions concerning this trust or the grantor’s affairs.  Kelly Decl., Ex. B.  
            Kelly is authorized to act on behalf
of the Trust, Zoltan’s successor-in-interest, with respect to any interest in
the current action.  Kelly Decl.,
¶4.  No other person has a superior right
to do so.  Kelly Decl., ¶5.  
 
            D.
Analysis
            Kelly
moves to be allowed to continue this action on deceased Petitioner Zoltan’s
behalf.  Mot. at 3.  No opposition is on file.
Zoltan granted his interest in the case to the Trust as a
trustor and settlor, and Kelly is a co-trustee. 
Kelly Decl., ¶¶ 1, 3, Ex. B. 
Trustees have the authority to, inter alia, continue any business
of the grantor and to institute or defend legal actions concerning this trust
or the grantor’s affairs.  Kelly Decl.,
Ex. B.  Kelly submits Zoltan’s death
certificate to show he died on December 21, 2022 at 2:19 p.m. at Los Robles
Hospital Medical Center.  Kelly Decl.,
¶1, Ex. A.  Kelly is authorized to act on
behalf of the Trust as Zoltan’s successor-in-interest with respect to any
interest in the current action.  Kelly
Decl., ¶4.  No other person has a
superior right to do so.  Kelly Decl.,
¶5.  She asserts that there is no pending
proceeding as to the administration of his estate.  Kelly Decl., ¶2.  Kelly’s declaration was made under penalty of
perjury.  Kelly has satisfied all
requirements of CCP sections 377.31 and 377.32.
Petitioners filed this action on April 19, 2023, after
Zoltan had died.  As a consequence,
Zoltan was never a Petitioner.  The
impact of this fact on substituting Kelly for Zoltan is unclear.  In any event, the motion is unopposed.
 
            E.
Conclusion
            The
motion to substitute Kelly, as Trust trustee and representative, for Zoltan as
a Petitioner is granted. 