 Case Number:  23STCP00841    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  85 
Timothy
Ryan, M.D. v. County of Los Angeles, 23STCP00841
Decision on petition for
writ of mandate:    granted
in part 



 
            
 
            Petitioner
Timothy Ryan, M.D. (“Ryan”) seeks a writ of traditional mandate directing Respondent
County of Los Angeles (“County”) to provide public records responsive to his requests
under the California Public Records Act (“CPRA”).  
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and renders
the following tentative decision. 
            
            A.
Statement of the Case
            1.
Petition
            Petitioner
Ryan filed the verified Petition on March 16, 2023, alleging a cause of action
for traditional mandamus.  The Petition
alleges in pertinent part as follows.
            From
2013-18, Ryan was employed at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center (“Harbor-UCLA”) as a
vascular surgeon.  A jury verdict subsequently
found that, while working at Harbor-UCLA, Ryan was subject to retaliation for
whistleblowing activity related to the submission of false medical claims.
 
            a.
Requests Related to Kwong
            On
August 15, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for records related to Dr. Louis
Kwong (“Kwong”), former chairman of Harbor-UCLA's orthopedics department.  On September 22, 2022, the County requested
an extension to respond.
            On
October 4, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for any records related to Kwong’s
employment, allegations of his misconduct, and his suspension.  The first category of documents was for all
documents indicating Kwong’s suspension in the first week of April 2022.  The second category was for all documents
referring to or identifying the reasons for such suspension.
            The
County invoked a 14-day extension to respond. 
On November 11, 2022, the County asserted that all documents responsive
to the two requests fell under statutory exemptions to disclosure.  
 
            b.
Requests Related to Whistleblower Retaliation
            In
April and November 2015, Ryan filed two complaints with the County Intake Specialist
Unit (“CISU”).  In Timothy Ryan, M.D.
v. The County of Los Angeles, (“Ryan I”) Case No. BC606535, County
employees testified that the County never conducted an internal investigation
into his complaints.  In Timothy Ryan,
M.D. v. Brant Putnam, M.D. (“Ryan v. Putnam”) Case No.
2:17-cv-05752- CAS-RAO, discovery showed that the County had initiated an
external investigation through Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP (“Sheppard
Mullin”).  They showed that Sheppard Mullin
attorney Robert Barker, Esq. (“Barker”) interviewed Christian de Virgilio, M.D.
(“De Virgilio”), and Janine Vintch, M.D. (“Vintch”) as part of the
investigation.
            A
County employee filed a third complaint based on improper retaliation against
Ryan.  The County interviewed Ryan on
tape for this investigation.  A November
5, 2018 notice designated the complaint as “A.” 
The County Policy of Equity (“CPOE”) defines a designation of A to mean
that the initial investigation revealed a potential violation of the
policy.  
            In
June 2020, County Equity Investigation Unit (“CEIU”) investigator Ana Palacios
(“Palacios”) contacted Ryan about the investigation based on the third-party’s complaint.  Ryan provided Palacios with various documents
supporting the complaint.  Discovery in Ryan
v. Putnam revealed that Palacios conducted three interviews as part of this
investigation.
            The
jury in Ryan I ruled in Ryan’s favor. 
On March 3, 2023, the County informed Ryan that it had determined that the
facts in support of the retaliation allegations were unsubstantiated.  
            On
November 15, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for (1) all documents related to CISU
matter #2018-5003062, (2) all documents related to CEIU #2019-13746, and (3) the
audio/video recordings of Palacios’ June 2020 interviews of DeVirgilio, Anish Mahajan
(“Mahajan”), and Brant Putnam (“Putnam”), plus any other interviews related to
this matter.
            On
December 6, 2022, the County denied the requests entirely based on numerous
abstract exemptions.
            On
December 11, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for documents related to any
investigation of Ryan’s complaints by Sheppard Mullin or other outside
counsel.  This included Sheppard Mullin’s
bills submitted to the County for the 2018 investigation of allegations made
against Ryan.  The investigation included
allegations of fraud and record falsification by Rodney White, M.D. (“White”) and
Carlos Donayre, M.D. (“Donayre”) and any kickback payments Medtronic made to
White.  Ryan also requested documents and
findings created or collected as part of the investigations, communications to
or from then-County PMU employee Tito Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”) about the
investigations, any such communications to or from any other County employee,
and any such communications to or from Barker.
            The
County extended the deadline to respond four times and, as of the Petition, has
not provided a complete determination or produced responsive documents.
 
            c.
Requests Related to the Theft of Controlled Substances
            On
May 23, 2016, Harbor-UCLA’s Medical Executive Committee (“MEC”) discussed
allegations of the diversion or theft of controlled substances.
            On
September 8, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request. 
As to the County Department of Health Services (“DHS”), Ryan requested
(1) all reports, correspondence and supporting documents relating to the discovery,
investigation, and reporting of the 2016 allegations and (2) any related
allegations, complaints, or reports made to the California Board of Pharmacy (“Board
of Pharmacy”) as required under Business and Professions Code (“Bus.
& Prof. Code”) section 4104 and California Code of Regulations Title
16 (“16 CCR”) section 1715.6.  As to the
Los Angeles Sheriff’s Department (“LASD”), Ryan requested records of any complaints,
arrests, charges against individuals based on involvement in the diversion and
or theft of controlled substances at Harbor-UCLA between March 2015 and May 23,
2016, subject to limitations in Government Code[1]
section 6254(f).
            The
County extended the deadline multiple times. 
On October 24, 2022, the County denied the requests in full based on
several exemptions.
            
            d.
Prayer for Relief
            Ryan
seeks declaratory relief holding that the County violated the CPRA when it
failed to disclose documents responsive to the requests and to timely respond
to the December 11, 2022 requests.  He
asks the court to order the disclosure of documents responsive to all of his requests.  Alternatively, the court should conduct an in
camera review of the requested records to determine which should be
disclosed.  Ryan also seeks attorney’s
fees and costs under either section 7923.115 or CCP section 1021.5.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
March 27, 2023, Ryan served the County with the Petition and Summons.
            On
April 26, 2023, the County filed an Answer.
            On
July 19, 2023, Ryan filed a Notice of Related Cases for eight state and four
federal cases.  On July 27, 2023, Ryan
clarified that he did not want this case transferred to another court or
consolidated with the other cases.
            On
August 29, 2023, the court informed counsel that it would not order a privilege
log before trial.
 
            B.
The CPRA
            1.
Governing Law
The CPRA was enacted in 1968 to safeguard the accountability
of government to the public.  San
Gabriel Tribune v. Superior Court, (1983) 143 Cal.App.4th 762, 771-72.  Government Code section 7921.000[2]
declares that “access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s
business is a fundamental and necessary right of every person in this
state.”  The CPRA’s purpose is to
increase freedom of information by giving the public access to information in
possession of public agencies. CBS. Inc. v. Block, (1986) 42 Cal. 3d
646, 651.  The CPRA was intended to
safeguard the accountability of government to the public, and it makes public
access to governmental records a fundamental right of citizenship.  Wilson v. Superior Court, (1996) 51
Cal.App.4th 1136, 1141.  This requires
maximum disclosure of the conduct of government operations.  California State University Fresno Assn.,
Inc. v. Superior Court, (“California State University”) (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 810, 823.  In 2004, the
voters endorsed the CPRA by approving Prop 59, which amended the state
Constitution to declare that “the writings of public agencies…shall be open to
public scrutiny.”  Cal. Const. art. I,
§3(b)(1).  Accordingly, any statute,
court rule, or other authority shall be broadly construed if it furthers the
people’s right of access, and narrowly construed if it limits the right.  Cal. Const. art. I, §3(b)(2).  
            The
CPRA makes clear that “every person” has a right to inspect any public
record.  §7922.525(a).  The inspection may be for any purpose; the
requester’s motivation is irrelevant. §7921.300.  The term “public record” is broadly defined
to include any writing containing information relating to the conduct of the
people’s business prepared, owned, used or retained by any state or local
agency regardless of physical form or characteristics.  §7920.530(a). 
The definition of “state agency” excludes agencies described in articles
IV and VI of the state constitution, which describe the legislative and
judicial branches, except the State Bar of California.  §7920.540.
            A
CPRA request must reasonably describe an identifiable public record or
records.  §7922.530(a).  Upon receiving a request for a copy of public
records, an agency must determine within ten days whether the request seeks
public records in the possession of the agency that are subject to disclosure,
but that deadline may be extended up to 14 days for unusual circumstances.  §§ 7922.535(a), (b).  Nothing in the CPRA “shall be construed to
permit an agency to delay or obstruct the inspection or copying of public
records.”  §7922.500.  
            Even
significant expense to the agency will not excuse an agency from conducting a
thorough search for responsive records unless it constitutes an undue
burden.  See, e.g., CBS
Broadcasting Inc. v. Superior Ct., (2001) 91 Cal. App. 4th 892, 909
($43,000 cost to agency to compile responsive public records was not valid
reason to deny CPRA request). 
“Reasonable efforts do not require that agencies undertake
extraordinarily extensive or intrusive searches, however.  In general, the scope of an agency’s search
for public records ‘need only be reasonably calculated to locate responsive
documents.’” City of San Jose v. Superior Court, (2017) 2 Cal.5th 608,
627 (citation omitted). 
The “CPRA does not prescribe specific methods of searching
for those documents and agencies may develop their own internal policies for
conducting searches.  Some general
principles have emerged, however. Once an agency receives a CPRA request, it
must “‘communicate the scope of the information requested to the custodians of
its records,’ although it need not use the precise language of the request...” Ibid.
(citation omitted).  If the agency
determines that the requested records are subject to disclosure, it must state
in the determination “the estimated date and time when the records will be made
available.”  §7922.535(a). There is no
deadline expressed in number of days for producing the records.  Rather, the agency “shall make the records
promptly available.”  §7922.530(a).
            If
the agency determines that the requested records are not subject to disclosure,
the agency must promptly notify the person making the request and provide the
reasons for its determination. §7922.535(a). 
The agency must justify withholding a responsive record by demonstrating
it is exempt or that on the facts of the case the public interest served by not
disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public interest served by
disclosure of the record.  §7922.000.  The determination that the request is denied,
in whole or part, must be in writing. 
§7922.540(a).
 
2. Exemptions
            The
right to inspect is subject to certain exemptions, which are narrowly
construed.  California State
University, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at 831.  The burden of demonstrating that exemptions
apply lies with the governmental entity. 
§7922.000.  Additionally, if a state or local agency discloses a public
record that is otherwise exempt to a member of the public, this disclosure
shall constitute a waiver of the applicable exemptions.  §7921.505(b).  This does not apply to disclosures (1) made through
legal proceedings or as otherwise required by law (§7921.505(c)(2)); (2) within the scope of disclosure of a statute that
limits disclosure of specified writings to certain purposes (§7921.505(c)(3)); or (3) made to a governmental agency that agrees to treat
the disclosed material as confidential (§7921.505(c)(5)).  
 
3. Enforcement
            A
CPRA claim to compel compliance with a public records request may proceed
through either mandamus or declaratory relief. 
§7923.000.  Because the petitioner
may proceed through either mandamus or declaratory relief, the trial court
independently decides whether disclosure is required.  See
City of San Jose v. Superior Court, (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1018
(appellate court independently reviews trial court CPRA decision).  No administrative record is required, and the
parties must submit admissible evidence.
            A
traditional writ of mandate under CCP section 1085 is the method of compelling
the performance of a legal, ministerial duty. 
Pomona Police Officers’ Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 578, 583-84.  Generally,
mandamus will lie when (1) there is no plain, speedy, and adequate alternative
remedy, (2) the respondent has a duty to perform, and (3) the petitioner has a
clear and beneficial right to performance. 
Id. at 584 (internal citations omitted).  Whether a statute imposes a ministerial duty
for which mandamus is available, or a mere obligation to perform a
discretionary function, is a question of statutory interpretation.  AIDS Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles
County Dept. of Public Health, (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 693, 701.
            Whenever
it is made to appear, by verified petition to the superior court of the county
where the records or some part thereof are situated, that certain public
records are being improperly withheld from a member of the public, the court
shall order the officer or other person charged with withholding the records to
disclose those records or show cause why that person should not do so.  §7923.100. 
The court shall do so order after it has (a) examined the record in
camera, if so permitted by Evid. Code section 915(b); (b) examined the
papers filed by the parties; and (c) considered any oral argument and
additional evidence as the court may allow. 
§7923.105.
            If
the court finds that the public official’s decision to refuse disclosure is not
justified, the court shall order the public official to make the record
public.  §7923.110(a).  If the court finds that the public official
was justified in refusing to make the record public, the court shall return the
record to the public official without disclosing its content, together with an
order supporting the decision refusing disclosure.  §7923.110(b).
            If
the requestor prevails in such litigation, the court shall award court costs
and reasonable attorney’s fees, to be paid by the public agency at issue.  §7923.115(a). 
If the case was clearly frivolous, the court shall award court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees to the public agency.  §7923.115(b).
            
C. Requests for Judicial Notice
Ryan requests judicial notice of (1) records from Ryan
I and Ryan v. Putnam attached to his declaration (Ryan Decl., Exs.
T-V), (2) records from Ryan v. Putnam attached to the declaration of
Aaron Field (“Field”) (Field Decl., Exs. C-E), (3) records from Melani
Cargle, M.D., M.B.A. v. The County of Los Angeles (“Cargle”) Case
No. 23STCV12356, attached to Field’s declaration (Field Decl., Exs. F-G), (4)
the complaint in Madonna Fernandez-Frackelton, M.D. v. County of Los Angeles
(“Fernandez-Frackelton”) Case No. 23STCV24422 (Field Decl., Ex. H), (5) the
complaint in Jennifer Hsu, M.D. and Haleh Badkoobehi, M.D., MPH v. County of
Los Angeles (“Hsu”) Case No. 23STCV21134 (Field Decl., Ex. I), and
(6) news articles attached to Field’s declaration (Field Decl., Exs. J-N).  The County categorizes Exhibits C, D, E, T,
U, and V as “Ryan Court Records”, Exhibits F, G, H, and I as “Pending
Litigation Records”, and Exhibits J, K, L ,M, and N as “Media Records”.  The court will adopt these identifications.
The County asserts that the Ryan Court Records, the
Pending Litigation Records, and the Media Records are all irrelevant.  They tell Ryan’s story and motivation, but
the requester’s motive is irrelevant in a CPRA case.  See County of Santa Clara,
(2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1324. 
Additionally, the Pending Litigation Records and Media Records (except
Ex. M) post-date Ryan’s requests.  Ryan RJN
Opp. at 3.  
Ryan responds that these documents are relevant
because they show the public interest in disclosure of the requested documents
for purposes of exemption balancing tests. 
Ryan RJN at 3. 
            The
Pending Litigation Records and the Ryan Court Records do not bear on the public’s
interest.  However, the Ryan Court
Records are relevant to his requests concerning retaliation against him and are
judicially noticed solely for that reason. 
Evid. Code §452(d).  
In addition to not reflecting on the public’s interest, the Pending
Litigation Records post-date the County’s November 11, 2022 denial of the Kwong
Requests and have no bearing on the other Requests.  As such, they also are irrelevant.  See post. 
Therefore, Ryan’s requests to judicially notice the Pending
Litigation Records are denied.  
Media articles are not subject to judicial notice for the
truth of their content, but judicial notice of media articles in a CPRA case is
appropriate for the limited purposes of showing the public’s interest in and
concern about the subject matter.  Sonoma
County Employees’ Retirement Assn. v. Superior Court, (2011) 198 Cal. App.
4th 986, 1006, n. 11.  All Media Records
except Ex. M also post-date the County’s November 11, 2022 denial of the Kwong
Requests and the December 6, 2022 and February 3, 2023 denial of the Retaliation
Requests, thereby affecting their relevance. 
Since Ex. M pre-dates the denials, the court will consider the other
Media Records for corroborative purposes. 
See post.  Ryan’s requests
for judicial notice of the Media Records are granted to the extent that they show
the public’s interest in the issues therein. 
Evid. Code §452(g).
            The
County requests judicial notice of the court’s docket in Ryan I (Bolan
Decl., Ex. A) and Timothy Ryan, M.D. v. The County of Los Angeles, (“Ryan
v. County II”) Case No. B320677 (Bolan Decl., Ex. B).  The requests are granted.  Evid. Code §452(d)
 
D. Statement of Facts[3]
            1.
Ryan’s Evidence
            a.
Background
            Ryan
started work at Harbor-UCLA on October 4, 2013. 
Ryan Decl., ¶6.  He reported to White,
Harbor-UCLA’s then-Chief of Vascular Surgery and Associate Department of
Surgery Chairman.  Ryan Decl., ¶6.  Ryan was terminated in October 2018.  Ryan Decl., ¶6.  
            On
January 8, 2016, Ryan filed the complaint in Ryan I, alleging
retaliation under Labor Code section 1102. 
Ryan Decl., Ex. T.  In April 2022,
the jury in Ryan I found that the County had retaliated against Ryan and
awarded him $2,100,000 in damages.  Ryan
Decl., Ex. T.  
 
            b.
Kwong Requests
            (i).
August 15, 2022 Requests
On August 15, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for all
communications and documents (1) from Haleh Badkoobehi (“Badkoobehi”) about
Kwong since July 1, 2021 (“Request No. 1”); (2) from Mahajan about Kwong or
allegations of improper behavior from him since July 1, 2021 (“Request No. 2”);
and (3) from Badkoobehi about allegations that Kwong inappropriately touched,
viewed or commented on the genitalia or genital area of a patient or patients
(“Request No. 3”).  Ryan Decl., ¶10, Ex.
C.  Ryan also requested (1) all communications
from Madonna Fernandez-Frackelton, M.D. (“Fernandez-Frackelton”) to any County
employee related to allegations of harassment by Kwong or any other orthopedic
surgeons (“Request No. 4”); and (5) all documents, including notes and
recordings and evidence collected, from all interviews that any County employee
conducted about allegations of improper activity by Kwong (“Request No. 5”).  Ex. C. 

On September 22, 2022, the County requested a 14-day
extension to respond to the August Requests. 
Ryan Decl., ¶10, Ex. D.
 
(ii). October 4, 2022 Requests
            On
October 4, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for other records related to
Kwong.  Ryan Decl., ¶8, Ex. A.  Request No. 1 was for all documents
indicating, suggesting, implementing or notifying any County agent or employee
of Kwong’s suspension in the first week of April 2022.  Ryan Decl., ¶8, Ex. A.  Request No. 2 was for all documents referring
to or identifying the reasons for such suspension.  Ryan Decl., ¶8, Ex. A.  
On October 14, 2022, the County invoked a 14-day extension
to respond.  Ryan Decl., ¶9, Ex. B.
            On
November 11, 2022, the County asserted that all documents responsive to the
Requests fell under statutory exemptions to disclosure.  Ryan Decl., ¶9, Ex. E.  The documents were personnel files the County
had no duty to disclose.  Ex. E.  Many of them also contained attorney-client
communications or privileged confidential communications between public
employees in the course of their duties and were therefore exempt under the
CPRA’s incorporation of privilege.  Ex.
E.  Other documents were exempt because they
revealed a local agency’s deliberative processes as to Kwong’s employment.  Ex. E. 
            The
County also asserted that, per then-section 6254(c), the records at issue could
include personnel records whose disclosure would constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy.  Ex.
E.  The County could not even confirm that
the records existed without revealing confidential details about Kwong’s
employment status.  Ex. E.  The County further invoked the catch-all
exemption, asserting that the public interest served by not disclosing the
record clearly outweighs the public interest served by disclosure of the record.  Ex. E. 
This included the deliberative process privilege.  Ex. E. 

            On
November 21, 2022, Ryan disputed the rationale for the County’s refusal to
produce documents responsive to the August and October 2022 Requests. (Hereinafter,
the August and October 2022 Requests are referred to as the “Kwong Requests”).  Ryan Decl., ¶11, Ex. F.  On December 5, 2022, the County rejected the
arguments in full and continued to deny the Kwong Requests.  Ryan Decl., ¶11, Ex. G.
 
            c.
Retaliation Requests
            In
April and November 2015, Ryan filed complaints with CISU.  Ryan Decl., ¶12.  Ryan originally thought CISU never investigated
these complaints.  Ryan Decl., ¶13.  During discovery in Ryan v. Putnam, he
received emails between County staff and Sheppard Mullin.  Ryan Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  Some of these emails explained that Sheppard Mullin
was investigating allegations of unprofessional conduct by Ryan throughout 2018.  Ryan Decl., ¶13, Ex. H.  This led Ryan to understand that the County
had at least initiated an external investigation into his complaints.  Ryan Decl., ¶13.  
            Another
County employee filed a third-party complaint with CISU alleging retaliation
against Ryan.  Ryan Decl., ¶14, Ex.
I.  On November 5, 2018, the County sent
Ryan notice that this complaint, CISU matter #2018-5003062, filed by him or on
his behalf, had been designated as “A”, which means that further investigation
by CEIU is required.  Ryan Decl., ¶14, Exs.
I, J.  
            In
June 2020, CEIU investigator Palacios contacted Ryan about the investigation
based on the third-party complaint.  Ryan
Decl., ¶15.  Ryan provided Palacios with
various documents supporting the complaint. 
Ryan Decl., ¶15.  He offered to
sit for another interview, but this never occurred.  Ryan Decl., ¶15.  
            Discovery
in Ryan v. Putnam revealed that Palacios conducted three interviews as
part of this investigation.  Ryan Decl.,
¶15.  Three emails in June 2020 reflect
calendar invites for “Interview re CEIU Investigation Equity Complaint.”  Ryan Decl., ¶15, Ex. K.  Eduardo Montelongo (“Montelongo”) organized the
interviews, and they were attended by Palacios.  Ryan Decl., ¶15, Ex. K.  The apparent interviewees were Putnam, Mahajan,
and De Virgilio.  Ryan Decl., ¶15, Ex.
K.  
 
            (i).
November 15, 2022 Requests
            On
November 15, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for (1) all documents related to the
Third-Party Complaint, CISU matter #2018-5003062, including the notes, records,
interviews, recommendations and conclusions (“Request No. 1”); (2) all
documents of the same type related to CEIU #2019-13746 (“Request No. 2”); and
(3) the audio/video recordings of Palacios’ June 2020 interviews of DeVirgilio,
Mahajan, and Putnam, plus any other interviews related to this matter (“Request
No. 3”).  Ryan Decl., ¶16, Ex. L.  
            On
November 21, 2022, the County’s outside counsel asserted that it needed a
14-day extension on top of a prior extension of the deadline to December 12,
2022, extending the deadline to December 26, 2022.  Ryan Decl., ¶17, Ex. M.
            On
December 6, 2022, the County denied the Requests.  Ryan Decl., ¶17, Ex. N.  It cited then-section 6254(k)’s exemption
based on records for which disclosure is prohibited under state or federal law,
including the constitutional right of privacy, attorney client privilege, the
attorney work product doctrine, and the official information privilege.  Ex. N. 
The County also cited the CPRA exemptions for preliminary drafts and the
deliberative process exemption and the official information privilege “[t]o the
extent” the records sought identify official information acquired in confidence
by a public employee.  Ex. N.  
 
            (ii).
December 11, 2022  Requests
            On
March 3, 2023, the County sent Ryan the results of CEIU’s investigation into
one of the complaints.  Ryan Decl., ¶15,
Ex. X.  It said the complaint’s
allegations were unsubstantiated as to violations of “Section 6 – Retaliation,
Basis: (Engaged in a Protected Activity) and Section 5 – Inappropriate Conduct
Toward Others, Basis: (Retaliation).” 
Ryan Decl., ¶15, Ex. X.  These
results were provided after the jury verdict in Ryan I in Ryan’s
favor.  Ryan Decl., ¶15, Ex. T.
            On
December 11, 2022, Ryan made a Request for documents related to any
investigation of Ryan’s complaints by Sheppard Mullin or other outside
counsel.  Ryan Decl., ¶18, Ex. O.  Request No. 1 was for the Sheppard Firm’s
bills to the County for the 2018 investigation of allegations against
Ryan.  Ryan Decl., ¶18, Ex. O.  This included investigation of the fraud and
record falsification by White and Donayre and any kickback payments Medtronic
made to White.  Ryan Decl., ¶18, Ex.
O.  The Requests also sought (2)
documents and findings created or collected as part of the investigations, (3) communications
to or from then-County PMU employee Rodriguez about the investigations, (4) any
such communications to or from any other County employee, and (5) any such
communications to or from Barker.  Ryan
Decl., ¶18, Ex. O.  
            On
December 22, 2022, the County extended the deadline to respond to the December
Requests to January 5, 2023.  Ryan Decl.,
¶19, Ex. P.  It then extended the
deadline three more times, eventually to February 16, 2023.  Ryan Decl., ¶19, Ex. Q.  
            On
February 7, 2023, the County denied the Requests.  Ryan Decl., ¶20, Ex. W.  It cited the attorney-client privilege, the
attorney work-product doctrine, the pending litigation exemption under section 7927.200,
the exemption for preliminary drafts not retained in the ordinary course of
business under section 7927.500, and the general balancing of public interests under
section 7922.000.  Ryan Decl., ¶20, Ex.
W.  (Hereinafter, the November 15 and
December 11, 2022 Requests are referred to as the “Retaliation Requests”.)
 
            d.
Drug Theft Requests
            Harbor-UCLA’s
Medical Executive Committee (“MEC”) May 23, 2016 meeting minutes show that it discussed
allegations of the diversion or theft of controlled substances.  Ryan Decl., ¶21, Ex. R.
            On
September 8, 2022, Ryan made Requests using the MEC’s May 23, 2016 minutes as reference.  Ryan Decl., ¶21, Ex. R.  As to DHS, Ryan requested (1) all reports,
correspondence and supporting documents relating to the discovery,
investigation, and reporting of the allegations (“Request No. 1”); and (2) any
related allegations, complaints, or reports made to the Board of Pharmacy as
required under Bus. & Prof. Code section 4104 and 16
CCR section 1715.6 (“Request No. 2”).  Ryan
Decl., ¶21, Ex. R.  
As to LASD, Request No. 3 sought records of any complaints,
arrests, charges against individuals based on involvement in the diversion and
or theft of controlled substances at Harbor-UCLA between March 2015 and May 23,
2016, subject to limitations in section 6254(f).  Ryan Decl., ¶21, Ex. R.  (Hereinafter, the September 8, 2022 Requests
are referred to as the “Drug Theft Requests”).
            On
October 24, 2022, the County denied the Drug Theft Requests.  Ryan Decl., ¶21, Ex. S.  It cited several exemptions “[t]o the extent”
they applied, including inter alia the official information privilege, the
exemption for preliminary drafts or notes, the exemption for records that would
invade the personal privacy of public officials or employees, and the exemption
for documents prepared in anticipation of litigation or for pending
litigation.  Ex. S.  The County also cited the physician-patient
privilege under Evid. Code section 990 and protection of peer review
proceedings under Evid. Code section 1157. 
Ex. S.  
 
            e.
Course of Proceedings
            Ryan’s
interrogatories asked the County to identify the legal basis for withholding
the documents responsive to the five Requests. 
Field Decl., Exs. A-B.  The County
invoked the attorney-client privilege, the attorney work product doctrine, the
catch-all exemption, the deliberative process doctrine encompassed by the
catch-all exemption, the personnel records exemption, the official information
privilege, the records of investigation exemption, and the constitutional right
to privacy.  Field Decl., Ex. B.  
            The
County also noted that it had already identified the reasons for withholding
documents in the responses to each Request. 
Ex. B.  The County also refused to
elaborate on the types of documents withheld and the reasons why because this itself
would reveal information ordinarily deemed exempt.  Ex. B, pp. 9, 34-35.  
            As
to Drug Theft Request No. 3, the County asserted that LASD had searched for but
did not find any responsive records. 
Field Decl., Ex. B, p. 37.  
 
            f.
Public Interest
            Kwong
was interim and official Chairman of Harbor-UCLA’s Department of Orthopedic
Surgery from 2013 to 2018.  Ryan Decl.,
¶22.  Kwong was suspended from
Harbor-UCLA on April 5, 2022.  Ryan
Decl., ¶23.  
            Between
June and November 2023, several articles were published about the allegations
of Kwong’s misconduct.  Field Decl., Exs.
J-M.  One article reported that the
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (“ACGME”) had placed Harbor-UCLA’s
residency program on “probationary accreditation” status.  Field Decl., Ex. L.  
Harbor-UCLA has received only “Probationary Accreditation” from
ACGME for the 2023-24 academic year. 
Field Decl., ¶10.[4]
 
            2.
The County’s Evidence
            a.
Prior Litigation
            Ryan
filed the complaint in Ryan I on January 6, 2016.  Bolan Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.  The judgment was entered on April 21, 2022.  Bolan Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.  Two appeals from this judgment have been
filed and consolidated.  Bolan Decl., ¶¶
2-3, Exs. A-B.  The appeals are
pending.  Bolan Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Exs. A-B.
 
            b.
CPOE
            The
CPOE is intended to preserve the dignity and professionalism of the workplace.  Stormer Decl., ¶5, Ex. 1.  It also seeks to protect employees’ right to
be free from discrimination, unlawful harassment, retaliation, and
inappropriate conduct based on a protected status.  Stormer Decl., ¶5, Ex. 1.  
            The
CPOE is a proactive policy that seeks to uphold the highest of professional
workplace standards.   Stormer Decl.,
¶6.  It prohibits behavior that is
inappropriate for the workplace before it violates applicable law.  Stormer Decl., ¶6.  For example, the County prohibits inappropriate
conduct towards other employees based on a protected status, even if the
conduct does not meet the Fair Employment and Housing Act’s (“FEHA”) legal
definition of discrimination, retaliation, or harassment.  Stormer Decl., ¶7.  
 
            (i).
Complaint Investigation
            The
County’s Equity Oversight Panel (“CEOP”) reviews CPOE investigations and makes
recommendations to County departments as to risk management issues, quality
improvement issues, and corrective personnel action or discipline.  Stormer Decl., ¶9.  It consists of independent contractors the
County hires as consultants, most of whom are employment law attorneys.  Stormer Decl., ¶9.  
The CEOP assesses any complaints it receives based on the
CPOE’s standard, which is more stringent than the legal standard.  Stormer Decl., ¶8.  Based on this standard, the CPOE decides whether
the complaint merits a full investigation or some other administrative review.  Stormer Decl., ¶8.  If a full investigation occurs, the CEOP will
make a recommendation as to whether the complaint is “substantiated” or
“unsubstantiated.”  Stormer Decl.,
¶8.  
            When
the County receives a complaint related to the CPOE, the County Intake
Specialist Unit (CEIU”) performs an initial review.  Stormer Decl., ¶10.  Where appropriate, the complaint is referred
to the County Equity Investigations Unit (“CISU”).  Stormer Decl., ¶10.
The CISU is responsible for promptly, fully, and fairly
investigating complaints that potentially violate the CPOE.  Stormer Decl., ¶11.  The CISU first reviews a complaint and available
information and documents to determine if the factual allegations could
potentially amount to a CPOE violation. 
Stormer Decl., ¶10.  The CISU
prepares a confidential investigative report summarizing the investigation,
including the CISU assessment and any relevant evidence.  Stormer Decl., ¶11.
            Three
CEOP panel members then review the investigative report.  Stormer Decl., ¶11.  These members deliberate without the involved
department present. Stormer Decl., ¶11. 
They then schedule a confidential deliberative process meeting with that
department’s designated representatives and sometimes a County legal
advisor.  Stormer Decl., ¶12.  They discuss the allegations, the investigation,
and any related risk management concerns. 
Stormer Decl., ¶12.
            The
panel further deliberates in private to discuss recommendations as to quality
improvement considerations and corrective action.  Stormer Decl., ¶12.  Recommendations for corrective action may include
a range of discipline or training. 
Stormer Decl., ¶12.  This
recommendation is memorialized in a written Panel Recommendation, which is highly
confidential and only shared with County counsel and departmental heads.  Stormer Decl., ¶13.  The Panel Recommendation is not included in
the subject’s personnel file or part of the CEIU records.  Stormer Decl., ¶13.
            The
Panel Recommendation is an internal, governmental, pre-decisional analysis that
is kept under confidential seal and never publicly disclosed.  Stormer Decl., ¶13.  Although the responsible department considers
the Panel Recommendation, it makes the ultimate decision as it  chooses. 
Stormer Decl., ¶14.
            
            (ii).
Privacy Interests
            Section
9 of the CPOE requires the County to maintain all complaint-related information
in confidence, to the extent possible given the obligation to conduct a full
and fair investigation and to the extent permitted by law.  Stormer Decl., ¶16, Ex. 1.  This mandate requires confidentiality at
every stage of the investigation. 
Stormer Decl., ¶16.  Such
confidentiality is essential for the CPOE to be efficient and effective.  Stormer Decl., ¶20.
            Subjects
of an investigation receive an Administrative Rights form that says the
investigation is confidential.  Stormer
Decl., ¶17.  This confidentiality encourages
parties and witnesses to provide open and candid statements.  Stormer Decl., ¶17.  If these documents and claimants’ identities were
public knowledge, it would inhibit the County’s ability to engage in open and
candid debate with employees.  Stormer
Decl., ¶18.  It would also make employees
less willing to come forward with complaints. 
Stormer Decl., ¶18.  The County
would find it harder to investigate and address complaints that concern CPOE
violations.  Stormer Decl., ¶18.  
            Public
disclosure of the Panel Recommendation also would impede the County’s ability
to engage in open and candid debate. 
Stormer Decl., ¶19.  This would
hamper pre-decisional discussions and compromise the integrity of the complaint
reporting and investigation process. 
Stormer Decl., ¶19.  
 
            c.
The Kwong Investigation 
            In
April 2022, Harbor-UCLA placed Kwong on administrative leave.  Mathers Decl., ¶4.  He remained on administrative leave
throughout 2022 and 2023.  Mathers Decl.,
¶4.  He was on leave when Ryan served each
of the Requests.  Mathers Decl., ¶4.  
            The
CEOP launched multiple investigations into allegations of Kwong’s misconduct.  Mathers Decl., ¶5.  These allegations were pending in 2022 and
2023, including at the time of the Requests. 
Mathers Decl., ¶5.  To date, some
investigations are still pending. 
Mathers Decl., ¶5.  At the time of
the Requests, the County had not yet taken any disciplinary action against
Kwong.  Mathers Decl., ¶6.  
            The
County cannot affirm or deny Kwong’s employment of disciplinary status without
violating his constitutional right to privacy and possibly the deliberative
process, official information, or attorney-client privileges.  Bolan Decl., ¶4.  Publicly releasing information about
potential discipline before the final decision could jeopardize those due
process rights and undermine the County’s ability to implement such
disciplinary action.  Mathers Decl., ¶9.
            The
County also cannot elaborate on the burdens imposed by the Requests,
attorney-client communications, or attorney work product without divulging
exempt information.  Bolan Decl., ¶4.  
 
d. Course of Proceedings
            At
the July 6, 2023 trial setting conference, Ryan expressed his intent to move to
compel the County to produce a privilege log. 
Bolan Decl., ¶5.  The court
ordered the parties to meet and confer and file a two-page brief each on any
authority for such a motion.  Bolan
Decl., ¶5.  The County explained during
meet-and-confer sessions that an exemption log would itself vitiate many of the
exemptions at issue, but Ryan insisted on filing his motion.  Bolan Decl., ¶6.  
            On
August 29, 2023, the court ruled that the County would not be ordered to
produce a pretrial exemption log.  Bolan
Decl., ¶7.  It allowed Ryan to conduct limited
discovery, and Ryan served the County with a set of interrogatories on October
23, 2023.  Bolan Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.  The County served responses on November 28,
2023.  Bolan Decl., ¶9.  Ryan did not move to compel further responses.  Bolan Decl., ¶9.  
 
            E.
Analysis
            Petitioner
Ryan seeks to compel the County to produce the records sought in his five
Requests.
 
1. Preliminary Issues
a. The Exemptions at Issue
The burden of demonstrating that
exemptions apply lies with the governmental entity.  §7922.000; Cal. State Univ. Fresno v. Superior Court, (“CSU Fresno”) (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th
810, 831.  In denying the five
Requests and in pre-lawsuit correspondence, the County cited a litany of statutes
and exemptions.  See Pet. Op. Br.
.at 15, n. 5.  The County’s opposition
does not rely on many of these previously raised exemptions.  
For the Kwong Requests, the
County asserts the catch-all exemption (§7922.000),
the deliberative process doctrine, and the official information privilege (Evid. Code §1040). 

For
the Retaliation Requests, the County asserts the catch-all exemption (§7922.000), the deliberative process doctrine,
the official information privilege (Evid. Code
§1040), the attorney-client privilege, and the attorney work product
doctrine.  
For the Drug Theft Requests, the
County asserts the peer review privilege. Evid.
Code §1157).  
Because
the County asserts only these exemptions, all others are waived.[5]  See Evans
v. Centerstone Development Co., (2005) 134 Cal. App. 4th 151, 165 (issues
not fully or properly briefed are waived).
 
b. The Timing of the
Court’s Evaluation
The County argues that the Requests should be evaluated as of the
date the record was requested, not when it was created.  Opp. at 8. 
Ryan has cited no authority that the CPRA creates an ongoing obligation
for a public agency to produce responsive records should an asserted exemption
later become inapplicable, or should newly responsive records come into
existence.  Yet, the bulk of his opening brief grounds is based on
factual
developments that post-date
the Requests and the County’s responses. 
Specifically, the court
should disregard the litigation exhibits and news stories because they are not relevant to
whether the County complied with the CPRA. 
Opp. at 19.
The County adds
that, even
if the court
examines
the County’s CPRA compliance under the lens of 2023 and 2024 events, the
lawsuits and news articles only
strengthen the County’s position that any responsive records were and are still
properly withheld.  The County and the
public have an interest in merits resolutions of pending litigation, including the
lawsuits filed by County employees involving allegations against Kwong.  The news articles Ryan references show only that those plaintiffs and
their counsel have not been shy about approaching the media and that there is a
real
threat of these matters being tried in the court of public opinion.  Publicly disseminating records that pertain
to the allegations against Kwong may intimidate or bias potential witnesses,
particularly where those witnesses were told their
statements would
be confidential.  Opp. at 19.
Ryan argues that neither Walnut
Creek nor the pertinent line of cases holds that the court can only
consider information available to the agency when the request was made and must
ignore subsequent corroboration in evaluating whether misconduct allegations
are substantial enough to require disclosure. 
In any event, the County does not contest, let alone disprove, that the
allegations behind each of his Requests were substantial when the requests were
made.  Reply at 8.
The County cites Walnut Creek
Police Officers Assn. v. City of Walnut Creek, (“Walnut Creek”)
(2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 940, 941-42, but that case only held that
peace officer records disclosable under Penal Code section 832.7 must be
disclosed even though they were created before the 2019 effective date of the
new law.  Id.  In other words, the new law changed the
public’s right to access, not the legal consequences of peace officer
conduct.  Id.  Walnut Creek does not state that a
CPRA request must be evaluated by the court as of the date it was made.  
Nonetheless, the court partly
agrees with the County.   The issue
before the court in a CPRA mandamus or declaratory relief case is whether the
agency made the correct decision in denying a request.  While the parties have not cited a pertinent appellate
case on this issue, and the court is not aware of any either, it makes sense to
freeze a CPRA request as of the date it was made and then consider only the
evidence that was available to the agency when it made the decision to deny the
request.  Subsequent evidence (such as
the Media Records) may corroborate the evidence that was before the agency at
the time of its decision but should not substitute for it.  If a requester wants to rely on new evidence that
contradicts the evidence before the agency at the time of the request, he or
she can make a new request.  This rule
need not be hard and fast, and the court is not required to ignore the obvious
if justice requires it.
 
c. The Showing Required
To meet its burden under FOIA, the
agency’s declarations must provide the plaintiff with a meaningful opportunity
to contest, and the district court an opportunity to review, the soundness of
the withholding.  ACLU of N. Cal. v. Superior Court, (“ACLU of N. Cal.”) (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th
55, 85.[6]  The agency generally “must describe each document or portion thereof
withheld” and the consequences of disclosure “for each withholding.”  Id. at 83.  “[T]he agency
must describe ‘each document or portion thereof withheld, and for each
withholding it must discuss the consequences of disclosing the sought-after
information’” Id.  (citations)
(emphasis in original).  “Conclusory or boilerplate
assertions that merely recite statutory standards are not sufficient.”  Id. (citations).  
Ryan correctly argues (Reply at 4) that the County’s evidence
falls short of meeting its burden. The County presents only two substantive declarations.
 Stormer
Decl. ¶¶ 15-20; Mathers Decl. ¶¶ 4-9.  The
declarations consist of the sort of “[c]onclusory”
and “boilerplate assertions,” and “speculative, self-serving opinions designed
to preclude the dissemination of information” that courts have held insufficient
to justify non-disclosure.  See ACLU
of N. Cal., supra, 202
Cal.App.4th at 83; CSU Fresno, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at 835.  
Specifically, Stormer’s
declaration notes a local confidentiality
policy (Stormer Decl. ¶16) and then makes a series of conclusory statements
about his personal belief in the confidentiality of investigations.  Id., ¶¶ 17-20.  He says nothing about the particular
investigations for which Ryan seeks records. See id. ¶¶
2-20.  Mathers’ declaration speculates that disclosing unspecified
information about potential discipline against a County employee before the
County has made a final disciplinary decision could jeopardize the employee’s
due process rights and undermine the process.  Mathers Decl., ¶9.  Clearly, the County has not justified
withholding any records in response to any of the Requests.
The County argues that it is
impossible for it to do so without overriding the exemptions themselves.  See Haynie v. Superior Court,
(“Haynie”) (2001) 26 Cal. 4th 1061, 1075 (even describing documents
withheld “may also reveal information ordinarily deemed exempt from disclosure,
such as how far the investigation had progressed, whether witnesses had been
contacted, and whether forensic tests had been conducted”).  Opp. at 18.
For
example, even affirming or denying Kwong’s employment and/or discipline status
would, inter alia, violate his constitutional right to privacy and
potentially disclose information protected by the deliberative process,
official information, and attorney-client privileges.  Bolan Decl., ¶3.  The County cannot expand on the (1) burdens
imposed by the Requests, (2) attorney-client communications, or (3) attorney
work product without divulging exempt information.  Id.  The California Supreme Court in Haynie
upheld this approach.  26 Cal. 4th at
1075.  As another example, the Evidence
Code section 1157 exemption was asserted in response to the Drug Theft
Requests.  See Ryan Exs. N,
S.  Id.  In its interrogatory responses, the County
explained that “identifying documents responsive to [that] request would reveal
information that is exempted from disclosure under the CPRA.”  Field Decl. Ex. B, pp. 34-35.  Opp. at 18.
The County’s reliance on Haynie
is misplaced.  In Haynie, the
California Supreme Court addressed the distinction between the investigatory
file and records of investigation exemptions in former section 6254(f) (now section
7923.600(a)).  26
Cal.4th at 1061.  Plaintiff
Haynie, a black male, was stopped by LASD, handcuffed, and questioned without
charges filed based on a citizen complaint. 
Id.  Haynie filed a tort
claim and separately sought and writings concerning the incident.  Id. 
LASD invoked section 6254(f) and refused to comply.  Id. 

The Supreme Court noted that case
law had held that section 6254(f)’s exemption for investigatory files applies
only when the prospect of enforcement is concrete and definite.  Once this is shown, as well as that a
record was created for the purpose of investigation, Haynie rejected any
requirement that the agency show a valid need to withhold records, such as
evidence that the disclosure would endanger a witness or the investigation
itself.  Id. at 1071.  Haynie cautioned
that this does not mean that everything law enforcement does is shielded from
disclosure.  Officers have citizen
contacts for purposes of crime prevention and public safety that are unrelated
to either civil or criminal investigations, and records are exempt under
section 6254(f)’s protection of records of investigation only for
investigations taken for purposes of whether a violation of law has or may
occur.  Id. at 1071.
Unlike Haynie, the County is not relying on either the
investigatory privilege or the records of investigation exemptions, which apply
only to law enforcement anyway.  Additionally,
Haynie’s statement that even describing withheld documents “may also
reveal information ordinarily deemed exempt from disclosure, such as how far
the investigation had progressed, whether witnesses had been contacted, and
whether forensic tests had been conducted” was made in the context of whether
the law enforcement agency should be compelled to list the withheld documents in
the agency’s initial response to CPRA requests, not when it opposes compliance
in court.  Id. at 1075.  Indeed, Haynie expressly approved published
appellate cases requiring a list of records for which the agency claimed an
exemption at the mandamus proceeding, whether reviewed in camera or
otherwise.  Id. at 1073 (citing State
Board of Equalization v. Superior Court, (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1177 and Williams v. Superior Court,
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 337, 341). 
Under the pertinent case law,
the County was obligated to present evidence to the court that it has gathered
the requested records, reviewed them, and demonstrate the elements of exemption;
it may not rely on a claim that doing so would reveal exempt information.  The County has not performed this preliminary
task.  Despite this failure, the court will
permit the County to rely on the attorney-client privilege and the attorney
work product rule upon presentation of an adequate privilege log.  The County
also may rely on the catch-all exemption because it is based on a balancing of
public interests for which no additional showing need be required.  The County may not rely on the deliberative
process and official information privileges without a showing, by document or
category, of the information necessary to provide Ryan with a meaningful
opportunity to contest the soundness of the withholding.  See ACLU
of N. Cal., supra, 202
Cal.App.4th at 85.[7]       The County argues that, if the court
concludes that the County must disclose a category of records, the court should
permit an in camera review to resolve these issues.  See §7923.105(a).  Opp. at 18.
To determine a claim of exemption from the CPRA, the trial
court may, but is not required, to examine the disputed records in
camera.  Section 7923.105(a) provides that the court shall decide the
case after examining “the record in camera, if permitted by
subdivision (b) of Section 915 of the Evidence Code,” papers filed
by the parties, and such oral argument and additional evidence as the court may
allow.  Register Div. of Freedom
Newspapers, Inc. v. County of Orange, (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d 893, 900
(citation omitted).  However, the in camera hearing provisions of Evidence Code
section 915(b) are permissive. Id.  Thus, under section 7923.105(a) “in camera inspection of the record in question is
not required as a matter of law, but is trusted to the sound discretion of the
trial court.” Id. (quoting Yarish v. Nelson, (1972)) 27
Cal.App.3d 893, 904). 
There are circumstances where it
is self-evidence that the information sought to be protected is covered by the
privilege.  Torres v. Superior Court,
(2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 867, 873.  If not,
the party claiming privilege must show in open court why the matter is not
privileged or declarant that doing so would compromise the privilege.  Id. 
If it appears to the trial court that this claim cannot be determined
without an in camera review, it may call for one.  Id. 
But simply requesting an in camera hearing without explaining why
the privilege applies to the requested information, or declaring that the
agency cannot provide that explanation open court without betraying a
privilege, cannot justify an in camera review.   
It is not self-evident that any
documents withheld by the County are protected by a privilege and the court
declines to review them all in camera. 
The County cannot make a blanket argument that all of the records sought
by the Kwong Requests, the Retaliation Requests, and the Drug Theft Requests
are privileged and then ask for an in camera review.  In camera review is burdensome for trial courts, “is not a
substitute for the government’s burden of proof, and should not be resorted to
lightly.”  ACLU of N. Cal., supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at 87 (citation omitted).  It should be invoked only when the issue
cannot otherwise be resolved.  Id.
(citation omitted).  
Whether any in camera review
will occur is discussed post.
2. The Kwong Requests
On August 15, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for all
communications and documents (1) from Badkoobehi about Kwong since July 1, 2021
(Request No. 1); (2) from Mahajan about Kwong or allegations of improper
behavior from him since July 1, 2021 (Request No. 2); and (3) from Badkoobehi
about allegations that Kwong inappropriately touched, viewed, or commented on
the genitalia or genital area of a patient or patients (Request No. 3).  Ryan Decl., ¶10, Ex. C.  Ryan also requested (4) all communications
from Fernandez-Frackelton to any County employee related to allegations of
harassment by Kwong or any other orthopedic surgeons (Request No. 4); and (5)
all documents, including notes and recordings and evidence collected, from all
interviews that any County employee conducted about allegations of improper
activity by Kwong (Request No. 5).  Ex.
C.  
On October 4, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for other
records related to Kwong.  Ryan Decl.,
¶8, Ex. A.  Request No. 1 was for all
documents indicating, suggesting, implementing or notifying any County agent or
employee of Kwong’s suspension in the first week of April 2022.  Ryan Decl., ¶8, Ex. A.  Request No. 2 was for all documents referring
to or identifying the reasons for such suspension.  Ryan Decl., ¶8, Ex. A.  
The County asserts the catch-all exemption (§7922.000), the deliberative process doctrine,
and the official information privilege (Evid.
Code §1040) for the Kwong Requests.  
a. Catch-All
Under the catch-all provision of 7922.000 (formerly §6255),
public records are exempt from disclosure if “the public interest served by not
disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public interest served by
disclosure.”  Pursuant to the catch-all
provisions, the agency must demonstrate a clear overbalance on the side of
confidentiality.  California State
University, Fresno Assn., Inc. v. Superior Court, (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th
810, 831.  Any reasonably segregable
portion of a record shall be available for inspection after deletion of the
portions that are exempted by law. 
§7922.525(b).
The County notes that, while there is no exhaustive list,
the catch-all exemption has been recognized in the following instances: (1)
where disclosure “will create a danger to personal safety or security”; (2) to
“protect[] people from dissemination of unfounded charges”; (3) to prevent
“chilling effects on communication to government”; (4) where disclosure would
“discourage or impede constructive activities by private persons”; and (5)
where “protecting the confidentiality of public records [is] necessary to
protect a government program or activity.” 
See Michael Asimow et al., California Practice Guide:
Administrative Law, (Nov. 2023 Update) ch. 29-F, Exemptions from
Right of Inspection and Copying, ¶29:730 et seq.  Opp. at 13.
Ryan argues that the County cannot show that the public
interest in non-disclosure of the Kwong Requests clearly outweighs the public
interest in access.  The news articles
confirm a powerful public interest in access to determine whether Harbor-UCLA
is managed appropriately and offers appropriate education and care.  Ryan argues that American Federation of
State Etc. Employees v. Regents of University of California, (“AFSCME”) (197)
80 Cal.App.3d 913, and Bakersfield City School District v. Superior
Court, (“Bakersfield”) (2004)
0118 Cal.App.4th 1041, set the baseline on how exemptions apply to
records related to misconduct allegations against public employees.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9.
In AFSCME, a public employee union sought pursuant
to the CPRA to compel the University of California to disclose an audit report
of the investigation of a union employee’s allegations of financial misconduct
by two of her superiors.  80 Cal.App.3d
at 916.  The chancellor denied the
request on grounds of invasion of privacy and the catch-all balancing
test.  Id. at 916-17.  The trial court reviewed the audit report in
camera and refused to order disclosure because the public interest in non-disclosure
clearly outweighed the public interest in disclosure.  Id. at 917-18.  The appellate court cited Chronicle Pub.
Co v. Superior Court, 54 Cal.2d 548, 568-69, in which the California
Supreme Court held that complaints against a state bar attorney, like public
officer and employee discipline, are considered highly confidential until the
charges are found true or discipline is imposed, in which case the strong
public policy against disclosure vanishes.  AFSCME concluded that reconciliation of
the CPRA and privacy rights meant that the public has a right of access to
complaints against individual agency employees whenever they are “of a
substantial nature” and, a fortiori, where “there is reasonable
cause to believe the complaint to be well founded.”  Id. at 918.  The courts need not rely on the agency’s
determination to the contrary.  Id.  Applying this rule, although the audit report
found allegations of improper financial reporting by an employee to be partly
“wholly ‘unsupported by evidence,’” partly “‘without substance,’” and partly
representative of “either entirely acceptable practices, or matters which
appeared to be minor violations of established university procedures having no
cost or other unfavorable consequences,” the court ordered portions of the
audit report disclosed.  Id. at
919.
In Bakersfield, a newspaper sought the
disciplinary records of a school district employee under the CPRA.  118 Cal.App.4th at 1043.  The trial court reviewed the employee’s
personnel records in camera and concluded that some of the records were
not substantial and there was no reasonable cause to believe the complaints
were well founded.  Id. As to a
particular incident of sexual violence, however, the trial court found the
records met this standard and should be produced.  Id.
The Bakersfield appellate court relied on the ASCFME
standard for complaints of public employee wrongdoing to require disclosure “where
complaints of a public employee's wrongdoing and resulting disciplinary
investigation reveal allegations of a substantial nature, as distinct from
baseless or trivial, and there is reasonable cause to believe the complaint is
well founded.”  Id. at
1046.  The court elaborated that there is
no requirement under this standard that a charge or complaint first must be
found true or discipline imposed.  Id.  Neither “a finding of the truth of the
complaint contained in the personnel records” nor “the imposition of employee
discipline is a prerequisite to disclosure.”  Id. 
Courts should determine whether there is reasonable cause to believe a
complaint is well founded de novo, looking at the records at issue “to
determine whether they reveal sufficient indicia of reliability to support a
reasonable conclusion that the complaint was well-founded.”  Id. at 1047.
Ryan also argues that, if an employee is a “public official”
with a reduced expectation of privacy, the public interest in access is even
greater and an even more compelling showing is required to justify non-disclosure.  For this conclusion, Ryan relies on BRV,
Inc. v. Superior Court, (“BRV”) (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
742.  Pet. Op. Br. at 10-11.
In BRV, a newspaper publisher sought CPRA
disclosure of an investigative report prepared for a school district board concerning
allegations of verbal abuse and sexual harassment of female students by the
school district’s superintendent and school principal.  143 Cal.App.4th at 747.  The appellate court applied the catch-all and
personnel file exemptions, the test for which was essentially the same.  Id. at 755.  The appellate court noted that the public was
greatly concerned about the behavior of the superintendent and the district’s
governing board in responding to the complaints.  Id. at 759.  The appellate court reversed the trial court’s
denial of access to the investigative report because, even though an
“investigator [had] determined most of the allegations” discussed “were not
sufficiently reliable,” the court “could not conclude the allegations were so
unreliable the accusations could not be anything but false.”  Id. at 759.  The superintendent’s
position of authority as a public official and the public nature of the
allegations meant that the public interest in disclosure outweighed the
superintendent’s interest in non-disclosure. 
Id.  The report exonerated
the superintendent of all serious allegations except outbursts of anger and the
public’s interest in understanding why he was exonerated outweighed his
interest in keeping the allegations confidential.  Id. at 759.  However, the identities and contact
information of witnesses, none of whom were public officials, should be
redacted.  Id.
Ryan argues that Kwong is a public official under BRV, and the
County’s opposition does not contend otherwise. 
Under BRV’s standard, the catch-all exemption does not prevent
disclosure of records related to misconduct allegations against a public
official unless the court concludes, based on its assessment of the evidence
presented and the records at issue, that “the allegations [are] so unreliable
the accusations could not be anything but false.”  Id. at 759.  Reply at 7. 

Kwong is not a public official.  He is a public employee who is a department
head in a County hospital.  Unlike the
superintendent in BRV, Kwong is not in a position of authority in which
he deals with members of the public about public issues.  His authority lies only in the supervision of
his department, an issue not fleshed out by any party.  Therefore, the proper test for disclosure is
whether complaints of Kwong’s wrongdoing and resulting disciplinary
investigation reveal allegations of a substantial nature and there is
reasonable cause to believe the allegations are well founded.  See Bakersfield, supra, 118
Cal.App.4th at 1046.  
Ryan argues that, even if Kwong is only a public employee, the
Bakersfield/ASCFME standard does not justify any non-disclosure
under sections 7927.700 (personnel, medical, or similar files that
would constitute an unwarranted invasion of privacy) or 7922.000
(catch-all), let alone blanket denials.  These
two exemptions are based on the facts of the particular case.  International Federation of Professional
l& Technical Engineers, etc. v. Superior Court, (2007) 42 Cal.4th 319,
337.  Reply at 6.
Ryan lumps the five Requests together and argues that the misconduct
allegations against Kwong are plainly substantial and well-founded, citing pending
lawsuits (Field Decl., Exs. F-I), news articles (Field Decl., Ex. J-M), CISU’s
assignment of an A designation for Cargle’s complaint against Kwong (Field
Decl., Ex. G (Cargle Decl., Ex. 3), Harbor-UCLA’s Accreditation Probation (Field
Decl., Ex. O), and Ryan’s belief that Kwong was suspended in April 2022.  Ryan Decl., ¶22.  Ryan contends that the Retaliation Requests,
which concern his claims of retaliation by Harbor-UCLA for whistleblowing about
White, are likewise substantial, as shown by his declaration, the jury verdict
in his favor, the summary judgment orders in his favor, and the A designation
that CISU assigned to a related third-party complaint.  Ryan Decl., Ex. I, T-V.  Finally, Ryan contends that the Drug Theft
Requests, which are based on the MEC meeting minutes and concern the theft of
controlled substances by two staff members (Ryan Decl., Ex. R), are substantial
based on the minutes alone.  Pet. Op. Br.
at 11.
In reply, Ryan argues the
seriousness of the allegations against Kwong: 
multiple women, in multiple forums, and in at least one instance under
penalty of perjury, have accused him of misconduct ranging from workplace
sexism and racism to sexual misconduct toward anesthetized patients.  See, e.g., Field Decl., ¶14; see
also Field Decl., Ex. I, ¶56. He allegedly used sexist, racist, and
anti-LGBTQ language in the workplace as a matter of course.  See Field Decl., Ex. F, ¶15.  He allegedly engaged in a pattern of behavior
that involved criticizing pregnant women for taking maternity leave and leaving
work to attend obstetrics appointments.  Field
Decl., Ex. I, ¶¶ 26-29.  He allegedly brought
a gun and knives to work and carried them into the operating room.  Id., ¶54.  Reply at 6-7.
Ryan adds that the County’s opposition does not dispute the substantial
nature under Bakersfield/AFSCME of the allegations behind all five
Requests.  The County concedes that
Harbor-UCLA placed Kwong on administrative leave in April 2022 and he has remained
so throughout 2022 and 2023.  Mathers
Decl., ¶4.  The County also concedes that
Harbor-UCLA was placed on probationary accreditation status by ACGME.  Opp. at 9, n. 1.  Reply at 6.
The County notes that Ryan does not cite any case that
dismantles a public employee’s privacy interest while resolution of allegations
against him or her are still pending.  When
Ryan’s Requests were made in 2022, the County’s investigation of allegations
against Kwong was ongoing.  Mathers Decl.,
¶5.  Ryan’s claim that his evidence of allegations
against Kwong are substantial and well-founded is misguided because his citation
to lawsuits and the ACGME Accreditation Probation post-date the Kwong Requests
and the County’s denial.[8]  See Field Decl. Exs. F-O.  Opp. at 9.
The County argues that the cases cited by Ryan concern a court’s
determination that an individual’s privacy interest did not outweigh the
public’s interest in obtaining information, not the balancing of public
interests required for the catch-all exemption. 
Neither AFSCME, BRV, nor Bakersfield analyzed the
balance between “the public interest served by not disclosing the record” and the “public
interest served by disclosure of the record” in instances where an employee was
actively under review, the deliberative process was ongoing, or individuals had
provided information under the official information privilege.  Opp. at 10.
Moreover, none of the cases addressed records from a pending
investigation, which is the key issue here. 
The ongoing nature of the investigations into allegations against Kwong supported
the County’s invocation of the official information privilege and CPRA catchall
exemption.  Opp. at 10.  In AFSCME, supra, 80
Cal. App. 3d at 913,
the request for the audit report came after the audit was
completed and there were no ongoing privacy concerns.  Opp. at 8.  In BRV, supra, 143 Cal. App. 4th at 742, 747, the public and
the media demanded the school board release the report after the board received it and
entered into an agreement accepting the superintendent’s resignation.  In
Bakersfield, supra, 118 Cal. App. 4th at 1041, although
the court noted “that neither the imposition of discipline nor a finding that the charge
is true is a prerequisite to disclosure” (id. at 1044), it did not
hold that discipline-related records should be disclosed in the midst of a
pending investigation.  Opp. at 8-9.
Additionally, these cases do not hold
that the public interest in transparency always trumps personal privacy rights
or the right to withhold confidential personnel records.  Instead,
they recognize that “strong public policies weigh against disclosure” of
complaints against public officers and employees “against whom such
communications ‘are to be considered as highly confidential, and as records to
which public policy would forbid the confidence to be violated.’”  Bakersfield,
supra, 118 Cal. App. 4th at 1046 (quoting AFSCME, supra, 80 Cal. App. 3d at 918) (further
internal quotations omitted).  Opp. at 9.
The court agrees with the County that the ongoing nature of
the Kwong investigation at the time of the County’s denial is important.  But it is not dispositive.  As Ryan correctly replies (Reply at 7), the
County’s blanket denial cannot solely be justified under the catch-all
exemption simply because it had not finished its investigation when Ryan made
the Kwong Requests.  “[N]either the
imposition of discipline nor a finding that the charge is true is a
prerequisite to disclosure.” Bakersfield, supra, 118
Cal.App.4th at 1046.  It follows
that disclosure of records responsive to the Kwong Requests need not necessarily
await the County’s decision to formally conclude its investigation, especially since
the County suspended Kwong in April 2022. 

Ryan argues that the County’s limited opposition evidence is
not sufficient to substantiate its catch-all exemption claim because the three
lawsuits, a sworn declaration by Cargle, the County’s A designation of Cargle’s
complaint, and Kwong’s April 2022 suspension show that the allegations are of a
substantial nature and there is reasonable cause to believe the charges are
well-founded.  Reply at 7-8.
The court does not agree. The court has denied judicial
notice of the Pending Litigation Records (Exs. F, G, H, and I) because they
post-date the County’s November 11, 2022 denial of the Kwong Requests and are
irrelevant.  The court has judicially
noticed the Ryan Court Records (Exs. C, D, E, T, U, and V), but solely with
respect to the Retaliation Requests; they do not bear on the Kwong
Requests.  The court also has judicially
noticed the Media Records to show public interest, but not for the truth of
their content.  Consequently, Ryan has no
evidence on the Kwong Request issue.
Even if, arguendo, the
court considered the Pending Litigation Records and the Ryan Court Records for
the Kwong Requests, they are insufficient to be substantial in nature
and showing reasonable cause to believe the charges are well-founded.  The lawsuit complaints (Exs. F, H, and I)
are unverified, plead ultimate facts as allegations, and are not evidence.  
Plaintiff Cargle’s declaration (Field Decl., Ex. G) makes allegations
against Kwong about carrying a gun, making sexual comments about a patient in
the operating room, making sexists comments in the operating room.  Ex G, ¶¶ 6-11.  There are also references to written
communications with the County about Kwong. 
Ex G, ¶36, Ex. 3-6.  Most of the
rest of her declaration makes allegations about Harbor UCLA using initials to
identify individuals.  Ex. G, ¶¶
13-37.  These accusations are substantial,
but the court does not view them by themselves as well founded.
The CISU’s assignment of an “A” designation for Cargle’s
complaint against Kwong (Field Decl., Ex. G (Cargle Decl., Ex. 3) shows only
that CISU believed that, after the initial intake of the complaint, there has
been a potential CPOE violation that requires investigation.  Ryan Decl., Ex. J, p. 8.  Finally, Harbor-UCLA’s Accreditation Probation –
the court notes that Ryan failed to include Field Decl., Ex. O -- was
issued on June 21, 2023, and Ryan fails to show that it has
anything to do with Kwong.[9]
Unlike the deliberative process and official information
exemptions (see post), the catch-all has no additional elements for the
County to prove beyond the balancing of public interests.  While the pending nature of the Kwong
investigation at the time of the Requests is not dispositive under Bakersfield/ AFSCME, it is an important factor.  The evidence before the court is insufficient
to constitute reasonable cause that the allegations against Kwong are well
founded.  
The pending nature of the investigation also means that
there would be few or no records for the court to review in camera.  To ensure that Ryan has not overcome the
catch-all exemption, the court will inquire of the County whether any portion of
the Kwong investigation was available -- such as written witness interviews --
on the November 11, 2022 date the Kwong Requests were denied.  If so, the court might consider reviewing
them in camera.  Based on the existing evidence, however, the
catch-all exemption applies to the Kwong Requests.
b. Deliberative Process
The deliberative process privilege
falls under the section 7922.000 catchall’s exemption when “the public
interest served by not disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public
interest served by disclosure of the record.” 
See, e.g., Labor & Workforce Development Agency v.
Superior Court, (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 12, 20, 25, 29-31.  The deliberative process privilege protects
“mental processes by which a given decision was reached” and “the substance of
conversations, discussions, debates, deliberations and like materials
reflecting advice, opinions, and recommendations by which government policy is
processed and formulated.”  Regents of
University of California v. Superior Court, (1999) 20 Cal.4th 509,
540.  The point is that the frank
discussion of legal or policy matters inwriting may be inhibited if the
discussion is made public, with the result of poorer decisions and policies
formulated.  Id. (citation
omitted).
In applying the privilege,
“[t]he key question in every case is ‘whether the disclosure of materials would
expose an agency’s decisionmaking process in such a way as to discourage candid
discussion within the agency and thereby undermine the agency’s ability to
perform its functions.’ [Citation.] Even if the content of a document is purely
factual, it is nonetheless exempt from public scrutiny if it is ‘actually...
related to the process by which policies are formulated’ [citation] or
‘inextricably intertwined with ‘policy-making processes.’ [Citations.]”  American Civil Liberties Union of Northern
California v. Superior Court, (“ACLU”) (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 55, 75-76
(Times Mirror Co. v. Superior Court, (1991) 53 Cal.3d 1325,
1342 (the public interest in non-disclosure of almost five years of the
governor’s appointment calendars and schedules, covering thousands of meetings,
conferences and engagements of every conceivable nature, clearly outweighed the
public interest in disclosure).
Ryan argues that the public
interest analysis reflected in Bakersfield/AFSCME confirms that the
County’s assertion of the deliberative process doctrine is misplaced. The
deliberative process doctrine applies in CPRA cases if records contain material
that is “predecisional”[10]
and “deliberative”[11].  Non-disclosure is justified “[o]nly if the
public interest in non-disclosure clearly outweighs the public
interest in disclosure.”  Marylander
v. Superior Court, (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1128.  As explained for the catchall exemption, the
public interest in access prevails.  Pet.
Op. Br. at 11-12.
The County responds that the
Kwong Requests seek documents and communications related to the County’s
investigation which would contain, and therefore expose, the County’s
decision-making process regarding the investigations.  The “efficiency of Government would be
greatly hampered if, with respect to legal and policy matters, all Government
agencies were prematurely forced to operate in a fishbowl.”  Grand Cent. P’ship, Inc. v. Cuomo, (2d
Cir. 1999) 166 F.3d 473, 481 (HUD employees’ internal discussion of an
investigation was exempt from disclosure under FOIA).  Thus, disclosure of these documents was not
warranted or appropriate.  Opp. at 12.[12]
While
Ryan asserts that access to the records is necessary for the public to
determine whether Harbor-UCLA is managed appropriately, it is undeniable that
part of appropriate hospital management includes thoroughly investigating and
taking appropriate action in response to allegations of misconduct.  Ryan’s quest threatens the County’s ability
to manage Harbor-UCLA.  Because
disclosing any communications, interviews, and other records concerning the
ongoing investigations of Kwong could compromise the integrity of the County’s
internal processes and the pending civil lawsuits, there is an overwhelming
public interest in upholding the exemptions. 
Opp. at 19-20.
The court need not address the
County’s argument in detail.  The court
agrees with Ryan (Reply at 8-9) that the deliberative process doctrine is based
on the catch-all exemption and the court already has determined that the
catch-all exemption applies.  However, the
County has not met the elements of deliberative process beyond the balancing of
public interests required for the catch-all exemption.  To withhold records based on the deliberative
process doctrine, an agency must prove the records are both pre-decisional and
deliberative.  The County has not made
either showing.  Reply at 8-9.  
Because the County has not met
the additional elements required beyond the catch-all balancing, the
deliberative process exemption does not apply.
c. Official Information Privilege
Public records are exempt from disclosure where “exempted or
prohibited pursuant to federal or state law, including, but not limited to,
provisions of the Evidence Code relating to privilege” §7927.705. 
            A
public entity has a privilege to refuse to disclose official information, and
to prevent another from disclosing official information, if the privilege is
claimed by a person authorized by the public entity to do so and either (1)
disclosure is forbidden by an act of the Congress of the United States or a
state statute; or (2) disclosure is against the public interest because there
is a necessity for preserving the confidentiality of the information that
outweighs the necessity for disclosure in the interest of justice.  Evid. Code §1040(b).  “Official information” means information
acquired in confidence by a public employee in the course of his or her duty
and not open, or officially disclosed, to the public prior to the time the
claim of privilege is made.  Evid. Code
§1040(a).
Ryan argues that the official information privilege – just
like the catch-all and deliberative process exemptions – turns on a public
interest balancing analysis.  “A trial
court commits error under this section if the court fails to make the threshold
determination or fails to engage in the process of balancing the interests.” Marylander
v. Superior Court, supra, 81 Cal.App.4th at 1126 (citations omitted);
CBS, Inc. v. Block, (1986) 42 Cal.3d 646, 656 (weighing process mandated
by Evidence Code section 1040 requires review of the same elements that must be
considered under section 6255 (now §7922.000)).  Ryan argues that the public interest in
disclosure is overriding, which is dispositive. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 13.
The County notes that “[o]ngoing investigations fall under
the privilege for official information.” 
People v. Jackson, (2003) 110 Cal. App. 4th 280, 287.  At the time the Kwong Requests were made,
there were ongoing investigations into the allegations against Kwong.  Mathers Decl., ¶5.  Public dissemination of the requested
information could have interfered with those investigations, which continued
after the filing of this lawsuit.  Id.  Witnesses could have been discouraged from
participating in interviews, or become biased based on slanted and partial
portrayals of the facts by the media. 
“Both complaining citizens and the public have an interest in the
confidentiality of complaints of wrongdoing prior to the inception of formal
enforcement or disciplinary proceedings.…Complainants often demand
anonymity.  The prospect of public
exposure discourages complaints and inhibits effective enforcement.”  Black Panther Party v. Kehoe,
(1974) 42 Cal. App. 3d 645, 653 (1974). 
It was critical to protect the confidentiality of the investigations,
which outweighed the public interest in disclosure of investigation records.  Opp. at 10-11.
Ryan contends that the County’s suggestion that the
existence of an ongoing investigation automatically justifies non-disclosure under
the official information privilege is incorrect.  See PSC Geothermal Services Co. v.
Superior Court, (“PSC Geothermal”) (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th
1697, 1713-14.  Pet. Op. Br. at 12-13.
In PSC Geothermal, the trial court sealed an
affidavit for a search warrant hours before hearing the petitioners’ request
for the return of seized materials.  Id.
at 1713.  Penal Code section 1534
required that the documents and records for a search warrant shall be open to
the public after the warrant has been executed. 
Id.  The appellate court
reversed the trial court sealing order.   The official information privilege may apply
to the affidavit as information obtained by a public employee which, if
disclosed, is against the public interest because of the ongoing nature of the
criminal investigation.  Id. at
1714.  But the trial court did not
perform the two-stage analysis of confidentiality and public interest necessary
to seal and did not consider redacting the affidavit.  Id. 
Because the trial court had not considered the balancing of interests
required under Evidence Code section 1040, the case was remanded for a hearing
on whether part or all of the affidavit was subject to the official information
privilege.  Id. at 1715.  The court would need to redact the affidavit
and seal only that portion which might be found to be official information.  Id. 

Ryan argues that here, too, the County’s ongoing
investigation claim cannot justify non-disclosure.  Pet Op. Br. at 13.
The County responds that Ryan constructs a straw man by
suggesting the County is asserting that the official information privilege
applies indiscriminately to all ongoing investigations.  That is not the case.  The County examined the Kwong Requests and
concluded that it could not disclose any information related to the allegations
against Kwong because it would risk the integrity of the investigations, chill
employee participation, and undermine the independence of the investigations.  Opp. at 11.
The County has not met the elements of the official
information privilege. The County has not shown that each record withheld (1) were “acquired in confidence” (2) “by a public
employee in the course of his or her duty” and (3) was “not open, or officially
disclosed, to the public prior to” the privilege claim.  Evid. Code § 1040(a).  In fact, the County fails to show that it
ever looked at the records of the Kwong investigation.  The County attempts to show the official
information elements by arguing that CPOE confidentiality provisions necessarily
mean that the information gathered during a CPOE investigation meets these
elements.  Opp. at 14.  Not true. 
The County’s general reference to CPOE investigations does not meet this
factually required showing.  The official
information exemption does not apply to the Kwong Requests.
3.
Retaliation Requests 
On November 15, 2022, Ryan made a CPRA request for (1) all
documents related to the Third-Party Complaint (CISU matter #2018-5003062),
including the notes, records, interviews, recommendations and conclusions
(Request No. 1), (2) all documents of the same type related to CEIU #2019-13746
(Request No. 2), and (3) the audio/video recordings of Palacios’ June 2020
interviews of DeVirgilio, Mahajan, and Putnam, plus any other interviews
related to this matter (Request No. 3). 
Ryan Decl., ¶16, Ex. L.  
On December 11, 2022, Ryan made a Request for documents
related to any investigation of Ryan’s complaints by Sheppard Mullin or other
outside counsel.  Ryan Decl., ¶18, Ex.
O.  Request No. 1 was for Sheppard Mullin’s
bills to the County for the 2018 investigation of allegations against
Ryan.  Ryan Decl., ¶18, Ex. O.  This included investigation of the fraud and
record falsification by White and Donayre and any kickback payments Medtronic
made to White.  Ryan Decl., ¶18, Ex.
O.  The Requests also sought (2)
documents and findings created or collected as part of the investigations, (3)
communications to or from then-County PMU employee Rodriguez about the
investigations, (4) any such communications to or from any other County employee,
and (5) any such communications to or from Barker.  Ryan Decl., ¶18, Ex. O.  
Although the Petition alleges that Ryan did not receive a
response to the December 11, 2022 Request (Pet., ¶15), Ryan now concedes the
County issued several responses to this Request, including the ultimate
response dated February 7, 2023.   See Ryan Decl., ¶¶ 18-20,
Exs. Q, W.
As for the remaining Retaliation Requests, the County
asserts the catch-all exemption (§7922.000), the deliberative process doctrine,
the official information privilege (Evid. Code §1040), the attorney-client
privilege, and the attorney work product doctrine.  Opp. at 14-15.
 
a. Catch-all
The County argues that, to the extent any complaints were
made to CISU, or CEIU made any investigations, all complaints and resulting
notes, recordings, evidence collected, and ultimate findings are
confidential.  See Stormer
Decl., ¶16.  Public interest favors
maintaining this confidentiality.  Courts
have consistently held that the disclosure of information obtained in internal
investigations may chill employee communications and investigation
participation, even after an investigation is complete.  In Rackauckas v. Superior
Court, (“Rackauckas”) (2002) 104 Cal. App. 4th 169 (2002),
the court noted that in instances of police misconduct allegations, where the
involved officer may remain on the force, disclosing information obtained during
investigations could “compromise the reopening of a case and the effectiveness
of related investigations.”  Id.
at 177.  Indeed, “officers who step
forward to aid in investigations may do so only on assurances of
confidentiality; public disclosure of their statements could expose them to
unjustified criticism or animosity, and cost the department their future
cooperation.”  Id.  For
the same reasons, the California Supreme Court held that, despite the
strong public policy for openness, grand jury investigation documents should
not be disclosed because of the potential negative impact upon the willingness
of prospective witnesses to come forward or to speak “fully and frankly.”  Daily Journal Corp. v. Superior Court,
(“Daily Journal”) (1999) 20 Cal. 4th 1117, 1126 (internal quotations
omitted).  Opp. at 13-14.
The County argues that “public
disclosure of [employees’] statements could expose them to unjustified
criticism or animosity, and cost the department their future cooperation.”  See Rackauckas, supra,
104 Cal. App. 4th at 177.  If the CPOE’s confidentiality provisions were overcome, employees may
be dissuaded from coming forward or participating in an interview due to fear
of criticism or animosity from colleagues. 
This concern is even more heightened when it comes to victims of
inappropriate behavior who may feel embarrassed about the nature of their
claim.  For it to be effective, the
County’s promise of confidentiality cannot be subject to question.  In applying the catch-all exemption, the
public’s interest in withholding the CPOE complaints, interviews,
investigative notes, and findings far outweighs any interest in their
disclosure.  Opp. at 14.
The cases cited by the County are readily
distinguishable.  Disclosure of public employee
misconduct investigations does not carry the concerns of compromising criminal
investigations and prosecutions that were at issue in Rackauckas and Daily
Journal, respectively.   While there still may be concerns about witness
and victim intimidation, criticism, and animosity, Bakersfield/AFSCME
demonstrates that those can be overcome when there is sufficient indicia of
reliability to support a reasonable conclusion that the complaint was
well-founded.  Redaction of witness and
victim identity is also available to mitigate this concern.  See BRV, supra, 143
Cal.App.4th at 759.
Ryan argues that the Bakersfield/AFSCME standard defeats
the County’s reliance on the catch-all exemption.  Ryan won a jury verdict against the County,
confirming that his allegations were substantial.  Pet. Op. Br. at 11.
This is true.  The
Ryan Court Records (Exs. C, D, E, T, U, and V) show that he obtained a retaliation
jury verdict and judgment in his favor (Ex. T), he provided a declaration
concerning retaliation and lost pay (Ex. U), he has defended summary judgment in
a pending federal case against individual County employees (Exs. C-D).  Although his superior court case is on appeal
and not final (Bolan Decl., Exs. A, B), that does not significantly undermine
the well-founded nature of the retaliation allegations.  Moreover, unlike the Kwong Requests, the
County does not show that the investigation of the complaints of retaliation
against Ryan is ongoing.  Nor does the
public interest in non-disclosure appear to have any weight where the
identities of interviewees have been revealed. 
The County cannot rely on the catch-all exemption for the Retaliation
Requests.
 
b. Official Information and Deliberative Process
As it does for the Kwong Requests, the County
argues that CPOE confidentiality provisions mean the information gathered
during a CPOE investigation necessarily meets the elements of the official
information privilege.  Disclosure is against
the public interest because the CPOE’s confidentiality provisions would be
rendered meaningless if anyone could circumvent them via a CPRA request.  Public disclosure is likely to have a
chilling effect and may discourage employees from coming forward to report, or
help the County investigate, CPOE violations. 
Opp. at 14.
The third and fourth categories of the December 11 Request
ask for all communications from Tito Rodriguez, or any County employee,
respectively, related to Sheppard Mullin’s investigation into allegations
against Ryan.  These internal
communications are exempt because they related to pending litigation, reflected
the County’s deliberative process, or contained official information.  Opp. at 16.
As the court has ruled for the Kwong Requests, the County
has not presented evidence sufficient to demonstrate that responsive records
meet the requirements for invoking the deliberative process doctrine or the
official information privilege.  The
County’s reliance on the confidentiality of CPOE investigations is
insufficient.  The County’s conclusion that
that disclosure might interfere with its ability to litigate against Ryan in
civil cases is unsupported by evidence and cannot justify non-disclosure.  The County fails to meet the elements of
deliberative process and official information for the Retaliation Requests.
c. Attorney-Client Privlege/Work Product Doctrine
            (i). Attorney-Client
Privilege
            The
attorney-client privilege is a legislative creation codified in the Evidence
Code.  McKesson HBOC, Inc. v. Superior Court,¿(2004) 115
Cal.App.4th 1229, 1236.  Its purpose is to promote full and open
discussion between clients and their attorneys.  Ibid.  The
attorney-client privilege covers all forms of communication, including
transactional advice and advice in contemplation of threatened
litigation.  Titmas v. Superior Court,¿(2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 738,
744. 
            A
“confidential communication between client and lawyer” is “information
transmitted between a client and his or her lawyer in the course of that
relationship and in confidence by a means which, so far as the client is aware,
discloses the information to no third persons other than those who are present
to further the interest of the client in the consultation or those to whom
disclosure is reasonably necessary for the transmission of the information or
the accomplishment of the purpose for which the lawyer is consulted, and
includes a legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the
course of that relationship.”  Evid. Code §952.  The attorney-client
privilege is the client’s privilege to refuse to disclose, and to prevent
another from disclosing, a confidential communication between client and
lawyer.  Evid. Code §954.   
            The party
claiming the attorney-client privilege has the burden of establishing the
preliminary facts necessary to support its exercise -- i.e., a
communication made in the course of an attorney-client relationship.  Costco Wholesale
Corp. v. Superior Court,¿(2009) 47 Cal.4th 725, 733.  These
preliminary facts are (a) information transmitted between and client and
lawyer, (b) in the course of a relationship, (c) in confidence, and it includes
a legal opinion formed and the advice given by the lawyer in the course of that
relationship.  Evid. Code §952.  Not every communication between an attorney
and client is privileged, however.  Los
Angeles County Board of Supervisors v. Superior Court, (2016) 2 Cal.5th
296, 282.  If the preliminary facts show
a communication made in the course of an attorney-client relationship, the communication is presumed to have been made in
confidence and the opponent of the claim of privilege has the burden of proof
to establish the communication was not confidential or that the privilege does
not for other reasons apply.  Ibid. (citing Evid. Code §917(a)). 

In performing various duties, a lawyer must work with a
certain degree of privacy, free from unnecessary intrusion by opposing parties
and their counsel.  Hickman v. Taylor
(1947) 329 U.S. 495, 510.  Preparation of
a client’s case demands that the lawyer assemble information, sift relevant
from irrelevant facts, prepare legal theories, and plan a strategy without
undue and needless interference.  Id.
at 511.  
 
            (ii).
Work Product Rule
It is the policy of the state to (a) preserve the rights of
attorneys to prepare cases for trial, with the degree of privacy necessary to
encourage them to prepare their cases thoroughly and investigate the favorable and
unfavorable aspects of those cases; and (b) prevent attorneys from taking undue
advantage of their adversary’s industry and efforts.  CCP §2018.020.  Any writing that reflects an attorney’s
impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research or theories is not
discoverable under any circumstances. 
CCP §2018.030(a).  Any other work
product of an attorney is not discoverable unless the court determines that
denial of discovery will unfairly prejudice the party seeking discovery in
preparing that party’s claim or defense or will result in an injustice.  CCP §2018.030(b).  The doctrine is not limited to writings
created by a lawyer in anticipation of a lawsuit.  League of Cal. Cities v. Sup. Ct.,
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 976, 993.  It also
applies to writings prepared by an attorney while acting in a nonlitigation
capacity.  Id. 
The party claiming the work
product rule “has the burden of establishing the preliminary facts necessary to
support its exercise”.  Citizens for Ceres,
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 889, 911-12 (citation omitted).  The preliminary facts necessary to support a work
product doctrine claim are those that establish that the documents are work
product.  Fellows v. Superior Court, (1980)
108 Cal.App.3d 55, 61 disapproved on
other grounds by Coito v. Superior Court, (“Coito”)
(2012) 54 Cal.4th 480 (noting that preliminary showing must establish that
documents in question qualify as attorney’s work product and establish whether
absolute or condition portions of privilege apply).  In the case of absolute work product
protection, this means that the agency must make a preliminary showing that the
disclosure would reveal the attorney’s “impressions, conclusions, opinions, or
legal research or theories.”  Coito, supra, 54 Cal.4th at 495 (citing CCP
§2018.030(a)).  In the case of qualified
work product protection, the agency must make a preliminary showing that
disclosure “would result in opposing counsel taking undue advantage of the
attorney’s industry or efforts.”  See id. at 502.  For every document withheld based on this
doctrine, the party seeking protection must produce a brief description of the
document and its contents sufficient to determine (1) whether the document is
work product, (2) whether absolute or partial work product protection applies,
and (3) why the work product protection applies.
            Whether
specific material is protected work product must be resolved on a case-by-case
basis.  League of Cal. Cities v. Sup.
Ct. supra, 241 Cal.App.4th at 993. 
In camera inspection is the proper procedure to evaluate the
applicability of the attorney work product doctrine to specific documents, and to
categorize whether each document should be given qualified or absolute
protection.  Id.
 
            (iii). Analysis
The County notes
that the first and fifth items in the December 11, 2022 Retaliation
Requests seek Shepard Mullin billing records for a 2018 investigation against
Ryan and communications with Sheppard Mullin about that investigation.  The County argues that these records are
exempt from disclosure due to attorney-client privilege.  §7927.705 (exempting from disclosure under
the CPRA records privileged under the Evidence Code).  The privilege covers the billing invoices
because “[w]hen a legal
matter remains pending and active, the [attorney-client] privilege
encompasses everything in an invoice, including the amount of aggregate
fees.”  Los Angeles Cnty. Bd. of
Supervisors v. Superior Court, (“Board of Supervisors”)
(2016) 2 Cal. 5th 282, 297.  The
information contained in these records would “reveal [information] about legal
consultation,” and such information falls within the scope and “heartland” of
the privilege.  Cnty. of Los Angeles
Bd. of Supervisors v. Superior Court, (2017) 12 Cal. App. 5th 1264,
1272-75.    Opp. at 15.
The County is still in litigation with Ryan.  Although he obtained a jury verdict, the
matter is on appeal and not final.  Bolan
Decl., Exs. A, B.  Accordingly, the disclosure
of any part of Sheppard Mullin’s billing records for its work related to Ryan—performed
in 2018, during the litigation—could improperly reveal the County’s investigative
efforts and trial strategy and jeopardize a new trial, if the appellate court
orders one.  See Board of
Supervisors, supra, 2 Cal. 5th at 297 (quotation omitted).  Opp. at 15.
The County notes that the third and fourth categories of the
December 11 Request ask for all communications from Tito Rodriguez, or any
County employee, respectively, related to Sheppard Mullin’s investigation into
allegations against Ryan.  The County
contends that any such communications between a County employee and Sheppard
Mullin are subject to the attorney-client privilege.  Opp. at 16.
Finally, the County argues that the second item of the
December 11 Request sought “[a]ll documents, report, notes and finding created
or collected in the course of” the investigation.  These records prepared by Sheppard Mullin, as
the County’s counsel, are protected from disclosure by the attorney work-product
doctrine, codified in Code of Civil Procedure section 2018.030.  The work-product doctrine applies to writings
prepared by an attorney, whether or not in anticipation of a lawsuit.  State Comp. Ins. Fund v. Superior Court,
(2001) 91 Ca1. App. 4th 1080, 1091.  Opp.
at 15-16.
Ryan argues that the County may not rely on the attorney-client
privilege and the attorney work product doctrine. To assert attorney-client
privilege, a party must prove a communication was made in the course of an
attorney-client relationship. City & County of San Francisco v. Superior
Court, (1951) 37 Cal.2d 227, 234-35; Evid. Code §§ 952, 954. The
communication must also be confidential, and the privilege “is waived with
respect to a communication protected by the privilege if any holder of the
privilege, without coercion, has disclosed a significant part of the
communication.”  Evid. Code §912(a); see
also Caldecott v. Superior Court, (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 212, 227
(rejecting attorney-client privilege as grounds for blanket non-disclosure).  A work product doctrine claim must, likewise,
be resolved on an “item-by-item basis.”  BP
Alaska Exploration, Inc. v. Superior Court (1988) 199 Cal.App.3d
1240, 1261; see also CCP §2018.030. 
The County has presented no evidence on these issues and has not shown
that either applies.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14;
Reply at 9-10.
Ryan is correct. 
However, the court explained to the parties during the August 29, 2023 hearing
that it would not require an attorney-client privilege log before trial.  The County will be required to provide a privilege
log for all documents withheld pursuant to the attorney-client or work product
privileges.  The privilege log must be
sufficient for Ryan to test whether the attorney-client privilege or work
product rule applies to a document.  The
parties shall meet and confer after the log is provided to ensure that
sufficient information is included.
 
4. Drug Theft Requests
For the Drug Theft Requests, Ryan requested (1) all reports,
correspondence and supporting documents relating to the discovery,
investigation, and reporting of the allegations (Request No. 1); and (2) any
related allegations, complaints, or reports made to the Board of Pharmacy as
required under Bus. & Prof. Code section 4104 and 16
CCR section 1715.6 (Request No. 2).  Ryan
Decl., ¶21, Ex. R.[13]  
            Every
pharmacy shall have in place procedures for taking action to protect the public
when a licensed individual employed by or with the pharmacy is discovered or
known to have engaged in the theft, diversion, or self-use of dangerous drugs.  Bus. & Prof. Code §4104(a).  
            Every
pharmacy shall report and provide to the Board of Pharmacy, inter alia, any
admission by a licensed individual of theft, diversion, or self-use of
dangerous drugs, any video or documentary evidence demonstrating theft,
diversion, or self-use of dangerous drugs by a licensed individual, and any
termination of a licensed individual based on theft, diversion, or self-use of
dangerous drugs.  Bus. & Prof. Code
§4104(c).  This report must have sufficient
detail to inform the Board of Pharmacy of the facts upon which the report is
based, including an estimate of the type and quantity of all dangerous drugs
involved, the timeframe over which the losses are suspected, and the date of
the last controlled substances inventory. 
Bus. & Prof. Code §4104(d); 16 CCR §1715.6(b).  
The County asserts the peer
review privilege for the Drug Theft Requests. Evid.
Code §1157.  Neither
the proceedings nor the records of organized committees of medical staffs in
hospitals, or of a peer review body, having the responsibility of evaluation
and improvement of the quality of care rendered in the hospital, or for that
peer review body, shall be subject to discovery.  Evid. Code §1157(a).
In his moving papers, Ryan
attacks the County’s assertion of the constitutional right to privacy Cal.
Const., art. I, §1), as not justifying non-disclosure. The California
Supreme Court explained when the constitutional right to
privacy applies in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1, 350-38.  Ryan argues that the
County cannot show that any records meet Hill’s requirements for
assertion of the right to privacy, especially as to communications with the
Board of Pharmacy.  California v.
Greenwood, (1988) 486 U.S. 35, 40 (no reasonable expectation of
privacy as to material voluntarily disclosed to third party).  Also, once again, the public interest in
access would overcome any privacy interest and require disclosure.  Pet. Op. Br. at 14.
In response, the County does not
rely on a privacy exemption.  For Request
No. 1, the County notes that the Drug Theft Requests are based on MEC meeting
minutes obtained via discovery in federal litigation.  Ryan Decl., ¶21.  These minutes—typically protected from
disclosure under Evidence Code section 1157—make a brief reference to two
nurses who were reported to state authorities, arrested, and terminated for
diverting pharmaceuticals.  Ryan Decl.,
Ex. R.  The County contends that it cannot
disclose the categories of responsive records without circumventing the peer
review exemption.  Opp. at 16.
With respect to Request No. 2, the
County argues that California v. Greenwood, supra, 486 U.S. at 35
is inapposite.  There, the court held that criminal
defendants did not have a reasonable expectation of privacy under the Fourth
Amendment with regard to garbage placed in opaque bags outside their house for
collection by the trash collector.  Id.
at 40.  Here, there is no disclosure to a
private party or the public.  A public
entity (County) sent correspondence to another public entity (Board of
Pharmacy), pursuant to a legal reporting mandate.   Opp. at 16-17.
The County notes that its report
to the Board of Pharmacy did not waive any exemption.  A waiver of exemptions can only be effected
where an agency discloses a record to a member of the public.  §7921.505(b). 
Further, the County is required to make the report to the Board of
Pharmacy pursuant to law.  Bus. &
Prof. Code § 4104; 16 CCR §1715.6. 
There is no waiver where disclosure is required by law.  §7921.505(c)(2).  Opp. at 17.
This is correct.  Ryan replies that the County again has not met
the elements of the exemption.  Evid.
Code section 1157 only covers peer review bodies under Civil Code section
43.7(b), which does not include bodies that peer review nurses.  Reply at 10. 
Whether or not he is correct, a particularized showing of Evid. Code
section 1157’s application is required where the information sought is not
obviously within the purview of a peer committee.  Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital v. Super. Ct.,
(1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 711, 727.  It
is not at all obvious that any or all records pertinent to the Drug Theft
Requests are within the scope of Evid. Code section 1157.   As
Ryan argues, that provision does not exempt records that are independent of the
investigative and evaluative activities of medical staff committees and peer
review bodies.  West Covina Hospital
v. Super. Ct., (1986) 41 Cal.3d 846, 859, n. 5.  
The County has failed to show an
exemption for the Drug Theft Requests and must produce those records.
 
F. Conclusion
The Petition is granted in
part.  An order shall issue directing the
County to do the following: 
(a) search for and provide the
Drug Theft Request records; 
(b) prepare an attorney-client
and work product privilege log for the Retaliation Request records.  The County is directed to produce the
Retaliation Request records not protected by attorney-client or work product
privilege, which may be redacted if necessary to protect the identity of
witnesses or victims not already disclosed; and 
(c) inform the court whether
there are any Kwong Request records that existed on November 11, 2022, when
the Kwong Request was denied.  Upon
receiving that information, the court may elect to review them in camera.  If it does not, the County need not produce
the Kwong Request records.


