


            [1]
Caltrans failed to lodge a courtesy copy of its opposition, in violation of the
Presiding Judge’s First Amended General Order Re: Mandatory Electronic
Filing.  It is admonished to provide a courtesy
copy of its opposition for trial or it will not be considered.


            [2]
Megeen misidentifies this as Exhibit 5.  Megeen
Decl., ¶5.  Megeen fails to attach the
purported Exhibit 4, an email asking Caltrans about the discrepancy between the
two parcel diaries.  Megeen Decl., ¶5.


[3] Megeen argues that her original declaration (Megeen Decl.)
reads as a long meet and confer attempt to discuss missing parcel diary
pages.  Reply at 9.  This one-sided soliloquy cannot satisfy the
court’s order to meet and confer in person. 



            [4] The court need not address Megeen’s merits argument that there must
be more parcel diary entries for the Property except to note the parties’
positions.  Megeen contends that Caltrans
had a duty under 49 C.F.R section 24.9 to maintain adequate records of its
displacement activities up to three years after the displaced family has
received all benefits.  She argues that
there must be more diary records because a tenant occupied the Property at some
point between 2014 and 2017, there was a Spring 2000 break-in in which police
were called, and movies and television shows
were filmed on the Property in 2002, 2013, and September 2016.  Megeen Reply Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.  Reply at 2-7. 

            Caltrans
asserts it has produced all readily discernible responsive documents.  Opp. at 6. 
Caltrans asserts that parcel diaries
are written by right of way agents assigned to tenant-occupied properties.  Beckham Decl., ¶7; Murdoch Decl., ¶5.  A diary therefore will not have entries when
no tenant occupies the property.  Beckham
Decl., ¶7; Murdoch Decl., ¶5.  The
Property was vacant from 1999 to 2014, and from 2016 thereafter.  DiPietro Decl., ¶13.  Because the incidents at issue were while the
Property was vacant, no right of way agent would keep a parcel diary with such
events.  The level of detail in a parcel
diary depends on the right of way agent assigned to it.  Beckham Decl., ¶7; Murdoch Decl., ¶5.   

