 Case Number:  24STCV12554    Hearing Date:   January 2, 2025    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 2, 2024                     TRIAL
DATE: October 7, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Jose Ramos v. 4 Over, LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV12554            
 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE A CROSS-COMPLAINT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants 4 Over LLC and 4 Over International
Holdings, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Jose
Ramos
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/17/24: Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and wrongful termination.
Plaintiff alleges that he took an extended medical leave in August 2023 to
recover from joint replacement surgery. According to Plaintiff, Defendants
falsely claimed he had exhausted his medical leave and summarily terminated him
in March 2024 in retaliation for taking that leave. 
 
Defendants move for leave to file a
cross-complaint. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to
File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are ordered to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed Cross-Complaint
within 10 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants move for leave to file a
cross-complaint. 
 
//
Legal Standard
 
Parties generally must file a cross-complaint against the
party who filed the complaint before or at the same time as the answer to the
complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(a).) Parties seeking to file untimely
compulsory cross-complaints may seek leave to do so from the Court, even though
the failure to timely file resulted from oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause. (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.50.) In such a case, after
notice to the adverse party, the Court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint
if the party acted in good faith. (Id.) This section is liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. (Id.)
 
The purpose of the compulsory cross-complaint statute is to
prevent piecemeal litigation. (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179
Cal.App.4th 949, 959.) Compulsory cross-complaints consist of those causes of
action existing at the time of service of the answer that the defendant must
bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right to bring them in any
other action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30(a).) Specifically, compulsory
cross-complaints consist of the causes of action that “arise out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action
which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 426.10(c).)
To avoid piecemeal litigation, courts liberally construe the term
“transaction”—it is “‘not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . .
. but may embrace a series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’” (Align
Technology, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th at 960.)
 
A motion
to file a compulsory cross-complaint at any time during the course of the
action must be granted where forfeiture would otherwise result, unless the
moving party engaged in bad faith conduct. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) The determination that the moving
party acted in bad faith must be supported by substantial evidence. (Ibid.;
Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v. Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d
897, 902 [“We conclude that this principle of liberality requires that a strong
showing of bad faith be made in order to support a denial of the right to file
a cross-complaint under this section”].) “Factors such as oversight, inadvertence, neglect,
mistake or other cause, are insufficient grounds to deny the motion unless
accompanied by bad faith.” (Silver Organizations Ltd, supra,
217 Cal.App.3d at 99)
Rather, bad faith is “defined as ‘[t]he opposite of “good faith,” generally
implying or involving actual or constructive fraud, or a design to mislead or
deceive another, or a neglect or refusal to fulfill some duty or some
contractual obligation, not prompted by an honest mistake . . . , but by some
interested or sinister motive[,] . . . not simply bad judgment or negligence,
but rather . . . the conscious doing of a wrong because of dishonest purpose or
moral obliquity; . . . it contemplates a state of mind affirmatively operating
with furtive design or ill will.’” (Id. at 100.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Plaintiff
asserts numerous objections to the declarations submitted by Defendants in
support of this motion. However, none of the statements to which Plaintiff
objects are material to the issues before the Court on this motion. For that
reason, the Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections.
 
Defendant’s Evidentiary Objections
 
            Defendants
assert numerous objections to the Declarations submitted by Plaintiff in
support of his opposition to this motion. Defendants do not consecutively
number their 23-page-long list of objections to Plaintiff’s evidence. California
Rule of Court 3.1354(b) requires “[e]ach written objection must be numbered
consecutively . . ..”  (Cal. Rules of
Court Rule 3.1354(b), emphasis added.) Defendants have not complied with this
requirement. The Court therefore refuses to consider Defendants’ evidentiary
objections to (1) the Declaration of Noriya Bragg and (2) the Declaration of
Jose Ramos.
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move for leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for breach of
contract, common counts, and conversion. (See generally Proposed
Cross-Complaint.) Defendants’ proposed pleading admits that Plaintiff was sent
a termination letter in March 2024, but claims that the letter was sent in
error. (Proposed Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 6-7.) Defendants allege that Plaintiff was advised
of the mistake and that they corrected Plaintiff’s status on April 8, 2024.
(Proposed Cross-Compliant ¶ 8.) According to Defendants, however, Plaintiff refused
to return to work while continuing to use his employment benefits. (Id.
¶¶ 20-21.) These claims arise, on their face, from the same series of
occurrences that gave rise to the original Complaint, i.e., Plaintiff’s medical
leave and the March 2024 notice of termination. Defendants are therefore
entitled to leave to file this cross-complaint absent an affirmative showing by
Plaintiff that Defendants have acted in bad faith.
 
            Plaintiff,
in opposition to this motion, argues that Defendants’ Cross-Complaint is
brought in bad faith because it lacks substantive merit. Plaintiff disputes
Defendants’ characterization of events, arguing the March 2024 notice was
operative as a termination, and that Defendants’ subsequent communications were
an offer of reinstatement which Plaintiff rejected. Plaintiff also denies that
he has continued to use his employment benefits, asserts that Defendants’
contrary contentions are a “sham defense,” and argues that the cross-complaint
is barred by the doctrines of unclean hands and equitable estoppel because of
the underlying conduct by Defendants preceding this lawsuit. None of these
contentions are germane to the issues before the Court on this motion. At this
juncture, Plaintiff bears the burden to demonstrate by substantial evidence that
Defendants acted in bad faith—i.e., that Defendants acted with some improper
motive in delaying the presentation of these cross-claims. (Silver Organizations Ltd, supra, 217 Cal.App.3d at 99-100.) Challenges to the merits of
Defendants’ claims are not evidence of an improper motive. 
 
            As
Plaintiff has offered no evidence that Defendants acted in bad faith by failing
to timely assert their compulsory crossclaims, Defendants are entitled to be
granted leave to file the cross-complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
426.50. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File a Cross-Complaint is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are ordered to file a clean, standalone copy of the proposed Cross-Complaint
within 10 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 2,
2025                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 