  Case Number:  19STCV13057    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78DANIEL ANTUNEZ,Plaintiff,          vs.LOS ANGELES DODGERS HOLDING COMPANY, et al.,Defendants. Case No.: 19STCV13057 Hearing Date: July 2, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION TO TAX COSTS FILED BY DEFENDANT DODGERS  The motion is denied.Moving party to provide notice. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for negligence, premises liability, negligent hiring, assault, and battery arising from an altercation which took place in April 2018. Plaintiff alleges that he was attacked by security guards working at Dodger Stadium.PROCEDURAL HISTORYOn April 16, 2019, Plaintiff Daniel Antunez filed a Complaint against Defendant the Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC (the Dodgers).On April 17, 2019, Plaintiff filed a First Amended ComplaintOn August 9, 2019, Plaintiff filed Doe Amendments naming Armando Montalvo, Carlos Mitre, Judish Williams, Danny Choi, and Nicole Griffin as additional defendants in this action.On February 28, 2024, the parties completed jury trial. The jury found in favor of Plaintiff.DISCUSSIONThe Dodgers move to tax costs from the memorandum of costs filed by Plaintiff.  Legal StandardExcept as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc. section 1032, subd. (b).) Under Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5, subd. (c)(2), allowable costs “shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” Subdivision (3) requires: “Allowable costs shall be reasonable in amount.” There is no requirement that copies of bills, invoices, statements, or any other such documents be attached to the memorandum. Only if the costs have been put in issue via a motion to tax costs must supporting documentation be submitted. (Bach v. County of Butte (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 294, 308.) Where a cost item does not appear proper and necessary on its face, the burden of proof is on the claimant to show the cost is appropriate. (Murphy v. F.D. Cornell Co. (1930) 110 Cal. App. 452, 454.) If the items appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761.) Where items are properly objected to as not reasonable or necessary, however, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. (Id.) The trial court’s determination on a motion to tax or strike costs will be reversed only for an abuse of discretion. (Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 121.)    “[T]he mere filing of a motion to tax costs may be a ‘proper objection’ to an item, the necessity of which appears doubtful, or which does not appear to be proper on its face. … However, ‘[i]f the items appear to be proper charges the verified memorandum is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and services therein listed were necessarily incurred by the defendant …and the burden of showing that an item is not properly chargeable or is unreasonable is upon the [objecting party].” (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 114.)Analysis The Dodgers move to tax costs. The Dodgers dispute costs for (1) jury fees, (2) deposition costs, (3) the cost of renting a room for deposition, and (4) trial assistant fees.1. Jury FeesJury fees are expressly allowable under Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5, subd. 9(a)(1). Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs states jury fees totaled $3,218. The Dodgers allege Plaintiff has not paid jury fees. Code Civ. Proc., section 631(e) provides that the party demanding a jury trial shall deposit with the clerk or judge, at the beginning of the second and each succeeding day’s session, a sum equal to that day’s fees and mileage of the jury. The Court has confirmed with the Clerk’s Office that Plaintiff has now paid all jury fees. Therefore, the fees will not be taxed.2. Deposition FeesThe Dodgers next object to the cost of deposition transcripts.The Dodgers first object to the cost for expedited transcripts. Citing Hsu v. Semiconductor Systems, Inc. (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 1330, the Dodgers argue that the expenses for expediting preparation of the deposition transcripts are generally not recoverable. Plaintiff argues in opposition that the expedited transcripts were necessary because the depositions were taken just 35 days before trial and that Defendants also requested expedited transcripts. Given that the depositions took place so close to trial, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that the expedited costs were necessary for litigation. These costs will not be taxed.The Dodgers next object to the deposition costs for the deposition of Chief Phillip Lee Sanchez on the grounds that Plaintiff seeks fees for Sanchez’s expert witness fee in addition to the transcription costs. As the Dodgers point out, expert witness fees are only allowable if the expert was ordered by the court. (Code Civ. Proc., sections 1033.5(a)(8), 1033.5(b)(1).) Plaintiff argues in opposition that the actual cost of Sanchez’s deposition transcription and videotaping was $3,817.62 and that his expert fees were paid for separately. Plaintiff provides a statement of account from the court reporting service that transcribed the deposition stating the cost of transcribing and video taping the deposition totaled $3,817.62. (Plaintiff’s Exh. 3.) Plaintiff also provides another invoice showing Sanchez was paid separately for his expert witness fee. (Plaintiff’s Exh. 4.)  Because it appears the fees Plaintiff incurred for Sanchez’s deposition did not include the expert witness fee, these fees will not be taxed.The Dodgers next object to the fees for a certificate of non-appearance taken for Carlos Mitre, arguing that Plaintiff is seeking double recovery for both the cost of the later completed deposition of Mitre and the cost of an earlier certificate of non-appearance. Plaintiff argues in opposition that he incurred both of these costs when Mitre failed to appear for a deposition after Plaintiff served a fourth amended deposition notice and only appeared later after Plaintiff served a seventh amended notice of deposition. (DiDonato Decl., ¶¶9-13.) Because Plaintiff properly noticed the deposition and prepared to take Mitre’s deposition and Mitre failed to appear, the Court finds that the non-appearance fees were necessary to the litigation. These costs will not be taxed.3. Rental of a meeting room for depositionPlaintiff’s memorandum of costs includes a charge for a “Rented meeting room for Lucy Depo.” in the amount of $275.63. The Dodgers argue this cost is not recoverable because it is not permitted under Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5. Items not mentioned in section 1033.5 may be allowed or denied at the court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5(c)(4).)Here, Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that he reserved a room in Lancaster for the deposition of Lucy Gonzalez because she resided in Kern County and was in her eighth month of pregnancy at the time of the deposition. (diDonato Decl., ¶14.) Because Gonzalez was required to remain near her primary care physician in case of emergency, Plaintiff’s counsel found it necessary to incur an expense to depose her at a location closer to her residence. (Id., ¶15.) Although not mentioned in section 1033.5, the section does not disallow this cost. Thus, the Court may allow or deny the cost in its discretion. Because the rental was necessary to depose Gonzalez and accommodate her medical condition, the Court will allow this cost in its discretion.4. Trial TechnicianThe Dodgers finally argue that Plaintiff’s trial assistant fees are not allowable because the trial assistant was not necessary to the conduct of the litigation and the fees were not supported by documentation.First, there is no requirement that a memorandum of costs be supported by a specific type of documentation.Expenses for equipment charges and trial technician costs are not allowed or prohibited by statute. The Court has discretion to allow or deny these costs. (Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5(c)(4).)Here, Plaintiff’s counsel testifies that a significant portion of the evidence presented was surveillance footage of the event giving rise to this litigation. (diDonato Decl., ¶16.) The trial assistant was necessary to present these electronic exhibits. (Id.) Plaintiff provides the technician’s time entries and represents that he deducted other costs, such as the technician’s parking costs. (Id., ¶17, Exh. 12.)The Court finds that the technician was necessary to present electronic exhibits during trial. Therefore, the Court will exercise its discretion and allow the costs. DATED: July 2, 2024_________________________                                                                      Hon. Jill Feeney                                                                      Judge of the Superior Court