 Case Number:  23STCV10369    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  JORGE ROMERO, et al.,Plaintiffs,vs. GENERAL MOTORS, LLC,Defendant.  Case No.:  23STCV10369 Hearing Date:  July 2, 2024  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS’ DEMURRER TO THE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT AND MOTION TO STRIKE PUNITIVE DAMAGESDefendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED.Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.Moving party to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for violations of the Song-Beverly Warranty Act and fraudulent inducement and concealment. Plaintiffs allege that they purchased a 2020 Chevrolet Silverado 1500 from Defendant in 2020. The vehicle arrived with defects that Defendant failed to repair despite a reasonable number of opportunities. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant committed fraud by allowing the vehicle to be sold without disclosing that the vehicle and its 8-speed transmission were defective and susceptible to sudden and premature failure.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On May 9, 2023, Plaintiffs Jorge and Maria Romero filed their Complaint against General Motors, LLC. On October 2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC).On January 5, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC).On February 8, 2024, Defendant filed this demurrer and motion to strike.On May 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed oppositions.On May 20, 2024, Defendant filed replies.DISCUSSION I. DEMURRER Defendant demurs to Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement – concealment on the same grounds as the demurrer which the Court overruled on December 6, 2023. The Court has already ruled on these issues and did not give Plaintiffs leave to amend the fifth cause of action. Because the Court has already ruled on these issues and there is no change to this cause of action in the SAC, the demurrer is overruled.II. MOTION TO STRIKEDefendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ demand for punitive damages in their prayer for relief on the same grounds as the first motion to strike. In order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil Code section 3294. (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.) These statutory elements include allegations that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) Here, Defendant argues that (1) Plaintiffs may not recover punitive damages because Plaintiffs cannot recover punitive damages for Song Beverly claims, (2) Plaintiffs cannot claim both a civil penalty under the Song Beverly Act and punitive damages, (3) Plaintiffs cannot recover punitive damages for his fraud cause of action because the SAC fails to allege a cause of action for fraud, and (4) because the SAC fails to state facts sufficient to support punitive damages. The Court previously found that Defendant’s first three arguments were without merit. The Court previously granted the motion to strike on the grounds that the alleged conduct did not arise to despicable conduct sufficient to support a demand for punitive damages and because the FAC did not name an officer, director, or managing agent who participated in the alleged malicious conduct.The Court notes that the SAC and FAC are the same except for two bolded names in paragraphs 69 and 70. Because there has been no substantive change to the SAC, the motion to strike is denied as to Defendant’s first three arguments. However, upon further examination of the SAC, the Court notes that fraudulent conduct is sufficient to support a demand for punitive damages. Plaintiffs’ SAC adequately alleges that Defendant fraudulently induced Plaintiffs to purchase the subject vehicle by concealing the vehicle’s transmission defects with the intention of inducing reliance and causing Plaintiffs to purchase a defective vehicle. (See minute order dated December 6, 2023.) Because the SAC alleges fraudulent conduct consistent with the definition of fraud articulated in Civ. Code, §3294, the SAC sufficiently alleges fraudulent conduct which would support a demand for punitive damages. Additionally, upon further examination of the SAC, the Court notes Plaintiffs alleged that President Johan de Nysschen knew of the transmission defects and met with the authorized repair facility regarding the defects. (SAC ¶69.) However, Defendant continued to conceal the defects. (Id.) Another employee, Mark Gordon, likewise knew of the defects and stated a service solution would not be developed due to cost. (SAC ¶70.) It is reasonable to infer from these facts that Defendant’s president knew of the defects and continued authorizing the concealment of these defects. Although the SAC does not state what Mark Gordon’s position is, it is reasonable to infer from the fact that Defendant would not develop a service solution for the transmission defects that Defendant knew of the transmission defects, knew that the defects would not be fixed, and nevertheless continued to sell defective vehicles by concealing the defects. Because the SAC properly alleges at this pleading stage that an officer, director, or managing agent engaged in the alleged fraudulent conduct, the SAC states facts sufficient to support a demand for punitive damages. The motion to strike is denied.DATED: July 2, 2024__________________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court