 Case Number:  23STCV14107    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  ROGELIO VALENZUELA SANCHEZ,Plaintiff,vs. GENERAL MOTORS, LLC,Defendant.  Case No.:  23STCV14107 Hearing Date:  July 2, 2024   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: PLAINITFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Request for Production, Set One is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.Responsive documents and supplemental responses must be produced within 10 days after the date of this order. If any documents are withheld based on a claim of privilege, a privilege log must be produced. This privilege log must also be produced within 10 days after the date of this order. Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is a lemon law case. Plaintiffs allege that in 2019, she purchased a 2018 GMC Terrain SLE vehicle which included an express written warranty. The vehicle was delivered with defects which Defendant could not repair after a reasonable number of opportunities. PROCEDURAL HISTORY On June 16, 2023, Plaintiff Laura Castaneda filed her Complaint against Defendant General Motors, LLC.On March 5, 2024, Defendant failed to appear for IDC.On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel further responses to requests for production.On June 20, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition.On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant’s further responses to her RPDs.Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to a request for production when the Court finds that any of the following apply: 1. A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; 2. A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. 3. An objection in the response is without merit or too general. To prevail, the party moving for the order must first offer specific facts demonstrating “good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) This burden “is met simply by a fact-specific showing of relevance.” (TBG Ins. Servs. Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 448.) If “good cause” is shown by the moving party, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Here, Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant’s further responses to RPD numbers 5, 28, and 29.RPD No. 5All DOCUMENTS which refer, relate to or concern Plaintiff’s acquisition of the SUBJECT VEHICLE (this Request shall include the sales/lease file commonly referred to as the deal jacket).Defendant objected to this RPD on the grounds that it is overbroad, vague, and ambiguous. Additionally, the documents are beyond Defendant’s possession, custody, or control because the dealership possesses the documents. Defendant agreed to produce the lease contract GM obtained from the dealership. Defendant also argues that the request seeks privileged material.Plaintiff alleges the response was improper because Defendant has control over the requested documents and that there should be no differentiation between Defendant and its local representative. The RPD does not appear to be vague or overbroad because it is properly limited to documents pertaining to Plaintiff’s vehicle specifically. Defendant’s argument that the request seeks privileged material is also without merit. The parties stipulated to a protective order in December 2023 to exclude trade secret and confidential information from discovery. Additionally, Defendant fails to provide a privilege log identifying the documents Defendant alleges are privileged. It does not appear that Plaintiff is seeking privileged documents. To the extent that Defendant believes it would be required to produce privileged documents, Defendant must provide a privilege log. As for Defendant’s argument that the documents are not in its possession or control, Defendants must comply with Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.230 if they are unable to comply with the request. As Plaintiff points out, Code  Civ. Proc., section 2031.230 requires the responding party to respond with a representation of inability to comply, affirm that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry was made, whether the document existed, was destroyed, lost, misplaced, or stolen. Here, Defendant merely states the documents are not within its control and does not contain the information required under Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.230. Thus, if Defendant cannot access the documents, Defendant must state that it made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry into the documents and is unable to comply with the request.Plaintiff argues that Defendant has control of the documents requested because the dealership is Defendant’s agent. However, an agency relationship does not mean that Defendant has access to the requested documents. The Court declines to make a determination of credibility as to whether Defendant in fact has access to the requested documents.Because Defendant’s response does not comply with Code Civ. Proc., section 2031.230, the motion is GRANTED with respect to RPD No. 5.RPD No. 28-2928. All DOCUMENTS that refer, relate to or concern YOUR policies and procedures for the issuance of recalls.29. All DOCUMENTS that refer, relate to or concern YOUR policies and procedures for the issuance of technical service bulletins.Defendant objected to the requests on the grounds that the terms “refer, relate to or concern” are overbroad, vague, and ambiguous. Defendant also argues that the requests are unduly burdensome and seek irrelevant documents. Information about whether a violation of the Song Beverly Act was willful is relevant to whether a defendant is liable for a civil penalty. (Oregel¿v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc.¿(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094.)Here, Plaintiff argues that the information about Defendant’s policies regarding recalls and technical service bulletins is relevant because it will show the scope of the defects and how widespread a particular defect must be to justify a recall or a technical service bulletin, as well as whether Defendant followed its own policies issuing recalls or technical service bulletins. However, this information does not appear to be relevant to a claim under the Song Beverly Act. Although evidence that there was a service bulleting or recall in effect at the time Plaintiff purchased the vehicle would be relevant to whether the alleged violation of the Song Beverly Act was willful, Defendant’s policies regarding recalls or service bulletins do not appear relevant to whether the violation was willful. Plaintiff also argues that the information about Defendant’s policies will show the problems were widespread enough to result in a recall or service bulletins being issued. However, Plaintiff already requested the recalls and technical service bulletins in a different RPD. Obtaining information about Defendant’s policies will not show how widespread the defects with Plaintiff’s vehicle were. Additionally, knowing how widespread a defect must be to justify a recall or technical service bulletin will not show that Defendant was aware of the defects with Plaintiff’s vehicle at the time she purchased the vehicle. Rather, the recalls and technical service bulletins regarding the subject defect would show whether Defendant knew of the alleged defects.Because the documents requested do not appear to be relevant to Plaintiff’s claims, the motion is DENIED with respect to these RPDs.Plaintiff does not seek sanctions.DATED:  July 2, 2024______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court