 Case Number:  24SSTCV07047    Hearing Date:   May 28, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



SHLOMI S.
  HARUSH,  
  
         vs.
 
FORD MOTOR
  COMPANY, et al.


 Case No.: 
  24STCV07047
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 28, 2024



 
Defendants Ford
Motor Company’s and Fox Hills Auto, dba Airport Marina Ford’s demurrer to
Plaintiff Shlomi S. Harush’s complaint is sustained as to the 5th and 6th causes
of action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Defendants
Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) and Fox Hills Auto, dba Airport Marina Ford (“Airport
Marina”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to Plaintiff Shlomi S. Harush’s (“Harush”)
(“Plaintiff”) complaint (“Complaint”) on the following grounds: (1) pursuant to
C.C.P. §430.10(e), Plaintiff cannot state his fifth cause of action for
fraudulent inducement – concealment against Ford as a matter of law because the
claim fails to plead essential elements to state the claim; and (2) Plaintiff’s
sixth cause of action for negligent repair is barred by the economic loss rule
and fails to plead damages, and therefore fails to plead facts sufficient to
state a cause of action.  (Notice of
Demurrer, pg. 1.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the
moving party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video
conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an
agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading and obviate the
need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41, emphasis added.) 
Defendants’ counsel declares that
on April 2, 2024, counsel for Defendants met and conferred telephonically with
Plaintiff’s counsel, and the parties were unable to reach an agreement.  (See Decl. of Patel ¶3, Exh. D.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41. 
Accordingly, the Court will consider Defendants’ demurrer.
 
          Background
          Plaintiff
filed his operative Complaint on March 20, 2024, against Defendants alleging six
causes of action: (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“Song-Beverly”) Civil Code §1793.2(D) [against Ford]; (2) violation of
Civil Code §1793.2(B) [against Ford]; (3) violation of Civil Code
§1793.2(A)(3) [against Ford]; (4) breach of implied warranty of
merchantability (Civ. Code §§1791.1, 1794, 1795.5) [against Ford]; (5)
fraudulent inducement- concealment [against Ford]; and (6) negligent
repair [against Airport Marina]. 
Plaintiff’s causes of action arise from his entry into a warranty
contract with Ford on September 23, 2020, regarding the purchase of a Certified
Pre-Owned 2019 Ford F-150 (“Subject Vehicle”). 
(See Complaint.)
          Defendants
filed the instant demurrer on April 22, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed his opposition on May 14, 2024.  Defendants filed their reply on May 20, 2024.
 
Summary of
Demurrer
Defendants demur
to the 5th and 6th causes of action for fraudulent inducement-concealment and
negligent repair, respectively, on the basis the claims fail to plead essential
elements to state claims and are barred by the economic loss rule.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State
a Claim
Fraudulent
Concealment (5th COA)
The required
elements for fraudulent concealment are: “(1) concealment or suppression of a
material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud the plaintiff by intentionally
concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the plaintiff was unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he or she did if he or she had known of the
concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff sustained damage as a result of
the concealment or suppression of the fact.”  (See Bank of America Corp. v. Superior
Court (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 862, 870; Civ. Code §1710(3); CACI 1901.)  The rule of specificity of pleading is only
intended for affirmative fraud cases not fraud by concealment.  (See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement Systems & Planning Association, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1356, 1384.)
Plaintiff failed
to plead with sufficient particularity the defect Ford allegedly concealed. The
Complaint merely describes a list of ways in which Ford F-150 transmissions may
be defective – e.g. “hesitation and/or delayed acceleration, harsh and/or hard
shifting, jerking, shuddering, and/or juddering (“Transmission Defect”)” and
hazardous driving conditions relating generally to the purported transmission
defect in technical service bulletins (“TSBs”).  (Complaint ¶¶37-45). Plaintiff does not allege
what the defect is, let alone the defect in the Subject Vehicle, which is
insufficient to establish Plaintiff’s fraud claim.  (See Santana v. FCA US LLC (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 334, 345 [“The very existence of a warranty presupposes that some
defects may occur. Thus, the occurrence of a few defects that . . . mostly
involved vehicles Santana did not own, is not enough to demonstrate an intent
to conceal a defect.”].)
Further,
Plaintiff fails to allege what representations Ford made to this particular
Plaintiff regarding the Transmission Defect that these Plaintiff relied on in
purchasing the Subject Vehicle.  Plaintiff does not plead that Ford made
any specific representations directly to Plaintiff.  Plaintiffs do not
allege any direct contact with Ford before purchasing the Subject Vehicle where
representations regarding the Transmission Defect at issue should or could have
been revealed.  Merely alleging that Ford omitted facts about an alleged
Transmission Defect in TSBs is not sufficient to establish: (1) knowledge of a
particular defect in a particular vehicle, or (2) intent to conceal this
particular knowledge from this particular Plaintiff.  (See Tenzer v.
Superscope, Inc. (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 18, 30 [“something more than
nonperformance is required to prove the defendant’s intent not to perform his
promise”]; American Honda Motor Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 1367, 1378 [“A TSB is not and cannot fairly be construed by a trial
court as an admission of a design or other defect, because TSBs are routinely
issued to dealers to help diagnose and repair typical complaints.”].) 
Plaintiff has
also failed to show Ford had a duty to disclose to Plaintiff.  (LiMandri
v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336 [“There are ‘four circumstances
in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when
the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the Plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to the Plaintiff;
(3) when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the Plaintiff;
and (4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses
some material facts.’”].)  Plaintiff fails to allege a transactional
relationship with Ford that would invoke a duty on the part of Ford to disclose
to Plaintiff.  (Id. at pgs.
336-337.)  
Further,
Plaintiff fails to allege that Ford had exclusive knowledge of the purported
transmission defect at the time of sale to trigger a duty to disclose.  (Id. at pg. 337 [stating duty to
disclose may exist “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material
facts not known to the Plaintiff”]; see Complaint ¶76.)  First, Plaintiff’s allegation regarding
“pre-production testing data” is insufficient to allege what the testing
revealed or tie it to the alleged defects at issue here.  Second, Plaintiff’s conclusory allegations
regarding consumer complaints fail to allege any connection between the issues
raised in those unspecified consumer complaints and Plaintiff’s experiences with
the Subject Vehicle.  Finally, assuming
Ford’s knowledge of each consumer complaint relating to the Ford F-150
transmission, it does not follow that Ford knew the Subject Vehicle’s
transmission was defective, much less that there was any supposed common
defect.
Further, the
economic loss rule bars Plaintiffs’ fraud claim.  The California Supreme Court in Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. limited its holding permitting fraud
claims to proceed in contract actions to “a defendant’s affirmative
misrepresentations on which Plaintiffs rely, and which expose Plaintiffs to
liability for personal damages independent of the Plaintiffs’ economic loss.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 993.)
Here, Plaintiff’s
fraud claim is based on an alleged fraudulent omission rather than affirmative
misrepresentation, seeks purely economic losses, and derives from Ford’s
alleged breach of warranty.  There are no
allegations of physical damage to Plaintiffs’ property beyond the defective
vehicle itself, or that personal injury accompanied such losses.  There are no allegations of intentional acts
by Ford to fit within Robinson’s narrow exception to the economic loss
rule for intentional acts.  (Robinson,
34 Cal.4th at pg. 993.)
Even if
fraudulent inducement based on concealment claims are excepted from the
economic loss rule, the Complaint fails to plead fraudulent inducement to fall
within Robinson’s fraudulent inducement exception as there is no
allegation that Ford did not intend to honor its warranty obligations when
Plaintiff purchased the vehicle.  (See
id. at pgs. 989-990 [limiting four exceptions to the traditional contract
remedy restrictions including where the contract was fraudulently induced]; Food
Safety Services v. Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118,
1131 [stating to establish a claim of fraudulent inducement, one must show that
the defendant did not intend to honor its contractual promises when they were
made].)
Here, there is no
allegation that Ford “did not intend to honor its contractual promises” when Plaintiff
entered into the warranty contract to state an inducement claim. The Complaint
reflects that the gravamen of Plaintiff’s fraud claim is one and the same as
their breach of warranty claim as it admits that Plaintiff’s fraud claim is
based on Ford’s alleged non-performance under the warranty contract as
Plaintiff “discovered Defendants’ wrongful conduct . . . as the Vehicle
continued to exhibit symptoms of defects following [Ford]’s unsuccessful repair
attempts to repair them.”  (Complaint
¶8.)  Therefore, Plaintiff’s fraud claim
is barred by the economic loss rule.
Accordingly, Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave
to amend.
 
          Negligent Repair (6th COA)
To state a claim
for negligent repair, a plaintiff need only allege that the repair facility (1)
owed a duty to use ordinary care and skill, (2) breached its duty, (3) caused
damage to the plaintiff, and (4) that this was causation of damages. (Lytle
v. Ford Motor Co. (E.D. Cal. 2018) 2018 WL 4793800, citing Burgess v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 1064, 1072.)
As related to the
5th cause of action, Plaintiff’s claim for negligent repair also falls within
the purview of the economic loss rule.  The
claim arises from, and is not independent of, the warranty contract.  Plaintiff does not allege a duty “completely
independent of the contract,” or allegations of intentional conduct by Airport
Marina.  There is no allegation of
physical damage to property or personal injury other than the vehicle itself or
of personal injury accompanied by such losses.  Rather, Plaintiff only seeks damages for the
cost of the repair to the Subject Vehicle. 
(County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137
Cal.App.4th 292, 318 [“economic loss alone, without physical injury, does not
amount to the type of damage that will cause a negligence . . . cause of action
to accrue.”].)
Plaintiff’s
negligent repair claim also fails to plead facts that Airport Marina’s conduct
resulted in any damages.  (See id.
[“The elements of a negligence cause of action are duty, breach, causation and
damages.”].)  Plaintiff does not allege
he paid out-of-pocket for any repairs performed by Airport Marina.  Instead, the Complaint’s allegations reflect
that the repairs were covered by the Subject Vehicle’s warranties.  (See Complaint ¶12 [“defects and
nonconformities to warranty manifested themselves within the applicable express
warranty period[.]”.) 
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 6th cause of action is sustained with
20 days leave to amend.
 
          Conclusion
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s 5th and 6th causes of action is sustained with 20
days leave to amend.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated: 
May _____, 2024
                                                                             





  