 Case Number:  23STCV05334    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  STEVEN RANGEL, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  NANDHA TRANSPORT INC., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV05334  [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) DENYING APPLICATION FOR GOOD FAITH DETERMINATION OF SETTLEMENT (2) GRANTING MOTION CONTESTING GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  January 26, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Steven Rangel (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Nandha Transport Inc. (“Nandha”), Terry Lee Hunsicker (“Hunsicker”), and Pan Liu Zhao (“Zhao”) for injuries arising from a motor vehicle incident.  On November 1, 2023, Zhao filed a Notice of Settlement. Zhao concurrently filed an application for an order determining the settlement between Plaintiff and Zhao for $250,000 to be in good faith under CCP § 877.6.   On November 17, 2023, Nandha and Hunsicker filed a motion to challenge the application for determination of good faith settlement between Plaintiff and Zhao. No other pleadings have been filed concerning the instant application, nor is there any opposition to the motion to challenge good faith settlement.    II. Application for and Motion to Challenge Good Faith Determination  Law Governing Good Faith Settlement  In an action involving two or more joint tortfeasors or co-obligors, when one tortfeasor or obligor enters into a settlement with the plaintiff, the other tortfeasors or obligors are entitled to a hearing on the issue of whether the settlement was entered into in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6(a).)  Where a plaintiff settles with one of several joint tortfeasors or co-obligors without releasing the others, a determination of “good faith” discharges the settling defendant from liability to the other defendants for equitable contribution or comparative indemnity.  (CCP § 877(a)-(b).)  The amount paid by the settling defendant reduces the claim against the others (CCP § 877(a)), but a risk of prejudice remains because an unreasonably low settlement (i.e., with the “most culpable” tortfeasor) exposes the remaining defendants to a judgment exceeding their fair share of the liability.  (See Bay Development, Ltd. v. Superior Court (1990) 50 Cal. 3d 1012, 1019-1020.)   There is no precise yardstick for measuring the “good faith” of a settlement with one of several tortfeasors, but it must harmonize the public policy favoring settlements with the competing public policy favoring equitable sharing of costs among tortfeasors.  (See Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499.)  “A more appropriate definition of ‘good faith,’ in keeping with the policies of American Motorcycle and the statute, would enable the trial court to inquire, among other things, whether the amount of the settlement is within the reasonable range of the settling tortfeasor's proportional share of comparative liability for the plaintiff's injuries.  This is not to say that bad faith is ‘established by a showing that a settling defendant paid less than his theoretical proportionate or fair share.’ [Citation.]  Such a rule would unduly discourage settlements.  ‘For the damages are often speculative, and the probability of legal liability therefor is often uncertain or remote.  And even where the claimant's damages are obviously great, and the liability therefor certain, a disproportionately low settlement figure is often reasonable in the case of a relatively insolvent, and uninsured, or underinsured, joint tortfeasor.’ [Citation.]  Moreover, such a rule would tend to convert the pretrial settlement approval procedure into a full scale mini trial [citation].  “But these considerations do not lead to the conclusion that the amount of the settlement is irrelevant in determining good faith.  Rather, the intent and policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors be taken into account including a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial.  Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants. [Citation.]  Finally, practical considerations obviously require that the evaluation be made on the basis of information available at the time of settlement.  ‘[A] defendant's settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling defendant's liability to be.’ [Citation.]  The party asserting the lack of good faith, who has the burden of proof on that issue (§877.6(d)), should be permitted to demonstrate, if he can, that the settlement is so far ‘out of the ballpark’ in relation to these factors as to be inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.  Such a demonstration would establish that the proposed settlement was not a ‘settlement made in good faith’ within the terms of section 877.6.   (Tech-Bilt, Inc., 38 Cal.3d at 499-500.)    Section 877.6 contemplates that the determination of good faith may be made by the court on the basis of affidavits (subd. (b)), and as the court observed in River Garden Farms, ‘The price levels are not as unpredictable as one might suppose.  Despite the uncertainties, generalized valuation criteria are recognized by the personal injury bar, insurance claims departments and pretrial settlement courts.  When testing the good faith of a settlement figure, a court may enlist the guidance of the judge's personal experience and of experts in the field.  Represented by knowledgeable counsel, settlement negotiators can predict with some assurance whether a settlement is within the reasonable range permitted by the criterion of good faith.  The danger that a low settlement violates the good faith clause will not impart uncertainty so long as the parties behave fairly and the courts maintain a realistic awareness of settlement imponderables.’ [Citation.] (Id. at 500-01.)   The Tech-Bilt factors can be summarized as follows:¿ (1) A rough approximation of plaintiff’s total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability;  (2) The amount paid in settlement;  (3) The allocation of settlement proceeds among defendants;  (4) A recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial;  (5) The financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants; and  (6) The existence of collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of the nonsettling defendants. Analysis “[I]n moving under section 877.6 for a good faith settlement determination, the moving party must set forth the value of the consideration paid and an evidentiary basis for that valuation, and must demonstrate that the valuation ‘was reached in a sufficiently adversarial manner to justify the presumption that a reasonable valuation was reached.’ […] A nonsettling defendant may then challenge the settlement by “attempt[ing] to prove that the parties' assigned value is too low and that a greater reduction in plaintiff's claims against the remaining defendants is actually warranted.”  (Franklin Mint Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1550, 1558.)  Where an application is opposed, the moving party must show by competent evidence that the Tech-Bilt factors weigh in favor finding the settlement to be in good faith.  (Mediplex of Cal. v. Sup. Ct. (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 748, 753 n. 4.)  Parties challenging the good faith nature of a settlement agreement have the burden to demonstrate that it lies so far “out of the ballpark” of the Tech-Bilt factors that it is inconsistent with the equitable objectives of the statute.  (Nutrition Now, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213-214.) Nandha and Hunsicker contend the action involves a multi-vehicle collision on the freeway, in which there were two collisions involving a total of four vehicles separately operated by Zhao, Plaintiff, Hunsicker, and James Burley. They argue that aside from disclosing the settlement amount reached with Plaintiff, Zhao has not provided any facts, evidence, or explanation to address the validity of the application under the Tech-Bilt factors. Further, they contend that no depositions have begun, and that the settlement is premature.  The settling defendant's proportionate liability is a critical factor: “The ultimate determinant of good faith is whether the settlement is grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate the settlor's liability to be.” (City of Grand Terrace v. Sup.Ct. (Boyter) (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1262). Substantial evidence (e.g., factual declarations) showing the nature and extent of the settling defendant's liability is required. Without such evidence, a “good faith” determination is an abuse of discretion. (Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1348— “questionable assumptions" in moving party's memorandum of points and authorities insufficient to show the settlement was reasonable; Greshko v. County of Los Angeles (1987) 194 Cal.App.3d 822, 834—attorney's declaration resettling defendant's liability insufficient where he failed to provide specific supporting facts or expert opinion.) Here, the application for good faith settlement merely provides that Plaintiff will dismiss Zhao for $250,000, and conclusory recites the Tech-Bilt factors without any additional facts or evidence. The declaration attached to Zhao’s application suffers from the same defects.   A necessary corollary to the definition of good faith in Tech-Bilt is that the trial court's consideration of the settlement agreement and its relationship to the entire litigation in a contested setting must proceed upon a sufficient evidentiary basis to enable the court to consider and evaluate the various aspects of the settlement. [Citations.] Because Tech-Bilt mandates a rough approximation of the settling defendant's proportionate liability and consideration of all other defendants' proportionate liability and consideration of all other factors that might affect the fairness of the settlement as respects non-settling defendants, the affidavits, declarations or other evidence should provide the court with the facts necessary to evaluate the settlement in terms of the factors contemplated by Tech-Bilt. Without the facts, in a contested hearing, it is impossible for a court to exercise its discretion in an appropriate fashion. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1263.)   The Court agrees that Zhao has failed to provide any substantial evidence to evaluate whether the settlement was in good faith. Furthermore, Zhao did not submit a response or opposition to Nandha’s and Hunsicker’s motion challenging the good faith of the settlement.  III. Conclusion  Based on the foregoing, Zhao’s application for good faith determination pursuant to CCP § 877.6 is denied without prejudice. Nandha’s and Hunsicker’s motion challenging the good faith of the settlement is granted.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of January 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  