 Case Number:  23STCV20207    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  NORMA MORRISON, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  PIH HEALTH GOOD SAMARITAN HOSPITAL, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV20207  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO STRIKE WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  January 26, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Norma Morrison (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant PIH Health Good Samaritan Hospital (“Defendant”) for damages arising from a fall on Defendant’s property. Plaintiff alleges an altercation occurred between another patient and Defendant’s security guard, and during the altercation, the security guard pushed the patient into Plaintiff, which caused Plaintiff to fall on hospital equipment and break her hip. The complaint sets forth causes of action for (1) assault and battery and (2) negligence. The complaint includes a prayer for punitive damages.   Defendant now moves to strike allegations and the prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Defendant filed a reply.      II. Legal Standard Procedural Before filing a motion to strike, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the motion to strike and file a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5(a).) The Court finds Defendant has fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the demurrer.  (Mot. Leenerts Decl. ¶ 3.)  Motion To Strike The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)  The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)  “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).)  “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’  [Citation.]”  (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.) “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests.  The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (emphasis added.)  The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (Ibid.)  Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.  Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’”  (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)  Further, “[t]here must be evidence that defendant acted with knowledge of the probable dangerous consequences to plaintiff’s interests and deliberately failed to avoid these consequences.”  (Flyer’s Body Shop Profit Sharing Plan v. Ticor Title Ins. Co. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 1149, 1155.) Defendant seeks to strike the following from Plaintiffs’ complaint:  Page 4, paragraph 25: “The aforementioned acts of Defendant Employee, and each Defendant, each of them, [were] willful, wanton, malicious, and oppressive, and therefore justify he awarding of exemplary and punitive damages against Defendant Employee pursuant to Civ. Code § 3294.”   Page 6, Prayer for Relief, F: “Punitive damages, pursuant to Civ. Code section 3294.”   Here, the complaint alleges, in relevant part, that Plaintiff was returning from the restroom to the waiting room when an altercation occurred between another patient and a security guard employed by Defendant. (Compl. ¶13.) During this altercation, the security guard pushed the patient into Plaintiff, and Plaintiff fell and sustained injury. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-15.) A motion to strike punitive damages is properly granted where a plaintiff does not state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, including allegations that defendant is guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)  “Mere negligence, even gross negligence, is not sufficient to justify such an award” for punitive damages.  (Kendall Yacht Corp. v. United California Bank (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 949, 958.) Moreover, conclusory allegations are not sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) The Court agrees that the allegations do not rise to despicable conduct having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime to warrant punitive damages. Plaintiff’s allegations lie in negligence, and there are insufficient facts making a prima facie showing of malice, oppression, or fraud. Based on the foregoing, the motion to strike punitive damages and allegations in relation thereto, is granted.   III. Leave to Amend The burden is on Plaintiff to show in what manner he can amend the complaint, and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the pleading.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349; Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.)¿Plaintiff repeats the allegations of the complaint, and makes it clear that there are no other facts available to support a claim for punitive damages not already pled. The Court cannot see any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment to state a claim for punitive damages against Defendant. Accordingly, leave to amend is denied.¿  Defendant’s motion to strike punitive damages is GRANTED without leave to amend.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of January 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    