 Case Number:  22STCV19523    Hearing Date:   January 26, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOSE MORALES, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JOSE NOYOLA, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV19523  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTIONS TO COMPEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  January 26, 2024  I. Background Plaintiff Jose Morales (“Plaintiff”) propounded form interrogatories, set one, and request for production of documents (“RPDs”), set one, on Jose Noyola (“Defendant”) on August 16, 2023. After not receiving responses, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter. On October 20, 2023, defense counsel stated they would provide responses on October 23, 2023. However, to date, no responses were served.  Plaintiff therefore seeks an order compelling Defendant to respond, without objections, to the outstanding discovery and to pay sanctions.  The motions were initially heard on December 15, 2023, wherein the Court denied the motions without prejudice due to issues with service of the moving papers. Defendant’s attorneys of record are James P. Souza and Anthony T. Luebke, Esq. of Kennedy & Souza, APC. The proof of service at the time did not demonstrate that the motion was served on counsel of record. On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration stating that Lewis Brisbois is Defendant’s current and only counsel, not Kennedy & Souza, APC. In support thereof, Plaintiff’s counsel provides a copy of an email from Ariadne Giannis of Lewis Brisbois, in which she states they are the only defense counsel on the matter and that Kennedy & Souza, APC is no longer involved. Plaintiff’s counsel declares Lewis Brisbois has failed to update that they are the current counsel of record. Per the Court’s request, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed defense counsel regarding a notice of change of attorney to reflect the appropriate firm handling the matter. However, to date, Plaintiff has not received a response from defense counsel on this issue.  Based upon Plaintiff’s counsel’s representation and evidence, the Court will now consider the motions on the merit. The motions are unopposed.   II. Motions to Compel  For a motion to compel initial discovery responses, all a propounding party must show is that it properly served its discovery requests, that the time to respond has expired, and that the party to whom the requests were directed failed to provide a timely response. (See Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 906.) Where a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290; 2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a); § 2031.300, subd. (a).)    Therefore, because the evidence shows Defendant was properly served with discovery and failed to respond, Plaintiff’s motions are GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to serve verified responses to Plaintiff’s form interrogatories, set one, and RPDs, set one, without objections, within twenty (20) days. (CCP §§ 2030.290(a),(b), 2031.300(a),(b).)  III. Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)¿ Defendant did not file any opposition. However, sanctions may be awarded, even though no opposition was filed, pursuant to CRC 3.1348(a). Plaintiff seeks sanctions in the amount of $900 for each motion to compel. The Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel did not sign the declaration pertaining to the motion to compel RPDs, and that all the relevant exhibits were attached instead to the motion to compel form interrogatories. A request for a sanction shall be supported by a memorandum of points and authorities, and accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting the amount of any monetary sanction sought. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.040.) Therefore, because the declaration in support of monetary sanctions is unsigned, the Court declines to award sanctions in relation to the motion to compel RPDs.   Additionally, a court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.). Thus, the Court reduces the amount requested, and Plaintiff is awarded $250 for the motion to compel form interrogatories only.   Sanctions are imposed against Defendant and Defendant’s attorney Ariadne Giannis of Lewis Brisbois.  Defendant and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $250, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 25th day of January 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   