..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 23STCV18291
Plaintiff's Name: Dameta Afeni O'Brien
Defendant's Name: Aston Carter Inc. and others
People-Names: Dameta Afeni O'Brien, Aston Carter
Company-Names: Aston Carter Inc., One Medical Group Inc., 1Life Healthcare Inc.
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: August 2, 2023, October 6, 2023, January 24, 2024, March 8, 2024, May 16, 2024, May 23, 2024, May 30, 2024
Events: Arbitration Agreement, PAGA claims, Arbitration hearing
Money: Not mentioned
Intentions: Compel arbitration of individual PAGA claims
Facts: Arbitration Agreement signed by Plaintiff, PAGA claims filed by Plaintiff
Disputes: Whether individual PAGA claims should be arbitrated
Acts: Plaintiff filed initial complaint, amended complaint, and second amended complaint
Agreements: Arbitration Agreement between Plaintiff and Aston Carter
Laws: Federal Arbitration Act, California Arbitration Act
Statutes: 9 U.S.C. ยง2, California Civil Procedure Code ยง1281 et seq.
Roles:
  * Judge: Ruling on motion to compel arbitration
  * Aston Carter Inc.: Defendant seeking to compel arbitration
  * One Medical Group Inc. and 1Life Healthcare Inc.: Defendants joining Aston Carter's motion
  * Dameta Afeni O'Brien: Plaintiff opposing motion to compel arbitration
Significant Statements:
  * The Arbitration Agreement is enforceable under federal and California law.
  * The Agreement does not require arbitration of non-individual PAGA claims.
  * Plaintiff does not have to arbitrate an individual PAGA claim to pursue a non-individual PAGA claim.
  * The court does not have authority to force a plaintiff to arbitrate a claim they do not choose to pursue.
```

Summary in English text:

The court has denied Aston Carter's motion to compel arbitration of individual PAGA claims. The Arbitration Agreement is enforceable under federal and California law, but the Agreement does not require arbitration of non-individual PAGA claims. The court has held that a plaintiff does not have to arbitrate an individual PAGA claim to pursue a non-individual PAGA claim. The court also held that it does not have authority to force a plaintiff to arbitrate a claim they do not choose to pursue.
