 Case Number:  23STCV05272    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SAMANTHA ANOBILE, CO-TRUSTEE OF THE SELMA L.
  ADELMAN TRUST OF 2009,  
  
         vs.
 
HE I. GRACE COMPANY COMMISSIONED PRIVATE
  RESIDENCES, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV05272
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  May 31, 2024



 
Cross-Defendant
JH
Plumbing Corporation, Inc.’s unopposed demurrer to Cross-Complainants
The I. Grace Company’s, Commissioned Private Residences, Inc.’s, and Sierra
Towers 17 Property, LLC’s cross-complaint is sustained with 20 days
leave to amend as to the 2nd and 5th causes of action and overruled as to the
1st, 7th, and 8th causes of action
 
Cross-Defendant JH Plumbing Corporation, Inc. (“JH Plumbing”) (“Cross-Defendant”)
demurs unopposed to the 1st, 2nd, 5th, 7th, and 8th causes of action in Cross-Complainants
The I. Grace Company’s (“I. Grace”), Commissioned Private Residences, Inc.’s
(“Commissioned”), and Sierra Towers 17 Property, LLC’s (“Sierra Towers”) (collectively, “Cross-Complainants”)
cross-complaint (“CC”) on the following bases: (1) the 1st cause of action for implied
indemnity fails to state facts because no tort can be alleged by
Cross-Complainants against JH Plumbing and Cross-Complainants do not plead
additional acts not covered by the express indemnity allegation; (2) the 2nd
cause of action for equitable indemnity fails to
state facts because no tort can be alleged by Cross-Complainants against JH
Plumbing and Cross-Complainants do not plead additional acts not covered by the
express indemnity allegation; (3) the 5th cause of action for premises
liability- negligence fails to state facts because Cross-Complainants only
plead economic damages, precluded in a negligence action; (4) the 7th cause of
action for declaratory relief- duty to indemnify fails to state facts because
the cause of action is anticipatory and not ripe and Cross- Complainants do not plead any future rights which
need to be adjudicated; and (5) the 8th cause of action for declaratory relief-
duty to defend fails to state facts because this cause of action is
anticipatory and not ripe and Cross-Complainants do not plead any future rights
which need to be adjudicated.  (Notice
of Demurrer, pgs. 2-3; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Background
Cross-Complainants filed the operative CC against Cross-Defendant
on May 23, 2023, alleging eight causes of action: (1) implied indemnity; (2) equitable
indemnity; (3) express indemnity; (4) breach of contract; (5) premises
liability- negligence; (6) breach of warranties; (7) declaratory relief- duty
to indemnify; and (8) declaratory relief- duty to defend.
Cross-Complainants’ CC arises from an alleged pipe bursting on or
about March 12, 2021, at or within the confines of Unit 1702 at Sierra Towers
and caused damage to the property located within Sierra Towers, Unit 1402
(“Subject Property”).  (See CC ¶5.)  
On October 24, 2023, Cross-Defendant filed the instant
demurrer.  As of the date of this hearing
no opposition was filed.
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer. 
(C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
A declaration must be filed with a demurrer regarding the results of the
meet and confer process.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Cross-Defendant’s counsel declares he met and conferred
telephonically with Cross-Complainants’ counsel on October 16, 2023.  (Decl. of Scroggins ¶3.)  Cross-Defendant’s counsel declares the
parties did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the
instant demurrer.  (Decl. of Scroggins
¶5.)  Cross-Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a).  Accordingly, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Cross-Defendant demurs to the  CC on the following bases: (1) the 1st cause
of action for implied indemnity fails to state facts because no tort can be
alleged by Cross-Complainants against JH Plumbing and Cross-Complainants do not
plead additional acts not covered by the express indemnity allegation; (2) the
2nd cause of action for equitable indemnity fails to
state facts because no tort can be alleged by Cross-Complainants against JH
Plumbing and Cross-Complainants do not plead additional acts not covered by the
express indemnity allegation; (3) the 5th cause of action for premises
liability- negligence fails to state facts because Cross-Complainants only
plead economic damages, precluded in a negligence action; (4) the 7th cause of
action for declaratory relief- duty to indemnify fails to state facts because
the cause of action is anticipatory and not ripe and Cross- Complainants do not plead any future rights which
need to be adjudicated; and (5) the 8th cause of action for declaratory relief-
duty to defend fails to state facts because this cause of action is
anticipatory and not ripe and Cross-Complainants do not plead any future rights
which need to be adjudicated.  (Notice
of Demurrer, pgs. 4-10; C.C.P. §430.10(e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
          
Implied Indemnity (1st COA)
“In general, indemnity refers to ‘the obligation resting on one
party to make good a loss or damage another party has incurred.’ Historically,
the obligation of indemnity took three forms: (1) indemnity expressly provided
for by contract (express indemnity); (2) indemnity implied from a contract not
specifically mentioning indemnity (implied contractual indemnity); and (3)
indemnity arising from the equities of particular circumstances (traditional
equitable indemnity). [¶] Although the foregoing categories of indemnity were
once regarded as distinct, we now recognize there are only two basic types of
indemnity: express indemnity and equitable indemnity. Though not extinguished,
implied contractual indemnity is now viewed simply as ‘a form of equitable indemnity.’”
 (Prince v. Pacific Gas & Electric
Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1157, internal citations omitted.)
“The right to implied contractual indemnity is predicated upon the
indemnitor’s breach of contract, ‘the rationale . . . being that a contract
under which the indemnitor undertook to do work or perform services necessarily
implied an obligation to do the work involved in a proper manner and to
discharge foreseeable damages resulting from improper performance absent any participation
by the indemnitee in the wrongful act precluding recovery.’ . . . ‘An action
for implied contractual indemnity is not a claim for contribution from a joint
tortfeasor; it is not founded upon a tort or upon any duty which the indemnitor
owes to the injured third party. It is grounded upon the indemnitor’s breach of
duty owing to the indemnitee to properly perform its contractual
duties.’”  (West v. Superior Court
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1625, 1633, internal citations omitted.)
“[A]n implied contractual indemnity claim, like a traditional
equitable indemnity claim, is subject to the American Motorcycle rule
that a party’s liability for equitable indemnity is based on its proportional
share of responsibility for the damages to the injured party.”  (Prince, 45 Cal.4th at pg. 1165.)
Cross-Complainant alleges on information and
belief that Cross-Defendants, and each of them, entered into written, oral
and/or implied agreements to provide plumbing supplies, labor, work, services,
repair, maintenance and/or renovation services at the Project.  (CC ¶11.)  Cross-Complainant alleges on information and
belief that Cross-Defendants, and each of them, knew or should have foreseen
with reasonable certainty that if its plumbing and/or other renovation work was
not properly and adequately performed, supervised, overseen, controlled,
monitored, modified, installed, inspected, surveyed, supplied, approved,
repaired and/or maintained, the Project and/or the adjacent units at Sierra
Towers would incur substantial property, economic, and/or other damages arising
from such failures and deficiencies.  (CC
¶12.)  Cross-Complainant alleges Cross-Defendants,
and each of them, knew or should have foreseen with reasonable certainty that
Plaintiff would sue Cross-Complainants for any damages arising from such
alleged negligent acts, omissions and/or breaches on the part of said
Cross-Defendants, and that Cross-Complainants would incur costs and expenses as
a result of such litigation including, but not limited to, attorneys’ fees and
costs to defend against Plaintiff’s claims.  (CC ¶12.)  
Cross-Complainants allege as part of the
performance of their respective services/work and/or supply of materials, and
at all times mentioned herein, Cross-Defendants owed a duty of care to
Plaintiff, as owner and resident of an adjacent unit at Sierra Towers, to
perform their respective services and/or work with that degree of reasonable
care, skill, diligence, prudence, and competence ordinarily possessed and
exercised by other members of their respective professions and/or trades, or
otherwise to avoid reasonably foreseeable injury to the owner and user,
including Plaintiff.  (CC ¶13.)  Cross-Complainants allege Cross-Defendants
knew or, with reasonable certainty, should have known or foreseen, that
Plaintiff, as owner and resident of an adjacent unit at Sierra Towers, would
suffer damages as alleged if said Cross-Defendants failed to perform their
respective professional services, work and/or trades in accordance with the
applicable standards of care.  (CC ¶13.)
Cross-Complainants allege on information and
belief that if Plaintiff’s allegations are true and Plaintiff, in fact,
sustained certain losses as alleged, then said Cross-Complainants allege upon
information and belief that the losses, if any, for which Cross-Complainants
are being sued by Plaintiff were legally, directly, proximately, solely and/or
substantially caused by the concurrent, successive, joint and/or several acts,
omissions, conduct, breaches of applicable standards of care, breaches of duties,
contractual or otherwise, negligence, professional negligence and other
tortious conduct of Cross-Defendants, thereby entitling Cross-Complainants to
have the quantum of legally responsible conduct of said Cross-Defendants
determined by this Court.  (CC ¶14.)
Cross-Complainants allege that if said
Cross-Complainants are held liable, which liability is specifically denied,
then Cross-Defendants are primarily and actively responsible and negligent or
otherwise responsible in causing and bringing about the alleged injuries to
Plaintiff.  (CC ¶15.)  Cross-Complainants allege any liability of
Cross-Complainants will be imputed on the basis of vicarious or secondary
liability and not as a result of any active negligence or any other acts on the
part of Cross-Complainants.  (CC ¶15.)  
Cross-Complainants allege they are entitled to
be indemnified by Cross-Defendants for any sums paid to Plaintiff by way of
settlement or, in the alternative, for any and all recovery that Plaintiff may
realize against Cross-Complainants in the underlying action based upon
Plaintiff’s Complaint.  (CC ¶16.)
Cross-Complainants allege as a direct, legal
and proximate result of the acts/omissions/conduct, breaches of applicable
standards of care, breaches of duties, negligence, professional negligence and
other tortious conduct by Cross-Defendants, Cross-Complainants have incurred
and continue to incur substantial damages including, but not limited to,
attorneys’ fees and costs, expert witness fees and costs, investigation
expenses, litigation expenses, and costs of suit associated with the defense
against Plaintiff’s action, as well as, the prosecution of this
cross-action.  (CC ¶17.)
Cross-Defendant’s demurrer does not address
implied contractual indemnity.  Cross-Defendant
only addresses equitable indemnity. 
(Demurrer, pgs. 6-7.)  Further,
Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges the elements of a cause of action for
implied contractual indemnity.  (CC ¶¶11-14.)
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 1st
cause of action is overruled.
 
Equitable Indemnity (2nd COA)
“The elements of a cause of action for indemnity are (1) a showing
of fault on the part of the indemnitor and (2) resulting damages to the
indemnitee for which the indemnitor is . . . equitably responsible.”  (Bailey v. Safeway, Inc. (2011) 199
Cal.App.4th 206, 217.)
Breach of contract is not a cognizable claim on which to base
equitable indemnity.  (BFGC Architects
Planners, Inc. v. Forcum/Mackey Construction, Inc. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th
848, 852-853.)  In order for the doctrine
of equitable indemnity to apply, the proposed indemnitee must plead some basis
for tort liability against the proposed indemnitor, which generally is based on
a legal duty owed by the proposed indemnitor to the underlying injured party.  (Id.)
Cross-Complainant alleges in equity and good conscience, if
Plaintiff recovers against Cross-Complainants, then Cross-Complainants are
entitled to equitable indemnity, apportionment of liability, and contribution
from Cross-Defendants, and each of them, according to their respective fault,
for the injuries and damages allegedly sustained by Plaintiff, if any, by way
of sums paid by settlement or judgments rendered against Cross-Complainants in
the underlying action arising from the operative Complaint.  (CC ¶19.)
Cross-Complainant fails to allege a tort by Cross-Defendant
because only economic damages exist. 
Under the economic loss rule, there is no tort recovery for economic
loss alone.  (See Seely v. White Motor
Co. (1996) 63 Cal.2d 9; see also North American Chemical Co. v. Superior
Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764.)
The damages claimed by Cross-Complainants in their cause of action
for negligence consist of compensatory damages arising from Cross-Complainants
defending against the claims within Plaintiff’s Complaint.  (CC ¶¶19, 42.)  Therefore, the only damages for which
Cross-Complainants complain of are economic damages, which is barred by the
economic loss rule.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 2nd
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Premises Liability- Negligence (5th COA)
          “The elements of a
negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a legal duty of
care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury. Premises
liability ‘“is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant
right to control and manage the premises”’; accordingly, ‘“mere possession with
its attendant right to control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis
for the imposition of an affirmative duty to act.”’ But the duty arising from
possession and control of property is adherence to the same standard of care
that applies in negligence cases. In determining whether a premises owner owes
a duty to persons on its property, we apply the [Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108] factors. Indeed, Rowland itself involved premises
liability.”  (Kesner v. Superior Court
(2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159, internal citations omitted.)
          “The owner of
premises is under a duty to exercise ordinary care in the management of such
premises in order to avoid exposing persons to an unreasonable risk of harm. A
failure to fulfill this duty is negligence.”  (Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989)
215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.)
          Cross-Complainant
alleges on information and belief that Cross-Defendants, and each of them, owed
a duty of care to Cross-Complainants to perform work which does not fall below
the standard of care in the industry. 
(CC ¶37.)
          Cross-Complainants
allege on information and belief that Cross-Defendants breached said duty of
care by performing work which fell below the applicable standard of care in the
industry.  (CC ¶38.)
Cross-Complainants alleges on information and belief that Cross-Defendants
negligently, carelessly and wrongfully failed to use reasonable care in the
supply of materials, installation, supervision, inspection and/or construction
of the plumbing system that caused the damages alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint.  (CC ¶39.)
Cross-Complainants allege on information and belief that Cross-Defendants
negligently and carelessly failed to exercise reasonable care and diligence to
avoid loss and to minimize and mitigate damages which could have been prevented
by reasonable efforts on the part of said Cross-Defendants or by expenditures
which should have been made in the exercise of due care.  (CC ¶40.)
Cross-Complainants allege on information and belief that Cross-Defendants
that the failures and damages alleged by Plaintiff occurred because of the
negligence of Cross-Defendants.  (CC
¶41.)
Cross-Complainants allege as a direct and proximate result of the
negligence of Cross-Defendants, Cross-Complainants have incurred and continue
to incur costs and expenses including, but not limited to, litigation costs,
attorneys’ fees and consultants’ fees to inspect, repair and mitigate damages
arising out of said alleged negligent conduct, and to defend against
Plaintiff’s action herein, as well as the prosecution of this cross-action.  (CC ¶42.)
The economic loss rule limits recovery in contract for purely
economic losses due to disappointed expectations, unless a plaintiff can demonstrate
harm above and beyond a broken contractual promise.  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 988.)  Cross-Complainants
have failed to plead any facts establishing that they have suffered more than
just purported economic loss.
Accordingly, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s 5th
cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
          Declaratory
Relief (7th & 8th COAs)
To state a cause of action for declaratory relief, C.C.P. §1060
requires “an actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the
respective parties,” not an abstract or academic dispute.  (See Connerly v. Schwarzenegger (2007)
146 Cal.App.4th 729, 746-747.)  “It must be
a real and substantial controversy admitting of specific relief through a
decree of a conclusive character, as distinguished from an opinion advising
what the law would be upon a hypothetical state of facts.  (Centex Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine
Insurance Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23, 29; Alameda County Land Use Association
v. City of Hayward (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1716, 1722.)
Cross-Complainants allege a claim within the meaning of the
subject indemnity agreement has arisen by virtue of the fact that the Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Cross-Complainants claiming damages which is the
subject matter of this litigation and that the damages alleged in Plaintiff’s
Complaint pertain to, arise out of, or result from (i) the performance of the
work, services, supply/use of materials under the written subcontract agreement
by Cross-Defendants; (ii) the breach of Cross-Defendants’ obligations under the
written subcontract agreement; and/or (iii) the negligent acts or omissions
with respect to the performance of the work, services, supply/use of materials
by Cross-Defendants.  (CC ¶53.)
Cross-Complainants allege a dispute has arisen and an actual
controversy now exists between Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants,
inasmuch as Cross-Complainants contend that they are entitled to express indemnity,
and Cross-Defendants ignore such obligations. 
(CC ¶54.)
Cross-Complainants allege a claim within the meaning of the
indemnity and defense agreement has arisen by virtue of the fact that the
Plaintiff filed a Complaint against Cross-Complainants claiming damages which
is the subject matter of this litigation and that the damages alleged in
Plaintiff’s Complaint pertain to, arise out of, or result from (i) the
performance of the work, services, supply/use of materials under the written subcontract
agreement by Cross-Defendants; (ii) the breach of Cross-Defendants’ obligations
under the written subcontract agreement; and/or (iii) the negligent acts or
omissions with respect to the performance of the work, services, supply/use of
materials by Cross-Defendants.     (CC
¶59.)
          Cross-Complainants
allege a dispute has arisen and an actual controversy now exists between
Cross-Complainants and Cross-Defendants, in that Cross-Complainants contend
that they are entitled to a present defense from Cross-Defendants, while
Cross-Defendants continue to ignore such obligation under the written subcontract
agreements.  (CC ¶62.)
          Cross-Complainants
allege they seek a Declaration by the Court as to its respective rights and Cross-Defendants’
duties and obligations as to the present and immediate duty to defend
Cross-Complainants in connection with the matters herein alleged.  (CC ¶63.) 
Cross-Complainants allege they further seek a judgment in their favor as
to any duties and obligations Cross-Defendants owe to Cross-Complainants as
they pertain to Cross-Defendants’ duty to defend against claims in this
litigation.  (CC ¶63.)  
          Cross-Complainants
sufficiently allege causes of action for declaratory relief for declarations of
their rights under the express indemnity provision of their contract with
Cross-Defendant.
          Accordingly,
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainants’ 7th and 8th causes of action
is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to Cross-Complainant’s Cross-Complaint
is sustained with 20 days leave to amend as to the 2nd and 5th causes of
action and overruled as to the 1st, 7th, and 8th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  June _____, 2024
                                                                             





  