 Case Number:  21PSCV01054    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Claire
He Yi v. Daniel W. Kennedy, et al. 
1
– Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Attendance of Defendant Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and
Produce Documents; and
2
– Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Attendance of Defendant Rosemary F. Kennedy and
Product Documents 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel attendance of
Defendant Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and Produce Documents. The Court awards monetary
sanctions in favor of Defendant Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and against Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $800.00. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Juliet within 20 days
of the Court’s order. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel attendance of
Defendant Rosemary F. Kennedy and Produce Documents. The Court awards monetary
sanctions in favor of Defendant Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and against Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $400.00. Plaintiff’s
counsel must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Rosemary within 20 days
of the Court’s order. 
            Defendants Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and
Rosemary F. Kennedy are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This action revolves around an investment dispute. On December 16,
2021, plaintiff Claire He Yi (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Daniel
W. Kennedy, IV (Daniel), Juliet Ru-Yi Chung (Juliet), Diana Yi Wei Cheng
(Diana), Rosemary F. Kennedy (Rosemary), Vanessa Yao Guo, Hongmei Jin, Kennedy
Capital Partners International, Inc. (Kennedy Capital), Gosdom Inc., Gosdom
Entertainment Inc., Gosdom Entertainment LLC, Gosdom Entertainments, LLC, Base
FX, Inc., Production Capital LLC, Production Capital Corp., Production Capital
Entertainment, Inc., Kevin W Robl, Will Yun Lee (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for fraud – intentional
misrepresentation, fraud- negligent misrepresentation, fraud – concealment, fraud
– false promise, common law conspiracy, breach of written contract (note), breach
of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, promissory estoppel,
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud – constructive, conversion, account stated,
money had and money received, unfair business practices Business &
Professions Code § 17200 et seq., and unjust enrichment. 
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel Juliet’s deposition
attendance and to produce documents. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
amended motion to compel the same.[1] On July 24, 2024, Juliet opposed the motion. Plaintiff did not reply. 
On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel Rosemary’s deposition
attendance and to produce documents. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
amended motion to compel the same. On July 24, 2024, Juliet opposed the motion.
Plaintiff did not reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
DISCUSSION – Motion to Compel Attendance and Deposition of Defendant Juliet
Ru-Yi Chung and Produce Documents
Meet and Confer or Inquiry Regarding Nonappearance 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2), Plaintiff
was required before bringing this motion to provide a declaration regarding
Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer with Juliet or a declaration stating
that Plaintiff contacted Juliet to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) Plaintiff did not do so. Plaintiff first
filed this motion on June 21, 2024, and then attempted to meet and confer with
Juliet before filing the amended motion on July 3, 2024, which was improper. (Liu
Decl. from Amended Motion, Exs. D-G.) The Court admonishes Plaintiff to comply
with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. 
Analysis 
Plaintiff seeks to compel Juliet’s attendance at a deposition and
to produce documents based on a notice served on May 22, 2024, with a
designated deposition date of June 5, 2024. (Liu Decl. from Original Motion, ¶
3, Ex. A.) On May 29, 2024, Juliet objected to the deposition notice on the
grounds that the date of June 5, 2024 was unilaterally set, and Juliet and her
counsel were not available. (Liu Decl. from Original Motion, Exs. B-C.)
Plaintiff then filed the motion on June 21, 2024, and filed the amended motion
on July 3, 2024. 
In opposition, Juliet contends this motion is unnecessary because
the deposition was unilaterally set and Juliet’s counsel was unavailable that
day, which was stated in Juliet’s objection. (Tran Decl., ¶ 1.) Juliet contends
Plaintiff filed this motion without having met and conferred, and then stated
after filing the motions that Plaintiff would take off the motion if Juliet was
produced in the next 30 days, to which Juliet offered multiple dates and times
but Plaintiff ultimately did not respond. (Tran Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Exs. A-D.) 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion not well taken. There is no
evidence to show that Plaintiff and Juliet had previously agreed upon June 5,
2024, as the date for which Juliet would sit for deposition. The evidence
instead supports Juliet’s argument that Plaintiff unilaterally set the
deposition for a date when Juliet and her counsel were unavailable. (See Liu
Decl. from Original Motion, ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. A-C; Liu Decl. from Amended Motion,
Exs. D-G; Tran Decl., ¶ 1.) The Court also finds that Juliet attempted in good
faith to set a new deposition date, as evidenced by the dates Juliet offered
once Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer during the pendency of this motion.
(Tran Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Exs. A-D.) The Court finds Juliet’s objection was valid
and therefore DENIES Plaintiff’s motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(b).) 
With respect to monetary sanctions, the Court finds Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel acted improperly by bringing this motion before having
first attempted to meet and confer or inquire about the nonappearance per Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2). Accordingly, the Court
awards monetary sanctions in favor of Juliet and against Plaintiff’s counsel in
the reduced amount of $800.00, comprised of 2.0 hours preparing the motion and
attending the hearing on this motion, multiplied by the hourly rate of $400.00.
Plaintiff’s counsel must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Juliet
within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
DISCUSSION
- Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Attendance of Defendant Rosemary F. Kennedy and
Product Documents 
            Plaintiff’s motion with respect to
Defendant Rosemary is identical to the motion with respect to Defendant Juliet.
Accordingly, for the same reasons set forth above, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion with respect to Defendant Rosemary, and awards monetary sanctions in
favor of Rosemary and against Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $400.00.
Plaintiff’s counsel must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Rosemary
within 20 days of the Court’s order. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel attendance of
Defendant Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and Produce Documents. The Court awards monetary
sanctions in favor of Defendant Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $800.00. Plaintiff’s counsel must
pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Juliet within 20 days of the Court’s
order. 
The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel attendance of
Defendant Rosemary F. Kennedy and Produce Documents. The Court awards monetary
sanctions in favor of Defendant Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and against Plaintiff and
Plaintiff’s counsel in the reduced amount of $400.00. Plaintiff’s counsel must
pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for Rosemary within 20 days of the
Court’s order. 
            Defendants Juliet Ru-Yi Chung and
Rosemary F. Kennedy are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.


