 Case Number:  22PSCV00196    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Langer
Juice Company, Inc. v. Silly Brands, Inc., et al. 
Motion
of Elizabeth A. Dorsi and Yessenia Garcia-Vazquez to be Relieved as Counsel for
Silly Brands, Inc. 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel. Counsel is
ordered to submit a corrected proposed order correcting the defects identified
herein, within five days of the Court’s order. The Court will also set an Order
to Show Cause re Representation of Silly Brands. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days of the Court’s order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract case. On March 2, 2022, plaintiff
Langer Juice Company, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants
Silly Brands, Inc. (Silly Brands) and Keith Davis (Davis), alleging causes of
action for breach of contract and common counts. 
On May 4, 2022, Silly Brands filed a cross-complaint against
Plaintiff, Bruce Langer, and David Langer, alleging causes of action for breach
of contract (Co-Packing Agreement), breach of implied duty to perform with
reasonable care, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
unjust enrichment, breach of contract (Operating Agreement), and breach of
fiduciary duty. 
On June 10, 2022, Bruce Langer and David Langer (Langer Parties)
filed a cross-complaint against Silly Brands and Davis, alleging causes of
action for breach of Silly Brands Inc. operating agreement (against Davis only)
and breach of fiduciary duty. 
On
July 3, 2024, Elizabeth A. Dorsi and Yessenia Garcia-Vazquez of Farella Bruan
& Martel LLP moved to be relieved as counsel for Silly Brands. The motion
is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
The Court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted, provided that there is no prejudice to the client, and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 403-407.) 
A motion to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Council
Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all
parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
Elizabeth
A. Dorsi and Yessenia Garcia-Vazquez of Farella Bruan & Martel LLP (collectively,
Counsel), seek to be relieved as counsel for Silly Brands. Counsel contends there
has been a breakdown in communications between Counsel and Silly Brands, and
that Silly Brands did not consent to Counsel’s requests to withdraw. (Dorsi
Decl., ¶ 2.) The Court finds this to be proper grounds for withdrawal. 
Grounds for permitting an attorney to withdraw from representation
include the client’s conduct that “renders it unreasonably difficult for the
lawyer to carry out the representation effectively[.]” (Cal. Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 1.16, subd. (b)(4).) A breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship is also grounds for allowing the attorney to
withdraw. (Estate of Falco (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.) 
Counsel has provided the appropriate Judicial Council forms,
namely forms MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subds. (a), (c), (e).) Counsel has also provided proof of service of these
documents. (Proofs of Service (7/3/24).) The Court notes, however, that item 6
of the proposed order is incomplete. (Proposed Order, ¶ 6.) Counsel must
provide Silly Brands’ current or last known address and telephone number. Some
of the hearing date information is also now outdated, namely the motion for
summary judgment. (Proposed Order, ¶ 7.) The Court requests Counsel to provide
a corrected proposed order containing Silly Brands’ current or last known
address and telephone number and all currently pending hearing information, and
to also complete item 2 regarding the persons present at the hearing on this
motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel. Counsel is
ordered to submit a corrected proposed order correcting the defects identified
herein, within five days of the Court’s order. The Court will also set an Order
to Show Cause re Representation of Silly Brands. 
Counsel is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file proof of
service of same within five calendar days of the Court’s order.