 Case Number:  23PSCV00781    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Zanay  Herrera v. Starbucks Corporation, et al.  Plaintiff’s  Motion to Strike Defendant Vons Companies Inc.’s Memorandum of Costs  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendant Vons  Companies, Inc.’s memorandum of costs.               Defendant Vons is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a  premises liability action. On March 15, 2023, plaintiff Zanay Herrera  (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Starbucks Corporation  (Starbucks), The Vons Companies, Inc. (Vons), Albertsons Companies, Inc.  (Albertsons), Cerberus Capital Mangement [sic] LP, La Verne Commons LLC  (La Verne Commons) (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes  of action for premises liability and general negligence. On November 20, 2023,  Plaintiff filed a Doe amendment, naming Combined Properties, Inc. (Combined  Properties) as a defendant.  On March  5, 2024, Combined Properties filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1 through 25,  alleging causes of action for breach of written contract, express indemnity,  total equitable indemnity, partial equitable indemnity, contribution and  repayment, declaratory relief re duty to defend, declaratory relief re duty to  indemnify, breach of written contract – additional insurance, and negligence.  On May 14, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Vons from this action with  prejudice. On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff dismissed Albertsons from this action  with prejudice. On May 30, 2024, Vons filed a memorandum of costs. On June 14,  2024, Plaintiff moved to strike Vons’ memorandum of costs. On July 24, 2024,  Vons opposed the motion. On July 19, 1013, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD (1) Striking and taxing costs Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be served and  filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum. If the cost memorandum was  served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure  section 1013. If the cost memorandum was served electronically, the period is  extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(a)(4). (2) Form of motion Unless objection is made to the entire cost memorandum, the motion  to strike or tax costs must refer to each item objected to by the same number  and appear in the same order as the corresponding cost item claimed on the  memorandum of costs and must state why the item is objectionable. (3) Extensions of time The party claiming costs and the party contesting costs may agree  to extend the time for serving and filing the cost memorandum and a motion to  strike or tax costs. This agreement must be confirmed in writing, specify the  extended date for service, and be filed with the clerk. In the absence of an  agreement, the court may extend the times for serving and filing the cost  memorandum or the notice of motion to strike or tax costs for a period not to  exceed 30 days. (4) Entry of costs After the time has passed for a motion to strike or tax costs or  for determination of that motion, the clerk must immediately enter the costs on  the judgment. (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1700, subd. (b).) DISCUSSION  Summary of Arguments  Plaintiff moves to tax Vons’ memorandum of costs filed on May 30,  2024, on the grounds that Vons is represented by the same counsel as Albertsons  and Starbucks, but that Vons has failed to apportion costs appropriately  between these three Defendants.  In opposition, Vons contends the claimed costs are reasonable and  recoverable because Vons has only included costs for the motion for summary  judgment, motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition, and answer to the complaint  filed on behalf of Vons. Vons contends Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5,  subdivision (a)(14), provides for recovery of electronic filing and service  fees, and Los Angeles County Superior Court requires electronic filing. Vons  contends the fees for filing its answer are directly related to this action,  and that the motion to compel was necessary due to Plaintiff’s failure to  appear for several noticed depositions for purposes of Vons’ motion for summary  judgment. Vons also contends the deposition costs are proper because the depositions  focused on Vons’ and Albertson’s potential liability, and sought nothing  regarding the allegations against Starbucks.  In reply, Plaintiff contends it does not matter that Vons’ counsel  believes some costs mostly benefited only the dismissed party, but the Court  should instead employ a pro rata review where one counsel is hired by multiple  defendants. Plaintiff contends the filing and motion costs set forth are shared  among multiple defendants, such as the answer, motion for summary judgment, and  motion to compel, and Vons’ share should be 1/3 of the total costs. Plaintiff  notes that Albertsons was omitted from Vons’ calculus regarding answer filing  fees as well. Plaintiff does not dispute that Vons filed the motion for summary  judgment on behalf of both Vons and Albertsons, but instead only disputes that  the associated costs were not apportioned between Vons and Albertsons, and Vons  should not recover the entirety of the costs. Plaintiff also notes that  Albertsons has been dismissed from this action, but did not serve a memorandum  of costs.  Plaintiff further contends the deposition costs should be  apportioned among all three Defendants, since Vons’ counsel necessarily gained  information for all three Defendants in conducting those depositions. Plaintiff  contends the relevance of Plaintiff’s testimony and Danlag’s testimonies should  not determine cost allocation.  Analysis  “If the items appear to be proper charges, the verified memorandum  is prima facie evidence that the costs, expenses and services therein listed  were necessarily incurred by the defendant, and the burden of showing that an  item is not properly chargeable or is unreasonable is upon the plaintiff. However,  where the claim is made for a disbursement which on its face does not appear to  be proper or is for a disbursement the necessity for which is doubtful, and the  item is properly challenged upon a motion to tax costs, the burden is on the  claimant to establish the necessity for the disbursement. … The determination  of the items allowable as costs is largely a question for the trial court in  its discretion, and if no abuse of discretion is shown, the action of the trial  court will not be disturbed.” (Oak Grove School Dist. v. City Title Ins. Co.  (1963) 217 Cal.App.2d 678, 698-699 (internal citations omitted).)  The Court notes that there does not appear to be any  dispute here as to the propriety of the requested costs in and of themselves,  or that Vons is a prevailing party. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1032, subd.  (a)(4), 1033.5.) The cost items sought appear to be proper charges and the  burden is on Plaintiff to show the charges are not proper.  Code of Civil Procedure section 1032 declares that  costs are available as “a matter of right” when the prevailing party is within  one of the four categories designated by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032,  subds. (a)(4), (b).)  Here, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed this action  with prejudice as to Defendant The Vons Companies, Inc. (erroneously sued as “Albertsons  Companies, Inc.”). Thus, Vons is a defendant in whose favor a dismissal has  been entered. Accordingly, Vons is a “prevailing party” within the meaning of Code  of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivisions (a)(4), (b), and is entitled as a  matter of right to recover costs, unless another statute expressly provides  otherwise.  “[A]ll costs awarded to a prevailing party must be  incurred by that party, must be ‘reasonably necessary to the conduct of the  litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation,’ and  must be reasonable in amount. [Citation.] These limitations apply whether the  costs are awarded as a matter of right or in the court's discretion.  [Citation.]” (Charton v. Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730, 743 (Charton).)  However, “[a] prevailing party who is represented by the same counsel as a  nonprevailing party may only recover those costs the prevailing party incurred  and were reasonably necessary to the prevailing party's conduct of the  litigation, not the other jointly represented parties' conduct of the  litigation. [Citation.]” (Id., at p. 744.) (See also Wakefield v.  Bohlin (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 963, 976.)  According to the undisputed facts, Vons and Starbucks  are represented by the same attorney. Defendant Albertsons Companies, Inc.  never appeared in the action and was dismissed by Plaintiff with prejudice on  May 23, 2024. As stated above, Vons is the prevailing party. The case is still  proceeding against Starbucks so there is no status to determine as to  Starbucks.  “‘When a prevailing party has incurred costs jointly  with one or more other parties who are not prevailing parties for purposes of  an award of costs, the judge must apportion the costs between the parties  [based on the reason the costs were incurred and whether they were reasonably  necessary to the conduct of the litigation by the jointly represented party who  prevailed].’” (Charton, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at p. 743-744.)  $1,025.10 in Filing and Motion Fees  The Court finds Vons’ claim of $449.70 to be sufficiently  supported and incurred only by Vons. Each defendant must pay a first appearance  fee even when a joint response was filed. The Court file shows that Vons filed a  declaration of demurring party in support of an automatic extension dated  August 16, 2023, and was charged $449.70. (See Lewis Decl., Ex. D.) Although the  $449.70 fee was not paid for the “Answer”, it was paid solely by Vons for its  first appearance fee. The Court file also shows the Answer was filed on August  30, 2023, on behalf of both Vons and Starbucks. (Answer (8/30/23).) Starbucks  was charged its first appearance fee at that time. Plaintiff is not entitled to  any apportionment as the filing fee was incurred solely by Vons. Therefore, the  Court DENIES the motion as to the $449.70 for the answer to the complaint.  With respect to the filing fees for the motion for  summary judgment and motion to compel deposition, the Court finds Vons  adequately demonstrated it was the party that incurred these fees. The CRS  receipts Vons submitted indicate that it filed these motions. (Lewis Decl.,  Exs. E-F.) Vons is also listed as the moving party on both motions. (Motion for  Summary (3/13/24), p. 1; Motion to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff  (11/20/23), p. 1.) To the extent Albertsons was involved in these motions, the  Court does not find that to be adequate grounds for taxing these costs. Albertsons  never appeared in the action and has been dismissed from this action, and its  interest in this matter appears to have been one and the same with Vons in this  action. (See Answer (8/30/23); Motion for Summary Judgment (3/13/24); Motion to  Compel (11/20/23).) Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that Starbucks or  Albertsons incurred or paid these costs. Accordingly, the Court DENIES the  motion as to the $513.75 for the motion for summary judgment and the $61.65 for  the motion to compel deposition.  $3,003.95 in Deposition Costs  Vons seeks $3,003.95 incurred for taking the  deposition of Plaintiff and for the deposition transcript of Vons’ employee. The  Court finds that Plaintiff has not provided any evidence to establish that Vons  did not incur the deposition costs or that the costs were incurred jointly by  Vons and Starbucks. Vons noticed Plaintiff’s deposition and moved to compel  Plaintiff’s deposition. There is no evidence that Starbucks joined in the  motion. Vons contends that the depositions supported Vons’ motion for summary  judgment. There is no evidence that Starbucks joined in the motion for summary  judgment. The Court finds that Vons incurred the deposition costs to prepare  for its motion for summary judgment and that such costs were reasonably  necessary to the conduct of the litigation by Vons. There is no evidence to  demonstrate that these costs were jointly incurred by Vons and Starbucks.  Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion  as to the $3,003.95 in deposition costs.  CONCLUSION  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to strike Defendant Vons  Companies, Inc.’s memorandum of costs.               Defendant Vons is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.