 Case Number:  21STCV07986    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F-43
Date:
2-29-24
Case
# 21STCV07986, Abel Luna vs. CareMeridian, LLC, et al.
Trial
Date: 10-14-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Providence Health System-Southern California dba Providence
Holy Cross Medical Center
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Abel Luna
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication
 
RULING: Summary
adjudication granted for the dependent adult abuse-neglect cause of action;
summary judgment is denied for the entire complaint.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Abel Luna (Plaintiff) has asserted two causes of action for dependent adult
abuse-neglect and negligence against Defendant Providence Health
System-Southern California (Defendant). Plaintiff was severely injured in a car
accident and was thereafter transported to Defendant’s facility where he was
treated in its intensive care unit. Plaintiff alleges that he then experienced
skin breakdown and pressure sores. Plaintiff was admitted to the hospital on
February 2, 2019, and discharged on March 11, 2019.
 
During
his hospital stay, it was noted that Plaintiff was at a high risk for loss of
skin integrity due to his condition from the car accident. Over the course of
his stay at Defendant’s facility, Plaintiff began to develop pressure injuries
on different parts of his body. Defendant claims that Plaintiff received
continuous care while admitted to its hospital and refused repositioning on
certain occasions.
 
Defendant
filed its motion for summary judgment on August 11, 2023. Plaintiff filed his
opposition on February 15, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on February 23,
2024.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice: Defendant has requested that the Court take judicial
notice of a publication from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
regarding pressure injuries. The Court grants this request, as the document is
an official publication by a branch of the Executive Department of the U.S.
(See Evidence Code § 452.)
 
Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections:
            
Declaration of Nurse Charlene Gozony, MSN,
RN, CCRN, LNC
Sustained: None
            Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20
 
            Declaration of John Lynn Baeke,
M.D.
Sustained: 2
            Overruled: 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
 
Defendant
moves for summary judgment on grounds that the declaration of its expert shows
that the standard of care was met and skin integrity issues were not caused by
negligence or neglect-abuse. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s issues with
skin integrity were the result of the natural course of his condition and
treatment. Alternatively, Defendant argues that summary adjudication should be
granted for Plaintiff’s cause of action for dependent adult abuse.
 
Plaintiff
in opposition argues that triable issues of fact exist as to Plaintiff’s causes
of action for negligence and neglect-abuse. Plaintiff also argues that
Plaintiff can establish custodial care to support a cause of action for
dependent adult abuse and neglect. Finally, Plaintiff argues that he is
permitted to bring both causes of action for negligence and dependent adult
abuse and neglect.
 
Defendant
argues in its reply that summary adjudication for the cause of action for
dependent adult abuse should be granted. Defendant also argues that summary
judgment should be granted because Plaintiff’s experts’ opinions were improper
and circular.
 
The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
The pleadings frame the issues for motions, “since it is those
allegations to which the motion must respond. (Citation.)” (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal. App.
4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon
Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established.”  (CCP §
437c(p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inference that may be drawn
form that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.” (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at
467; see also CCP § 437c(c).) “An issue of fact can only be created by a
conflict in the evidence.  It is not
created by speculation, conjecture, imagination or guesswork.” (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
First,
Defendant moves for summary judgment on the entire complaint based on its
affirmative defense of Civ. Code § 1714.8(a). That sections states “No health
care provider shall be liable for professional negligence or malpractice for
any occurrence or result solely on the basis that the occurrence or result was
caused by the natural course of a disease or condition, or was the natural or
expected result of reasonable treatment rendered for the disease or condition.”
(Civ. Code § 1714.8.)
 
For
causation, “The law is well settled that in a personal injury action causation
must be proven within a reasonable medical probability based upon competent
expert testimony.” (Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163
Cal.App.3d 396, 402; see also Williams v. Wraxall (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th
120, and Mayes v. Bryan (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1075, 1093.) A plaintiff
alleging injury from medical care must prove “cause-in-fact” by proper expert
testimony – “Proof that a negligent act was a substantial factor in causing the
injury does not relieve the plaintiff of the burden of proving the negligent
act was a cause-in-fact of the injury.” (Jennings v. Palomar Pomerado Health
Systems (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1115.)
 
Defendant
has provided an expert declaration from Dr. Emanuel. Dr. Emanuel opines that
Plaintiff’s skin injuries were, to a reasonable degree of medical probability,
caused by the natural course of, or the natural expected result of, the
reasonable treatment of Plaintiff as a trauma patient with his particular
injuries and were complicated by his pre-existing health conditions. Dr.
Emanuel also indicated that the physician orders not to turn Plaintiff were
reflective of medical judgment relative to precautions based on Plaintiff’s
spinal instability. Based on this, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s injuries
were due to negligence.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff has provided two expert declarations that state that
Defendant’s care of Plaintiff was inadequate. “When a defendant moves for
summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declaration that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.”
(Munro v. Regents of the University of California (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d
977, internal citations omitted.) An expert declaration offered in support of
an opposition to a motion for summary judgment is entitled to all favorable
inferences that may be derived from that declaration. (Powell v. Kleinman
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 124.) Generally, when a declaration is offered to
counter a motion for summary judgement, it is sufficient that the declaration
disclose the existence of a material triable issue of fact to overcome the
motion for summary judgment, it does not need to prove plaintiff’s case. (AARTS
Productions, Inc. v. Crocker National Bank (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 1061,
1065.)
 
Though
the Court sustained some of Defendant’s objections to the declarations of
Plaintiff’s experts, the substance of the declarations still stands. What
remains presents a triable issue of material fact because Plaintiff’s experts
opine that the care provided to Plaintiff was inadequate for Plaintiff’s needs
and condition. Plaintiff’s experts have testified that to a reasonable degree
of medical probability, the inadequate care that Plaintiff received caused the
pressure injuries which developed during his stay at Defendant’s facility.
 
Based
on the foregoing, a triable issue of material fact exists regarding the care
Plaintiff received. Defendant’s motion for summary judgment for the entire
complaint is denied.
 
Alternatively,
Defendant argues that summary adjudication should be granted for Plaintiff’s
cause of action for Dependent Adult Abuse. In Winn v. Pioneer Medical Group,
Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, the California Supreme Court sustained a
demurrer to a theory of elder abuse, concluding a plaintiff does not have a
theory of elder-dependent abuse when the plaintiff’s relationship with the
defendant is consistent with “an able-bodied and fully competent adult’s reliance
on the advice and care of his or her medical providers.” (Winn at 165.) 
 
Winn explained that a
claim for elder-dependent abuse based on a caretaker-custodian’s “‘[f]ailure to
provide medical care for physical and mental health needs’” pertains to “a
determination made by one with control over an elder whether to initiate
medical care at all.” (Id. at 158, quoting Welf. & Inst. Code §
15610.57(b)(2) [italics in original].) Winn explained that the
elder-dependent statutes were “not meant to encompass every course of behavior
that fits either legal or colloquial definitions of neglect.” (Id. at
159.) Winn distinguished between medical negligence and elder-dependent
abuse and cautioned against “[b]lurring the distinction between neglect under
the Act and conduct actionable under ordinary tort remedies.” (Id. at
160.)
 
Neglect
as contemplated by the Act is separate and distinct from professional
negligence. (See Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771; see also Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23.)
 
The
case law demonstrates that hospitals, as facilities that provide medical care
that a fully able-bodied and fully competent adult could not provide for
themselves, are typically not liable for elder abuse. In this case, Plaintiff’s
allegations refer to Defendant’s acts or omissions as a medical provider, not
as a caretaker-custodian responsible for Plaintiff’s everyday care. Able-bodied
and mentally competent adults are not able to care for themselves after a
catastrophic car accident. Nor was there any deprivation of medical services on
the part of Defendant that would indicate neglect. Instead, Plaintiff’s
allegations are for medical negligence.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff appears to misunderstand the standard for Dependent Adult
Abuse. Though Plaintiff was dependent on Defendant’s doctors and nurses during
his stay there, he was there for medical care as a result of a catastrophic
accident. The hospital was not his caretaker or custodial caregiver in the
sense contemplated by the Act.
 
Defendant
would not be liable for Plaintiff’s cause of action for dependent adult abuse-neglect
because Defendant was acting in the role of medical provider, not as
Plaintiff’s custodial caregiver. Defendant was not acting in the role of
deciding whether to give Plaintiff medical care at all; it was providing
medical care to Plaintiff as a result of Plaintiff’s accident. Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication on this cause of action is granted.

 
The motion for summary judgment is denied for the
entire complaint. Summary adjudication is granted for the cause of action for dependent
adult abuse-neglect.
 
Trial remains set for October 14, 2024.
 
Moving
party to give notice.