 Case Number:  23CHCV02813    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 2-29-24
Case # 23CHCV02813, Elliott Wolfe vs. Judith Wolfe, et
al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
DEMURRER
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Judith Wolfe
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Demurrer to the Complaint
·        
1st Cause of Action for Assault
·        
2nd Cause of Action for Battery
·        
3rd Cause of Action for Trespass to
Chattels
·        
4th Cause of Action for Conversion
·        
5th Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
·        
6th Cause of Action for Elder Abuse
 
RULING: Demurrer sustained with leave to amend.
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION 
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff Elliott Wolfe (Plaintiff)
filed a complaint with six causes of action for Assault, Battery, Trespass to
Chattels, Conversion, Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, and Elder
Abuse. Defendant Judith Wolfe is listed as one of the defendants to the
complaint. It is mentioned in the complaint that Judith was Plaintiff’s wife
and that they have separated.
 
Defendant Judith Wolfe (Defendant) filed her demurer on October
23, 2023. No opposition has been filed as of February 26, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant brings a demurrer to the First through Sixth
Causes of Action on the basis that they are deprived of subject matter jurisdiction
and fail to state sufficient facts to state a cause of action.
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which
are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the
court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a
demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of
law.” (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th
518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally construes the
complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School Dist.
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
As an initial matter, all of Plaintiff’s causes of action
are devoid of specific facts against Defendant Judith Wolfe. It is impossible
to tell from Plaintiff’s complaint what Plaintiff is alleging happened. Rather
than state facts, Plaintiff has made conclusory statements under each cause of
action. These conclusory statements seem designed to simply check the boxes for
the requirements of the causes of action, and do not state any facts specific
to Plaintiff’s case. 
 
The Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer on the basis that
Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute any causes
of action against Defendant.
 
Defendant also argues in her demurrer that Plaintiff cannot
maintain a civil action against her while their dissolution matter is pending.
In Neal v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 22, the Court of Appeal
held that a demurrer to a complaint should be sustained on the basis that
family law cases should not be allowed to spill over into civil court. (Id.
at 25.) When the civil case is clearly an extension or rehash of a family law
case, this amounts to a jurisdictional defect in the case.
 
While Defendant represents that the divorce matter between
Plaintiff and Defendant is still pending, it is impossible to tell from the
complaint if this case is an extension of their family law case. There are no
specific facts to support the causes of action, so it is unknown if the causes
of action are related to the divorce matter. For this reason, the Court
sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint, but Plaintiff is given leave to
amend to add facts to the complaint.
 
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Moving party to give notice.