  Case Number:  20CHCV00724    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F-43
Date: 2-29-24
Case # 20CHCV00724,
City of Santa Clarita, et al. vs. Amanda Jean Bahnmaier
Trial Date: N/A
 
APPLICATION FOR ORDER TO CONFIRM SALE OF RECEVERSHIP
PROPERTY AND TO HOLD NET PROCEEDS
 
MOVING PARTY:
Receiver Mark Adams and California Receivership Group
RESPONDING
PARTY: Interested Party Diabio LLC
 
RULING: The
application is granted
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION AND ANALYSIS
On July 23,
2021, California Receivership Group, through Mark Adams as its president, was
appointed by the Court as Receiver for the property located 25046 Atwood Blvd.,
Santa Clarita, CA. The Receiver was appointed to take full and complete
possession of the property and develop an abatement plan to remedy the state
and local public health, safety, and welfare violations of the property.
 
On October 21,
2021, the Receiver confirmed the sale of the property to Diabio LLC and Gustavo
Cardenas to the Court. As a condition of the sale of the property, Diabio
agreed to complete all repairs within six months of the close of escrow. Diabio
did not meet the deadlines in the Sale Addendum for the property.
 
The Receiver
represents that it has a cooperative relationship with Diabio’s lender, Aztec
T.D. Service. The Receiver claims that all parties were aware that Diabio’s
purchase was contingent on the representations that the work would be
completed.
 
No work was
completed by Diabio, and the Receiver had to retake the property. The Receiver
worked out a deal with Aztec to provide the Receiver with the additional funds
to complete the abatement work and repairs. The repairs were completed in
December 2023 and were signed off on by the City of Santa Clarita. 
 
The property
was re-listed for sale for $699,999 on December 15, 2023, and the Receiver
ultimately accepted the offer by Jessica Palasik for $690,000. The Receiver
filed this application to request Court confirmation of that sale. There are
several liens and potential claims on the title of the property, and the
Receiver wishes to resolve those through the sale of the property.
 
The receiver is
authorized to request and the Court is authorized to confirm the sale of
receivership property pursuant to CCP § 568.5. Courts are afforded
“considerable deference” in ordering the sale of receivership property. (City
of Riverside v. Horspool (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 670, 684.) The factors that
a receiver considers in making the sale are case-dependent, and often include
others beyond simply finding the highest price, as “other considerations may
outweigh the need to maximize the sales price to the receivership.” (People
v. Stark (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 184, 206-07.) The manner in which the sale
is conducted, as well as the price and value of the property under the
receiver’s control are to be left to the discretion of the receiver. (City
of Riverside v. Horspool (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th at 684.)
 
Further, in
overseeing the Receiver, this Court has wide discretion, and “the power to
order the sale of property free and clear of liens and encumbrances.” (City
of Riverside v. Horspool (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th at 684 (citations omitted).)
 
It is clear
that the Receiver has the power to sell the property. However, Diabio filed an
opposition to the sale. Diabio’s opposition is based on the grounds that the
sale fails to adequately compensate creditors, including Aztec. Second, it
argues that there is a lack of evidence demonstrating the Receiver’s sincere
efforts to sell the property at a fair market value. 
 
The Receiver
argues in its response to Diabio’s opposition that these reasons are faulty.
For the first reason, Aztec does not object to the sale, nor does Diabio have
standing to express concern over Aztec’s interests in the sale of the property.
For the second reason, the Receiver argues that the law demonstrates that the
manner of sale is under the sole discretion of the appointed Receiver, and
Diabio does not offer any rebuttal evidence to show that Receiver did not put
enough effort into selling the property at a fair market value. The Receiver
speculates that the real issue for Diabio will be the distribution of the net
proceeds, which will be decided by subsequent motion.
 
The Court
agrees that Diabio’s reasons in opposition are faulty. Diabio does not have
standing to raise objections on Aztec’s behalf. Case law shows that the
Receiver has wide discretion when selling a property. Diabio failed to meet its
obligations to complete the repair work as part of the sale, so the Receiver
had to find another buyer. The Receiver showed that it got multiple offers for
the new sale of the property and decided to go with Jessica Palasik’s offer of
$690,000. This was all within the Receiver’s discretion.
 
The Receiver’s
application for order to confirm the sale to Jessica Palasik and hold net
proceeds is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.