 Case Number:  22STCV09393    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




pacifica reliable funding,
   llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
ic funding, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV09393




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   29, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
cross-defendants’ demurrer to first amended
  cross-complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Cross-defendants Pacifica
Reliable Funding, Giora Agam, Nathan Agam, and Agam International, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    IC Funding, Inc., Nadav Ibi, Einat Rozenbaum,
and Carmiel Cohen
Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
The court considered
the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with this demurrer.

BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Pacifica Reliable Funding, LLC (“Pacifica”) filed the
operative Second Amended Complaint in this action against defendants IC
Funding, Inc., Nadav Ibi, Einat Rozenbaum, and Carmiel Cohen on January 13,
2023, alleging six causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2) money had
and received; (3) conversion; (4) breach of guaranty; (5) breach of guaranty;
and (6) breach of guaranty. 
IC Funding, Inc., Nadav Ibi, Einat Rozenbaum, and Carmiel Cohen
(“Cross-Complainants”) filed a Cross-Complaint on February 1, 2023, and thereafter,
on March 15, 2023, filed their operative First Amended Cross-Complaint against
Pacifica, Giora Agam (“G. Agam”), Nathan Agam (“N. Agam”), and Agam
International, Inc. (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”).  The First Amended Cross-Complaint alleges two
causes of action for (1) breach of contract, and (2) fraud.
Cross-Defendants now move the court for an order sustaining their
demurrer to each cause of action alleged in the First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
DISCUSSION
The court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of
action for breach of contract because it can be ascertained from the First
Amended Cross-Complaint that the settlement agreement is written since
Cross-Complainants have alleged that (1) Cross-Defendants “represented in
writing” that they would dismiss the first lawsuit if Cross-Complainants agreed
to several terms; (2) cross-complainants Ibi and Rozenbaum represented that the
terms of the proposed settlement were agreeable, and the conversation was
“reduced . . . to writing[;]” and (3) Cross-Defendants “forwarded the proposed
settlement agreement” to Cross-Complainants, which (4) Cross-Complainants
executed on May 15, 2019.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (g); FACC
¶¶ 29-32.)  
The court also notes that, in
their pleading, Cross-Complainants have referenced the settlement agreement as
“attached to [the] originally filed Cross-complaint as Exhibit 1[.]”  (FACC ¶ 32.)  The court agrees that, as noted by
Cross-Defendants, the original cross-complaint has been superseded by the First
Amended Cross-Complaint and therefore this reference is insufficient.  (Malear v. State (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th
213, 221 [“‘An “amended” complaint supersedes all prior complaints’ [citation],
and ‘the original complaint ceases to have any effect either as a pleading or
as a basis for judgment’”] [internal citation omitted].)  However, the court has concluded that
Cross-Complainants have sufficiently alleged facts that allow the court and the
parties to ascertain that the subject agreement was written. 
The court overrules cross-defendant Agam International, Inc.’s
demurrer to the first cause of action for breach of contract because it states
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant since
Cross-Complainants have sufficiently alleged (1) that all Cross-Defendants,
including Agam International, Inc., represented that they would dismiss the
lawsuit against Cross-Complainants, and (2) the terms of the settlement
agreement, i.e., that Cross-Defendants would dismiss the lawsuit against them
and Pacifica would release Cross-Complainants from the guarantees if the
Cross-Complainants agreed (i) to an even split of interest collected, (ii) that
IC Funding, Inc. would be credited $21,320.59 of monies held by Pacifica
against monies in the amount of approximately $29,000 being held by IC Funding,
Inc., (iii) that IC Funding, Inc. would forward future payments received, and
(iv) IC Funding, Inc. would sign titles of 57 performing loans to Pacifica and
forward borrower records on the same.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); FACC ¶ 29.)  The court notes that, in reply,
Cross-Defendants reference specific terms and portions of the settlement
agreement as attached to the original Cross-Complaint.  However, as set forth above, this document is
not attached to the First Amended Cross-Complaint and the parties did not
request that the court take judicial notice of the original Complaint. 
The court overrules Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to the second cause of
action for fraud because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since Cross-Complainants have alleged, with sufficient particularity,
(1) Cross-Defendants, by and through their agents N. Agam and G. Agam, made
representations (i) in writing, on May 9, 2019, that they would dismiss the
lawsuit against Cross-Complainants if they agreed to certain terms, and (ii) telephonically,
on May 9, 2019, that they would dismiss the lawsuit with the expectation that
IC Funding, Inc. would execute the agreement and sign over the titles to the
vehicles; (2) Cross-Defendants made those representations “without any
intention to perform and with further intention to deny the very existence of
these representations[;]” (3) Cross-Defendants made the representations with
the intent to induce reliance thereon, (4) which Cross-Complainants justifiably
relied on to their detriment; (5) Cross-Defendants did not perform; and (6)
Cross-Complainants have been damaged by the nonperformance.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Missakian
v. Amusement Industry, Inc. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 630, 654 [setting forth
elements of cause of action for promissory fraud]; Apollo Capital Fund, LLC
v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243 [“ ‘“[T]he
courts should not . . . seek to absolve the defendant from liability on highly
technical requirements of form in pleading. 
Pleading facts in ordinary and concise language is as permissible in
fraud cases as in any others, and liberal construction of the pleading is as
much a duty of the court in these as in other cases” ’”]; FACC ¶¶ 50, 29-30,
51, 53, 52, 54.) 
ORDER
The court overrules cross-defendants Pacifica Reliable Funding, Giora
Agam, Nathan Agam, and Agam International, Inc.’s demurrer to
cross-complainants IC Funding, Inc., Nadav Ibi, Einat Rozenbaum, and Carmiel
Cohen’s First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
The court orders cross-defendants Pacifica Reliable Funding, Giora
Agam, Nathan Agam, and Agam International, Inc. to file an answer to
cross-complainants IC Funding, Inc., Nadav Ibi, Einat Rozenbaum, and Carmiel
Cohen’s First Amended Cross-Complaint within 10 days of the date of this order.

The court orders cross-complainants IC Funding, Inc., Nadav Ibi, Einat
Rozenbaum, and Carmiel Cohen to give notice of this ruling.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 29, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court