 Case Number:  22STCV09281    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




ADRIANE
  NOLAN

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
kaiser foundation health plan, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV09281




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


September
   29, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)   defendants’ motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
(2)   defendants’ ex parte application for
  continuance of trial date and related deadlines
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group,
Inc., and Southern California Permanente Medical Group
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Adriane Nolan
(1)  
Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group,
Inc., and Southern California Permanente Medical Group
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Unopposed
(2)  
Defendants’ Ex
Parte Application for Continuance of Trial and Related Deadlines
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
motion for summary judgment.  The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with the ex parte
application.  No opposition papers to the
ex parte application were filed. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on plaintiff Adriane Nolan’s evidentiary objections to
the declaration of Corazon Nirona, filed on August 17, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-11.
The court rules on plaintiff Adriane Nolan’s evidentiary objections to
the declaration of Poulyana Pazand-Srouji, filed on August 17, 2023, as
follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-2.
The court rules on plaintiff Adriane Nolan’s evidentiary objections to
the declaration of Maria Sulsona, filed on August 17, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objection No. 1. 
The court rules on plaintiff Adriane Nolan’s evidentiary objections to
the declaration of Kathryn Van Voltinburg, filed on August 17, 2023, as
follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-3.
The court rules on defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s evidentiary objections to the declaration
of Ryan Fowler, filed on August 25, 2023, as follows:
The court sustains Objection No. 2. 
The court overrules Objection No. 1. 
The court sustains defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s evidentiary objections to the declaration
of Roberta Pryor, filed on August 25, 2023.
The court rules on defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s evidentiary objections to the declaration
of Fredrick D. Lee II, filed on August 25, 2023, as follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-3.
The court sustains defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s evidentiary objections to the declaration
of Felicia M. Medina, filed on August 25, 2023.
The court rules on defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s evidentiary objections[1] to
the deposition of plaintiff Adriane Nolan, filed on August 25, 2023, as
follows:
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-9.
The court overrules plaintiff Adriane Nolan’s objections to the reply
papers because the substantive portions of the reply memorandum amount to 10
pages.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 3.1113,
subd. (d).)  
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court denies plaintiff
Adriane Nolan’s request for judicial notice because the court may not rely on
unpublished trial court orders in ruling on this motion.  (Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 8.1115.) 
The court denies defendants
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The
Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern California Permanente Medical
Group’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit A because the court may not rely on unpublished trial
court orders in ruling on this motion. 
(Cal. Rules of Ct., rule 8.1115.) 
The court denies defendants
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The
Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern California Permanente Medical
Group’s request for judicial notice as to Exhibit B because it is not relevant
to a material issue presented by this motion. 
(Malek Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817,
825 [“Any matter to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material
issue”].) 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR,
ALTERNATIVELY, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan
Inc. (“KFHP”), Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (“KFH”), Southern California
Permanente Medical Group (“SCPMG”), and The Permanente Medical Group (“TPMG”)
move the court for an order granting summary judgment in their favor and
against plaintiff Adriane Nolan (“Plaintiff”) on her Complaint, or, in the alternative, granting summary
adjudication as to each cause of action alleged in the Complaint and as to her
claim for punitive damages.

1.     Motion
for Summary Judgment filed by defendants TPMG and KFH
Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot state any of her five
causes of action against defendants TPMG and KFH because those defendants
neither employed Plaintiff nor denied her any position during the relevant
period of time.  
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the causes of action against TPMG and KFH have no merit because Defendants
have shown that an element of each cause of action (that TPMG and KFH employed
Plaintiff) cannot be established.  
Plaintiff’s first, second, third, and fifth causes of action are
alleged under California’s Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”), which
makes unlawful certain employment practices committed by employers.[2]  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subds. (a), (h),
(k).)  Plaintiff’s fourth cause of action
for whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5 prohibits
retaliation by “[a]n employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer .
. . .”  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd.
(b).)  
Defendants present evidence showing that Plaintiff was employed
first by KFHP as an Administrative Specialist IV during the period from
September 23, 2013 through August 2, 2015, and second by SCPMG as an Imaging
Support Specialist from August 3, 2015 to July 23, 2017, and as an Imaging
Project Manager I from July 24, 2017 through April 1, 2022.  (UMF Nos. 7-9; Def. Compendium of Evidence
(“Def. COE”), Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶ 14.)  Further, it is undisputed that Plaintiff
“never applied to any job posting at TPMG or KFH between March 14, 2019, and
April 1, 2022.”  (Undisputed Material
Fact (“UMF”) No. 32.)  Thus, the court
finds that Defendants have met their burden to produce evidence showing that
Plaintiff was not employed by defendants TPMG and KFH.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether defendants TPMG and KFH
may be held liable as her joint employers.
Plaintiff contends that the integrated enterprise test
governs.  That test, derived from federal
labor case law, “has four factors: interrelation of operations, common
management, centralized control of labor relations, and common ownership or
financial control.”  (Laird v. Capital
Cities/ABC, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 727, 737, disapproved of on other
grounds in Reid v. Google (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 524 (“Laird”).)  In their motion, Defendants rely on Gopal
v. Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 425 (“Gopal”),
which provides for two conditions to apply joint enterprise liability: “(1)
such a unity of interest and ownership that separate corporate personalities
are merged, so that one corporation is a mere adjunct of another or the two
companies form a single enterprise, and (2) an inequitable result if the acts
in question are treated as those of one corporation alone.”  (Gopal, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th
at p. 432.) 
Plaintiff refers to the following evidence in support of her
opposition.  First, Meisner testified
that KFHP, KFH, and SCPMG share the same administrative offices in Southern
California.  (Pl. Appendix of
Declarations and Exhibits (“Pl. Ex.”) Ex. H, Meisner Dep., p. 63:14-64:2.)  Second, KFHP’s manager of consulting, Van Voltinburg,
stated in their declaration that, at the time they were employed by KFHP as a
Taleo Systems Analyst, they had the capability “to determine if an individual
ha[d] applied to any posted job openings with any Kaiser entity, including
SCPMG, as well as at KFHP, [KFH] and [TPMG.]” 
(Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 8, Van Voltinburg Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Third, Plaintiff points to the declaration of
KFHP’s Vice President of Financial Planning & Analysis for the Southern
California and Hawaii regions, Timothy Everett (“Everett”), submitted in
connection with Defendants’ moving papers, in which Everett states that (1) the
entities that make up the integrated health care system commonly referred to as
Kaiser Permanente is, in Southern California, principally comprised by KFHP,
KFH, and SCPMG; (2) SCPMG and KFH directly contract with each other for limited
purposes relating “to structuring the cooperation or administration of discrete
patient care activities for which SCPMG and KFH each have responsibility to
KFHP, or for which liaison and cooperation are appropriate[;] and (3) SCPMG has
voluntarily adopted certain human resources policies and procedures that are
uniform across SCPMG, KFHP, and KFH. 
(Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 11, Everett Decl., ¶¶ 3, 6, 18-20.)  Finally, Plaintiff points out that one of
Defendants’ declarants, Sulsona, states that (1) she was formerly a temporary
contract employee for KFH, but (2) has authenticated the documents maintained
by KFHP.  (Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 6,
Sulsona Decl., ¶¶ 3, 8-9.) 
In support of their moving papers, Defendants have submitted evidence
arguing that they are separate entities and not Plaintiff’s joint
employers.  First, Everett states that
(1) neither KFHP nor KFH has any ownership or partnership interest in SCPMG,
and SCPMG has no ownership interest in KFHP or KFH, and (2) KFHP and KFH have
no involvement in SCPMG’s partnership agreements, its board of directors, its
governing bodies, maintenance of its financial books and records, including
financial operations reports, balance sheets, and income statements, and does
not pay taxes owed by SCPMG.   (Def. COE
Vol. 2, Ex. 11, Everett Decl., ¶¶ 12-14.) 
Further, KFHP and KFH do not issue IRS Form W-2s to SCPMG’s
employees.  (Id., ¶ 15.)  Second, TPMG’s Senior Director of Human
Resources, Michael McClure (“McClure”) states that TPMG (1) is not a parent or
subsidiary of KFH or KFHP, (2) has a completely separate governing body from
KFHP and KHF, and (3) has its own financial organization, processes and
accountable financial executives from the finance organizations of KFHP and
KFH.  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 3, McClure
Decl., ¶¶ 3, 10-12.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not submitted evidence
sufficient to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
whether the court may consider defendants TPMG and KFH to be her joint
employers under both the test articulated in Laird and the test
articulated in Gopal. 
As set forth above, there are four factors of the Laird
test: (1) interrelation of operations, (2) common management, (3) centralized
control of labor relations, (4) and common ownership or financial control.  (Laird, supra, 68 Cal.App.4th
at p. 737.)  As to the interrelation of
operations element, the court finds that Plaintiff has shown that there is some
interrelation of operations since (1) defendants KFHP, KFH, and SCPMG make up
the integrated healthcare system referred to as Kaiser Permanente, and (2)
SCPMG and KFH contract with each other for certain limited purposes, including
the administration of patient care activities. 
(Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 11, Everett Decl., ¶¶ 3, 6, 18-20; Laird,
supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at p. 737.) 
The court, however, notes that this evidence does not include defendant TPMG,
and thus does not show that TPMG may be considered Plaintiff’s joint employer
under the Laird integrated enterprise test. 
As to the element of common management, the court finds that
Plaintiff has not shown that TPMG and KFH share common management with KFHP and SCPMG.  (Laird, supra,
68 Cal.App.4th at p. 737.)  The court notes that Plaintiff points to the
fact that some employees of certain entities authenticate documents created by
other entities.  (Def. COE Vol. 2,
Ex. 6, Sulsona Decl., ¶¶ 3, 8-9.)  However, the court finds that this evidence,
alone, is insufficient to show the existence of a triable issue of material
fact as to whether Defendants share common management and, thus, as to whether
TPMG and KFH may be considered joint employers of KFHP and SCPMG.  As to the centralized control of labor
relations element, Plaintiff points to the evidence showing that defendants
SCPMG, KFHP, and KFH have adopted uniform human resources policies and
procedures.  (Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex.
11, Everett Decl., ¶ 20; Laird, supra, 68 Cal.App.4th at p.
737.)  The court (1) notes that this does
not include defendant TPMG, and (2) finds that this evidence is insufficient,
alone, to show that a triable issue of material fact exists.  As to the common ownership or financial
control element, the only evidence to which Plaintiff cites in her opposition
is that Defendants are interrelated entities that make up the integrated
healthcare system commonly referred to as Kaiser Permanente.  (PUMF No. 35; Laird, supra, 68
Cal.App.4th at p. 737.)  The court finds
that this evidence is insufficient, alone, to show a triable issue of material
fact as to the existence of common ownership or financial control.  Even if this evidence were sufficient to show
the existence of a triable issue of material fact, the court has concluded, as
set forth above, that Plaintiff has not shown that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the other three elements. 
As set forth above, the Gopal joint enterprise liability
test sets forth two factors: (1) a unity of interest and ownership that merges
corporate personalities, and (2) an inequitable result will occur if the acts
in question are treated as those of one corporation alone.  (Gopal, supra, 248 Cal.App.4th
at p. 432.)  Plaintiff did not address Gopal
in her opposition papers, and therefore did not address the second element of
inequity if the court were to treat the wrongful acts and omissions as of KFHP
and SCPMG alone.  
The court therefore grants TPMG and KFH’s motion for summary
judgment. 
The court further notes that, even if Plaintiff had met her burden
to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether TPMG
and KFH are her joint employers, the court has found, for the reasons set forth
below, that all Defendants have met their burden to show that each cause of
action has no merit. 
2.     First
Cause of Action for Race Discrimination
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, because
of the race . . . of any person, . . . 
to discriminate against the person in compensation or in terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment.” 
(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)  “The specific elements of a prima facie case
[for discrimination] ‘may vary depending on the particular facts,’ but
generally include evidence that the plaintiff: (1) was a member of a protected
class; (2) was qualified for the position he or she sought or was performing
competently in the position he or she held; (3) suffered an adverse employment
action; and (4) was subject to some other circumstance suggesting
discriminatory motive.”  (Diego v.
City of Los Angeles (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 338, 350.) 
Defendants contend that summary adjudication as to the first cause
of action for race discrimination is warranted because (1) any claims before
March 14, 2019 are barred by the statute of limitations; (2) Plaintiff cannot
establish circumstances suggesting discriminatory motive; and (3) Defendants
had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for their hiring decisions. 
a.      Statute
of Limitations 
Defendants first argue, and request that the court adjudicate as
issue number 1 in their notice of motion for summary adjudication, that
Plaintiff’s causes of action for discrimination fail as to any claim that
occurred before March 14, 2019 because they are barred by the statute of
limitations.  (Notice of Mot., p.
2:15-17.)  While the court notes that
this issue not one that the court may adjudicate separately on motion for
summary adjudication since it would not “dispose of a cause of action” in its
entirety, the court considers this evidence and argument in support of
Defendants’ contention that the adverse employment actions that are within the
statute of limitations are insufficient to support Plaintiff’s causes of action
for discrimination for other reasons.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)
b.     Legitimate,
Non-Discriminatory Reasons for Defendants’ Hiring Decisions
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the first cause of action for discrimination based on race has no merit because
Defendants have shown that they had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons for
their hiring decisions.  (Cornell v.
Berkeley Tennis Club (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 926 [to satisfy burden on
summary judgment in an employment discrimination case under McDonnell
Douglas, “a defendant employer must either undermine an element of the
plaintiff’s prima facie case—by affirmatively negating it or showing the
plaintiff cannot prove it—or provide a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for
the adverse employment action”].) 
As set forth above, Plaintiff was employed by (1) defendant KFHP
from September 23, 2013 to August 2, 2015, and (2) defendant SCPMG from August
3, 2015 to April 1, 2022.  (UMF Nos.
7-9.)  Plaintiff filed her Department of
Fair Employment and Housing Complaint on March 14, 2022, and filed this action
on March 16, 2022.  (UMF No. 1; Def. COE
Vol. 2, Ex. 10, Novell Decl., Ex. A [complaint of discrimination filed with the
Department of Fair Employment and Housing dated March 14, 2022; Compl.) 
“A complaint alleging . . . any other violation of Article 1
(commencing with Section 12940) of Chapter 6 shall not be filed after the
expiration of three years form the date upon which the unlawful practice or
refusal to cooperate occurred.”  (Gov.
Code, § 12960, subd. (e)(5).)  Thus,
Plaintiff’s claims of discrimination lapsed as of March 14, 2019 (i.e., three
years before the date that Plaintiff filed her complaint with the Department of
Fair Employment and Housing).
Defendants present evidence showing that, for the period of time
between March 14, 2019 through the present, Plaintiff applied to eight job
postings with SCPMG and KFHP.  (Def. COE Vol.
1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. 2a.) 
Of those eight postings, Plaintiff declined to proceed with four.  
First, Plaintiff applied to the Site Administrator position (Req.
No. 860839) on January 21, 2020.  (Def.
COE Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶ 21.) 
The next day, KHFP cancelled this requisition and matched candidates to
requisition number 856046; thereafter, candidates, including Plaintiff, were
invited to apply to requisition number 880308. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiff did not
accept the invitation to apply to requisition number 880308 and therefore did
not file an application for the position labeled as requisition number
880308.  (Ibid.)  
Second, the job postings associated with requisition numbers
860839 and 856046 were cancelled and never filled.  (Ibid.) 
Third, Plaintiff applied for the Senior Program Manager Experience
and Education – National Equity, Inclusion, and Diversity position (Req. No.
969758), but the assigned recruiter cancelled the requisition one month
later.  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Nirona Decl.,
¶ 23.)  This position was reposted
as Senior Program Manager Experience and Ed’n NEID (Req. No. 995085), but
Plaintiff “did not submit an application to [Senior] Program Manager Experience
and Ed’n NEID (Req. No. 995085).”  (Id.,
¶ 24; Def. COE Vol. 2, Pazand-Srouji Decl., ¶ 8 [“KFHP’s records do
not reflect that [Plaintiff] applied to the new Senior Program Manager
Experience & Ed’n NEID (Req. No. 995085) position”].)  Fourth, Plaintiff indicated that she “Ha[d]
Declined” the requisition for requisition number 845010.  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Nirona Decl., ¶ 27.) 
Two of the remaining four job openings for the positions of Equity,
Inclusion & Diversity Coordinator (Req. No. 859772) and Consultant (Req.
No. 826549), to which Plaintiff applied, were coded as rejected because she did
not meet the preferred qualifications. 
(UMF No. 44; Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶¶ 25 [Plaintiff
was rejected for Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Coordinator position because
she did not meet preferred qualifications as to “Work Experience”], 29
[Plaintiff was rejected for the Consultant position with SCPMG because she did
not meet preferred qualifications as to “Other job related skills and/or
competencies”].)  As to the Equity,
Inclusion & Diversity Coordinator position, the recruiter (1) determined
that Plaintiff was overqualified because it was considered to be an entry-level
position, Plaintiff had salary expectations “much higher than the midpoint for
this” type of position and thus would have required Plaintiff to take a pay-cut,
and (2) therefore dispositioned Plaintiff. 
(Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 6, Sulsona Decl., ¶¶ 4, 7 [“When a candidate
expresses a salary expectation that [the recruiter] understand[s] to be
significantly higher than the mid-point provided by the hiring manager, [the
recruiter] disposition[s] them”].)  As to
the Consultant position, the recruiter determined that Plaintiff did not meet
the technical experience specified by the hiring manager and, in particular,
“did not show on her resume that she had any experience in the Health Connect
System, which was an additional requirement for this role.”  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 1, Cannizzaro Decl., ¶¶
4, 8.)  The recruiters assisting with
hiring for these positions did not know Plaintiff’s race.  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 1, Cannizzaro Decl.,
¶¶ 4, 9 [recruiter assigned to assist with hiring for the Consultant
position was not aware of Plaintiff’s race at the time her application was
rejected]; Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 6, Sulsona Decl., ¶¶ 4, 10 [recruiter assigned
to assist with hiring for the Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Coordinator
position “was not aware of” Plaintiff’s race at the time her application was
rejected].) 
The two remaining job listings were posted by defendant KFHP for
the positions of Business Consultant (Req. No. 784620) and Departmental
Business Consultant (Req. No. 789041), and Plaintiff’s applications reached
manager review.  As to the Business
Consultant position, Plaintiff’s application was coded as rejected because her
application did not meet the preferred qualifications for “Work
experience[.]”  (UMF No. 37; Def. COE
Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶ 31.) 
Although Plaintiff reached the manager review step for this position,
she was rejected for not meeting those qualifications and the hiring manager
did not review her application.  (Def.
COE Ex. 2, Hyderi Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7.)  As
to the Departmental Business Consultant position, Plaintiff’s application was
advanced to the “Manager Review” step, but she was ultimately not selected.
(UMF No. 41; Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶ 30.)  KFHP’s hiring manager assistant for this
requisition concluded that (1) Plaintiff’s previous experience was not particularly
relevant for that role, and (2) other applicants, including the successful
applicant, had the relevant experience that KFHP was seeking to a degree that
Plaintiff did not.  (Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex.
9, Park Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)  The recruiters
for this position were unaware of Plaintiff’s race.  (Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 9, Park Decl., ¶ 9.)

Thus, based on the evidence set forth above, the court finds that
Defendants have shown that Defendants had legitimate, non-discriminatory
reasons for their hiring decisions, because, of the eight jobs that Plaintiff
applied for during the relevant time period, (1) Plaintiff did not proceed with
the application process of four (including those job postings that were
cancelled and re-listed under different requisition numbers); (2) two of the
applications were screened out for failing to meet preferred qualifications;
and (3) the remaining two applications were denied because the candidates selected
better fit the qualifications for those positions.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendants’ proffered
reasons for their hiring decisions are pretextual. 
As a threshold matter, the court finds that Plaintiff has not
shown that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the statute of
limitations bars her claims before March 14, 2019 pursuant to the continuing
violations doctrine because Plaintiff has not shown that Defendants’ acts in
declining to extend offers of employment did not acquire a degree of
permanence.  
“[T]he continuing violation doctrine ‘allows liability for
unlawful . . . conduct occurring outside the statute of limitations if it is
sufficiently connected to unlawful conduct within the limitations
period.’”  (Willis v. City of Carlsbad
(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1124.) 
An employer’s unlawful acts may constitute continuing violations if
those actions are “(1) sufficiently similar in kind . . . ; (2) have occurred
with reasonable frequency; and (3) have not acquired a degree of
permanence.”  (Richards v. CH2m Hill,
Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 798, 823.)  
Plaintiff asserts that she applied for 162 jobs within Kaiser, yet
received no offers.  (Pl. Ex. A, p.
PLAINTIFF000087 [email from Plaintiff stating that she “applied to 162 postings
to advance [her] career unsuccessfully”].)  She contends that, because she “remained
optimistic for several years during her employment at Kaiser about the
prospects of landing a job that advanced her career[,]” Defendants’ actions did
not acquire a degree of permanence.  The
court disagrees. 
“Permanence” means “that an employer’s statements and actions make
clear to a reasonable employee that any further efforts at informal
conciliation” to address the unlawful actions “will be futile.”  (Richards, supra, 26 Cal.4th at
p. 823.)  Here, Defendants’ acts in declining
to extend offers of employment to Plaintiff and, in some instances, offering
the jobs to other individuals, were complete and permanent acts.  (Willis v. City of Carlsbad (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 1104, 1128 [“There can be no other conclusion . . . but that City’s
independent promotion decisions each became permanent when a different
applicant was put in the position”], 1129 [“The fact that [plaintiff] continued
to apply for promotions in response to new openings does not establish a lack
of permanence as to his past applications; we decline to hold his conduct in
applying for future jobs revived his claims of [unlawful employment practices]
for the City’s prior decisions”].) 
The court therefore considers whether Plaintiff has met her burden
to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Defendants’ hiring decisions in connection with the eight applications that she
submitted since March 14, 2019 were pretextual.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to submit
evidence sufficient to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact
as to whether Defendants’ hiring decisions were pretextual.  (Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 830, 861 [if employer meets its burden to show that the adverse
employment action is based on legitimate, nondiscriminatory factors, “the
burden shifts to the employee to ‘demonstrate a triable issue by producing
substantial evidence that the employer’s stated reasons were untrue or
pretextual, or that the employer acted with a discriminatory animus,
such that a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the employer engaged
in intentional discrimination or other unlawful action’”].) 
Plaintiff appears to, primarily, rely on “me too” evidence in
order to show the existence of discriminatory animus.  The court recognizes that such evidence may
be relevant to this inquiry.  “Where
evidence of workplace discrimination is proffered to cast doubt on an
employer’s stated justification for an adverse employment action, for example,
‘me too’ evidence can be admissible to show intent or motive, which could
establish that the employer’s stated reason was a pretext.”  (Pinter-Brown v. Regents of University of
California (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 55, 96.) 
The court also recognizes that Plaintiff has submitted the declaration
of Fredrick D. Lee II (“Lee”), in which he states that (1) he is employed by
Kaiser Permanente; (2) he is Black; (3) he was not promoted or hired for any of
the 25 jobs to which he applied, despite being qualified for thos jobs; and (4)
after he filed a race discrimination complaint against Kaiser, a slideshow
listed his name as “Frederick Douglass[,]”a racially-motivated reference.  (Pl. Ex., Lee Decl., ¶¶ 1-2, 4, 7.)  However, the court finds that this evidence
is not sufficient to show that a triable issue of fact exists as to
discriminatory animus or pretext, because Plaintiff has not submitted evidence
showing that the individuals who were involved in the racially offensive
slideshow regarding Lee were the same individuals that (1) were involved in
making the hiring decisions regarding Plaintiff, or (2) worked in the same
department as Plaintiff or were connected to Plaintiff in any manner. 
Further, although Plaintiff has argued that Defendants have
settled a class action lawsuit, their election to settle a lawsuit is not
equivalent to an admission that their conduct was discriminatory and
unlawful.  (Opp., p. 5:13-24 [asserting
that Defendants settled the class action case entitled Stewart v. Kaiser
Foundation Health Plans, Inc., et al., San Francisco County Superior Court
No. CGC-21-590966].) 
The court also notes that Plaintiff argues that there is a dispute
as to issues with Plaintiff’s Internal Employee Portal (Taleo) profile. 
In their moving papers, Defendants submitted evidence showing that
(1) Plaintiff responded “no” on April 10, 2017 to the question regarding
Defendants’ Principles of Responsibility (“POR”) and Plaintiff’s agreement to
abide by those principles; (2) this update impacted nine of Plaintiff’s job
submissions that were active as of April 10, 2017; (3) “only an applicant may
change the responses to the POR and other disqualifying questions in their
Taleo profile[;]” and (4) Plaintiff changed her response from “no” to “yes” on
April 13, 2017, meaning that applications submitted after that date “would not
be automatically dispositioned for answering the POR question
incorrectly.”  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 4,
Nirona Decl., ¶¶ 15, 17, 19, 18; Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 8, Van Voltinburg
Decl., ¶¶ 3 [Van Voltinburg was formerly a Taleo Systems Analyst], 10 [“only an
applicant may change the responses to the POR and other disqualifying questions
in their Taleo profile”].)  
In contrast, Plaintiff testified that “[t]here [was] no way [she]
would consciously check that box knowing that that is a requirement of
remaining employed with the organization.” 
(Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep., pp. 220:21-221:15.)  Instead, Plaintiff argues that someone
working for Defendants, who had the authority to make changes on her profile, changed
her response.  (Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep., pp.
235:23-237:7.)  However, the court finds
that (1) Plaintiff has not introduced substantial evidence supporting her
contention that someone changed the response to the POR question on her Taleo
profile, and (2) even if Plaintiff had submitted such evidence, Plaintiff has
not submitted substantial evidence to show the existence of a triable issue of
material fact as to whether the person(s) who did so were motivated by
discriminatory animus.  
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether
Defendants’ proffered reasons for their hiring decisions were pretextual or
motivated by a discriminatory animus based on Plaintiff’s race. 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for race discrimination. 
3.     Second
Cause of Action for Discrimination Based on Age
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, because
of the . . . age . . . of any person, . . . to discriminate against the person
in compensation or in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)  “In order to make out a prima facie case of
age discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must present evidence that the
plaintiff (1) is over the age of 40; (2) suffered an adverse employment action;
(3) was performing satisfactorily at the time of the adverse action; and (4)
suffered the adverse action under circumstances that give rise to an inference
of unlawful discrimination, i.e., evidence that the plaintiff was replaced by
someone significantly younger than the plaintiff.”  (Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 297, 321.) 
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the second cause of action for age discrimination has no merit because Defendants
have shown that they had legitimate, nondiscriminatory reasons for their hiring
decisions.  (Cornell, supra,
18 Cal.App.5th at p. 926.) 
As with the first cause of action, Defendants argue that summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for age-based discrimination is
warranted because (1) any claims before March 14, 2019 are barred by the
statute of limitations; (2) Plaintiff cannot establish circumstances suggesting
discriminatory motive; and (3) Defendants had legitimate, non-discriminatory
reasons for their hiring decisions that were not based on Plaintiff’s age. 
The court finds that, for the same reasons set forth above, (1)
Plaintiff’s claims are limited to the time period of March 14, 2019 to the
present, and (2) Defendants have met their burden to submit evidence showing
that they had legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons to decline to offer to
Plaintiff the jobs to which she applied during this time period because            (i) Plaintiff did not proceed with the
application process as to four of those jobs (including for job postings that
were cancelled and re-listed under different requisition numbers), (ii) two of
the applications were screened out for failing to meet preferred
qualifications; and (iii) the remaining two applications were denied because the
candidates selected better fit the qualifications.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendants’ proffered
reasons for their hiring decisions were pretextual or motivated by
discriminatory animus based on her age. 
(Serri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th at p. 861.) 
Plaintiff submits evidence showing the ages of the successful
candidates for the positions for which she applied as follows: (1) the
successful applicant selected for the Business Consultant position (Req. No.
784620) was 31 years old at the time of hire; (2) the successful applicant
selected for the Departmental Business Consultant position (Req. No. 789041)
was 34 years old at the time of hire; (3) the successful applicant selected for
the Consultant position (Req. No. 826549) was 29 years old at the time of hire;
and (4) the successful applicant selected for the Equity, Inclusion &
Diversity Coordinator position (Req. No. 885580) was 23 years old at the time
of hire.[3]
 (Pl. Ex. F.) 
While the court notes that this might be sufficient to establish a
prima facie case for age discrimination since the evidence of the successful
applicants’ ages might show circumstances that give rise to an inference of
unlawful discrimination, the court finds that this evidence is not sufficient
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendants’
proffered reasons for their hiring decisions were pretextual.  (Sandell, supra, 188
Cal.App.4th at p. 321 [setting forth elements of prima facie age-based discrimination
cause of action].)  “[I]n the face of [a
defendant’s] showing of nondiscriminatory reasons, [a plaintiff has the burden]
to show there was nonetheless a triable issue that decisions leading to [the
adverse employment action] were actually made on the prohibited basis of [her]
age.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 360.)  Here, Plaintiff
has not presented sufficient evidence or argument to show that a triable issue
of material fact exists that refutes Defendants’ showing that Plaintiff’s age
was not the reason she was not offered the jobs.  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not
met her burden to “‘demonstrate a triable issue by producing substantial
evidence that’” Defendants’ stated reasons for their hiring decisions were
pretextual or motivated by a discriminatory animus.  (Serri, supra, 226 Cal.App.4th
at p. 861.) 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for discrimination based on age. 
 
4.     Third
Cause of Action for Retaliation for Conduct Protected by FEHA
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or any employer . . . to
discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the
person has opposed any practices forbidden under this part or because the
person has filed a complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under
this part.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940,
subd. (h).)  “‘[T]o establish a prima
facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a “protected activity,” (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.’” 
(Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879.) 
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the third cause of action for retaliation for conducted protected by FEHA has
no merit because Defendants have shown that elements of the cause of action (i.e.,
(1) that some of the complaints Plaintiff made constitute protected activity,
and (2) a causal link between the protected activity and Defendants’ actions)
cannot be established.  
Defendants identify five instances that make up the basis of
Plaintiff’s retaliation claim: (1) Plaintiff’s complaint to Syed Samiullah
(“Samiullah”); (2) Plaintiff’s complaint to Dr. Ronald Copeland (“Dr.
Copeland”); (3) Plaintiff’s complaint to Human Resources and Talent Management
about a glitch in the Taleo system; (4) Plaintiff’s complaint to Christian
Meisner (“Meisner”); and (5) Plaintiff’s complaint to Irene Santiago
(“Santiago”), Mohammad Malik (“Malik”), and Ana Lacayo (“Lacayo”).  Defendants contend that these instances
either do not constitute protected activity or occurred after the last date on
which Plaintiff was rejected from a requisition. 
First, Plaintiff testified that she did not recall whether she
told Samiullah that she was not being offered the jobs to which she applied
because of her age or race.  (Def. COE
Vol. 2, Ex. 10, Novell Decl., Ex. D, Pl. Dep., p. 100:13-24 [Plaintiff stated
“I don’t recall” when asked if she “also t[old] [Samiullah] that I don’t
believe I’m getting these jobs because of my age or my race?”].)  Thus, the court finds that Defendants have
shown that her conversation with Samiullah does not constitute a complaint
opposing protected activity.  (Gov. Code,
§ 12940, subd. (h).) 
Second, Defendants submit the deposition testimony of Plaintiff,
in which she stated that, in her conversations with Dr. Copeland, Long,
Michelle Lineras, Dr. Cornwell, and Sandoval, she (1) told them that she was
interested in advancing specifically in DEI, and (2) did not, in those initial
conversations, tell them that she felt that she was being denied positions on
the basis of her age or race.  (Def. COE
Vol. 2, Ex. 10, Novell Decl., Ex. D, Pl. Dep., 102:16-103:24.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendants have
shown that her initial conversations with these individuals do not constitute a
complaint opposing protected activity. 
(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h); Mackey v. Board of Trustees of
California State University (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 640, 680 [“‘Although an
employee need not formally file a charge in order to qualify as being engaged
in protected opposing activity,’ and might adequately convey her message
through ‘ “inartful, subtle, or circumspect remarks,” ’ the employee’s
communications must ‘ “sufficiently convey [her] reasonable concerns that the
employer has acted or is acting in an unlawfully discriminatory manner” ’”].)
The court notes that in the deposition testimony cited by
Defendants, Plaintiff also testified that she “became [Santiago’s] direct
report in 2019” and, thus, would “share with her whatever concerns [Plaintiff]
had[,]” including that she “felt that [she] was being discriminated against . .
. .”  (Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 10, Novell
Decl., Ex. D, Pl. Dep., 105:7-20.) 
However, it is unclear, from the evidence submitted by Defendants,
whether Plaintiff sufficiently conveyed her concerns that Defendants were
discriminating against her because of her race or age.  (Ibid.; Mackey, supra,
31 Cal.App.4th at p. 680.)  Instead,
Plaintiff testified that she felt that she was “being discriminated against or
in a toxic – or picked on,” and told Santiago that she “felt that [she] was
being set up for failure in some of [her] projects . . . .”  (Id., at p. 105:15-25.)  Thus, while Plaintiff made complaints to
Santiago beginning in 2019 about discrimination or being treated unfavorably,
this testimony does not show that Plaintiff sufficiently conveyed that she was
being discriminated against because of her protected characteristics (i.e., her
race and age). 
Third, Plaintiff made a complaint to Human Resources about a
glitch in the Taleo system in May of 2017. 
(UMF No. 86.)  Plaintiff’s
complaint “did not mention race or age as the reason for her being rejected
from” the requisitions to which she had applied.  (Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 8, Van Voltinburg
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. A [May 4, 2017 email from Plaintiff].)  Thus, the court finds that Defendants have
shown that this complaint does not constitute a complaint opposing protected
activity.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h);
Mackey, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 680.) 
Fourth, Plaintiff raised her concerns in an email to Meisner in a
February 2022 email.  (Def. COE Vol. 2,
Ex. 10, Novell Decl., Ex. D, Pl. Dep., pp. 105:4-6, 121:20-24.)  Specifically, Plaintiff stated that she
believed that “the treatment [she’d] been subjected to is because of [her]
race.”  (Id., Ex. 35, p.
PLAINTIFF000090].)  The court finds that
this complaint constitutes protected opposing activity.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (h); Mackey,
supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p. 680.) 
However, Defendants have presented evidence showing that Plaintiff “has
not applied to any requisitions with any Kaiser Entities since July 29, 2021”
(i.e., before the date of Plaintiff’s February 2022 complaint).  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl.,
¶ 20.)  Thus, the court finds that
Defendants have shown that they did not subject Plaintiff to an adverse
employment action (i.e., by failing to extend an offer of employment for any of
the requisitions she applied for) because of her February 2022 complaint.  (Meeks, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th
at pp. 878-879 [elements of FEHA retaliation claim].) 
Finally, Plaintiff made a written complaint to Malik, Santiago,
Lacayo, and Meisner at the time of her resignation.  (UMF No. 94; Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 10, Novell
Decl., Ex. D, Pl. Dep., Ex. 36, p. SCPMG_00000560 [March 21, 2022 resignation
email from Plaintiff stating that the environment “promote[s] toxicity and
micro-aggressive behaviors” which “contributed [to] a hostile work environment”].)
 The court finds that Defendants have
shown that they did not subject Plaintiff to an adverse employment action (i.e.,
by failing to extend an offer of employment for any of the requisitions she
applied for) because of her March 21, 2022 complaints made in her notice of
resignation since Defendants did not deny any job applications submitted by
Plaintiff after this time.  (Def. COE
Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶ 20.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists (1) as to the element that some of her
complaints constituted protected opposing activity, and (2) as to the element
of causation and the existence of pretext as to the protected opposing
activity.
First, Plaintiff does not dispute that she made a complaint, by
email, to Meisner.  (Opp., p.
16:24-25.)  However, as set forth above,
this complaint was made on February 9, 2022. 
(Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 10, Novell Decl., Ex. D, Pl. Dep., Ex. 35, p.
PLAINTIFF000090.)  Plaintiff has not set
forth evidence or argument showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the element of a causal link between (1) Plaintiff’s February 9, 2022
complaint, and (2) Defendants’ decisions not to extend offers of employment to
Plaintiff based on her employment applications that were submitted before that
date, nor does Plaintiff meaningfully dispute that she did not apply to any
other positions after that date.  (Def.
COE Vol. 1, Ex. 4, Nirona Decl., ¶ 20 [Plaintiff has not applied to any
requisitions since July 29, 2021].)   
Second, Plaintiff argues that she made complaints about
discrimination between 2019 and February 2022. 
(Opp., pp. 16:27-17:2 [citing to Plaintiff Additional Fact No. 9].)  Plaintiff cites to her own deposition
testimony to establish the existence of her other, prior complaints as follows.  (Pl. Additional Fact No. 9.) 
Plaintiff testified that she had the belief that management or
human resources employees were blackballing Plaintiff to prevent her from
getting hired into new positions or being promoted, including because someone
with a higher-level clearance changed the response on her Taleo profile.  (Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep., Vol. I, p.
203:24-208:6.)  However, this testimony
does not show that Plaintiff made a complaint opposing practices forbidden
under FEHA since Plaintiff did not testify that she complained that she was
being blackballed because of her race or age. 
(Ibid.) 
Plaintiff also testified that she raised concerns with Samiullah
but does not appear to have specified when she made those complaints.  (Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep., Vol. II, p.
93:13-21.)  Plaintiff further testified
that, in 2020 (following the George Floyd incident), Greg Adams, Meisner, and Dr.
Copeland held a roundtable discussion in which they “heard that [Plaintiff’s]
complaints were similar to others” and became aware of a systemic issue in the
organization.  (Id., p. 94:3-10.)  The court notes that this testimony might
imply that Plaintiff made complaints about discrimination based on her race and
age in or around 2020.  (Ibid.)  However, for the four positions to which
Plaintiff applied, individuals other than Greg Adams, Meisner, and Dr. Copeland
made the hiring decisions.  (Def. COE
Vol. 1, Ex. 2, Hyderi Decl., ¶¶ 3 [Hyderi served as the hiring manager for
Business Consultant (Req. No. 784620) position], 7 [Sulsona determined that
Plaintiff did not meet the qualifications and therefore dispositioned
Plaintiff]; Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 1, Cannizzaro Decl., ¶¶ 4 [Cannizzaro was
recruiter assigned to assist with hiring for the Consultant (Req. No. 826549)
position], 8 [Cannizzaro dispositioned Plaintiff for failing to meet the technical
experience specified by the hiring manager]; Def. COE Vol. 2, Sulsona
Decl., ¶¶ 4 [Sulsona was the recruiter assisting with hiring for the
Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Coordinator (Req. No. 859772) position], 7
[Sulsona dispositioned Plaintiff because she was overqualified]; Def. COE Vol.
2, Ex. 9, Park Decl., ¶¶ 3 [Park was the hiring manager assistant for the
Departmental Business Consultant (Req. No. 789041) position], 8 [Park concluded
that other applicants had the relevant experience sought for this position].) 
Next, when asked if she complained to anyone other than Meisner
that she was denied positions or treated unfairly because of her race or age,
Plaintiff testified that she made a complaint through HR with Lacayo and Malik
and “made that known to” Santiago.  (Pl.
Ex. G, Pl. Dep., Vol. II, pp. 103:25-104:13.)  As to Santiago, Plaintiff testified that she
shared her concerns “[t]hroughout[,]” i.e., after the time that Plaintiff
became her direct report in 2019.  (Id.,
p. 105:7-10.)  However, as set forth
above, Plaintiff testified that she told Santiago that she felt “that [she] was
being discriminated against or in a toxic – or picked on” and was being set up
for failure in some of her projects.  (Id.,
p. 105:12-24.)  She further stated that
she did not recall whether she specifically raised concerns that she was being
denied positions because of her age or race. 
(Id., p. 107:5-14.)  Thus,
the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that she sufficiently conveyed her
reasonable concerns that Defendants acted in an unlawfully discriminatory
manner as to their hiring decisions with these remarks.  (Mackey, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th
at p. 680.)  
As to Malik, Plaintiff testified that she went to him and “told
him the issues that [she] was having in MITI, and [she] felt that some of those
were because of [her] gender and [her] race and possibly age” at some point in
time after he became executive director in 2021.  (Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep., Vol. II, pp. 108:12-18,
108:23-109:10.)  However, as to whether
Plaintiff complained to Mailk about whether she was being denied positions
because of her age or race, Plaintiff stated that she did not “recall outside of
MITI issues.”  (Id., pp.
109:19-110:4.)  Thus, it appears that
Plaintiff did not sufficiently convey to Malik her reasonable concerns that
Defendants acted in an unlawfully discriminatory manner as to their hiring
decisions with these remarks, since her complaints about Defendants’ discriminatory
conduct centered on issues with MITI. 
However, even if Plaintiff did make formal complaints with Malik about
Defendants’ discriminatory hiring practices, Plaintiff has not disputed that
other decisionmakers were involved in making the decisions not to hire her for
the positions to which she applied, namely, Hyderi, Sulsona, Cannizzaro, and
Park.  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 2, Hyderi
Decl., ¶¶ 3, 7; Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 1, Cannizzaro Decl., ¶¶ 4, 8; Def.
COE Vol. 2, Ex. 6, Sulsona Decl., ¶¶ 4, 7; Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 9,
Park Decl., ¶¶ 3, 8.)  Further,
those decisionmakers have stated that they were unaware of Plaintiff’s
complaints, and Plaintiff has not submitted evidence showing the existence of a
triable issue of material fact as to whether they had knowledge of her
complaints to Malik.  (Def. COE Vol. 1,
Ex. 1, Cannizzaro Decl., ¶ 9 [“I was not aware of [Plaintiff’s] age, race
or complaint(s) (if any) at the time I made the decision to reject her
application]; Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 2, Hyderi Decl., ¶ 11 [“At the time I made
the decision to hire the successful candidate, I was not aware of [Plaintiff’s]
age or race, or any prior complaint(s) she made”]; Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 6,
Sulsona Decl., ¶ 10 [“I was not aware of [Plaintiff’s] age, race, or any prior
complaint(s) at the time I made the decision to reject her application”]; Def.
COE Vol. 2, Ex. 9, Park Decl., ¶ 9 [“At the time I made the decision to
disposition [Plaintiff], I was not aware of [her] age, race, or prior
complaints”].) 
As to Lacayo, Plaintiff asserts that she made a complaint in
December 2019.  (Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep.,
Vol. II, p. 110:7-13.)  When asked about
the details of Plaintiff’s complaint to Lacayo, she testified that Defendants
wanted Plaintiff and two others to visit medical facilities during the height
of the COVID-19 pandemic, with which she did not feel comfortable.  (Id., p. 110:14-25.)  Thus, the deposition testimony submitted by
Plaintiff does not make clear that she made specific complaints to Lacayo that
Defendants were acting in an unlawfully discriminatory manner as to their
hiring decisions based on Plaintiff’s race and age.  (Mackey, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th
at p. 680.) 
Plaintiff also testified that she spoke with Jerome Blackwell, her
co-chair in Colorado, about “how [she] was unable to advance within the
organization” because of her race or age. 
(Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep., Vol. II, p. 114:1-23.)  However, Plaintiff has not provided evidence
showing that Blackwell was a decisionmaker with respect to her job
applications, and Blackwell does not appear to have such authority since
Plaintiff testified that he was her “co-chair[.]”  (Ibid.) 
Finally, Plaintiff testified that she made complaints to Vanessa
Bene that she was unable to advance her career “because of who [she] was as a
person, [her] whole totality[,]” including “[her] age, [her] race, [her]
voice.”  (Pl. Ex. G, Pl. Dep., Vol. II,
p. 157:15-22.)  When asked if she told
Bene that she was being discriminated against specifically because of her age
or race, Plaintiff stated that she “believe[d] that [she] did.”  (Id., pp. 157:23-18.)  However, Plaintiff has not submitted evidence
showing the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether Bene
was a decisionmaker with respect to her job applications, or that any of the
decisionmakers were aware of Plaintiff’s complaints to Bene.  (Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 2, Hyderi Decl.,
¶¶ 3, 7, 11; Def. COE Vol. 1, Ex. 1, Cannizzaro Decl., ¶¶ 4, 8, 9;
Def. COE Vol. 2, Ex. 6, Sulsona Decl., ¶¶ 4, 7, 10; Def. COE Vol. 2,
Ex. 9, Park Decl., ¶¶ 3, 8-9.)
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of
causation and whether Defendants’ stated reasons for their hiring decisions
were pretextual.  
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for retaliation for conduct
protected by FEHA. 
5.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Whistleblower Retaliation
 “An employer, or any person
acting on behalf of the employer, shall not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information, or because the employer believes that the employee
disclosed or may disclose information, to a government or law enforcement
agency, to a person with authority over the employee or another employee who
has the authority to investigate, discover, or correct the violation or
noncompliance, or for providing information to, or testifying before, any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry, if the employee
has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a violation of
state or federal statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local,
state, or federal rule or regulation, regardless of whether disclosing the
information is part of the employee’s job duties.”  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b).)  Thus, “[u]nder this statute, an employer
cannot retaliate against an employee for disclosing information that the
employee has reasonable cause to believe reveals a violation of a local, state,
or federal law.”  (Vatalaro v. County
of Sacramento (2022) 79 Cal.App.5th 367, 371.)  
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the fourth cause of action for whistleblower retaliation has no merit because
Defendants have shown that (1) an element of the cause of action (that an
activity protected by Labor Code section 1102.5 was a contributing factor in
Defendants’ hiring decisions) cannot be established, and (2) even if Plaintiff
could establish a prima facie case for whistleblower retaliation, the alleged
action would have occurred for legitimate, independent reasons.  (Lab. Code, §§ 1102.5, subd. (b),
1102.6.)
As set forth above, Defendants have shown that the complaints made
by Plaintiff that disclosed information of a violation of state or federal
statute, or a violation of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal
rule or regulation (i.e., complaints of Defendants’ discriminatory conduct)
were not a contributory factor in their decisions not to hire Plaintiff in
connection with the eight relevant applications since Plaintiff was not
selected for those positions on the grounds that (i) she did not proceed with
the applications, (ii) she did not meet the preferred qualifications, or (iii)
the other candidates selected better met Defendants’ requirements.  (Lab. Code, §§ 1102.5, subd. (b),
1102.6.)  The court finds that this
evidence is sufficient to show (1) that Plaintiff cannot meet her burden to
establish that her complaints were a contributory factor in Defendants’
decisions not to hire Plaintiff for the four applications she proceeded with,
and (2) even if Plaintiff could meet her initial burden, Defendants have shown
that the hiring decisions would have occurred for legitimate, independent
reasons.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists (1) as to whether her protected
activity was a contributing factor in Defendants’ hiring decisions, and (2) as
to whether the hiring decisions would not have occurred for legitimate,
independent reasons.  (Lab. Code,
§ 1102.6.)  As set forth above,
Plaintiff did not meet her burden to submit evidence showing the existence of a
triable issue of material fact as to (1) whether the protected complaints that
she made were known to any of the decisionmakers as to the four applications
she submitted, and (2) whether her complaints were considered and relied on by
Defendants in deciding not to offer her those positions. 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for whistleblower
retaliation.  
6.     Fifth
Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to
fail to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and
harassment from occurring.”  (Gov. Code,
§ 12940, subd. (k).)  “‘[C]ourts have
required a finding of actual discrimination or harassment under FEHA before a
plaintiff may prevail under section 12940, subdivision (k).’”  (Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 1307, 1314.) 
The court finds that Defendants have met their burden of showing
that the fifth cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination and
retaliation has no merit because Defendant has shown that an element of the
cause of action (valid underlying claims for retaliation and discrimination)
cannot be established since the court has granted, for the reasons set forth
above, Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the first and second
causes of action for discrimination and the third and fourth causes of action
for retaliation.  (Dickson, supra,
234 Cal.App.4th at p. 1314.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of valid, underlying claims
for retaliation and discrimination for the reasons set forth in connection with
the court’s ruling on Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication as to the
first and second causes of action for discrimination and the third and fourth
causes of action for retaliation. 
The court therefore grants Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation.
 
 
7.     Claim
for Punitive Damages
               “In an
action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (a).)  “[O]n a motion for summary
adjudication with respect to a punitive damages claim, the higher evidentiary
standard applies.  If the plaintiff is going to prevail on a punitive
damages claim, he or she can only do so by establishing malice, oppression or
fraud by clear and convincing evidence.”  (Basich v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2001)
87 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1121.)  “Under the clear and convincing evidence
standard, the evidence must be ‘ “ ‘ “so clear as to leave no substantial
doubt” ’ ” ’ and ‘ “ ‘ “sufficiently strong to command the unhesitating assent
of every reasonable mind. ” ’ ” ’  [Citation.]  Although the clear and convincing evidentiary
standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the obligation
to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or summary
adjudication].’”  (Butte Fire Cases, supra, 24 Cal.App.5th
at p. 1158 [internal citations omitted].)  However, the court must take
this higher standard of proof into account in ruling on a motion for summary
judgment.  (Ibid.)  
               Because
the court has granted summary adjudication on all of the causes of action
alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint, the court finds that all of the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
Defendants are entitled to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(c).)  The court therefore grants
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. 
               Because
the court’s ruling granting Defendants’ motion for summary judgment makes
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s claim for punitive
damages moot, the court does not address the motion for summary adjudication on
that claim.
 
 
  
EX PARTE APPLICATION FOR CONTINUANCE OF TRIAL AND RELATED
DEADLINES
               Defendants
move the court, ex parte, for an order (1) continuing the date of trial in this
action by 90 days (to March 4, 2024), and (2) continuing all related pretrial
deadlines continued in accordance with the new trial date.  
               Because
the court has granted summary judgment in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiff, the court denies as moot Defendants’ ex parte application. 
ORDER
The court grants defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group’s motion for summary judgment on plaintiff
Adriane Nolan’s Complaint.  
            The court orders defendants Kaiser
Foundation Health Plan, Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente
Medical Group, Inc., and Southern California Permanente Medical Group to
prepare, serve, and lodge a proposed judgment no later than 10 days from the
date of this order. 
            The court sets an Order to Show
Cause re entry of judgment for hearing on December 19, 2023, at 8:30 a.m., in
Department 53. 
The court orders that the Final Status Conference, scheduled for
November 16, 2023, is vacated. 
The court orders that trial, scheduled for December 6, 2023, is
vacated. 
The court denies as moot defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and
Southern California Permanente Medical Group’s ex parte application for continuance
of trial and related deadlines.
 
 
 
The court orders defendants Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc.,
Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., and Southern
California Permanente Medical Group to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  September 29, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


