 Case Number:  23TRCV01883    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka     Thursday, November 14, 2024 
Department M    Calendar No. 13  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Kewayne
Smith, et al. v. Extended Stay America, Inc., et al.  
23TRCV01883
1.      Extended Stay America, Inc.’s (“ESA”) Demurrer to Second
Amended Complaint
2.     
Extended Stay
America, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint   

3.     
Seth Neblett’s
(“Nesblett”) Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
4.     
Seth Neblett’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Extended Stay America, Inc. and Seth Nesblett’s Demurrers
to Second Amended Complaint are overruled, in part, sustained with 20 days
leave to amend, in part, and sustained without leave to amend, in part 
 
Extended Stay America, Inc. and Seth Nesblett’s Motions
to Strike Portions of Second Amended Complaint are denied, in part, granted
with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and are moot, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on June 12, 2023. The
Second Amended Complaint was filed on April 18, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. Pursuant to a rental agreement, Plaintiffs are tenants of a property
located at 18602 South Vermont Avenue, Room 202 Gardena, California 90248. The
property suffers from numerous habitability problems including toxic mold and
vermin that has caused injuries to Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges the following
causes of action: 1. Negligence; 2. Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability;
3. Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 4. Nuisance; 5. Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 6. Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; 7. Collection of Rent for Untenantable Dwelling; 8. Willful
Interruption of Services; 9. Violation of Los Angeles County Code Section
8.52.130 et seq. 
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants set forth meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.  (Decls. Susan Gruskin.) 
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
            
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code 452(c). The Court takes judicial notice of the
existence of the Certificate of Occupancy (“COO”) but does not take judicial
notice of the truth of any matters asserted therein.
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendant ESA demurs to the second through
ninth causes of action. The demurrer is based on the grounds that the causes of
action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and are
uncertain. 
Defendant Nesblett demurs to the fourth
through sixth, and ninth cause of action also based on failure to state
sufficient facts and uncertainty.
Second Cause of
Action for Breach of the Implied Warranty of Habitability
Third Cause of
Action for Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment
Seventh Cause
of Action for Collection of Rent for Untenantable Building
Eighth Cause of
Action for Willful Interruption of Services
 
Defendant ESA’s
demurrer to the second, third, seventh, and eighth causes of action is
overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state the causes of action and
the causes of action are not uncertain.
 
“[A] warranty of
habitability is implied by law in residential leases. The elements of a cause
of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability are the existence
of a material defective condition affecting the premises' habitability, notice
to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant's
discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct
the deficiency, and resulting damages. The alleged defective condition must
“affect the tenant's apartment or the common areas which he uses.” Peviani
v. Arbors at California Oaks Property Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874,
891 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
            
“The lessor of a
building intended for the occupation of human beings must, in the absence of an
agreement to the contrary, put it into a condition fit for such occupation, and
repair all subsequent dilapidations thereof, which render it untenantable,
except such as are mentioned in section nineteen hundred and twenty-nine.” Civ.
Code, § 1941.
            
“[E]very lease
contains an implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, whereby the landlord impliedly
covenants that the tenant shall have quiet enjoyment and possession of the
premises. The covenant of quiet enjoyment insulates the tenant against any act
or omission on the part of the landlord, or anyone claiming under him, which
interferes with a tenants right to use and enjoy the premises for the purposes
contemplated by the tenancy. [...] To be actionable, the landlords act or
omission must substantially interfere with a tenants (sic) right to use and
enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.” Andrews v.
Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588–89 (internal citations
and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
            Civ.
Code, § 1942.4 states:
“(a) A landlord of a
dwelling may not demand rent, collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase,
or issue a three-day notice to pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2) of
Section 1161 of the Code of Civil Procedure, if all of the following conditions
exist prior to the landlord's demand or notice:
(1) The dwelling
substantially lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in
Section 1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or
is deemed and declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the
Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an
extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of
the public or the occupants of the dwelling.
(2) A public officer
or employee who is responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after
inspecting the premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord's agent in
writing of his or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard
conditions.
(3) The conditions
have existed and have not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the
notice specified in paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For
purposes of this subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit
in the United States mail.
(4) The conditions
were not caused by an act or omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of
Section 1929 or 1941.2.
(b)(1) A landlord who
violates this section is liable to the tenant or lessee for the actual damages
sustained by the tenant or lessee and special damages of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000).
(2) The prevailing
party shall be entitled to recovery of reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
the suit in an amount fixed by the court.
(c) Any court that
awards damages under this section may also order the landlord to abate any
nuisance at the rental dwelling and to repair any substandard conditions of the
rental dwelling, as defined in Section 1941.1, which significantly or
materially affect the health or safety of the occupants of the rental dwelling
and are uncorrected. If the court orders repairs or corrections, or both, the
court's jurisdiction continues over the matter for the purpose of ensuring
compliance.
(d) The tenant or
lessee shall be under no obligation to undertake any other remedy prior to
exercising his or her rights under this section.
(e) Any action under
this section may be maintained in small claims court if the claim does not
exceed the jurisdictional limit of that court.
(f) The remedy
provided by this section may be utilized in addition to any other remedy
provided by this chapter, the rental agreement, lease, or other applicable
statutory or common law. Nothing in this section shall require any landlord to
comply with this section if he or she pursues his or her rights pursuant to
Chapter 12.75 (commencing with Section 7060) of Division 7 of Title 1 of the
Government Code.”
 
            Civ.
Code, § 789.3 states:
“(a) A landlord shall
not with intent to terminate the occupancy under any lease or other tenancy or
estate at will, however created, of property used by a tenant as his residence
willfully cause, directly or indirectly, the interruption or termination of any
utility service furnished the tenant, including, but not limited to, water,
heat, light, electricity, gas, telephone, elevator, or refrigeration, whether
or not the utility service is under the control of the landlord.
(b) In addition, a
landlord shall not, with intent to terminate the occupancy under any lease or
other tenancy or estate at will, however created, of property used by a tenant
as his or her residence, willfully:
(1) Prevent the
tenant from gaining reasonable access to the property by changing the locks or
using a bootlock or by any other similar method or device;
(2) Remove outside
doors or windows; or
(3) Remove from the
premises the tenant's personal property, the furnishings, or any other items
without the prior written consent of the tenant, except when done pursuant to
the procedure set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1980) of Title 5 of
Part 4 of Division 3.
Nothing in this
subdivision shall be construed to prevent the lawful eviction of a tenant by
appropriate legal authorities, nor shall anything in this subdivision apply to
occupancies defined by subdivision (b) of Section 1940.
(c) Any landlord who
violates this section shall be liable to the tenant in a civil action for all
of the following:
(1) Actual damages of
the tenant.
(2) An amount not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100) for each day or part thereof the landlord
remains in violation of this section. In determining the amount of such award,
the court shall consider proof of such matters as justice may require; however,
in no event shall less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250) be awarded for
each separate cause of action. Subsequent or repeated violations, which are not
committed contemporaneously with the initial violation, shall be treated as
separate causes of action and shall be subject to a separate award of damages.
(d) In any action
under subdivision (c) the court shall award reasonable attorney's fees to the
prevailing party. In any such action the tenant may seek appropriate injunctive
relief to prevent continuing or further violation of the provisions of this section
during the pendency of the action. The remedy provided by this section is not
exclusive and shall not preclude the tenant from pursuing any other remedy
which the tenant may have under any other provision of law.”
 
Defendant’s demurrer
to these causes of action is based primarily on the contention that, because it
is a hotel, Plaintiffs cannot state these causes of action. More specifically, Defendant
argues that because it is a hotel, Plaintiffs cannot allege the existence of a
valid rental agreement. Defendant requests judicial notice of its certificate
of occupancy. However, while the Court takes judicial notice of the existence
of the certificate of occupancy, the Court does not take judicial notice of the
truth of the matter that Defendant attempts to assert from the existence of
this document. A factual issue exists as to whether Plaintiffs’ occupancy at
the hotel is sufficient under the proper legal authorities to pursue these
causes of action. With a demurrer, the Court cannot, under the facts alleged,
deem as a matter of law that Defendant cannot be considered a “landlord” for
purposes of pursuing these causes of action.
 
Plaintiffs have
alleged sufficient facts to meet each of the elements of the causes of action.
(SAC, ¶¶ 2-93; 129-157). The demurrer to the second, third, seventh, and eighth
causes of action is overruled.
 
Fourth Cause of
Action for Nuisance

            Defendants
ESA and Nesblett’s demurrers to the fourth cause of action are sustained with
20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action.

“Civil Code section
3479 defines a nuisance as ‘[a]nything which is injurious to health, or is
indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of
property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property.’” Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 919.    
 
“The elements of an
action for private nuisance are: First, the plaintiff must prove an
interference with his use and enjoyment of his property. Second, the invasion
of the plaintiff's interest in the use and enjoyment of the land [must be]
substantial, i.e., that it cause[s] the plaintiff to suffer ‘substantial actual
damage. Third, [t]he interference with the protected interest must not only be
substantial, but it must also be unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a
nature, duration or amount as to constitute unreasonable interference with the
use and enjoyment of the land.”  Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262-63
(internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
“A private nuisance
cause of action requires the plaintiff to prove an injury specifically
referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land.  Pursuant to Civil Code section 3501, a
plaintiff seeking to remedy a private nuisance is limited to a
civil action or abatement. Unlike public nuisance, which is an
interference with the rights of the community at large, private nuisance is a
civil wrong based on disturbance of rights in land.... [T]o proceed on a
private nuisance theory the plaintiff must prove an injury specifically
referable to the use and enjoyment of his or her land. The injury, however,
need not be different in kind from that suffered by the general public.” Mendez
v. Rancho Valencia Resort Partners, LLC (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 248, 262
(internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
“Where negligence and
nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the
nuisance claim is a negligence claim.” El Escorial Owners' Assn. v. DLC
Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1349. Here, the Nuisance and
Negligence causes of action are duplicative as the causes of action rely on the
same facts as to the lack of due care. Defendants did not demur to the first
cause of action for Negligence. In addition, Plaintiffs appear to allege a
public nuisance, but there are no facts to indicate that the alleged nuisance
affected the public at large - merely conclusions.
 
Defendants’ demurrer
to the fourth cause of action are sustained with 20 days leave to amend.
 
            Fifth Cause of Action for IIED
 
            Defendants’ demurrers to the fifth
cause of action are overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
 
“A cause of action for IIED requires proof of: (1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2)
the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the defendant's
extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate cause of the severe
emotional distress.” Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of Santa Ana, Inc.
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007. 
 
“[I]t is clear that the availability of a remedy for
breach of implied warranty of habitability does not preclude a tenant from
suing his landlord for intentional infliction of mental distress if the
landlord's acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress.” Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 921. “Behavior may be considered outrageous if a
defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” Id.
 
Plaintiffs have set forth facts to support the
elements of extreme and outrageous conduct, intent or reckless disregard, and
proximate causation. Plaintiffs allege that they, as well as an actual manager
of ESA, Regina Hubbard, discovered numerous problems with the property
including water leaks, structural problems, sanitation concerns, and vermin
infestation, and that Defendants failed to remedy the issues. Plaintiffs also
set forth numerous health issues that they suffered.  
 
These allegations are sufficient to plead, at the
demurrer stage, that Defendants abused their position of power and/or that
Defendants knew that Plaintiffs were susceptible to injuries through emotional
distress, and/or, that Defendants acted intentionally or unreasonably knowing
that they would likely cause emotional distress. Plaintiffs allege that
Defendant Nesblett, the Regional Manager of ESA, knowingly disregarded
recommendations from Regina Hubbard, a local manager, to shut down the entire
facility at once until the problems were rectified, but instead that Nesblett
decided to take cost-cutting short cuts that did not rectify the problem merely
to save costs at the expense of the health and welfare of the tenants. This was
done despite the fact that numerous complaints were made to Defendants
throughout the tenancy. (SAC, ¶¶ 29-36; 112-117.)  “Where reasonable [minds] may differ, it is
for the jury, subject to the control of the court, to determine whether, in the
particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently extreme and outrageous to
result in liability.” Fuentes v. Perez (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 163,
172.  
 
Therefore, Defendants’ demurrers to the fifth cause of
action are overruled.
 
Sixth Cause of Action for NIED
 
The demurrers to the sixth cause of action are sustained
without leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to state sufficient facts to state a
cause of action for NIED. 
 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress is not an
independent cause of action.  Instead,
emotional distress is a component of damages that may be recoverable in a
Negligence cause of action.  See, Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Med. Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588. Thus, because a separate cause
of action for Negligence has been asserted to which no demurrers were directed,
the NIED cause of action is simply duplicative of the negligence cause of
action.  
 
Thus, the demurrers to the sixth cause of action are
sustained without leave to amend. 
 
Ninth Cause of Action for Violation of Los Angeles
County Code Section 8.52.130 et seq. 
 
            Defendants’ demurrers to the ninth
cause of action are overruled. Plaintiffs state facts sufficient to state a
cause of action and the cause of action is not uncertain.
 
            L.A.C.C. Sec. 8.52.130 states, in
relevant part:
            “A. Retaliatory Eviction.
1. If the main intent of the Landlord in terminating a
Tenancy or refusing to renew a Tenancy is retaliatory in nature, and if the
Tenant is not in default as to the payment of Rent, then the Landlord may not
terminate the Tenancy or refuse to renew the Tenancy or cause the Tenant to
quit involuntarily.
2. A Tenant may assert retaliation affirmatively or as
a defense to the Landlord's action regardless of the period of time which has
elapsed between the Tenant's assertion or exercise of rights under this Chapter
and the alleged act of retaliation.
3. Retaliation against a Tenant because of the
Tenant's exercise of rights under this Chapter is prohibited. Retaliation
claims may only be brought in court and may not be addressed administratively.
A court may consider the protections afforded by this Chapter in evaluating a
claim of retaliation.
B. Anti-Harassment. No Landlord or any person acting
as a principal or agent, offering a Fully or Partially Covered Rental Unit for
Rent, or any contractor, subcontractor or employee of the Landlord shall, with
respect to Rental Property used as a Rental Unit under any Rental Agreement or
other Tenancy or estate at will, however created, do any of the following:
1. Interrupt, terminate, or fail to provide Housing
Services required by Rental Agreement or by federal, State, County, or local
housing, health, or safety laws, or threaten to do so, or violate or threaten
to violate California Civil Code section 789.3.
2. Take any of the following actions in bad faith:
a. Fail to perform repairs and maintenance required by
the Rental Agreement or by federal, State, or local laws;
b. Fail to exercise due diligence in completing
repairs and maintenance once undertaken;
c. Fail to follow appropriate industry repair,
containment, or remediation protocols designed to minimize exposure to noise,
dust, lead, paint, mold, asbestos, or other building materials with potentially
harmful health impacts;
d. Conduct elective renovation or construction of
Fully or Partially Covered Rental Unit for the purpose of harassing a Tenant;
e. Refuse to acknowledge or accept receipt of a
Tenant's lawful Rent payment as set forth in a Rental Agreement, by usual
practice of the parties, or in a notice to pay Rent or quit;
f. Refuse to cash or process a check or other form of
acceptable Rent payment for over thirty (30) Days after it is tendered;
g. Fail to maintain a current address for delivery of
Rent payments;
h. Violate a Tenant's right to privacy without
limitation, by requesting information regarding residence or citizenship
status, protected class status, or social security number, except as required
by law or in the case of a social security number, for the purpose of obtaining
information for the qualifications for a Tenancy;
i. Release information protected by the Tenant's right
to privacy except as required or authorized by law; or
j. Request or demand an unreasonable amount of
information from Tenant in response to a request for reasonable accommodation.
3. Abuse the right of access into a Fully or Partially
Covered Rental Unit as established by California Civil Code section 1954 or
other applicable law. This includes entries for inspections that are not
related to necessary repairs or services; entries excessive in number; entries
that improperly target certain Tenants or are used to collect evidence against
the occupant or otherwise beyond the scope of an otherwise lawful entry;
entries or demands for entry at times outside of normal business hours, unless
for health and safety reasons or if the Tenant agrees otherwise; entries
contrary to a Tenant's reasonable request to change the date or time of entry;
photographing or otherwise recording portions of a Fully or Partially Covered
Rental Unit that are beyond the scope of lawful entry or inspection; and
misrepresenting the reasons for accessing a Fully or Partially Covered Rental
Unit.
4. Influence or attempt to influence a Tenant to
vacate a Fully or Partially Covered Rental Unit through fraud,
misrepresentation, intimidation or coercion, which shall include threatening to
report a Tenant to the United States Department of Homeland Security.
5. Threaten the Tenant, by word or gesture, with
physical harm, or abuse Tenant with words, either orally or in writing, which
are offensive and inherently likely to provoke an immediate violent reaction.
This includes words used during in-person conversations, through social media
postings or messages, or other communications.
6. Violate any law which prohibits discrimination
based on race, gender, sexual preference, sexual orientation, ethnic
background, nationality, religion, age, parenthood, marriage, pregnancy,
disability, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/ acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS), occupancy by a minor child, or source of income.
7. Take action to terminate any Tenancy including
service of any notice to quit or other eviction notice or bring any action to
recover possession of a Fully or Partially Covered Rental Unit based upon facts
which the Landlord has no reasonable cause to believe to be true or upon a
legal theory which is untenable under the facts known to the Landlord. No
Landlord shall be liable under this Section for bringing an action to recover
possession unless and until the Tenant has obtained a favorable termination of
that action.
8. Remove from the Fully or Partially Covered Rental
Unit personal property, furnishings, or any other items without the prior
written consent of the Tenant, except when done pursuant to enforcement of a
legal termination of Tenancy.
9. Provide false written or verbal information
regarding any federal, State, County, or local tenant protections, including
mischaracterizing the nature or effect of a notice to quit or other eviction
notice. False information includes, without limitation, requesting or demanding
a Tenant:
a. Sign a new Rental Agreement not in the Tenant's
primary language if:
(i) Rental Agreement negotiations were conducted in
the Tenant's primary language;
(ii) The existing Rental Agreement is in the Tenant's
primary language; or
(iii) Landlord is otherwise aware that the new Rental
Agreement is not in Tenant's primary language.
b. Enter into a Rent repayment plan if the Landlord
states, misrepresents, suggests, or implies, that the Tenant should or must do
so to take advantage of Tenant protection laws that do not in fact require such
plans.
10.Offer payments to: 
a. A Tenant to vacate more than once in six (6)
months, after the Tenant has notified the Landlord in writing that the Tenant does
not desire to receive further offers of payments to vacate;
b. Attempt to coerce Tenant to vacate accompanied with
threats or intimidation. This shall not include settlement offers in pending
eviction actions made in good faith and not accompanied with threats or
intimidation.
11. Communicate with Tenant in a language other than
Tenant's primary language for the purpose of intimidating, confusing, deceiving
or annoying Tenant.
12. Interfere with a Tenant's right to quiet use and
enjoyment of a Rental Unit, unless Fully Exempt, as that right is defined by
law.
13. Commit repeated acts or omissions of such
significance as to substantially interfere with or disturb the comfort, repose,
peace, or quiet of any person lawfully entitled to occupancy of such Rental
Unit, unless Fully Exempt, and that cause, are likely to cause, or are intended
to cause any person lawfully entitled to occupancy of a Rental Unit, unless
Fully Exempt, to vacate such Rental or to surrender or waive any rights in
relation to such occupancy.
14. Remove a Housing Service for the purpose of
causing the Tenant to vacate the Fully or Partially Covered Rental Unit. For
example, taking away a parking space knowing that a Tenant cannot find
alternative parking and must move.
15. Interfere with the right of Tenants to organize as
Tenants and engage in concerted activities with other Tenants for the purpose
of mutual aid and protection; provide property access to Tenant organizers,
advocates, or representatives working with or on behalf of Tenants living at a
property; convene Tenant or Tenant organization meetings in an appropriate
space accessible to Tenants under the terms of their Rental Agreement; or
distribute and post literature informing other Tenants of their rights and of
opportunities to involve themselves in their project in common areas, including
lobby areas and bulletin boards.”
 
            Plaintiffs have alleged facts to
assert that Defendants, including individual Defendant Nesblett, violated the anti-harassment
portion of the statute. Whether Defendants acted in bad faith and/or with
intent, for purposes of the statute, are factual issues that cannot be
adjudicated with a demurrer. In addition, Defendants again repeat the argument
noted above regarding the lack of rental agreement to which the Court has
already addressed in the ruling to ESA’s demurrer to the second, third,
seventh, and eighth causes of action.
 
            The demurrers to the ninth cause of
action are overruled.
 
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Defendants move to strike numerous
allegations. Rather than repeat all the allegations here, since the items are
lengthy, the Court refers the parties to the notices of motion. In this ruling,
the Court will refer to the alphabetical headings and numerical headings, if
required, of the items sought to be stricken.
 
As to Item A, the motions to strike are
denied. The Court refers the parties to the ruling on the demurrers which
provide the reasoning why Plaintiffs’ references to a valid rental agreement
are not stricken.
 
As to Item B:
 
Paragraph 92, Page 21:11-12 and Prayer,
Paragraph 3(d), Page 34:17 – The motion is granted with 20 days leave to amend.
Plaintiffs fail to set forth a statutory or contractual basis for attorneys’
fees.
 
Paragraph 141, Page 29:21 and Prayer,
Paragraph 7(d), Page 35:20 – The motion is denied. Plaintiffs set forth a
statutory basis for attorneys’ fees.
 
Paragraph 163, Page 33:16-17 and Prayer,
Paragraph 9(c), Page 36:6 – The motions are granted with 20 days leave to
amend. Plaintiffs fail to set forth a statutory or contractual basis for
attorneys’ fees.
 
As to Paragraph 8(c), Page 35:26 – The
motion is denied. Plaintiffs set forth a statutory basis for attorneys’ fees. 
 
As to Paragraph 10(b), Page 36:10 – The
motion is denied, Plaintiffs set forth a statutory basis for attorneys’ fees.
 
As to Item C, the motions are denied.
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient
specific facts that Defendants acted willfully, maliciously, intentionally,
and/or recklessly to support Plaintiffs’ allegations of punitive damages under
these causes of action. In addition, the allegations are not on their face
false, irrelevant, or improper. 
 
As to Item D, paragraphs 104 to 106 and
Prayer 4(c), the motions are moot upon the sustaining of the demurrers to the
fourth cause of action.
 
As to Item D, paragraph 163, the motions
to strike are denied. Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient facts to state a
remedy for injunctive relief pursuant to L.A.C.C. 8.52.130(C).
 
Therefore, the motions to strike are
denied, in part, granted, with 20 days leave to amend, in part, and are moot,
in part. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this
ruling.