  Case Number:  23TRCV00057    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                 
        Thursday, November 14, 2024
Department M                                                                                                         Calendar
No. 9
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Ronald Williams v. Torrance Memorial Medical Center, et al.
            23TRCV00057
1.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Admissions, Set 5, and Request for Sanctions
2.      Ronald Williams’ Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Admissions, Set 6, and Request for Sanctions 
3.      Ronald
Williams’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Identification,
Production, and Inspection of Documents, Set 11, and Request for Sanctions
4.      Ronald
Williams’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Identification,
Production, and Inspection of Documents, Set 13, and Request for Sanctions
5.      Ronald
Williams’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Identification,
Production, and Inspection of Documents, Set 15, and Request for Sanctions
6.      Ronald
Williams’ Motion to Compel Further Responses to Demand for Identification,
Production, and Inspection of Documents, Set 16, and Request for Sanctions
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Ronald Williams’s Motions to Compel Further
Responses are taken off calendar.  
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on January 6, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff’s
wife, Chionese Agee, died on November 9, 2022, after surgery at Torrance
Memorial Medical Center. Plaintiff alleges the following cause of action: 1. Wrongful
Death.
 
            Appointment
of a Discovery Referee
 
CCP § 639(a)(5) states:
“When the parties do not consent, the court may, upon the written motion of any
party, or of its own motion, appoint a referee in the following cases pursuant
to the provisions of subdivision (b) of Section 640: When the court in any
pending action determines that it is necessary for the court to appoint a
referee to hear and determine any and all discovery motions and disputes
relevant to discovery in the action and to report findings and make a
recommendation thereon.”  When the court
makes an order appointing a discovery referee pursuant to CCP § 639(a)(5), the
court must include, in the order, the exceptional circumstances that exist
which require the reference.  CCP §
639(d)(2).  
 
“The power to impose a
reference on nonconsenting parties and require them to pay for easing the
court's workload is a powerful tool in the court's arsenal: it permits the
court to avoid massive paperwork, clear crowded dockets of repetitive and
snarly motions, and can induce parties to take a more reasonable approach to
discovery to keep costs from mounting. When the Legislature amended section 639
and enacted section 645.1 in 1981, it obviously intended to give the
overburdened trial courts the opportunity to utilize the paid expertise of
retired judges in the resolution of complicated, time-consuming discovery
disputes. However, there is no suggestion the Legislature intended these powers
to be used over the parties' objection in routine, pro forma, uncomplicated
matters simply for expediency or a distaste for discovery resolution. Indeed,
the statute gives the court this discretion when such a reference is necessary.”
Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 94, 104 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
“Unless both parties have
agreed to a reference, the court should not make blanket orders directing all
discovery motions to a discovery referee except in the unusual case where a
majority of factors favoring reference are present. These include: (1) there
are multiple issues to be resolved; (2) there are multiple motions to be heard
simultaneously; (3) the present motion is only one in a continuum of many; (4)
the number of documents to be reviewed (especially in issues based on
assertions of privilege) make the inquiry inordinately time-consuming.”  Taggares v. Superior Court (1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 94, 105.
 
The Court finds that all the
factors, noted above, exist in this action to establish that an appointment of
a discovery referee is necessary for all discovery related matters. The Court
finds that the instant action is the “unusual case” wherein “exceptional
circumstances” exist warranting the appointment of a discovery referee. The
Court has already ruled upon 12 discovery motions. Currently there are eight additional
discovery motions scheduled that have not been rule upon. On several occasions,
multiple motions were required to be ruled upon simultaneously. In addition,
the future schedule demonstrates that multiple motions will again be ruled upon
simultaneously. The present motions on calendar this date are again only a
continuum of many more motions, in the past, and undoubtedly, in the future.
There are motions for protective orders that are scheduled which themselves
point out the extensive discovery that has already been propounded. Judging by
past history, it is anticipated that at least one or more of the parties will continue
to attempt to engage in the propounding of voluminous discovery requests and
the filing of numerous discovery motions in this matter. Because of this, it is
also anticipated that other parties may seek to file motions for protective
orders in response to the propounding of discovery and filing of motions to
compel. The number of documents to be reviewed has already been incredibly
time-consuming and again, as noted above, it is anticipated that this pattern necessitating
in the Court’s review of numerous documents will continue into the foreseeable
future with no end in sight. 
 
Thus, the Court finds that
the instant action is appropriate, and, even, in fact, necessitates the
appointment of a discovery referee when considering the extensive drain of
judicial resources that has already been placed on the Court and will continue
to be placed on the Court. Again, as already mentioned, there does not appear
to be any end to the disputes in any foreseeable time frame. 
 
Therefore, the Court, on its
own motion, enters an order for the appointment of a discovery referee pursuant
to CCP § 639(a)(5). The appointment is for all discovery purposes. The referee is authorized to
set the date, time, and place for all hearings the referee determines are necessary,
direct the issuance of subpoenas, preside over hearings, hear and take evidence,
and rule on all objections, motions, and other requests made during the course
of the hearings. Cal Rules of Court, Rule, 3.922(e).
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 640
states:
“(a) The court shall appoint
as referee or referees the person or persons, not exceeding three, agreed upon
by the parties.
(b) If the parties do not
agree on the selection of the referee or referees, each party shall submit to
the court up to three nominees for appointment as referee and the court shall
appoint one or more referees, not exceeding three, from among the nominees
against whom there is no legal objection. If no nominations are received from
any of the parties, the court shall appoint one or more referees, not exceeding
three, against whom there is no legal objection, or the court may appoint a
court commissioner of the county where the cause is pending as a referee.
(c) Participation in the
referee selection procedure pursuant to this section does not constitute a
waiver of grounds for objection to the appointment of a referee under Section
641 or 641.2.”
 
The parties are ordered to
engage in the process for obtaining an agreement regarding the name of the
referee. If no agreement is reached, the parties are ordered to engage in the
process set forth in CCP § 640(b).
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 645.1
states:
“When a referee is appointed
pursuant to Section 639, at any time after a determination of ability to pay is
made as specified in paragraph (6) of subdivision (d) of Section 639,
the court may order the parties to pay the fees of referees who are not
employees or officers of the court at the time of appointment, as fixed
pursuant to Section 1023, in any manner determined by the court to be fair and
reasonable, including an apportionment of the fees among the parties. For
purposes of this section, the term “parties” does not include parties' counsel.”
 
The Court orders that the
fees for the referee are to be paid equally by Plaintiff, Defendant Torrance
Memorial Medical Center, and Defendant Jody Aronson, M.D. At this time, the
Court is not aware of any discovery dispute that involves Defendants Sheronda
Smith, M.D. and Shefalee Amin, M.D. The Court reserves the right to amend the
fees portion of this order if such disputes arise in the future.
No party has
established an economic inability to pay a pro rata share of the referee's fee.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 