  Case Number:  23AHCV01476    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOCELYN LOPEZ, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ARCADIA
   LIVING, LLC,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01476
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH INSPECTION DEMAND 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 23,
  2024




 


)


 



 
On June 27, 2023, plaintiff Jocelyn
Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against her former employer, defendant Arcadia
Living, LLC (“Defendant”) alleging various Labor Code violations. On April 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for an order compelling Defendant to comply
with its responses to Plaintiff’s inspection demands. Plaintiff also requests
monetary sanctions.
If a party filing a response to an
inspection demand thereafter fails to permit the inspection in accordance with that
party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling compliance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (a).) The court
shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand,
unless the court finds the party subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or there are other circumstances making the imposition of
sanctions unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320, subd. (b).) There is no 45-day
deadline to file a motion to compel compliance, nor is there a requirement to
file a separate statement because the substance of the responses are not at
issue. 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has not
produced documents identified in its responses to her Requests for Production
of Documents Nos. 68 to 70: “Exhibit A Employee Acknowledgment of Human Resources
Policies and Procedures” and “Exhibit B Meal Period Waiver.” (Motion, p. 6;
Kreiman Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s counsel declares that they sent defense
counsel a meet and confer letter dated March 5, 2024, and followed-up on two
separate occasions on March 11 and March 15, 2024. (Kreiman Decl., ¶¶ 10-12.) But,
defense counsel did not respond to these attempts at informal resolution. (Id.,
¶¶ 11-12.) 
In opposition, Defendant inaccurately
argues that Plaintiff’s motion was untimely, but relies on the incorrect
provision of the Code of Civil Procedure which addresses motions to compel
further responses, section 2031.310. In contrast, Plaintiff’s motion is brought
under section 2031.320. Defendant also argues that Plaintiff was required to
submit a separate statement – again, an incorrect assertion because a motion to
compel compliance does not dispute the content of the responses. (See CRC
3.1345, subd. (a).) 
Ultimately, Defendant admits that
several documents responsive to RFP Nos. 68, 69, and 70 were inadvertently omitted
from its original production and were produced on May 3, 2024. (Opp., pp. 2-3.)
Accordingly, the motion is moot and the only issue that remains is whether
sanctions should be imposed. 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
suffered no prejudice from its inadvertent omission of documents because
Plaintiff, as the office manager of the facility, already had access to the files
that were produced. But whether Plaintiff has been prejudiced is irrelevant to
Defendant’s statement that it would produce documents (and Defendant’s
subsequent compliance with this statement). Also, Defendant argues that Plaintiff
failed to adequately meet and confer before filing this motion and it was
unable to determine which specific documents were at issue because Plaintiff’s
meet and confer letter “encompassed multiple requests.” This claim is not
credible because the first page of Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter
identifies the document requests and the specific documents sought. 
Therefore, although the motion to
compel compliance is denied as moot, the court imposes sanctions against
Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the amount of $2,260,
consisting of 4 hours at a reasonable hourly rate of $550, and a $60 filing fee,
payable within ten days of the date of this order. 
 
 
Dated
this 23rd
day of May, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 