 Case Number:  23STCV20210    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  61 ARAM BAGRAMYAN vs FMB DEVELOPMENT, LLC, et al.TENTATIVEPlaintiff Aram Bagramyan’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions against Defendants FMB Development, LLC and Ilan Kenig is GRANTED. Accordingly, the answer is stricken and default is entered.Plaintiff to give notice.DISCUSSIONThe court may impose terminating sanctions, include an order striking pleadings, and order dismissing an action, or an order rendering judgment by default against a party, for conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.) This conduct includes “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) Dismissal is a drastic measure, and terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less severe sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1326.) “[A] penalty as severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad faith.” (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.)Plaintiff Aram Bagramyan (Plaintiff) seeks terminating sanctions against Defendant FMB Development, LLC and Ilan Kenig (Defendants), based on Defendants’ failure to comply with this court’s order of June 12, 2024, compelling responses to Plaintiff’s special interrogatories and requests for production. (Motion at pp. 5–7; Madnick Decl. ¶ 8.)This motion is unopposed. On September 11, 2024, this Court sought additional briefing concerning Plaintiff’s efforts to contact Defendants, given records in the court’s files of returned mail sent to Defendants’ two addresses on Wilshire Boulevard, one listed with the California Secretary of State, and another given by Defendants’ now-relieved counsel. Plaintiff has filed an additional declaration, indicating that following the order relieving Defendants’ former counsel, attempts have been made to contact Defendants by mail at both addresses, and by email, with no response yet received. (Ghoorchian Decl. ¶¶ 5–9.) A letter sent January 10, 2024, to these addresses was not returned as undeliverable, although the present motion for terminating sanctions, served on August 1 and 2, 2024, were returned as undeliverable. (Ghoorchian Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff states that no updated address information has been provided. (Ghoorchian Decl. ¶ 9.)A party whose mailing address, telephone number, fax number, or e-mail address changes while an action is pending “must serve on all parties and file a written notice of the change.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.2.200.) Diligent attempts to contact Defendants have been made both by email and the addresses recorded for them by their former counsel and with the California Secretary of State. Mail to these addresses has received no response, and been returned as undeliverable. Defendants have failed to keep their contact information current, as was their obligation.Plaintiff has shown that Defendants have failed to provide discovery responses as ordered by the court, and further that Defendants appear to have abandoned this litigation. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for terminating sanctions is justified.The motion for terminating sanctions is therefore GRANTED.