 Case Number:  24STCV05584    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  61 DANIEL GALLOWAY, et al. vs DO LAB, INC., et al.TENTATIVEDefendant Jason “Dede” Flemming’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is OVERRULED and DENIED.Plaintiffs to give notice.DISCUSSIONA demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§ 430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311: “We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its parts in their context.” (Id. at p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. [Citation.]”)“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be clearly stated.” (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)“A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p. 1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)Defendant Jason “Dede” Flemming (Defendant) demurrers to the First Amended Complaint (FAC) filed by Plaintiffs Daniel and Mary Galloway (Plaintiffs) on the grounds that Defendant cannot be made personally liable for acts committed in his capacity as a corporate officer, and that there is no allegation that any of his acts caused the death of Plaintiffs’ daughter, Kelly Galloway (Decedent). (Demurrer at pp. 7–10.)Defendant relies on the case of United States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidingger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, in which the court held that an insurer plaintiff, who had contracted with an agent-corporation to sell policies, could not attach personal liability upon that agent-company’s principal executive on the grounds of negligence. (Id. at p. 595.) The court reasoned as follows:Directors or officers of a corporation do not incur personal liability for torts of the corporation merely by reason of their official position, unless they participate in the wrong or authorize or direct that it be done. They may be liable, under the rules of tort and agency, for tortious acts committed on behalf of the corporation (3 Witkin, Summary of Cal.Law (7th ed. 1960) s 48(c), pp. 2342—2343; 13 Cal.Jur.2d, s 353; 19 C.J.S. Corporations s 845; Knepper (1969) Liabilities of Corporate Officers and Directors). They are not responsible to third persons for negligence amounting merely to nonfeasance, to a breach of duty owing to the corporation alone; the act must also constitute a breach of a duty owed to the third person. (19 Am.Jur.2d, s 1382.) Liability imposed upon agents for active participation in tortious acts of the principal have been mostly restricted to cases involving physical injury, not pecuniary harm, to third persons (See Rest. Agency 2d, ss 352, 354, Appendix, Reporter's notes, s 354, p. 600). More must be shown than breach of the officer's duty To his corporation to impose personal liability To a third person upon him. Neither the evidence nor the findings support the conclusion that defendant V. M. Haidinger was personally liable to plaintiff by reason of his negligent performance of his corporate duties. (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v. Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595.) Defendant attempts to apply this holding to the present case, reasoning that the only negligence alleged against him personally was his failure to perform up to the standards contained in the conditional use permit for the festival put on by his company, at which Decedent died. (Demurrer at pp. 7–8.)This reasoning is unpersuasive, as it takes ill-account of the scope of conduct for which corporate officers may be held personally liable in tort, and of the allegations in the FAC. The pleading alleges not only that Defendant made representations to Kern County in order to obtain permits, but also that Defendant approved company policies that he knew would increase the risk of deadly medical crises for festivalgoers. The FAC alleges that Defendant was the festival’s manager charged with “overseeing virtually all aspects of the organization, planning, staffing, and oversight of the subject matter event.” (FAC ¶ 14.) It is alleged that Defendant’s company administered a music festival with the knowledge of the dangers of drug overdose, high outdoor temperatures, and dehydration, and arranged for inadequate staffing and training of its medical staff, and made it difficult for patrons in need to access the geographically remote medical tent, even implementing a policy for its largely volunteer staff to “keep people out of the medical tent.” (FAC ¶¶ 18–23.) It is alleged that Plaintiffs’ daughter, Kelly Galloway, died after twice being steered away from the medical tent by insinuations of negative penal repercussions. (FAC ¶¶ 37–47.) It is alleged that Defendant personally took part in this conduct, “intentionally increasing the risk of harm to patrons such as Kelly Galloway, in exchange for profits and personal gain.” (FAC ¶ 57.)“To maintain a tort claim against a director in his or her personal capacity, a plaintiff must first show that the director specifically authorized, directed or participated in the allegedly tortious conduct; or that although they specifically knew or reasonably should have known that some hazardous condition or activity under their control could injure plaintiff, they negligently failed to take or order appropriate action to avoid the harm.” (Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 490, 508.) Plaintiffs have alleged more than mere nonfeasance resulting in financial harm to a party contracted with the company. The FAC alleges Defendant’s personal involvement and participation in corporate actions that negligently caused the death of Plaintiffs’ daughter.Defendant in reply argues that these allegations are too conclusory to support liability against him. (Reply at pp. 2–5.) But Defendant presents no authority for the proposition that the above allegations are insufficient. Defendant’s argument that Decedent’s death resulted from the actions of lower-level staff committed in violation of company policy rests upon facts expressly contradicted by the pleading.The demurrer is therefore OVERRULED.II. MOTION TO STRIKEAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of Court Rule 3.1322.)The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court (1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)Defendant moves to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages, repeating the argument from his demurrer that no conduct is alleged in his personal capacity (Motion at p. 5), and further that no conduct is alleged that would form a basis for a finding of malice, oppression, or fraud. (Motion at pp. 6–10.)Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).) The terms are defined as:1. “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.2. “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.3. “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c).)Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. (Dawes v. Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and willful. (College Hospital v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College Hospital”).)Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot establish that he acted with malice or oppression because the only facts alleged are that Plaintiffs’ daughter was steered away from the medical tent at the festival festival by employees acting in contravention of the compan stated policy that festival patrons could access the medical tent without fear of repercussions. (Motion at pp. 6–8.) Defendant also argues that no facts are pleaded to establish that he acted with ill will. (Motion at pp. 6–7.)Defendant’s argument from the lack of actions taken in his personal capacity is adequately addressed by reference to the above discussion of his demurrer. His other argument as to the presence of oppression or malice misreads the FAC. The operative facts alleged are that Defendant’s company administered a music festival with the knowledge of the dangers of drug overdose, high outdoor temperatures, and dehydration, This company, at Defendant’s direction, arranged for inadequate staffing and training of its medical staff, and made it difficult for patrons in need to access the geographically remote medical tent, even implementing a policy for its largely volunteer staff to “keep people out of the medical tent.” (FAC ¶¶ 18–23.) It is alleged that Plaintiffs’ daughter, Kelly Galloway, died after twice being steered away from the medical tent by insinuations of negative penal repercussions. (FAC ¶¶ 37–47.) Once more, it is alleged that Defendant “intentionally increase[ed]” the risk of harm to festival patrons. (FAC ¶ 57.) These allegations could, if believed, support a finding of malice or oppression.The FAC does not allege that Defendant’s company had a policy of free access to the medical tent without repercussions. This “repercussions” language is alleged with respect to the advertisements and promotions published for the festival. (FAC ¶ 17.) The only policy alleged in the FAC is that which the company is alleged to have trained upon its staff: “keep people out of the medical tent.” (FAC ¶¶ 23a, 67d.) This fact is alleged in addition to other facts related to the festival’s maladministration, such as the understaffing and undertraining of festival personnel, and the geographically remote location of the medical tent in relation to the festival campgrounds. (FAC ¶¶ 22, 28–29.) Once more, it is alleged that Defendant was in control of “virtually all aspects of the organization, planning, staffing, and oversight of the subject matter event.” (FAC ¶ 14.) These allegations support the availability of punitive damages.The motion is therefore DENIED.