 Case Number:  23PSCV03574    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Jesse  Hirezi, et al. v. Hannah Bishara Hirezi, et al.  Defendants’  Demurrer to Verified Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Fourth and Ninth Causes of  Action with leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to all other  causes of action. Plaintiffs must file and serve the amended complaint within  20 days of the Court’s order.  The Court DENIES the motion to strike in its entirety.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a family business dispute. On November 15, 2023, plaintiffs  Jesse Hirezi (Jesse), an individual and as Trustee of the J & R Hirezi  Family Trust of April 20, 2015, Randa Hirezi (Randa), an individual and as  Trustee of the J & R Hirezi Family Trust of April 20, 2015 (collectively, Plaintiffs)  filed this action against defendants Hanna Bishara Hirezi a/k/a Hanna Hirezi  a/k/ John Hirezi (John), Mona Qumsieh Hirezi a/k/a Mona Hirezi a/k/a Mona J.  Herzi, Bethlehem Star, Inc. (Bethlehem), Golden Springs, LLC, Arrow Beverage,  Inc. (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of  action for breach of partnership agreement, breach of fiduciary duty,  dissolution of partnership/corporation, conversion, accounting, quasi contract  and constructive trust, money had and received, declaratory relief, and  partition.  On March 11, 2024, Defendants demurred to and moved to strike  portions of the complaint. On April 5, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer  and motion to strike. On April 10, 2024, Defendants replied to the opposition  to the demurrer. Defendants did not reply to the opposition to the motion to  strike.  LEGAL STANDARD – Demurrer              A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency  of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form  or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., §  422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of  the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in  the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge  defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters  outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at  p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered. (Ion  Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to  consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. &  Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other  grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d  287 [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].)  A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of  the complaint” itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar  recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94  Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of the complaint” includes material  contained in attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in  the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see  also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505  [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the  exhibits and treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal  effect of the exhibits.”])  A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an  entire cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  DISCUSSION – Demurrer  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Defendants were required to meet and confer with Plaintiffs telephonically or  in person before filing the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  The Court finds Defendants’ meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Rossi Decl., ¶  2.)  First Cause of Action – Breach of Partnership Agreement  “A cause  of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a contract, plaintiff's  performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's breach and damage to  plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written contract may be pleaded  either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract  attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by reference—or by its legal  effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142  Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.)  Defendants demur to the First Cause of Action for  breach of partnership agreement on the grounds that the complaint fails to  allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and on grounds of  uncertainty. Defendants contend this cause of action fails because the contract  attached to the complaint is not supported by consideration or signed by the  parties. Defendants also contend it is barred by the statute of limitations,  fails to satisfy the statute of frauds, and by Corporation Code section 800 regarding  derivative actions.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend the complaint  alleges sufficient facts regarding consideration for their breach of contract  claim. They reference paragraph 11 of the complaint, which alleges Jesse and  John each receiving a 50% share in Bethlehem from their mother, and that the  terms of the contract attached to the complaint confirm a prior oral agreement  between them regarding their respective shares in Bethlehem. Plaintiffs further  argue that this cause of action is not barred by the statute of limitations or  statute of frauds. They also argue that this is a direct action, not a  derivative action, and that even if it was a derivative action, the complaint  alleges facts to satisfy those requirements.  The Court agrees with Plaintiffs. For  purposes of the demurrer, the allegations of the complaint are taken as true.  The complaint alleges that in or about 2015, Jesse and John entered into an  oral partnership agreement and that the terms are as set forth in the  shareholders agreement attached as Exhibit 1 thereto. (Compl., ¶ 14, Ex. 1.)  Thus, Plaintiffs allege the existence of an oral agreement. The fact that the  Shareholder Agreement is not signed or does not state the consideration is  immaterial because the breach of contract claim is not based on the Shareholder  Agreement, but rather the oral partnership agreement.  As for the other grounds for demurrer, the Court finds  them unavailing. The complaint does not allege sufficient facts on its face for  the Court to determine whether the statute of limitations bars this cause of  action. (Union  Carbide Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (Villmar Dental Labs, Inc.) (1984) 36  Cal.3d 15, 25.) The complaint alleges breaches of the partnership agreement in  May 2022 and within the last year. (Compl., ¶¶ 18-20.) There are also no  allegations that indicate this contract comes within the statute of frauds.  (See Civ. Code, § 1624.) Nowhere in the complaint are there any allegations  that indicate the alleged agreement had to take over one year to perform. (See Id.,  § 1624, subd. (1).) The Court also finds that Plaintiffs’ allegations are  rooted in a direct action, as the alleged injury is Plaintiffs’ deprivation of  Bethlehem’s profits, not to the corporation itself. (See Jones v. H.F.  Ahmanson & Co. (1969) 1 Cal.3d 93, 107.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  First Cause of Action.  Second Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary Duty  To state a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the existence of a fiduciary  relationship, the breach of that duty, and damages. (O’Neal v. Stanislaus  County Employees’ Retirement Assn. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1184, 1215.)  Defendants demur to the Second Cause of Action for breach of  fiduciary duty on the grounds that the complaint fails to allege facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and on grounds of uncertainty. More  specifically, Defendants contend the absence of the alleged contract as  discussed above undermines the existence of a fiduciary duty. Defendants also  contend this cause of action is premature because partners cannot sue each  other before dissolution of the partnership.  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend Defendants cite no legal  authorities for their argument that the absence of a contract negates the  existence of a fiduciary duty, and that such allegations involve questions of  fact not appropriate for demurrer. Plaintiffs contend again that this claim is  not derivative. Plaintiffs also contend the arguments that this claim is  premature is contradicted by the law which specifically permits partners to  maintain actions against other partners.  The Court finds the complaint sufficiently alleges the oral  partnership agreement and therefore a fiduciary duty exists between the  partners. (See Corp. Code, § 16404.) As for the premature claim argument, the  Court agrees with Plaintiffs that it is unpersuasive. The law specifically  provides for partners to make direct claims against each other without an  accounting to enforce their rights. (Corp. Code, § 15910.01.) Plaintiffs also  correctly note that the case Defendants cited in their moving papers for this  argument, Malott v. Seymour (1950) 101 Cal.App.2d 245, expressly  acknowledges that the rule limiting claims between partners is subject to  statute. (Id., at p. 246.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the  Second Cause of Action.  Third Cause of Action – Dissolution of Partnership/Corporation  Under  Corporations Code section 16801, a partner may dissolve a partnership under  certain circumstances, such as death of a partner, the express will of the  partners, the expiration of the term or completion of the undertaking. (Corp.  Code, § 16801.)  Defendants  demur to the Third Cause of Action for dissolution of the  corporation/partnership on the grounds that the complaint fails to allege facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and on grounds of uncertainty.  Defendants’ arguments here are the same as set forth above under the Second  Cause of Action, as are Plaintiffs’ opposing arguments.  For the same  reasons set forth above, the Court finds this cause of action sufficiently  states a claim for dissolution of partnership.  Based on the  foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action.  Fourth Cause  of Action – Conversion  To state a  cause of action for conversion, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the  plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property, the  defendant acted inconsistent with that right, and damages. (Regent Alliance  Ltd. v. Rabizadeh (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1181.) Money may not be the  subject of a conversion claim unless a specific identifiable sum is involved. (Haigler  v. Donnelly (1941) 18 Cal.2d 674, 681.) Moreover, “a mere contractual right  of payment, without more, will not suffice” to support a claim for conversion. (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445,  452.)  Defendants  demur to the Fourth Cause of Action for conversion on the grounds that the  complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and  on grounds of uncertainty. Defendants contend it fails in part for the reasons  set forth above with respect to the absence of a contract, and on the basis  that the complaint does not allege a specific identifiable sum. In opposition,  Plaintiffs contend the specific pleading requirement is relaxed when the  Defendant possesses full information concerning the matter.  The Court  agrees with Defendants. The complaint does not allege a specific identifiable  sum. (Compl., ¶ 48.) Even with an incorporation by reference, the complaint  still only alleges a general ballpark sum of $700,000. (Compl., ¶¶ 25, 44.)  Plaintiffs’ arguments regarding relaxed pleading standards is inapplicable  here. The case Plaintiffs cited for this argument, Tarmann v. State Farm  Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157-158, addresses the  heightened pleading requirements for a fraud claim, not a conversion claim. As  for the other issues regarding the lack of a contract and a premature claim  between partners, the Court finds those arguments unavailing for the same  reasons set forth above.  Based on the  foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action with  leave to amend.  Fifth Cause  of Action – Accounting  To state a  cause of action for an accounting, the plaintiff must allege facts  demonstrating that a relationship exists between the plaintiff and the  defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance is due that can  only be ascertained by an accounting. (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173  Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)  Defendants  demur to the Fifth Cause of Action for accounting on the grounds that the  complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and  on grounds of uncertainty. Defendants make the same arguments as set forth  above with respect to the Second Cause of Action. Defendants also contend this  cause of action is derivative of the breach of contract claim.  In  opposition, Plaintiffs contend the complaint alleges facts demonstrating a  partnership relationship and that they agreed to distribute the profits  according to their respective shares.  The Court  finds the complaint alleges sufficient facts to state a cause of action for an  accounting. The complaint alleges a partnership relationship between John and  Jesse. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-12, 14, Ex. 1.) It also alleges that Plaintiffs are owed  some money as a result of that relationship. (Id., ¶ 25.) The Court  finds Defendants’ repeated arguments regarding the absence of a contract and  premature claims against partners unavailing for the same reasons set forth  above.  Based on the  foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action.  Sixth Cause  of Action – Quasi-Contract/Constructive Trust  “A cause of  action for quasi-contract invokes consideration of equitable principles, rather  than of contract. … [It] is an obligation … created by the law without regard  to the intention of the parties, and is designed to restore the aggrieved party  to [its] former position by return of the thing or its equivalent in money.  [Citations.] (Unilab Corp. v. Angeles-IPA (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622,  639 [198 Cal. Rptr. 3d 211]; see 1 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (11th ed. 2017)  Contracts, § 1050, p. 1097; Rest.2d Contracts, § 4, com. b, p. 56.) The  doctrine focuses on equitable principles; its key phrase is ‘unjust enrichment,’  which is used to identify the transfer of money or other valuable assets to an  individual or a company that is not entitled to them. (Rest.3d Restitution and  Unjust Enrichment, Foreword, vol. 1, p. XIII.)” (Welborne v. Ryman-Carroll  Foundation (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 719, 725 [internal quotations omitted].) Constructive  trust is an equitable remedy that compels someone wrongfully holding property  to hand it over to the rightful owner. (Campbell v. Superior Court (2005)  132 Cal.App.4th 904, 920.)  Defendants  demur to the Sixth Cause of Action for quasi-contract/constructive trust on the  grounds that the complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a  cause of action and on grounds of uncertainty. Defendants’ arguments here are  the same as those set forth above under the Second Cause of Action. Plaintiffs’  arguments are the same.  For the same  reasons set forth above, the Court finds these arguments unpersuasive. The  Court further finds that the complaint sufficiently alleges that Defendants transferred  money or property that does not belong to them. (Compl., ¶¶ 54-56.)  Based on the foregoing,  the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action.              Seventh Cause  of Action – Money Had and Received              To  plead a cause of action for money had and received, the plaintiff must allege  facts demonstrating the defendant received money intended for the benefit of  the plaintiff, that money was not used for the benefit of the plaintiff, and  the defendant has not given money to the plaintiff. (CACI 370; see Philpott  v. Superior Court in and for Los Angeles County (1934) 1 Cal.2d 512,  521-523.)  Defendants  demur to the Seventh Cause of Action for money had and received on the grounds  that the complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of  action and on grounds of uncertainty. Defendants’ arguments here are the same  as those set forth above under the Second Cause of Action. Defendants also  argue that it is subject to demurrer because it is based on the same facts as  Plaintiffs’ First Cause of Action for breach of contract. In opposition,  Plaintiffs contend they can plead in the alternative.  The Court  agrees with Plaintiffs. Where, as here, Plaintiffs allege defendants concealed  and misappropriated monies they agreed to be used for the benefit of Plaintiffs,  Plaintiffs may maintain a cause of action for money had and received. (See  Gutierrez v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 937.) Furthermore, a common  count for money had and received, may be alleged in the alternative to a breach  of contract cause of action “When a common  count is used as an alternative way of seeking the same recovery demanded in a  specific cause of action, and is based on the same facts, the common count is  demurrable if the cause of action is demurrable.” McBride v. Boughton  (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 394; see also Zumbrun v. Univ. of S. Cal.  (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1,14. Plaintiffs common counts claim is based on the same  underlying facts as the breach of contract cause of action, which the Court has  found sufficient to withstand demurrer.  Accordingly,  the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of Action.  Eighth Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief  To state a cause of action for declaratory  relief, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating a proper subject of  declaratory relief and an actual controversy concerning justiciable rights  between the parties. (Lee v. Silveira (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 527, 546.) A  general demurrer “is usually not an appropriate  method for testing the merits of a declaratory relief action, because the  plaintiff is entitled to a declaration of rights even if it is adverse to the  plaintiff's interest. [Citation.]” (Qualified Patients Assn. v.  City of Anaheim (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 734, 751.) But, a general  demurrer may be appropriate where it is clear from the face of the complaint  that the plaintiff seeks a declaration of rights to which he or she is not  legally entitled. (Nede Mgmt. Inc. v. Aspen Am. Ins. Co. (2021) 68  Cal.App.5th 1121, 1130-1131.)  Defendants demur to the Eighth Cause of  Action for declaratory relief on the grounds that the complaint fails to allege  facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and on grounds of uncertainty.  Defendants’ arguments here are the same as those set forth above with respect  to the Second Cause of Action. Defendants also argue that the Eighth Cause of  Action is derivative of the First Cause of Action for breach of contract. In  opposition, Plaintiffs contend the complaint alleges facts demonstrating an actual  controversy as to the Plaintiffs’ rights regarding the partnership, and profits  and income.  The Court finds Plaintiffs have alleged  sufficient facts to state a cause of action for declaratory relief. The  complaint alleges facts demonstrating a dispute regarding the disposition of  certain proceeds arising out of Bethlehem’s business operations, of which John  and Jesse are allegedly 50% owners. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-12, 14, Ex. 1.) These  allegations are sufficient to demonstrate a controversy that concerns  justiciable rights between the parties. (See Lee, supra, 6 Cal.App.5th  at p. 546.) The Court finds Defendants’ other arguments regarding premature  claims and lack of a contract to be unavailing for the same reasons set forth  above.  Based on the foregoing, the Court  OVERRULES the demurrer to the Eighth Cause of Action.  Ninth Cause of Action –  Partition  To plead a cause of action for partition, the  plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “(a) A description of the property  that is the subject of the action… In the case of real property, the  description shall include both its legal description and its street address or  common designation, if any. (b) All interests the plaintiff has or claims in  the property. (c) All interests of record or actually known to the plaintiff  that persons other than the plaintiff have or claim in the property and that  the plaintiff reasonably believes will be materially affected by the action,  whether the names of such persons are known or unknown to the plaintiff. (d)  The estate as to which partition is sought and a prayer for partition of the  interests therein. (e) Where the plaintiff seeks sale of the property, an  allegation of the facts justifying such relief in ordinary and concise  language.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 872.230.)  Defendants demur to the Ninth Cause of  Action for partition on the grounds that the complaint fails to allege facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action and on grounds of uncertainty.  Defendants restate here their arguments from the Second Cause of Action set  forth above. Defendants otherwise contend the complaint fails to allege the  legal description of the property at issue. Plaintiffs do not dispute this in  their opposition, and seek leave to amend to correct it.  The Court agrees with Defendants. The  complaint does not allege the legal description for the subject property for  the partition claim. (See generally Compl.) Plaintiffs also concede this point.  Based on the foregoing, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Entire Complaint  Defendants also contend in their  memorandum of points and authorities that the entire complaint is subject to  demurrer because it alleges no facts. (Memorandum of Points and Authorities,  12:9-20.) The Court disagrees, as evidenced by the Court overruling the  demurrer to most of the causes of action alleged in the complaint.  Additionally, Defendants’ demurrer does not indicate that it demurs to the  entire complaint. (See Demurrer, pp. 2-3.) All grounds for demurrer must be set  forth in the demurrer and must be directed either to a cause of action or the  entire complaint. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a); Code Civ.  Proc., § 430.50, subd. (a).)  Accordingly, the Court OVERRULES the  demurrer to the entire complaint.  LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike              “Any  party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a  notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation  shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to  Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike out any  irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any  part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of  this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.)  DISCUSSION – Motion to Strike  Meet and Confer  Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a),  Defendants were required to meet and confer with Plaintiffs telephonically or  in person before filing the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  The Court finds Defendants’ meet-and-confer efforts sufficient. (Rossi Decl., ¶  2.)              Analysis              Defendants seek  to strike the punitive damage allegations sought with respect to Plaintiffs’  Second Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Compl., ¶ 38) and the  respective prayer for relief (at Prayer, ¶ 5), as well as the prayer for  punitive damages on the Fourth Cause of Action (at Prayer, ¶ 3.). The complaint  alleges that Defendants made false representations, misappropriated profits, and  made fraudulent transfers. (Compl. ¶ 29.) These allegations are sufficient to  support punitive damages. Thus, the Court denies the motion to strike paragraph 38 and page 14, line 18 of the prayer for relief.  Further, punitive damages may be recovered in an  action for conversion. (Krusi v. Bear, Stearns & Co. (1983) 144  Cal.App.3d 664, 678.) However, since the Court sustained the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for Conversion with leave to amend, the motion to strike page 15, line 3 of the prayer for relief is denied as moot.             Accordingly, the  Court DENIES the motion to strike in its entirety.  CONCLUSION  The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Fourth and Ninth Causes of  Action with leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to all other  causes of action. Plaintiffs must file and serve the amended complaint within  20 days of the Court’s order. The Court DENIES the motion to strike in its entirety.               Defendants are ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.