  Case Number:  21STCV32844    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Jennifer  Alcox v. Emanate Health Medical Center dba Queen of the Valley Hospital, et al.  Defendant  Augen Batou, D.O.’s Motion for Summary Judgment  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Dr. Batou’s motion for summary judgment. Dr.  Batou must submit a proposed judgment for the Court’s review and signature.               Dr. Batou is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a medical malpractice action. On September 7, 2021, plaintiff  Jennifer Alcox, individually and as successor in interest to decedent Yvonne  Alcox (Plaintiff), filed this action. On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed  the operative Second Amended Complaint against defendants Emanate Health  Medical Center dba Queen of the Valley Hospital (Queen of the Valley), Augen  Batou, D.O. (Dr. Batou), Adel Sandouk, M.D. (Dr. Sandouk), and Does 1 through  100, alleging causes of action for dependent adult abuse and neglect (against Queen  of the Valley only), negligence based upon medical malpractice, and wrongful  death.  On January 31, 2024, Dr. Batou moved for summary judgment.  Plaintiff did not oppose the motion.  LEGAL  STANDARD  The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On  a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party  to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material  fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,  1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met  his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party  has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not  separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense  to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of  action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a  defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUE              The Court notes that Dr. Batou’s  separate statement contains 82 proffered statements of undisputed material  fact. While the Court  appreciates the complexity of the practice of medicine, the Court finds this does not comply  with Rule 3.1350, subdivision (d)(2), of the California Rules of Court, which provides  that, “[t]he separate statement  should include only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to  the disposition of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350, subd.  (d)(2).) The Court will still consider the motion for summary judgment, but  admonishes Dr. Batou to comply with the requirements of the California Rules of  Court going forward.  DISCUSSION  Summary of Relevant Material Facts  Decedent Yvonne Alcox (Decedent), who had a history of respiratory  problems, was admitted to Queen of the Valley’s emergency department on June 9,  2020, complaining of shortness of breath. (UMF 16.) Decedent had refused an  oral intubation, and was placed on BiPAP. (UMF 25.) During this stay, Decedent  continued manifesting respiratory problems, but she was alert and responsive  while also agitated towards hospital staff, and she removed breathing equipment  (BiPAP) on her own on multiple occasions. (UMF 17-67.) On June 10, 2020, at  8:58 p.m., a nurse went into Decedent’s room to administer medication and found  Decedent’s BiPAP and BiPAP mask on the floor, while Decedent was unresponsive  and without a pulse. (UMF 68.) CPR was administered, which successfully  resuscitated Decedent, but Decedent suffered a brain injury and was later  transferred to Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park, where she remained until July 23,  2020. (UMF 69-73.) Decedent was transferred to Inland Valley Care and Rehab  Center on July 23, 2020, where her admission report noted pressure sores on  certain parts of her body, along with other health problems, and she remained  there until August 4, 2020. (UMF 74.) On August 4, 2020, Decedent was admitted  to Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center, where she remained until her death on  September 11, 2020, which was reportedly caused by acute respiratory failure,  sepsis, and cerebrovascular accident. (UMF 75.)  Dr. Batou was Decedent’s attending physician for part of her stay  with Queen of the Valley, which entailed prescribing medications, a referral to  a pulmonologist, and ordering soft restraints at one point. (UMF 39-40, 45, 49,  55, 57-59.) Batou’s expert, Dr. Michael J. Eilbert, M.D., opines that Dr. Batou  complied with the applicable standard of care in treating Decedent. (UMF  76-79.) Dr. Eilbert also opines that no allegedly negligent act or omission of  Dr. Batou caused injury or contributed to Decedent’s death. (UMF 80-82.)  Analysis  “The elements of Plaintiff's medical negligence cause of action  allege ‘(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and  diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)  a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent  conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from  the professional's negligence.’ [Citation.]” (Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg  (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 234, 238 fn. 3.) “As in medical malpractice cases,  standards of due care and competence are commonly established by the generally  accepted practices and procedures within the professional community.  [Citations.]” (Milligan v. Hearing Aid Dispensers Examining Com. (1983)  142 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1006.)  Dr. Batou contends that the expert testimony from Dr. Eilbert  establishes that there are no triable issues of material fact, as Dr. Batou  complied with the standard of care and did not cause or contribute to  Decedent’s injuries. The Court agrees.  “Expert evidence in a malpractice suit is conclusive as to the  proof of the prevailing standard of skill and learning in the locality and of  the propriety of particular conduct by the practitioner in particular instances  because such standard and skill is not a matter of general knowledge and can  only be supplied by expert testimony.” (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981)  121 Cal.App.3d 406, 412, quoting Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d  988, 999.) Dr. Eilbert’s expert testimony clearly provides that Dr. Batou did  not breach the applicable standard of care within the relevant professional  community, and that Dr. Batou did not cause or contribute to Decedent’s  injuries. (See Eilbert Decl., ¶¶ 9-14.) Dr. Eilbert opines that the use of  BiPAP was appropriate given Decedent’s history of respiratory problems and refusal  of intubation. (Id., ¶ 10.) The decision to intubate and treat  with BiPAP was also the responsibility of the pulmonologist, not the hospitalist,  i.e., Dr. Batou. (Id.) The evidence shows that Decedent was alert  and responsive during treatment she received before the emergency at 9:00 p.m.  on June 10, 2020. (Id.)  Dr. Eilbert further opines that the  standard of care did not require Dr. Batou to contact Plaintiff because  Decedent was competent to make decisions and think clearly. (Eilbert Decl., ¶  11.) Dr. Eilbert opines that the standard of care also did not require that a  sitter be ordered, as Decedent was not a suicide risk or demented. (Id., ¶ 12.) Dr. Eilbert also opines that Decedent’s  respiratory arrest and subsequent death likely resulted from her underlying  respiratory issues and her own removal of the BiPAP mask. (Id., ¶ 13.)  The Court finds Dr. Batou has established the absence of a triable  issue of material fact. The burden of proof now shifts to Plaintiff to  establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff did not oppose Dr. Batou’s motion for summary judgment. Accordingly,  Plaintiff failed to establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact  as to Dr. Batou. Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Dr. Batou’s motion for  summary judgment finding that there is no triable issues of material fact and  that Dr. Batou is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Dr. Batou’s motion for summary judgment. Dr.  Batou must submit a proposed judgment for the Court’s review and signature.               Dr. Batou is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s respective rulings within five calendar days of this order.   CASE  NAME:  Jennifer  Alcox v. Emanate Health Medical Center dba Queen of the Valley Hospital, et al.  Defendant  Adel G. Sandouk, M.D.’s Motion for Summary Judgment  TENTATIVE  RULING  The Court GRANTS Dr. Sandouk’s motion for summary judgment. Dr.  Sandouk must submit a proposed judgment for the Court’s review and signature.               Dr. Sandouk is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND  This is a medical malpractice action. On September 7, 2021,  plaintiff Jennifer Alcox, individually and as successor in interest to decedent  Yvonne Alcox (Plaintiff), filed this action. On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff  filed the operative Second Amended Complaint against defendants Emanate Health  Medical Center dba Queen of the Valley Hospital (Queen of the Valley), Augen  Batou, D.O. (Dr. Batou), Adel Sandouk, M.D. (Dr. Sandouk), and Does 1 through  100, alleging causes of action for dependent adult abuse and neglect (against  Queen of the Valley only), negligence based upon medical malpractice, and  wrongful death.  On January 31, 2024, Dr. Sandouk moved for summary judgment.  Plaintiff did not oppose the motion.  LEGAL  STANDARD  The  purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide  courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to  determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to  resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25  Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires  the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and  ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by  other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any  material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of  law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119,  italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “The  function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the  scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to  disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited  by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th  59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d  367, 381-382.)  “On  a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party  to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material  fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,  1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met  his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party  has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not  separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense  to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Once  the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff “to show  that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of  action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) To establish a triable issue of  material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the  allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of  material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing  that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a  defense thereto.” (Id.; see also Sangster  v. Paetkau (1998) 68  Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)  Courts  “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary  judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  PRELIMINARY  ISSUES              The Court notes that Dr. Sandouk’s  separate statement contains 83 proffered statements of undisputed material  fact. While the Court  appreciates the complexity of the practice of medicine, the Court finds this does not  comply with Rule 3.1350, subdivision (d)(2), of the California Rules of Court,  which provides that, “[t]he separate  statement should include only material facts and not any facts that are not  pertinent to the disposition of the motion.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350,  subd. (d)(2).) The Court will still consider the motion for summary judgment,  but admonishes Dr. Sandouk to comply with the requirements of the California  Rules of Court going forward.  DISCUSSION  Summary of Relevant Material Facts  Decedent Yvonne Alcox (Decedent), who had a history of respiratory  problems, was admitted to Queen of the Valley’s emergency department on June 9,  2020, complaining of shortness of breath. (UMF 16.) Decedent had refused an  oral intubation, and was placed on BiPAP. (UMF 25.) During this stay, Decedent  continued manifesting respiratory problems, but she was alert and responsive  while also agitated towards hospital staff, and she removed breathing equipment  (BiPAP) on her own on multiple occasions. (UMF 17-67.) On June 10, 2020, at  8:58 p.m., a nurse went into Decedent’s room to administer medication and found  Decedent’s BiPAP and BiPAP mask on the floor, while Decedent was unresponsive  and without a pulse. (UMF 68.) CPR was administered, which successfully  resuscitated Decedent, but Decedent suffered a brain injury and was later  transferred to Kindred Hospital Baldwin Park, where she remained until July 23,  2020. (UMF 69-73.) Decedent was transferred to Inland Valley Care and Rehab  Center on July 23, 2020, where her admission report noted pressure sores on  certain parts of her body, along with other health problems, and she remained  there until August 4, 2020. (UMF 74.) On August 4, 2020, Decedent was admitted  to Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center, where she remained until her death on  September 11, 2020, which was reportedly caused by acute respiratory failure,  sepsis, and cerebrovascular accident. (UMF 75.)  Dr. Sandouk is a pulmonologist whom Dr. Batou requested to assist Plaintiff  during part of her stay with Queen of the Valley. (UMF 53, 60-61.) Dr. Sandouk’s  expert, Dr. Andrew S. Wachtel, M.D., opines that Dr. Sandouk complied with the  applicable standard of care in treating Decedent. (UMF 76-80.) Dr. Wachtel also  opines that no allegedly negligent act or omission of Dr. Sandouk caused injury  or contributed to Decedent’s death. (UMF 81-83.)  Analysis  “The elements of Plaintiff's medical negligence cause of action  allege ‘(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and  diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)  a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent  conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from  the professional's negligence.’ [Citation.]” (Belfiore-Braman v. Rotenberg  (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 234, 238 fn. 3.) “As in medical malpractice cases,  standards of due care and competence are commonly established by the generally  accepted practices and procedures within the professional community.  [Citations.]” (Milligan v. Hearing Aid Dispensers Examining Com. (1983)  142 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1006.)  Dr. Sandouk contends that the expert testimony from Dr. Wachtel establishes  that there are no triable issues of material fact, as Dr. Sandouk complied with  the standard of care and did not cause or contribute to Decedent’s injuries.  The Court agrees.  “Expert evidence in a malpractice suit is conclusive as to the  proof of the prevailing standard of skill and learning in the locality and of  the propriety of particular conduct by the practitioner in particular instances  because such standard and skill is not a matter of general knowledge and can  only be supplied by expert testimony.” (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981)  121 Cal.App.3d 406, 412, quoting Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d  988, 999.) Dr. Wachtel’s expert testimony clearly provides that Dr. Sandouk did  not breach the applicable standard of care within the relevant professional  community, and that Dr. Sandouk did not cause or contribute to Decedent’s  injuries. (See Wachtel Decl., ¶¶ 9-15.) Dr. Wachtel opines that the use of  BiPAP was appropriate given Decedent’s history of respiratory problems and  refusal of intubation, and opines that Decedent would have died without BiPAP.  (Id., ¶ 10.) Dr. Wachtel also opines that there is no evidence the Decedent  was overly sedated with Ativan while she was using the BiPAP. (Id., ¶ 11.) Dr. Wachtel opines that the record shows the Decedent was  alert and responsive. (Id.)  Dr. Wachtel further opines that the  standard of care did not require Dr. Sandouk to contact Plaintiff because  Decedent was competent to make decisions and think clearly. (Wachtel Decl., ¶ 12.)  The standard of care also did not require that a sitter be ordered. (Id., ¶ 13.) Dr. Wachtel also opines that  Decedent’s respiratory arrest and subsequent death were caused by a lack of  oxygen, which was caused by Decedent removing her BiPAP mask. (Id., ¶ 14.) Dr. Wachtel opines that  nothing Dr. Sandouk did caused or contributed to Decedent’s death.  The Court finds Dr. Sandouk has established the absence of a  triable issue of material fact. The burden of proof now shifts to Plaintiff to  establish the existence of a triable issue of material fact. Plaintiff did not oppose Dr. Sandouk’s motion for summary  judgment. Accordingly, Plaintiff failed to establish the existence of a triable  issue of material fact as to Dr. Sandouk. Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Dr. Sandouk’s motion for  summary judgment finding that there is no triable issues of material fact and  that Dr. Sandouk is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Dr. Sandouk’s motion for summary judgment. Dr. Sandouk  must submit a proposed judgment for the Court’s review and signature.               Dr. Sandouk is ordered to give  notice of the Court’s respective rulings within five calendar days of this  order.