 Case Number:  22STCV28758    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue filed by Defendants CJ Logistics
America, LLC, and Won Keun Park.
 
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED in part.
Background
On September 2, 2022, Plaintiff James
Shaff, filed a complaint against Defendants CJ Logistics USA Corporation, Won Keun
Park (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 to 10, alleging two causes of
action for: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence and (2) General Negligence. 
 
On December 15, 2023, Defendants
filed this motion to continue trial. No opposition has been filed. 
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party because of
death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition of a new party if: (A) The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new party's
involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
 
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets
forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether
good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such
as:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative means to
address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a preferential
trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a
continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant
to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
 
Discussion
Defendants contend good cause exist as per Rule 3.1332(c)(6) of the
California Rules of Court in that they have had difficulty obtaining material
evidence despite diligent efforts. (Motion, 3:27-28.) Defendants contend that
they served on Plaintiff written discovery, which no responses have been
received. (Lorasbi Decl., ¶ 4, 8.)
Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that he would be unfairly
prejudiced by the continuance or otherwise opposed the motion to continue.
The Court finds Defendants have shown good cause for a continuance due
to the lack of responses to discovery.
Defendants request that trial be continued for approximately six
months.  Upon review of the motion and
the Court file, the Court finds that Defendant has shown good cause for a
continuance of approximately four months.
Therefore, Defendants’ Motion to Continue is GRANTED in part.
Conclusion
The Motion to
Continue is GRANTED in part. 
The trial date
is advanced and continued for approximately four months.  Final Status Conference and all deadlines are
reset based on the new trial date.
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 
 