 Case Number:  23STCV01333    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint filed by Plaintiffs
Cassandra Catapia and Sergio Velasquez.
 
Tentative
The motion is GRANTED
Background
This matter arises out of an alleged
shooting in a bar in the early morning of August 28, 2022.  
On January 23, 2023, Plaintiffs Cassandra
Catapia and Sergio Velasquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint in this action
against Defendants 2471 Whittier, LLC; Ron Cholo Enterprise LLC; LA Pobrecita
Inc; David Kiralla; Alen Aivazian; Ryan Sweeney; and Does 1 through 30.  In the Complaint, Plaintiffs assert three
causes of action: (1) Negligence, (2) Premises Liability, and (3)
Negligent Hiring, Training, Retention and Supervision. 
On May 4, 2023, Defendants 2471
Whittier, LLC; Ron Cholo Enterprise LLC; David Kiralla; Alen Aivazian; and Ryan
Sweeney (“Defendants”) filed their Answer to the Complaint.  
On the same day, Plaintiffs and
Defendants filed a joint stipulation (without a proposed order) to strike the
punitive damages request in the Prayer for Relief, as well as allegations in
support of the punitive damages claim in paragraphs 53 and 59 of the Complaint.
On May 9, 2023, Defendants filed a
Cross-Complaint against David Erasmo Roman and Roes 1 through 30.
On May 18, 2023, the Court, at the
request of Plaintiffs, dismissed all claims in the Complaint against Defendant
La Pobrecita Inc., without prejudice.
On October 12, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
this motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint to reinstate their
punitive damages claim and to add additional allegations in support of that
claim. Defendants filed their opposition on December 11, and Plaintiffs filed
their reply on December 18.
On December 22, 2023, the Court, on
its own motion, continued the hearing to January 18, 2024.
Legal Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), provides, in relevant
part:  “The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include
a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially
numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state
what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any,
and where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
Rule
3.1324(b) further provides that a separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.  
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
Discussion
Plaintiff
seeks leave to amend their complaint to add punitive damages and allege facts
to support a claim for punitive damages. (Motion, 2:8-11.) Defendants contend
that the proposed amendment is barred by the stipulation the parties signed striking
the punitive damages claims against Defendants. (Opposition, 2-3:27-28, 1.)
The
stipulation is a contract subject to the ordinary rules of contract
interpretation.  Here, the stipulation is
silent on the issue of whether the striking of the punitive damages allegations
was with or without prejudice. 
Accordingly, the Court finds that the stipulation is ambiguous on this
point.  It is reasonably susceptible to both
possible interpretations – that it was with prejudice or without prejudice.
The
additional evidence submitted by Plaintiffs supports their argument that the parties
contemplated that the striking of the punitive damages allegations was without
prejudice.  As Plaintiffs’ counsel stated
in an email dated April 12, 2023, “if discoverable evidence provides a
sufficient basis to later plead punitive damages, then we shall amend our
complaint accordingly.”  (Cohen Decl.,
Exh. C.)  Indeed, when Plaintiff’s
counsel sought a stipulation for the amendment in October, the first response
of Defendants’ counsel was “What has changed?” 
(Cohen Decl., Exh. E.)  This
provides further support for the conclusion that Defendants’ counsel understood
that if there was a sufficient change of circumstances, Plaintiffs could
reinstate their punitive damages claims. 
The
Court further finds that allowing the amendment will not cause any unfair
prejudice to Defendants.  The period
between the filing of the stipulation and the motion for leave to amend was less
than five months, and although Defendants did propound discovery during that
time, there remains sufficient time for Defendants to conduct further discovery
into the punitive damages claims. 
Moreover, if Defendants need additional time, they may seek a
continuance of the trial and the discovery deadlines (either by stipulation or,
if there is no agreement, by motion).
Finally,
the Court declines to rule on the merits of the proposed amendment in this
procedural posture.  (See California
Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281,
overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines Ins.
Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)  The Court’s
ruling on the motion for leave to amend is without prejudice as to any challenge
to the punitive damages claims (whether by motion to strike or otherwise) that
Defendants may pursue.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. 
Conclusion
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiffs leave to file the proposed First Amended Complaint
attached to their moving papers within 10 days of notice of this ruling. 
Moving
Party is to give notice.