  Case Number:  22STCV013162    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR
COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                 Wednesday,
July 31, 2024
Department M                                                                                                       Calendar No. 15
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ellen Vees v. Flood Air, Inc., et al.
            22STCV013162
1.      Flood
Air, Inc., et al.’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication of Issues 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 Flood Air, Inc. and Eugene Flood’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues is denied.

 
Background
 
Plaintiff
Ellen Vees filed the Complaint on April 25, 2022.  This action arises from a multiple vehicle
motor vehicle accident that occurred on August 22, 2020, near the intersection
of Del Amo Boulevard and Van Ness Avenue in Torrance, California.  Defendants Flood Air Inc. and Eugene Flood
allegedly owned the defendant’s vehicle.  The vehicle was being operated by Horacio
Espino.  Numerous complaints and
cross-complaints were filed related to this incident and the actions were
consolidated.
 
Motion for Summary
Judgment and/or Adjudication

The
purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On
a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  CCP §
437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). 
“If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be
granted.”  Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App.
4th 463, 467.
 
“A
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there
is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the
cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once
the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When
deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has
sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn
from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary
judgment.”  (Avivi, 159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendants
move for summary judgment as against Plaintiffs Ellen Vees, Rudolfo Barba, Jr.,
Matthew Bourque, Jennifer Kull, Andrew Kull, Jacqueline Duarte, Magdalena
Duarte, Nixxon Gallardo, and Jaxxon Gallardo.  Alternatively, Defendants move for summary
adjudication of Issues 1 to 4 as to the first through fourth causes of action
for 1. General Negligence; 2. Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention; 3.
Negligent Entrustment; and 4. Motor Vehicle Negligence. 
 
            First Cause of Action for
Negligence
            Fourth Cause of Action for
Motor Vehicle Negligence
 
As
to the first and fourth causes of action, the elements of a cause of action for
negligence are duty, breach, causation, and damages.  Johnson
v. Prasad (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 74, 78.  “The determination whether a duty exists is an
issue of law.”  Chee v. Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th
1360, 1369. 
 
Defendants
met their initial burden to show that one or more elements of the causes of
action cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to the causes
of action.  However, Plaintiffs have met
their burden to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
the elements of the causes of action.  CCP
§ 437c(p)(2).
 
The
following statutory authority applies to these causes of action: “Every owner
of a motor vehicle is liable and responsible for death or injury to person or
property resulting from a negligent or wrongful act or omission in the
operation of the motor vehicle, in the business of the owner or otherwise, by
any person using or operating the same with the permission, express or implied,
of the owner.”  Veh. Code, § 17150.
 
Defendants
contend that they did not give permission to operate the vehicle to the driver
co-Defendant Horacio Espino.  (Defendant’s
Separate Statement of Facts, 4, 5 (mismarked as duplicate 4), 6, and 7.)  Defendants state that they placed the vehicle
for transmission repair in the care of Sun Automotive.  Defendants state that Sun Automotive then
placed the vehicle into the care of Azbakh Automotive Group, Inc. (“AAG”),
without their knowledge, and the vehicle was eventually driven by Horacio
Espino who was working on the transmission. 
 
However,
Plaintiffs have provided evidence to indicate that Sun Automotive is merely a
dba of Azbakh Automotive Group Inc., and thus by placing the vehicle into the
care of Sun Automotive for transmission repair, Defendants were, in fact,
placing it with Azbakh Automotive Group, Inc.  (Vees Response to Separate Statement 4, 6.) Thereafter, a triable issue of material fact
exists as to whether Defendants gave implied or express permission to drive the
vehicle in the course of the repair process.  “The AAG invoice for when Flood dropped off
the truck states ‘I hereby authorize the above repair work to be done along
with the necessary material and hereby grant you/or your employees permission
to operate the car or truck herein described on streets, highways or elsewhere
for the purpose of testing and/or inspection.’”  (Id. at 6.) 
 
In
the Reply, Defendants argue that Espino was not an employee of Sun/AAG.  However, a triable issue of material fact
exists as to the implied and/or express permission of Sun/AAG to operate the
vehicle.  By dropping off the vehicle and
agreeing to the terms, which included the potential for test driving during or
after the repair work, a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether
Defendant gave permission to Espino who, at a minimum, was authorized by
Sun/AAG to repair and/or test drive the vehicle on behalf of Sun/AAG.
 
The
motion for summary adjudication as to Issue 1 and 4 is denied.
 
Second
Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
Third
Cause of Action for Negligent Entrustment

As
to the second cause of action, the Court recognizes the following authority.
“An employer may be liable to a third person for the employer's negligence in
hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or unfit.  Liability for negligent hiring ... is based
upon the reasoning    that if
an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which might pose a danger
to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear the loss caused by
the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.  Negligence liability will be imposed on an
employer if it knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.  California follows the rule set forth in the
Restatement Second of Agency section 213, which provides in pertinent part: ‘A
person conducting an activity through servants or other agents is subject to
liability for harm resulting from his conduct if he is negligent or reckless:
... [¶] (b) in the employment of improper persons or instrumentalities in work
involving risk of harm to others[.]’ Liability for negligent ... retention of
an employee is one of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.”
 Phillips
v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133. 1139 (internal citations
and quotations omitted). 
 
“One
who employs another to act for him is not liable ... merely because the one
employed is incompetent, vicious, or careless. If liability results it is
because, under the circumstances, the employer has not taken the care which a
prudent man would take in selecting the person for the business in hand.... [¶]
Liability results ... not because of the relation of the parties but because
the  employer antecedently had reason to
believe that an undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment.”  Federico
v. Superior Court (Jenry G.) (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1213-14. 
 
“[A]n
employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising,
or retaining an unfit employee. [Citation.] Liability is based upon the facts
that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes. To establish
negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show that a person in a supervisorial
position over the actor had prior knowledge of the actor's propensity to
do the bad act.” Alexander v. Community Hospital of Long Beach (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 238, 264 (internal citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in
original).
 
“Negligent
entrustment is a common law liability doctrine, which arises in numerous
factual contexts. [Citation.] In cases involving negligent entrustment of a
vehicle, liability ‘“is imposed on [a] vehicle owner or permitter because of
his own independent negligence and not the negligence of the driver.”’
[Citations.] ‘“Liability for the negligence of the incompetent driver to whom
an automobile is entrusted does not arise out of the relationship of the
parties, but from the act of entrustment of the motor vehicle, with permission
to operate the same, to one whose incompetency, inexperience, or recklessness
is known or should have been known by the owner.”’ [Citation]; accord, Rest.2nd
Torts, § 308 [‘It is negligence to permit a third person to use a thing or to
engage in an activity which is under the control of the actor, if the actor
knows or should know that such person intends or is likely to use the thing or
to conduct himself in the activity in such a manner as to create an
unreasonable risk of harm to others’].)” [¶] California case law recognizes the
theory that an employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring,
supervising, or retaining an unfit employee. [Citation.] Liability is based
upon the facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes.” [¶] A claim that an employer was negligent in hiring or
retaining an employee-driver rarely differs in substance from a claim that an
employer was negligent in entrusting a vehicle to the employee. Awareness,
constructive or actual, that a person is unfit or incompetent to drive
underlies a claim that an employer was negligent in hiring or retaining that
person as a driver. (See Judicial Council of Cal., Civ. Jury Instns. (2010)
CACI No. 426.) That same awareness underlies a claim for negligent entrustment.
(See CACI No. 724.) In a typical case ... the two claims are functionally
identical.” McKenna v. Beesley (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 552, 565–567 (internal
citations and quotations omitted).
 
Defendants
have not met their initial burden to show that one or more elements of the
second and third causes of action cannot be established or that there is a
complete defense to the causes of action.  Thus, the burden does not shift to Plaintiffs
to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to the elements of
the causes of action.  CCP § 437c(p)(2).
 
As
to the second and third causes of action, Defendants rely on the same six facts
that were attempted to support summary adjudication of the first and fourth
causes of action.  The material facts
were already noted above in which Defendants attempted to argue that they did
not give permission to AAG and/or Espino to drive the vehicle.  However, the essential element(s) of the
second and third causes of action focus upon whether Defendants knew or should
have known of the unfitness of the party to whom the vehicle was entrusted and
the particular risk manifesting. Defendants did not set forth any facts within
its separate statement of facts as to whether Defendants knew or did not know
of the unfitness of AAG and/or Espino or whether it knew or should have known
that the particular risk (auto accident) would manifest by entrusting the vehicle.
In fact, as to the second cause of action, while arguments were made in the
memorandum of points and authorities contending that Espino was not an employee
of Defendants, the separate statement of facts is silent as to whether Espino
was an employee of moving Defendants.
 
Therefore,
the burden does not shift to Plaintiffs to provide evidence as to the essential
elements of the causes of action. The motion for summary adjudication as to
Issues 2 and 3 is denied.
 
Therefore,
for the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, and
alternative, motion for summary adjudication is denied.
 
            Plaintiff Ellen Vees is ordered to
give notice of this ruling.