 Case Number:  NC061264    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Wednesday, July 31, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 12
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Tammy Metzger v. Brandmeyer Gilligan &Dockstader
LLP, et al.  
            NC061264
1.      Tammy
Metzger’s Motion to Vacate Judgment  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Tammy
Metzger’s Motion to Vacate Judgment is taken off the Court’s calendar.  
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on July 5, 2017. Plaintiff filed the First Amended
Complaint on December 11, 2017. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
alleged legal malpractice against her former attorney. Defendant filed a
Cross-Complaint for legal fees owed. 
 
            On
January 27, 2023, at trial, Judge Mark Kim, presiding, the Court found in favor
of Defendant and Cross-Complainant. Judgment was entered on November 7, 2023. 
            
            Motion
to Vacate Judgment 
 
            CCP §
473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. 
. . .  Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable
compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
            Code
Civ. Proc., § 473(d) states: “The court may, upon motion of the injured party,
or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or orders as
entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may, on motion
of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void judgment or
order.”
 
            Plaintiff
moves to vacate the judgment and specifically cites the CCP provisions noted
above – CCP Sections 473(b) and (d).  However,
Plaintiff fails to provide any facts to indicate that the judgment was entered
due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, or that the
judgment is void on its face.
 
            Further,
the Court notes that the actual legal authority that would support grounds to
vacate a judgment under the facts of this case are found in CCP § 663. 
 
            CCP §
663 states: 
            “A
judgment or decree, when based upon a decision by the court, or the special
verdict of a jury, may, upon motion of the party aggrieved, be set aside and
vacated by the same court, and another and different judgment entered, for
either of the following causes, materially affecting the substantial rights of
the party and entitling the party to a different judgment:
            1.
Incorrect or erroneous legal basis for the decision, not consistent with or not
supported by the facts; and in such case when the judgment is set aside, the
statement of decision shall be amended and corrected.
            2. A
judgment or decree not consistent with or not supported by the special verdict.”
 
            CCP
663a states:
            “(a)
A party intending to make a motion to set aside and vacate a judgment, as
described in Section 663, shall file with the clerk and serve upon the adverse
party a notice of his or her intention, designating the grounds upon which the
motion will be made, and specifying the particulars in which the legal basis
for the decision is not consistent with or supported by the facts, or in which
the judgment or decree is not consistent with the special verdict, either:
            (1)
After the decision is rendered and before the entry of judgment.
            (2)
Within 15 days of the date of mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the
clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5, or service upon him or her by any
party of written notice of entry of judgment, or within 180 days after the
entry of judgment, whichever is earliest.
            (b)
Except as otherwise provided in Section 12a, the power of the court to rule on
a motion to set aside and vacate a judgment shall expire 75 days from the
mailing of notice of entry of judgment by the clerk of the court pursuant to
Section 664.5, or 75 days after service upon the moving party by any party of
written notice of entry of the judgment, whichever is earlier, or if that
notice has not been given, 75 days after the filing of the first notice of
intention to move to set aside and vacate the judgment. If that motion is not
determined within the 75-day period, or within that period as extended, the
effect shall be a denial of the motion without further order of the court. A
motion to set aside and vacate a judgment is not determined within the meaning
of this section until an order ruling on the motion is entered in the permanent
minutes of the court, or signed by the judge and filed with the clerk. The
entry of an order to set aside and vacate the judgment in the permanent minutes
of the court shall constitute a determination of the motion even though that
minute order, as entered, expressly directs that a written order be prepared,
signed, and filed. The minute entry shall, in all cases, show the date on which
the order is entered in the permanent minutes, but failure to comply with this
direction shall not impair the validity or effectiveness of the order.
            (c)
The provisions of Section 1013 extending the time for exercising a right or
doing an act where service is by mail shall not apply to extend the times
specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a).
            (d)
The moving, opposing, and reply briefs and any accompanying documents shall be
filed and served within the periods specified by Section 659a and the hearing
on the motion shall be set in the same manner as the hearing on a motion for
new trial under Section 660.
            (e)
An order of the court granting a motion may be reviewed on appeal in the same
manner as a special order made after final judgment.”
 
            Here,
notice of entry of judgment was served by mail and email on November 7, 2023.
The motion was not heard within the time requirements of Section 663a.
Therefore, the Court has lost jurisdiction to rule on this motion.
 
            Pursuant
to CCP § 663a, the motion to vacate judgment is taken off calendar.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 