 Case Number:  23TRCV02644    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR
COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                 Wednesday,
July 31, 2024
Department M                                                                                                       Calendar No. 18
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Reza Shahifar, et al. v. New Tech
Aircraft Services, Inc., et al.
            23TRCV02644
1.      New
Tech Aircraft Services, Inc.’s Motion to Fix Value of Shares and Stay
Dissolution 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
New
Tech Aircraft Services, Inc.’s (“New Tech”) Motion to Fix Value of Shares and
Stay Dissolution is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint on August 17, 2023. Plaintiffs filed the First Amended
Complaint on February 29, 2024. Plaintiffs allege the following facts. “Plaintiff
and Defendants Ruiz and Sundar are co-shareholders in nominal defendant New
Tech Aircraft Services, Inc. and co-members of nominal defendant RPM Aircraft
LLC. Plaintiff’s individual claims and derivative claims arise out of disputes
between Plaintiff, Ruiz and Sundar regarding the management and operation of
these two entities that provide aircraft maintenance services at major airports
including LAX, OAK, and SFO. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants have been
secretly and improperly converting money and property from the two businesses
for their own benefit and to the detriment of the businesses and Plaintiff.
Further, Defendants have engaged in wrongful conduct that has resulted in the
businesses being expelled from LAX resulting in a significant loss of income
and future business.”  (Plaintiffs’ Case
Management Statement, Attachment 4b.) 
 
Motion
to Fix Value of Shares and Stay Dissolution
 
Corp.
Code § 2000 states, in relevant part:
 
(a)
Subject to any contrary provision in the articles, which may include a
reference to a separate written agreement between two or more shareholders
pertaining to the purchase of shares:
 
In
any suit for involuntary dissolution, or in any proceeding for voluntary
dissolution initiated by the vote of shareholders representing only 50 percent
of the voting power, the corporation or, if it does not elect to purchase, the
holders of 50 percent or more of the voting power of the corporation (the
“purchasing parties”) may avoid the dissolution of the corporation and the
appointment of any receiver by purchasing for cash the shares owned by the
plaintiffs or by the shareholders so initiating the proceeding (the “moving
parties”) at their fair value.
 
The
fair value shall be determined on the basis of the liquidation value as of the
valuation date but taking into account the possibility, if any, of sale of the
entire business as a going concern in a liquidation. In fixing the value, the
amount of any damages resulting if the initiation of the dissolution is a
breach by any moving party or parties of an agreement with the purchasing party
or parties may be deducted from the amount payable to the moving party or
parties, unless the ground for dissolution is that specified in paragraph (4)
of subdivision (b) of Section 1800. The election of the corporation to purchase
may be made by the approval of the outstanding shares (Section 152) excluding
shares held by the moving parties.
 
(b)
If the purchasing parties (1) elect to purchase the shares owned by the moving
parties, and (2) are unable to agree with the moving parties upon the fair
value of those shares, and (3) give bond with sufficient security to pay the
estimated reasonable expenses (including attorneys' fees) of the moving parties
if those expenses are recoverable under subdivision (c), the court upon
application of the purchasing parties, either in the pending action or in a
proceeding initiated in the superior court of the proper county by the
purchasing parties in the case of a voluntary election to wind up and dissolve,
shall stay the winding up and dissolution proceeding and shall proceed to
ascertain and fix the fair value of the shares owned by the moving parties.
 
(c)
The court shall appoint three disinterested appraisers to appraise the fair
value of the shares owned by the moving parties, and shall make an order
referring the matter to the appraisers so appointed for the purpose of
ascertaining the value. The order shall prescribe the time and manner of
producing evidence, if evidence is required. The award of the appraisers or of
a majority of them, when confirmed by the court, shall be final and conclusive
upon all parties. The court shall enter a decree, which shall provide in the
alternative for winding up and dissolution of the corporation unless payment is
made for the shares within the time specified by the decree. If the purchasing
parties do not make payment for the shares within the time specified, judgment
shall be entered against them and the surety or sureties on the bond for the
amount of the expenses (including attorneys' fees) of the moving parties. Any
shareholder aggrieved by the action of the court may appeal the court's
decision.”
 
“[T]he
statutory buyout provisions of the Corporations Code provide a defendant in an
involuntary dissolution action with a mechanism for avoiding dissolution by
purchasing the plaintiff's shares or other interests.”  Schrage v. Schrage (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 126, 136 (internal quotation omitted).
 
Pursuant
to Corp. Code § 2000, “New Tech seeks an order: (1) appointing appraisers to
determine the fair value of its shares owned by plaintiff Reza Shahifar
(“Plaintiff”) so New Tech can purchase those shares for such price, (2) staying
Plaintiff’s cause of action for New Tech’s involuntary dissolution and the
remaining causes of action in Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint; and (3)
setting the amount of the bond required for such stay.”  (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 6-10.)  Defendant states that it has, pursuant to
Section 2000, elected to purchase Plaintiff’s shares in New Tech.
 
The
Court hereby finds that Defendant has generally satisfied the requirements of
Corp. Code § 2000.  Plaintiffs filed a written
opposition to the motion. Plaintiffs do not oppose the concept of determining
the value of the shares and staying the dissolution proceeding.  Instead, Plaintiffs believe that the entire
action should not be stayed as Defendant requests in its motion and proposed
order.  Plaintiffs also believe that the
bond should exceed the amount set forth in the motion.  Finally, Plaintiffs object to certain language
in the proposed order with respect to the appraisal process.
 
The
Court has reviewed the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the proposed order,
and applicable authority.
 
Defendant’s
Motion to Fix Value of Shares and Stay Dissolution is granted.  The Court orders a stay of the dissolution
proceeding as well as the entire action to determine and fix the fair value of
the shares of the parties. 
 
As
mentioned above, Plaintiffs did oppose the request to stay the entire action.  However, the Court does elect to enter an
order staying the entire action.  While
no specific authority is set forth in Corp. Code § 2000 which mentions whether
a stay can be entered as to the entire action (the statute only states that the
Court shall stay the “winding up and dissolution proceeding”), the remaining
causes of action are inextricably intertwined with the causes of action for
dissolution. Pursuant to CCP § 128 and through its equitable power, the trial
court has broad authority to stay actions in the interests of justice and to
promote judicial efficiency.  See, Freiberg
v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.  Here, the interests of justice and the
promotion of judicial efficiency will be fostered by staying the entire action.
 
As
to the amount of the bond, the Court orders that Defendant shall post a bond in
the amount of $25,000 within ten days of this date.  Plaintiffs argue that the bond amount should
be set at $100,000 but provides no evidentiary basis for this amount.
 
As
to the appraisal process, again, the moving party submitted no specific authority
for the proposition that the Court must enter the types of detailed orders set
forth in the proposed order. The parties are encouraged to meet and confer on
the specific procedural details of the process and can also engage in
discussions with the appraisers that are ultimately selected.  However, the proposed order submitted by the
moving party appears to be mostly fair and reasonable. The Court notes that the moving party also
acquiesced to certain objections made by the opposing party.  The Court does state that, as to the fees, the
parties should apportion the fees on a 50/50 basis.  The Court also notes that since this is merely
an appraisal process, it does not appear that testimony, sworn under the
penalty of perjury, is mandated.
 
Defendant
New Tech Aircraft Services, Inc.’s Motion to Fix Value of Shares and Stay
Dissolution is granted. 
 
Defendant
New Tech is ordered to give notice of this ruling.