  Case Number:  20STCV05566    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78TRINA ALLENPlaintiff, vs. MATTHEW SHEPHERD, et al.,Defendants.  Case No.: 20STCV05566  Hearing Date: May 15, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT CATAMOUNT PROPERTIES 2018 LLC’S MOTIONS TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENS AND CLAIM CASH BONDDefendant Catamount Properties 2018, LLC’s motion to claim cash bond is DENIED without prejudice.The motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.DISCUSSIONI. MOTION TO CLAIM CASH BONDCatamount moves to claim cash bond on the grounds that the Court entered judgment in favor of Catamount and the preliminary injunction in this case was dissolved. “If a bond is given in an action or proceeding, the liability on the bond may be enforced on motion made in the court without the necessity of an independent action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 996.440(a).) “The motion shall not be made until after entry of the final judgment in the action or proceeding in which the bond is given and the time for appeal has expired or, if an appeal is taken, until the appeal is finally determined. The motion shall not be made or notice of motion served more than one year after the later of the preceding dates.” (Code Civ. Proc., section 996.440(b).) Even if a trial court which issued a preliminary injunction supported by a bond has subsequently rendered judgment in favor of the party enjoined, the party may not enforce liability on the bond while an appeal from the judgment is pending. (Nuclear Electronic Laboratories, Inc. v. William C. Cornell Co. (1965) 239 Cal.App.2d 8, 11.)Because an appeal is pending, this motion is premature. Catamount’s motion to claim cash bond is denied without prejudice.II. MOTION TO EXPUNGE LIS PENDENSCatamount moves to expunge lis pendens on the grounds that the Court granted its motion for summary judgment.Under Code Civ. Proc., section 405.30, at any time after a notice of pendency of action has been recorded, any party with an interest in the real property may apply to the Court to expunge the notice. A Lis Pendens may be expunged either under Code Civ. Proc., section 405.31 if the pleadings do not contain a real property claim; or under Code Civ. Proc., section 405.32 if the Court finds that the party claiming the Lis Pendens has not established by a preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim. Under Code Civ. Proc., section 405.30, the party claiming the Lis Pendens has the burden of proof under sections 405.31 and 405.32. The moving party has the burden of demonstrating that their pleadings contain a real property claim and that the probable validity of their real property claim can be established by a preponderance of the evidence. Only admissible evidence is permitted on the motion.¿ (Burger v. Superior Court¿(1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 1013, 1019.) A real property claim means the causes of action, if proven, would affect either: (a) title to or the right to possession of specific real property, or (b) the use of an easement identified in the pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., section 405.4.) “[O]n a motion to expunge a lis pendens after judgment against the claimant and while an appeal is pending, the trial court must grant the motion unless it finds it more likely than not that the appellate court will reverse the judgment.” (Amalgamated Bank v. Superior Court (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1003, 1015; See also Mix v. Superior Court (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 987, 995.) A ruling on a motion to expunge may be reviewed via a writ of mandate. Code Civ. Proc., section 405.35 provides that no order expunging a notice of pendency of action shall be effective or recorded until the time in which a petition for writ of mandate may be filed pursuant to Code Civ. Proc., section 405.39 expires and, if such a petition is filed, until the proceeding commenced by the petition is finally adjudicated. Here, the Court entered judgment in favor of Catamount after granting its motion for summary judgment. Therefore, Catamount is entitled to expungement. Plaintiff argues that the Court may not grant this motion because there is an appeal pending. However, the Court must grant the motion unless it finds it more likely than not that the appellate court will reverse the judgment. Plaintiff makes no argument that the appellate court is more likely than not to reverse the judgment.Plaintiff also argues that this motion must be denied because the Court denied an earlier motion to expunge lis pendens on November 22, 2021. However, the Court has since granted Catamount’s motion for summary judgment and entered judgment in favor of Catamount. Catamount is entitled to expungement. Accordingly, Catamount’s motion to expunge lis pendens is granted.DATED: May 15, 2024______________________________                                                                      Hon. Jill Feeney                                                                      Judge of the Superior Court