 Case Number:  23AHCV02702    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTI MACKEY, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CITY
  OF PASADENA, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV02702
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
  19, 2024




 


 


 



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On November
17, 2023, plaintiff Marti Mackey (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendants City of Pasadena (“City”) and Jim Wong (“Wong”) for elder abuse and
negligent and intentional infliction of emotional distress. Plaintiff alleges
that she was wrongfully evicted from 540 N. Marengo Ave. #3, Pasadena, CA 91101
(“Property”) after City accepted $150,000 from a junior lienholder to reconvey its
first lien deed of trust, which allowed the Property to be foreclosed upon. (Compl.,
¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges she was not required to make any monthly payments to
the City because the Property “was designated for low to moderate income by the
[City].” (Compl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff claims she paid property taxes and maintained
the Property for 6 years as required under the terms of the City’s lien. (Compl.,
¶. 3.) Plaintiff further alleges that the payoff of the lien was concealed and
that City failed to provide alternative housing to her even though she is a
handicapped senior. (Comp., ¶¶ 15, 17.) 
          On
April 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint,
asserting causes of action for breach of implied contract, negligent
misrepresentation, intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) and
negligent infliction of emotional distress (“NIED”). The FAC, which consists of
over 70 pages of exhibits, alleges that City impliedly agreed that Plaintiff
could stay in the Property subject to the City’s lien and breached this
agreement when it reconveyed its lien. (FAC, ¶¶ 52-54.) Plaintiff alleges Wong,
as City’s employee, made misleading statements about the City’s intent to
preserve affordable housing units, causing her to pay significant amounts in
back taxes, homeowners’ association fees, and maintenance. (FAC, ¶¶ 56-57.)
Plaintiff also alleges she suffered emotional distress due to the foreclosure
and eviction and that Defendants acted with reckless disregard when she was
legally blind and unable to obtain alternate housing. (FAC, ¶¶ 59, 62.) 
          On
June 27, 2024, Defendants filed this demurrer arguing that Plaintiff fails to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendants also filed a
request for judicial notice. 
          On
October 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an amendment naming “City of Pasadena
Successor-in-Interest to Pasadena Community Development Commission” as Doe 1. 
          On
November 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On November 5, 2025,
Plaintiff filed exhibits in support of her opposition brief and objections to Defendants’
request for judicial notice. 
          Defendants
filed a reply brief on November 12, 2024, responding to Plaintiff’s opposition
brief and objection. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445,
459.)  “We treat the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law. We accept the factual allegations of the complaint
as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed. [Citation.]”
(Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d
593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].) Allegations are to be liberally construed. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) In construing the allegations, the court is to give effect
to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general
or conclusory allegations.  (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
          Request
for Judicial Notice 
          Defendants
request the Court take judicial notice of: (1) Claim No. 2023-0280 (“First
Claim”) filed on April 14, 2023, by Plaintiff with the City, (2) a notice of
rejection of Plaintiff’s First Claim (“First Notice of Rejection”), (3) Claim
No. 2024-0201, filed on February 26, 2024 (“February 2024 Claim”), and (4)
Claim No. 2024-0294 filed by Plaintiff on June 7, 2024 (“June 2024” Claim).
Defendants also request judicial notice of Article X of the Charter of the City
of Pasadena. 
          Plaintiff
objects to the First Notice of Rejection and Article X, but the Notice of
Rejection is judicially noticeable as an “official act” and record maintained
by City (Evid. Code § 452(c)) and Article X of the City’s charter is law (Evid.
Code, § 452(a).) Accordingly, Defendants’ request for judicial notice is
GRANTED. 
“Tort Claims Act
          Prior to
filing a suit against a public entity, a plaintiff must comply with the
Government Tort Claims Act, which states, in part: “no suit for money or
damages may be brought against a public entity on a cause of action for which a
claim is required to be presented . . . until a written claim therefor has been
presented to the public entity and has been acted upon by the board, or has
been deemed to have been rejected by the board . . .” (Gov. Code, § 945.4.) Once
a governmental entity has sent proper written notice rejecting a claim, the
plaintiff has six months thereafter to file suit against the entity. (Gov.
Code, § 945.6, subd. (a)(1).) The six-month period commences as soon as the
notice is properly personally delivered or deposited in the mail even if not
actually received by the claimant. (Ibid.) If written notice is not
given, a claimant shall have 2 years from the accrual of the cause of action to
file suit. (Gov. Code, § 945.6, subd. (a)(2).) 
          Here,
Plaintiff presented her First Claim on April 14, 2023. The First Claim reflects
the date of loss as April 14, 2023, and states, in part, the following: 
-     
“City
did not inform claimant or probate court of selling/or reconveying Jenkins
DoT-1st lien. 2nd lien of R. May not valid as per
Alhambra Court Case # 22AHCV00602. 
-     
“Claim
is for loss of housing – when sheriff arrives = $750,000”
-     
“Emotional
distress: 100k” 
-     
 “+legal fees 100K or as attorney submits”
-     
Claimant
is 72 and legally blind. 
(Serkisian Decl., Ex. A.) As for Plaintiff’s February or
June Claims, those appear to concern other events not related to this action
because Plaintiff identifies the date of loss on those as “January 31, 2024,
and ongoing” (Serkisian Decl., Ex. C) and May 12 and May 28, 2024; therefore,
they do not relate back to the First Claim. 
City sent a notice of rejection on May
4, 2023, to Plaintiff’s P.O. Box 91722 in Pasadena, CA. Plaintiff then filed
suit on November 17, 2023. Defendants point out that Plaintiff’s First Claim
states “loss of housing”, “emotional distress”, and “legal fees” as her
injuries arising from City’s reconveyance of its deed; therefore, Plaintiff’s
FAC alleges claims which were reflected in her First Claim and rejected on May
4, 2023. 
          In
Opposition, Plaintiff argues that her suit is timely filed because she filed a
claim on April 14, 2023, and then re-submitted it because she forgot to date
the first one. Plaintiff claims the City received this amended claim (attached
as Exhibit 1) sometime between April 20 and April 24, 2023, but never sent a second
notice of rejection. Plaintiff contends that because City did not act on her
resubmitted claim, she had two years from the accrual of her causes of action
to file the lawsuit. (Gov. Code, § 945.6, subd. (a)(2).) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff “cannot
revise or reset the statute of limitations by re-filing a second claim with
some of the same allegations.” (Demurrer, p. 8.) The Court agrees. Government
Code section 910.6(a) states: A claim may be amended at any time before the expiration of the
period designated in Section 911.2 [6 months after cause of action accrues] or
before final action thereon is taken by the board, whichever is later, if the
claim as amended relates to the same transaction or occurrence which gave rise
to the original claim. The amendment shall be considered a part of the original
claim for all purposes. (Gov. Code, § 910.6, subd. (a).) 
Based on this statute, the City was not
required to send a second notice of rejection to Plaintiff’s re-submitted claim
sent in April 2023 because the re-submitted claim related to the same
transaction or occurrence underlying the First Claim. (Compare Opp., Ex. 1 with
Serkisian Decl., Ex. A.) Although Plaintiff does not include all pages of her
re-submitted claim, Plaintiff admits that her First Claim was not dated,
therefore she re-submitted it to include the date. Amending the claim to add a
date by her signature is not grounds for construing the re-submitted claim as
an entirely new claim. 
Last, Plaintiff challenges the date
that the Notice of Rejection was served.  Plaintiff attaches subsequent correspondence and
envelopes from the City that display variances between the date on the proof of
service and the postage meter stamp on the envelope. (Code Civ. Proc.,§ 1013a(3)
[service is presumed invalid if there is more than a one-day difference between
the postmark or postage meter date and the date of service shown on the proof
of service].) Here, the proof of service for the Notice of Rejection states it
was deposited in the mail on May 4, 2023. 
Plaintiff does not include a copy of the
envelope for the Notice of Rejection even though she never denies receiving this
Notice of Rejection; she merely contends that she is entitled to a second
notice of rejection in response to her resubmitted claim – a proposition that
is unsupported by law. (See Opp., p. 1.) 
Furthermore, the Court cannot infer from Plaintiff’s
submitted exhibits that City’s pattern and practice for mail service would
allow a discrepancy of 14 days between the date on a proof of service and a
meter stamp, which would be required for the Court to conclude that Plaintiff’s
lawsuit was filed within the 6-month statute of limitations. Even if they were
to be considered as evidence of anything relevant to this case, which the Court
is not doing, the difference in the dates reflected on the meter stamps and
proofs of service in other mailings provided by Plaintiff is 2 to 3 days at
most. All that Plaintiff has shown is that Plaintiff understands the need to keep
and provide the evidence of failure of the specific service in question if
Plaintiff intends to rely on that to escape the requirements of the Government
Claims Act.
IV.    CONCLUSION
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 19th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.