  Case Number:  21STCV03646    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Jeanette Martinez
Resp. Party:    None
 
SUBJECT:        Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
 
Moving Party: Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem Jeanette Martinez
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem’s Petitions are GRANTED, with the one change indicated above — i.e.,
that no attorney’s fees or costs are to be deducted from amounts awarded to the
minor chidren. 
 
The funds are PERMITTED to be placed in blocked
accounts that will not allow withdrawals of principal or interest without prior
court order until the date at which the minor becomes 18 years old, at which
point that minor may withdraw the principal and interest without a court order.

 
        Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem is ORDERED to deliver to the manager at the financial institution
where the funds are to be deposited a certified or filed copy of this Order. 
 
Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem is ORDERED to promptly
file with the Court a receipt from the financial institution, acknowledging
receipt of both the funds deposited and the order for deposit of funds. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY
COMMENT:
 
        It is not clear to the
Court that Plaintiff Jeanette Martinez has been approved as Guardian ad Litem
for Priscilla Gutierrez.  This tentative
decision assumes that Plaintiff is the GAL for Ms. Gutierrez.  If she is not, the Court will discuss with
Plaintiff’s counsel how to proceed.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On January
28, 2021, Plaintiffs Alicia Murillo, Alexia Gutierrez, Daniel Rodriguez, and Priscilla
Gutierrez filed their Complaint against Defendants Vigen Haroutunian and
Roselyn Haroutunian on causes of action arising from Plaintiffs’ tenancy with
Defendants. 
 
On July 29
and 30, 2021, the Court appointed Plaintiff Alicia Murillo as the guardian ad
litem for Plaintiffs Daniel Rodriguez and Alexia Gutierrez. 
 
On October
31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their Judicial Council Form CM-200, Notice of
Settlement of Entire Case. 
 
On January 9,
2024, on behalf of Plaintiffs Daniel Rodriguez and Priscilla Gutierrez,
Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem Alicia Murillo filed (separately for each of them)
the following three items: (1) Judicial Council Form MC-350, Petition for
Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability; (2) Judicial Council Form
MC-351, Order Approving Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability; and (3) Judicial
Council Form MC-355, Order to Deposit Funds in Blocked Account. 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The guardian or
conservator of the estate or guardian ad litem so appearing for any minor,
person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or person for whom a
conservator has been appointed shall have power, with the approval of the court
in which the action or proceeding is pending, to compromise the same, to agree
to the order or judgment to be entered therein for or against the ward or
conservatee, and to satisfy any judgment or order in favor of the ward or
conservatee or release or discharge any claim of the ward or conservatee
pursuant to that compromise. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subd. (a)(3).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise or covenant not to sue
under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must comply with rules 7.950 or
7.950.5, 7.951, and 7.952.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384(a).)
 
“A petition for court approval of a compromise of, or a
covenant not to sue or enforce judgment on, a minor's disputed claim; a
compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to which a minor or
person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the proceeds of a
judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate Code sections
3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be verified by
the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all information that has
any bearing upon the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant, settlement, or
disposition. Except as provided in rule 7.950.5, the petition must be submitted
on a completed Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person With a Disability (form
MC-350).” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950.)
 
“In all cases under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 or
Probate Code sections 3600-3601, unless the court has approved the fee
agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when
approving and allowing the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or
property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a
disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(1).)
 
“The court must give consideration to the terms of any
representation agreement made between the attorney and the representative of
the minor or person with a disability and must evaluate the agreement based on
the facts and circumstances existing at the time the agreement was made, except
where the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability contemplated that the attorney's fee would be affected by later
events.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(2).)
 
“A petition requesting court approval and allowance of an
attorney's fee under (a) must include a declaration from the attorney that
addresses the factors listed in (b) that are applicable to the matter before
the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(c).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
A. 
    Approval of the Petitions
 
Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem Alicia Murillo
petitions the Court for approval of a compromise that includes: (1) Priscilla
Gutierrez, who is a sixteen-year-old minor; and (2) Plaintiff Alexia Gutierrez,
who is a fifteen-year-old minor. 
 
        Among other things, the
Gross Settlement Amount is $295,000.00, which consists of a $175,000.00 payment
to Plaintiff Alicia Murillo, and $40,000.00 payments to each of the other three
plaintiffs. (Petitions, Attachment 11b(3) and 11b(6).) According to the
Petitions, the differences in the amounts per plaintiff is because the adult
plaintiff had mold exposure that manifested into physical symptoms and she
suffered further economic harms, as opposed to the children, who did not suffer
any residual injuries from the mold exposure. (Ibid.)
 
        According to the attached
Retainer Agreement for Legal Services for each of the minor children, the
percentage of attorney’s fees to be assessed from each of the minor plaintiffs
is 25% of their respective awards. (Petitions, Exhs. A, B; see also Petitions,
Decl. Novak, ¶¶ 6–7.) No costs or expenses are assigned to the minors in this
case. (Petitions, Decl. Novak, ¶¶ 6–7.)
 
        Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 372 and California Rules of Court, rules 7.950 and 7.955, the Court
finds that the Compromise is generally reasonable and that the applicable
procedures have been followed. 
 
        The Court will grant the petition with
the following change: the attorneys are not to assess any attorney’s fees or
costs against the funds allotted to the minors. In other words, each of the
minors is to receive the full $40,000.00 awarded to each of them. 
 
        With the above change, the Court GRANTS
the Petition. 
 
B. 
    Order to Deposit Funds in Blocked Account
 
1. 
    Legal Standard
 
“In any case in which the court orders that funds to be received by a
minor or a person with a disability must be deposited in a financial
institution and not disbursed without further order of the court, the order
must include a provision that a certified or filed endorsed copy of the order
must be delivered to a manager at the financial institution where the funds are
to be deposited, and that a receipt from the financial institution must be
promptly filed with the court, acknowledging receipt of both the funds
deposited and the order for deposit of funds.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 7.953, subd. (a).)
 
“If, in the order approving the compromise of a minor's claim, there is a
finding that the minor will attain the age of majority on a definite date, the
order for deposit may require that the depository permit the withdrawal of
funds by the former minor after that date, without further order of the court.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.953, subd. (a).)
 
2. 
    Discussion
 
For each of the minor children, Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem filed
Judicial Council Form MC-355, Order to Deposit Funds in Blocked Account. Each
of the forms submitted lists the minor’s birthday, requests that no withdrawal
of interest or principal be allowed without court order prior to the minor’s
18th birthday, and requests that such withdrawals can be made by the minor
without court order once they reach 18 years of age.
 
The Court PERMITS the funds to be placed in blocked
accounts that will not allow withdrawals of principal or interest without prior
court order until the date at which the minor becomes 18 years old, at which
point that minor may withdraw the principal and interest without a court order.

 
        The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem to deliver to the manager at the
financial institution where the funds are to be deposited a certified or filed
copy of this Order. 
 
        The
Court ORDERS Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem to promptly file with the Court a
receipt from the financial institution, acknowledging receipt of both the funds
deposited and the order for deposit of funds. 
 
III.    
Conclusion
 
 Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem’s Petitions are GRANTED, with the one change
indicated above — i.e., that no attorney’s fees or costs are to be subtracted
from amounts awarded to the minors. 
 
The funds are PERMITTED to be placed in blocked
accounts that will not allow withdrawals of principal or interest without prior
court order until the date at which the minor becomes 18 years old, at which
point that minor may withdraw the principal and interest without a court order.

 
        Plaintiff/Guardian
ad Litem is ORDERED to deliver to the manager at the financial institution
where the funds are to be deposited a certified or filed copy of this Order. 
 
Plaintiff/Guardian ad Litem is ORDERED to promptly
file with the Court a receipt from the financial institution, acknowledging
receipt of both the funds deposited and the order for deposit of funds. 
 