 Case Number:  23STCV12939    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  73 5/16/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
BAHADOR MIKHAK v. CHRISTINE SNELL (23STCV12939)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/opposing party:  Neville
Johnson (Johnson & Johnson LLP)
Counsel
for Defendant/moving party:  Howard King,
Jackson Trugman (King, Holmes, Paterno & Soriano LLP)
 
MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS FEES (filed 5/09/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Award
of Attorneys’ fees and costs is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 6,
2023, Plaintiff Bahador Mikhak (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendant Christine Snell (“Snell” or “Defendant”) for defamation.
The Complaint
alleges the following. Snell along with her sister, Julie Skujins (“Skujins”),
fabricated a false domestic violence incident against Plaintiff to damage his
reputation and to prevent him from gaining custody of his child. (Complaint, ¶
3.) Skujins is the mother of Plaintiff’s child and she had been residing at
Plaintiff’s home with their child. (Id., ¶.)
On the
evening of April 9, 2022, Plaintiff arrived at his home and found Snell with
Skujins on his property. (Id., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges a discussion
arose and Skujins pushed Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff turned to
speak to Snell and then saw Skujins had thrown herself on the ground. (Id.,
¶ 11.) Skujins called 9-1-1 and police arrived. (Id., ¶ 12.) Police
officers handcuffed Plaintiff and took statements from Skujins, Snell and
Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 13.) Snell gave false and harmful statements to the
police, such as that Plaintiff had physically harmed Skujins in the past. (Id.,
¶ 14.) Plaintiff suffered damages as a result of Snell’s false statements. (Id.,
¶ 27.)
On March 21,
2024, this Court entered an order granting Defendant’s Special Motion
to Strike (“anti-SLAPP”) motion.
On
March 27, 2024, Defendant filed a Motion for Award of Attorneys’ fees and costs, arguing:
·      
Defendant moves for an order pursuant to CCP §
425.16 compelling Plaintiff to reimburse Defendant for $60,285.19, which
includes fees through the contested anti-SLAPP proceeding ($43,600.00), reasonable
costs ($6,372.69), and fees in connection with this Motion ($10,312.50). 
·      
Defendant moves on the grounds that the Court granted Defendant’s
anti-SLAPP motion, Defendant is entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs pursuant
to CCP § 425.16(c), and the fees and costs incurred are reasonable. 
 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
The amount of time that Defendant’s counsel claims he spent is
excessive and the hourly rate claimed by Defendant’s counsel is unreasonable.
 
Defendant
filed a reply, arguing:
·       There is no
basis for Plaintiff’s vague and general arguments in the Opposition, that the
fees and costs incurred are “excessive” or “unreasonable.” Plaintiff cites no
evidence or authority even suggesting that counsel’s hours or rate should be
reduced.
 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard 
 
CCP §§ 1032 and 1033.5 provide that a prevailing party may
recover its costs as a matter of right, and that those costs may include
attorneys’ fees when authorized by statute or contract. 
 
California Municipal Code section 151. 10 provides: “Any person
who demands, accepts or retains any payment of rent in excess of the maximum
rent or maximum adjusted rent in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
or any regulations or orders promulgated hereunder, shall be liable in a civil
action to the person from whom such payment is demanded, accepted or retained
for damages of three times the amount by which the payment or payments
demanded, accepted or retained exceed the maximum rent or maximum adjusted rent
which could be lawfully demanded, accepted or retained together with reasonable
attorneys' fees and costs as determined by the court."
 
“[A]bsent
circumstances rendering the award unjust, an attorney fee award should
ordinarily include compensation for all the hours reasonably spent,
including those relating solely to the fee.  We explained that the purpose
behind statutory fee authorizations—i.e., encouraging attorneys to act as
private attorneys general and to vindicate important rights affecting the
public interest—will often be frustrated, sometimes nullified, if awards are
diluted or dissipated by lengthy, uncompensated proceedings to fix or defend a
rightful fee claim.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1133-34 (emphasis in original).)  “The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.... The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.” (Id. at 1134.) Other factors to consider in fixing the
reasonableness of fees to be considered beyond the fee agreement alone include,
but are not limited to “(1) the time and labor required, the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill requisite to perform the
legal service properly; (2) the likelihood that the acceptance of the
particular employment will preclude other employment by the lawyer; (3) the fee
customarily charged in this locality for similar legal services; (4) the amount
involved and the results obtained; (5) the time limitations imposed by the
circumstances; and (6) the experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or
lawyers performing the services.” (Glendora Community Redevelopment
Agency v. Demeter (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 465, 470.)
 
B.    
Discussion
Defendant moves for attorney fees and costs in the amount of
$60,285.19 incurred in connection with her successful anti-SLAPP motion and the
instant motion for attorney fees and costs. 
 
a.     Hourly Rate
 
“The
reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work.”  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) “The
experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of professional services
rendered in [her] court.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant
seeks to recover fees for one attorney and one paralegal that billed time in
connection with Defendant’s anti-SLAPP and the instant motion. Their hourly
rates are as follows: 
 
·       
Jackson
Trugman (Attorney): $625/hour 
·       
Karen Sloane
(Paralegal): $250/hour 
 
The Court finds that the rates requested by
Defendant is reasonable and commensurate with rates charged by attorneys with
comparable skill and expertise. Plaintiff’s argument that counsel’s hourly rate
is unreasonable is without support or citation to any authority. Trugman
attests to his experience and reasonableness of the rates. (Trugman Decl., ¶¶ 16-19.) Based on the evidence before it, the Court is not
inclined to reduce the hourly rates requested.
 
b.     Reasonable
Hours Incurred
 
“A
trial court assessing attorney fees begins with a touchstone or lodestar
figure, based on the ‘careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable
hourly compensation of each attorney ... involved in the presentation of the
case.”  (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.) “The reasonableness of attorney fees is within the
discretion of the trial court, to be determined from a consideration of such
factors as the nature of the litigation, the complexity of the issues, the
experience and expertise of counsel and the amount of time involved. The court
may also consider whether the amount requested is based upon unnecessary or
duplicative work.” (Wilkerson v. Sullivan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 443,
448.) 
 
While
not per se objectionable, block billing can exacerbate the vagueness of an
attorney fee request and support a court’s finding that time entries were
inflated and non-compensable.  (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor
(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1325-1326.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff argues the hours Defendant incurred is unreasonable. However, Plaintiff
does not specify the basis for this assertion or provide authority in support. Defendant
asserts the total time spent on the motion for leave to file the anti-SLAPP
motion was 14.75 hours, the anti-SLAPP motion took 29.75 hours, and reply and
evidentiary objections to Plaintiff’s Opposition to the anti-SLAPP motion took 17.5
hours, to prepare and attend the hearing took 8.75 hours and the instant motion
took 16.5 hours. (Trugman Decl., ¶ 15.) 
 
Having
analyzed the instant motion, the anti-SLAPP motion, and pleadings, the Court
finds that the fees sought by Defendants are reasonable and do not include
excessive time billed or duplicative entries. “Parties who litigate with no
holds barred in cases such as this, in which the prevailing party is entitled
to a fee award, assume the risk they will have to reimburse the excessive
expenses they force upon their adversaries.” (Stokus v. Marsh (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 647, 653-654.) Here, the Court does not find that the time billed by
defense counsel was excessive.
 
In Plaintiff’s opposition, he also argues
that Defendant did not present evidence such as billing statements or receipts
to substantiate some of the charges, such as the Legal Research/Westlaw cost.
However, under California law, Defendant is not required to attach copies of
bills, invoices or statements. (Jones v. Dumrichob (1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 1258, 1267.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’
Motion for Award of Attorneys’ fees and costs is
GRANTED.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant’s motion for attorney fees is GRANTED.
The Court awards Defendant $60,285.19 in attorney fees and costs. 