 Case Number:  23STCV00682    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  73 5/16/2024  Dept. 73  Hon. Rolf  Treu, Judge presiding    EMPLOYERS CHOICE ONLINE, INC. v. WRINKLE FREE IT  INC. (23STCV00682)    Counsel for  Plaintiff:  David Scott Kadin (Kaplan, Kenegos & Kadin)  Counsel for  Defendant: Michael Eyre (Law Offices of Michael Eyre)   (1)    DEFENDANT’S MOTION  FOR RECONSIDERATION OF ORDER DENYING MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS, TO  COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION AND TO STAY ACTION (filed  12/22/23) (2)   pLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF DEFAULT JUDGMENT (filed 3/27/2024)    TENTATIVE RULING    Defendant’s Motion for Reconsideration of Order  Denying Motion to Quash Service of Summons, to Compel Binding Arbitration and  to Stay Action is DENIED.   The Court CONTINUES Plaintiff’s request for  entry of default judgment to permit Plaintiff the chance to provide further  information on its calculation of damages.    I. BACKGROUND   On January 12,  2023, Plaintiff Employers Choice Online, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant  action against Defendant Wrinkle Free It, Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging causes of  action for:               C/A 1: Gross Negligence             C/A 2: Conversion             C/A 3: Intentional Misrepresentation  and Intentional Concealment    Plaintiff alleges the following. Plaintiff is engaged in  the business of performing background screening services, drug and health  screening services, drug and health screening services, screening software and  technology services for employers wishing to provide a safe, comfortable work  environment for their employees. In connection with Plaintiff's operation of  its business, it utilized a business computer laptop "the Laptop",  whose Hard Drive disk ("the Hard Drive") contained valuable  information about Plaintiff's hundreds of clients, their contact information,  and details about services which Plaintiff has provided to them over the years  and were currently providing to them. Plaintiff began contracting with  Defendant in or about August 2021, to provide to Plaintiff information  technology services. In or about October 2021, the Hard Drive became damaged  and Plaintiff was unable to 14 access the information in it and contacted  Defendant about recovering the data. On or about May 20, 2022, Defendant notified  Plaintiff that the Hard Drive was disposed of. Plaintiff never authorized the  destruction of the Hard Drive and Plaintiff never received any such notice that  the Hard Drive would be destroyed. Based on Plaintiff's income and expenses,  and profit and loss from the preceding and following Defendant's mishandling,  loss or destruction of the Hard Drive, Plaintiff has sustained damages from  loss of business profits and to replace the missing laptop.    On April 20, 2023, default was entered against Defendant.     On December 22, 2023, Defendant filed the instant  Motion for Reconsideration of Order Denying Motion to Quash Service of Summons,  to Compel Binding Arbitration and to Stay Action, arguing: ·        The motion is brought on the ground that new or different facts  and circumstances exist that could not have been brought to the Court’s  attention before the December 12, 2023 hearing ·        The original motion to quash was based on plaintiff having failed  to show reasonable diligence before attempting substituted service on a person  other than the corporate defendant’s agent for process ·        At no time did plaintiff raised the issue of reasonable diligence  not needing to be shown with respect to service of summons and complaint on a  corporate defendant ·        Despite the lack of any discussion regarding the issue of  reasonable diligence not needing to be shown when service of summons and  complaint is made on a person other than the agent for process of a corporate  entity, the Court raised this matter on its own for the first time in the  motion hearing itself ·        Investigation undertaken since the hearing of the motion has  revealed no process server came to the address at which substituted service of  summons and complaint was purportedly accomplished, despite his proof of  service signed under penalty of perjury stating it was so accomplished   On April 12,  2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing: ·        Defendant’s motion does not assert "new or different facts or  circumstances or law" required under California Code of Civil Procedure  l11008(a) ·        The Motion is based upon alleged lack of proper service of process  which was argued in the Motion to Quash and denied by the Court ·        Defendant has no standing to even file the within motion (or even  the Motion to Quash) because the only motion that could even have been filed  (but was not) was a motion to vacate its default entered on April 20, 2023 and  no such motion was ever filed ·        the registered process server went out to Defendant's physical  address listed on Defendant's registrations with the California Secretary of  State (1401 East Harding Street, Long Beach, California) at different times and  on five different days, and finally subserved Terry Davis (the relative of  Matthew Davis, the owner of Wrinkle Free and who has not submitted any  declaration that she (Terry Davis) was not served. ·        Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions of $6,000.00 pursuant to  C.C.P. Sec. 1008(d) for its legal fees incurred in opposing this frivolous  motion   Defendant  filed a reply, maintaining that the Court should vacate its order denying  defendant’s motion to quash service of summons, and to instead issue a new  order, quashing such service.   On  April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an OSC re: Default Judgment. Plaintiff seeks judgment against Defendants  in the total amount of $195,547.58, consisting of the amount demanded in the  complaint of $195,028.23 and $519.35 in costs.    II.ANALYSIS   A.     Defendant’s  Motion for Reconsideration   a.     Review by a Different  Judge   As an initial matter, the Court addresses whether a judge who  did not make the initial ruling can consider this motion.   Generally, a motion for reconsideration must be made to the  same judge.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a); Marriage of Oliverez  (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1248.)  “However, there are narrow exceptions  to this general rule.”  (Marriage of Oliverez, supra, 238  Cal.App.4th at 1248.)  “‘[W]here the judge who made the initial  ruling is unavailable to reconsider the motion, a different judge may entertain  the reconsideration motion.’”  (Id. (quoting Ziller Electronics  Lab GmbH v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 1222, 1232) (alteration in  original).)  “Another exception is when the facts have changed or when the  judge has considered further evidence and law.”  (Id.)   “Additionally, a second judge may reverse a prior ruling of another judge if  the record shows that it was based on inadvertence, mistake, or fraud.”  (Id.  at 1248-49.)  “Mere disagreement . . . with the prior trial judge’s  ruling, however, is not enough to overturn that ruling.”  (Id. at  1249.)      Here, Defendant’s motion moves for reconsideration of the  December 12, 2023 order made in this Department, Department 73, by Judge  Timothy Dillon. However, the Court finds that Judge Dillon is unavailable to  hear the instant Motion due to his temporary reassignment to another Department.  Therefore, the Court finds that the assigned judge to Department 73, Judge Rolf  Treu, may consider this motion.    b.     Discussion    The moving party must present new facts, circumstances or law  in order to grant a motion for reconsideration.  (See CCP § 1008(a); see  also Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338, 1342.)  The  party seeking reconsideration of an order shall state by affidavit what  application was made before, what order or decisions were made, and what new or  different facts or circumstances are claimed to be shown.  (CCP §  1008(a).)  Further, “…the party seeking reconsideration must provide not  only new evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to  produce that evidence at an earlier time.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38  Cal.App.4th 1441, 1457 [emphasis added].)  The legislative intent was to  restrict motions for reconsideration to circumstances where a party offers the  court some fact or circumstance not previously considered and some valid reason  for not offering it earlier. (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32  Cal.App.4th 1494, 1500.)    On July 31, 2023, Defendant  filed a Motion to Quash and other relief arguing improper service of process.  Defendant argued that Plaintiff had not shown reasonable diligence before  utilizing substituted service on a person other than the registered agent for  process for defendant.   On December 12, 2023, the Court issued an order  denying Defendant’s Motion to Quash in its entirety. The Court stated: “Defendant is  an entity. Plaintiff served Defendant by substituted service through a  registered process server. Plaintiff thereby enjoys a presumption of proper  service. Under section 415.20, subdivision (a), due diligence and prior  attempts at service are not necessary when an entity is being served. Therefore,  based on the information at hand, Plaintiff properly served Defendant.” (See  Court’s 12/12/23 Order.)   Defendant  asserts that since the hearing of the motion, Defendant reviewed video from security  cameras posted on his residential property, which shows no process server  having come to the property at the time and date indicated in the proof of  service of summons that was filed with this Court. Defendant also now provides  the declaration of Terry Davis, with whom the process server allegedly left  copies of the summons and complaint, stating that she would not have even been  awake at the early hour the process server claims to have delivered the  documents. Defendant asserts that in light of this new evidence the Court  should reconsider its motion denying Defendant’s motion to quash summons.   However, the Court finds Defendant has not presented a satisfactory  explanation for failing to provide the aforementioned evidence earlier.¿(Garcia  v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal. App. 4th 674, 690.)  The evidence that Defendant relies upon in the current  motion was available at the time of the original motion. Courts have properly  denied motions for reconsideration where it was based on evidence that could  have been presented in connection with the original motion.  (Morris  v. AGFA Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1460;¿Hennigan  v. White (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 395, 406.)     Based on the  foregoing, the Court DENIES Defendant’s motion for reconsideration.   B.     Plaintiff’s  Request for Entry of Default Judgment   CCP § 585 permits entry of a judgment after a Defendant has  failed to timely answer after being properly served.  A party seeking  judgment on the default by the Court must file a Request for Court Judgment,  and: (1) a brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible  evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as  necessary; (4) a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of  judgment; (6) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought;  (7) a dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an  application for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of  grounds for each judgment; (8) exhibits as necessary; and (9) a request for  attorneys’ fees if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.   (CRC Rule 3.1800.)    C.     Application   SUBMITTED: CRC  3.1800    1.     Use of JC Form CIV-100                                                                      Yes  2.     Dismissal or judgment of non-parties  to the judgment                    Yes  3.     Declaration of non-military status for each defendant                     Yes  4.     Summary of the case                                                                          Yes  5.     585(d) declarations/admissible evidence in support                        Yes  6.     Exhibits (as  necessary)                                                                       Yes  7.     Interest  computation (as necessary)                                                 Yes  8.     Cost  memorandum                                                                            Yes 9.     Request for  attorney fees (Local Rule 3.214)                                     Yes    Damages Summary:       Damages    $ 195,028.23     Punitive Damages      N/A     Interest     N/A      Attorneys’ fees     N/A       Costs    $  519.35     TOTAL    $  195,547.58     Other relief requested     N/A        Problems:    Here,  Plaintiff submitted the declaration of Patricia Kotze, Vice-Presideent of  Employers Choice Online, Inc. Kotze attaches to her declaration emails between  her and Defendant’s employees, indicating that the Hard Drive had been disposed  of. (Kotze Decl., Exhibit 1, pp., 8, 12.)    However,  it is unclear how Plaintiff calculated its damages. Kotze states that she reviewed  Plaintiff's income and expenses from 2021, 2022, 2023 and through April 2024. (Kotze  Decl., ¶ 28.) She further states that “based  upon Plaintiffs business operations for the past almost thirteen years,  including economic factors, I attribute Plaintiffs losses as described above  substantially caused by the loss and/or destruction of the Hard Drive and the  inability to access and contact our clients.” (Kotze Decl., ¶ 29.) Plaintiff does not provide any evidence of  its income and expenses or a breakdown of how Plaintiff calculated its total  damages of $195,028.23.     Thus, the Court CONTINUES Plaintiff’s request  for entry of default judgment to permit Plaintiff the chance to provide further  information on its calculation of damages.    III. CONCLUSION    Defendant’s Motion for Reconsideration of Order  Denying Motion to Quash Service of Summons, to Compel Binding Arbitration and  to Stay Action is DENIED. The Court CONTINUES Plaintiff’s request for  entry of default judgment to 6/28/2024 at 8:30 a.m. to permit Plaintiff the chance to provide further  information on its calculation of damages.