 Case Number:  19STCV38374    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  73 5/16/2023 Dept. 73 Hon. Rolf  Treu, Judge presiding    SHAHNAZ AMIRTALESH v. ROCHELLE  STERLING, et al. (19STCV38374)   Counsel for  Plaintiff/moving party:  Shahnaz  Amirtalesh (Pro Per) Counsel for Defendant/opposing  party:  Krista Dawkins (Pyka Lenhardt  Schnaider Dawkins)   (1)    DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF TO PAY THE  DEFENDANT’S EXPERTS’ DEPOSITION FEES (filed 01/11/24) (2)    Plaintiff’s MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL DEFENDANT ROCHELLE H.  STERLING TO ATTEND TRIAL (filed 01/25/24)   TENTATIVE RULING Defendant’s Motion for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to  Pay the Defendant’s Experts’ Deposition Fees is CONTINUED to allow Defendant to submit evidence of Defendant’s  experts reasonable fees. Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel Defendant  Rochelle H. Sterling to Attend Trial is MOOT. BACKGROUND   On October 23, 2019, Plaintiff Shahnaz  Amirtalesh (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Rochelle H.  Sterling (“Sterling”), Beverly Hills Properties (“BHP”), The Sterling Family  Trust, Susan Robman and Does 1-50 (collectively, “Defendants”).   This  action arises out of Plaintiff’s tenancy at 240 N. Crescent Drive, Apt. 107,  Beverly Hills, CA 90210 (the “Apartment”).  In her complaint, Plaintiff  alleges that the Apartment landlord, BHP, failed to maintain sewage pipes in  the building which caused a leak in her shower drain in October 24, 2018; that  BHP delayed in granting her request to replace flood-damaged carpeting in her  Apartment with laminate floors as a reasonable accommodation for her disability  stemming from lung cancer; that BHP did not properly enforce COVID-19  restrictions regarding the use of the Apartment swimming pool; and further,  that Apartment manager, Susan Robman, harassed and discriminated against  Plaintiff because of Plaintiff’s religious beliefs.      In  the summer of 2019, Plaintiff filed complaints with the County of Los Angeles  Department of Public Health (“DPH”) and the City of Beverly Hills regarding her  apartment.  On September 5, 2019, the City of Beverly Hills issued a  notice of violations to BHP.  On September 10, 2019, DPH issued an  Official Inspection Report for violations regarding wall/ceiling floor and  faucet fixtures.     On  October 23, 2019, Plaintiff filed her complaint against Defendants. Sterling is  the owner of BHP and the Apartment and the trustee of the Sterling Family  Trust.  On August 7, 2020, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint  (“SAC”) alleging eight causes of action.  On or about October 20, 2021,  the court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the  SAC without leave to amend.  The remaining causes of action are as  follows:  C/A 1: Breach of Warranty of Habitability  C/A 2: Negligence   C/A 3: Nuisance   C/A 4: Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4  C/A 6: Violation of the California Fair Employment  and Housing Act   C/A 7: Violation of the California Unruh Civil Rights  Act  C/A 8: Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment    On March 17, 2023,  Plaintiff dismissed Defendant Susan Robman from the case.   On January 11,  2024, Defendant filed the instant Motion for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to  pay Defendant’s experts’ deposition fees, arguing: ·       Plaintiff took the deposition of Defendant’s  experts and Defendant claims Plaintiff did not pay the expert witness fees  related to the depositions. ·       The  Court should impose sanctions because Plaintiff has misused the discovery  process by failing to submit payment to defense counsel.   On January  25, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s motion, arguing: ·        There is no contractual agreement between Plaintiff and any  defense attorneys or their law firm mentioned above in regards to expert  witness fee. ·        Defendants failed to produce any retainer agreement from  plaintiff's former counsel Martin Jerisat and defense expert’s witnesses or  defense counsel. Plaintiff never met or spoke with Michael Welch, James  Cantrell or Ben Kolimeyer. Plaintiff does not believe that defense expert  witnesses has any relevance in her case or outcome of her case. ·       Plaintiff  requests sanctions imposed against defense counsel.   Defendant  filed a reply, arguing:  ·       Plaintiff and  her former counsel were not obligated to take these depositions. They chose to  take these depositions, and they chose to incur the cost of the expert  deposition fees. Failure to pay the expert fees is an abuse of the discovery  process that needs to be addressed by the granting this motion and ordering the  expert fees be paid.   On January  25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for an Order to Compel Defendant Rochelle H.  Sterling to Attend Trial,  arguing  Plaintiff is  entitled to notice defendant Rochelle H. Sterling to attend trial. Defendant filed an opposition, arguing Plaintiff’s  motion is unripe because Sterling has not failed to appear for trial. Plaintiff  filed a reply, maintaining that the Court should order Sterling to attend  trial.   ANALYSIS   A.     Defendant’s  Motion to Compel Plaintiff to pay Defendant’s Experts’ Deposition Fees   “A party  desiring to depose an expert witness described in subdivision (a) shall pay the  expert's reasonable and customary hourly or daily fee for any time spent at the  deposition from the time noticed in the deposition subpoena, or from the time  of the arrival of the expert witness should that time be later than the time  noticed in the deposition subpoena, until the time the expert witness is  dismissed from the deposition, regardless of whether the expert is actually  deposed by any party attending the deposition.” (Code of Civil Procedure (CCP)  § 2034.430(b).) “Except as provided in subdivision (f), this section applies to  an expert witness, other than a party or an employee of a party, who is any of  the following: (1) An expert described in subdivision (b) of Section 2034.210 .  . . .” (CCP § 2034.430(a).)    “If any  expert designated by a party under subdivision (a) is a party or an employee of  a party, or has been retained by a party for the purpose of forming and  expressing an opinion in anticipation of the litigation or in preparation for  the trial of the action, the designation of that witness shall include or be  accompanied by an expert witness declaration under Section 2034.260.” (CCP §  2034.210(b).) “Any party may demand a mutual and simultaneous exchange by all  parties of a list containing the name and address of any natural person,  including one who is a party, whose oral or deposition testimony in the form of  an expert opinion any party expects to offer in evidence at the trial.” (CCP §  2034.210(a).)    “Misuses of  the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: . . . (b)  Using a discovery method in a manner that does not comply with its specified  procedures. (c) Employing a discovery method in a manner or to an extent that  causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and  expense . . . .” (CCP § 2030.010.)    Defendants asserts that Plaintiff took the deposition of Defendant’s  experts and Defendant claims Plaintiff did not pay the expert witness fees  related to the depositions. The experts are as follows:    Michael Welch: 1 hour of deposition at $500/hour for a total of  $500.00. James Cantrell: 4 hours minimum at $580/hour for a total of  $2,320.00.  Ben Kollmeyer: 2 hours of deposition at $585/hour for a total of  $1,170.00. Defendant contends Plaintiff’s former counsel noticed the  depositions of defendant’s three experts, for the dates November 3, 2023 and  November 15, 2023. Defendant further states the depositions went forward as  scheduled. Plaintiff argues she is not obligated to pay the fees of the  expert depositions because she did not sign a written agreement to pay such  fees. However, the Court does not find Plaintiff’s argument persuasive as CCP §  2034.430(b) requires that Plaintiff pay Defendant’s experts their reasonable  and customary hourly or daily fee for any time spent at the deposition. Therefore,  the Court finds that Plaintiff is obligated to pay the fees for the depositions  of Defendant’s experts. However, the Court notes that Defendant did not submit  a supporting declaration or exhibit supporting the reasonableness of the fees.  Thus, this Court cannot consider the amount of fees awardable to Defendant’s  experts at this time. The Court does not exercise its discretion to impose  sanctions.  Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel payment of expert witness  deposition fees is CONTINUED to allow Defendant to submit evidence of Defendant’s  experts reasonable fees.   B.     Plaintiff’s  Motion to Compel Sterling to Attend Trial   Plaintiff seeks  an order from the Court compelling Sterling to attend trial. However, the Court  finds this motion is unripe. Trial has not commenced, and Sterling has not  failed to appear for trial. Thus, this issue is moot at this time.    Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel  Defendant Rochelle H. Sterling to Attend Trial is MOOT.   CONCLUSION  Defendant’s Motion for an Order to Compel Plaintiff to  Pay the Defendant’s Experts’ Deposition Fees is CONTINUED to 06/24/2024 at 8:30 a.m. to allow Defendant to submit evidence of Defendant’s  experts reasonable fees. Plaintiff’s Motion for an Order to Compel Defendant  Rochelle H. Sterling to Attend Trial is MOOT.