 Case Number:  22VECV02554    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV02554 DARHOONEH CONSTRUCTION INC.... vs JAKE
& NINA BRUCK TRUST
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: 
Defendants Bruck and Marko; Jake & Nina Bruck Trust; and Marko
Family Trust’s Demurrer to the Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as
to the sixth cause of action for conversion and SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND AS TO the fifth cause of action for fraud; SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE
TO AMEND as to all claims against Jake & Nina Bruck Trust and Marko Family
Trust.  As to defendant Bruck and Marko,
the demurrer is overruled as to all else. 
Plaintiff Darhooneh Construction Inc.’s leave is limited to curing the
pleading defects identified in the ruling and not to add new causes of action.
Introduction 
Defendants Bruck and Marko (B&M); Jake & Nina Bruck
Trust (JNBT); and Marko Family Trust (MFT) (collectively, Defendants) demurred
to Plaintiff Darhooneh Construction Inc.’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  Defendants demurrer placed into issue the
first cause of action (COA) for breach of contract, the second COA for
mechanic’s lien foreclosure, the third COA for breach of oral contract, the
fourth COA for common count, the fifth COA for fraud, the sixth COA for conversion,
and the seventh COA for Penal Code section 496 damages.
Discussion  
A trust is not a legal entity and does not have capacity or
standing to sue or be sued.  Claims and
defenses are held by a trustee and the trustee is the real party in
interest.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 369(b);
Portico Mgmt. Group, LLC v. Harrison (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 464, 473; Presta v.
Tepper (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 909, 914.) 
JNBT and MFT are not correctly identified in the action or designated as
party defendants because they are named solely through the trusts’ names.  Claims against the two trusts must be alleged
against the real party in interest – the trustees of the two trusts.  
On the pleading defect that the trustees of JNBT and MFT are
not named, all claims alleged against JNBT and MFT are SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.  
JNBT and MFT then argued, in broad strokes, that all the
claims alleged against them are duplicative because they are general partners
in the partnership, B&M.  However, it
is undisputable that trusts (when named properly through their trustees) can be
sued as individual persons, assuming claims are properly alleged against
them.  Arguing broadly that the trusts
are protected from suit because they are general partners in a partnership is
insufficient because each COA could have allegations specific to each trust, as
an individual.  JNBT and MFT’s second
argument of duplicity because of their status as general partners is
unpersuasive and OVERRULED.  
Defendants argued that Plaintiff failed to allege facts in
support of the element of Plaintiff’s performance or excuse therefrom.  However, general allegations are sufficient
to plead breach of contract.  Specific
fact pleading is not required.  Plaintiff
expressly alleged that they fully performed except for obligations which were
prevented or waived by Defendants. 
(Compl. par. 13 and 19.)  The
allegations are sufficient to plead performance or excuse.  
B&M’s demurrer to the first COA is OVERRULED.
The second COA to enforce the mechanic’s lien sufficiently
alleged facts to show timely recordation and statutory notice because the work
ceased in July 2022, the mechanic’s lien was recorded on September 27, 2022,
and the action was filed December 23, 2022. 
(Compl. par. 11; Exh. A) 
Defendants’ first argument as to timeliness is unpersuasive.  Defendant then argued that the sum demanded
($130,349.20) is improper because it is not what was within the contract.  (Civ. Code, sec. 8434.)  However, Defendants’ argument presumed that
the amount at issue is a result of a singular written construction
contract.  Plaintiff alleged two separate
contracts.  The first COA is based upon a
written contract wherein Defendants failed to pay the balance owed of
$89,170.00.  The third COA for breach of
an oral contract alleged that Defendants failed to pay $41,179.20.  Whether the work performed under the “oral
contract” is actually an improper modification and/or unwritten change order
under the written contract requires review of facts beyond the four corners of
the pleading.  As alleged, Plaintiff
alleged two contract and whether the oral contract is enforceable or not is an
improper issue for a demurrer.  For
demurrer purposes, the factual allegations are deemed true and there are
sufficient grounds to plead that the amount of the lien is due under the
contractor’s contract, herein two separate contracts.  
The demurrer to the second COA is OVERRULED.
Defendant argued that the third COA for breach of oral
contract is insufficiently alleged with supportive facts based upon the defense
found in the written terms of the agreement alleged in the first COA.  However, as was reviewed above in the second
COA, the facts alleged are that Plaintiff entered two separate contracts.  Defendants’ contention that the second oral
contract was actually a modification or unwritten change order is not a proper
issue for demurrer because it would require review of facts beyond the four
corners of the pleading.  
The demurrer to the third COA is OVERRULED.
The fourth COA for common count/quantum meruit is grounded
on the $41,179.20 owed.  Defendants
argued that the COA is duplicative of the two breach of contract claims.  However, quantum meruit is not the same as
contract claims because quantum meruit is a claim in equity and is grounded
upon the alternative theory when an express contract is not found to
exist.  Defendants’ argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the fourth COA is OVERRULED.      
The fifth COA for fraud alleged false promises to pay as to
both contracts.  (Compl. pars. 9-16,
40-42.)  Plaintiff alleged that the false
promise was made by Defendants’ agent, illi Commercial Real Estate.  However, the facts alleged are insufficient
to meet the specific fact pleading requirement for fraud.  The pleading failed to allege specific facts as
to who at illi Commercial Real Estate made the representations, when and how
the false promises were made, and facts showing a contemporaneous intent not to
perform the promises.  Plaintiff’s
reliance on allegations made in Complaint, par. 40 is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the fifth COA is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.
Defendant argued that the sixth COA for conversion is
insufficiently pled with supportive facts because there is no factual
allegation that a unique sum of cash was converted.  Although the Complaint alleged a specific sum
of money owed ($130,349.20), Plaintiff failed to allege facts to differentiate
the money owed from the contract damages. 
Plaintiff’s opposition did not present argument against the demurrer
specific to the conversion COA.  The
demurrer is persuasive.
The demurrer to the sixth COA for conversion is SUSTAINED
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
As to the seventh COA for Penal Code section 496 damages, a
private right of action for treble damages, costs, and reasonable attorneys’
fees is authorized under subdivision (c), so long as a violation of subdivision
(a) or (b) are sufficiently alleged. 
“[T]he elements required to show a violation of section 496(a) are
simply that (i) property was stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft,
(ii) the defendant knew the property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the
defendant received or had possession of the stolen property.”  [Bolding added.] (Pen. Code, sec. 496(a);
Switzer v Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126 (Switzer).)  Theft is defined, in relevant part as: “Every
person who shall … knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent
representation or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or
personal property, … is guilty of theft.” 
(Pen. Code, sec. 484(a);  Switzer,
supra, at p. 127.)  Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged that Defendants obtained Plaintiff’s labor or personal
property through fraud.  (Compl. pars.
9-16.)  The allegations in the Complaint
are sufficient to plead treble damages under the Penal Code.
Defendants further argued that Plaintiff must plead that a
criminal judgment against Defendants was first obtained.  However, the Switzer opinion expressly held
that a criminal judgment is not a prerequisite to pleading treble damages under
Penal Code section 496(c).  (Switzer,
supra, at p. 126.)  Defendant’s
contention is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the seventh COA is OVERRULED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.