..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV21443
Plaintiff: Ronda Jones
Defendant: B & B Stables, Robert D. Buell, Mary D. Buell
People: Ronda Jones, Robert D. Buell, Mary D. Buell
Company: B & B Stables
Place: Los Angeles County, California
Date: June 10, 2024
Event: Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to set aside dismissal of complaint
Facts: Plaintiff's counsel failed to notify plaintiff of court hearings, leading to dismissal of complaint
Disputes: Plaintiff disputes dismissal of complaint, claims mistake or neglect by plaintiff's counsel
Acts: Plaintiff's counsel filed declaration stating mistake or neglect
Agreements: Parties agreed to extend deadline for defendants to file answer
Laws: CCP ยง 473, California Code of Civil Procedure
Statutes: CCP ยง 473(b)
Roles:
  - Judge: Hon. Holly J. Fujie
  - Plaintiff's counsel: Ronda Jones
  - Defendant's counsel: Unknown
Significant Statements:
  - "The court is empowered to relieve a party or their legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against them through their mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect."
  - "The law favors a trial on the merits and courts therefore liberally construe section 473."
  - "Doubts in applying section 473 are resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default."
```

And here is the English-text summary:

This is a tentative ruling by Judge Holly J. Fujie in the case of Ronda Jones vs. B & B Stables, Robert D. Buell, and Mary D. Buell. The plaintiff, Ronda Jones, is seeking to set aside the dismissal of her complaint. The court finds that the dismissal was caused by mistake or neglect by plaintiff's counsel, and therefore grants the motion to set aside the dismissal. The court orders the plaintiff to file an amended complaint within 30 days, and the remaining defendants are given 20 days to respond to the amended complaint.
