 Case Number:  23STCV21443    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RONDA JONES, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
B & B STABLES, a private entity;
ROBERT D. BUELL, an individual,
MARY D. BUELL, an individual, and
DOES 1 through 20, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV21443          
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE DISMISSAL
 
Date: June 10, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Ronda Jones
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants
B & B Stables, Robert D. Buell, and Mary D. Buell
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers, Defendants’ counsel’s declaration in opposition to the motion and the reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On September 6, 2023, Plaintiff Ronda Jones
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants B&B Stables and its
owners Mary and Robert Buell (collectively, “Defendants”) for (1) Violation of
Civil Rights - Unruh Act, Civil Code § 51; (2) Violation of the California
Business and Professions Code - §17200, et seq.; and (3) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress. Plaintiffs’ matter arises out of a business/patron
relationship wherein Plaintiff was allegedly treated differently based on her
race, and was evicted from a stable despite tendering full monthly payment of
her stable rent at all times during her tenancy.
            
On
December 15, 2023, the Court held a Non-Appearance Case Review. The court noted
that Defendants were served on December 1, 2023, and ordered Plaintiff to file
a request for default by January 8, 2024 if no answer was filed. (12/15/23
Minute Order.) On January 10, 2024, the court set a Non-Appearance Case Review
re: Dismissal for Failure to Prosecute the Case for February 1, 2024. (1/10/24
Minute Order.) On February 1, 2024, the court dismissed Plaintiff’s Complaint
without prejudice. (2/1/24 Minute Order.)
 
DISCUSSION
The
court is empowered to relieve a party or their legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against them through
their mistake, inadvertence, surprise or excusable neglect.  (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)  The court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any: (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment; or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal
entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect.  (Id.) ¿The
law favors a trial on the merits and courts therefore liberally construe
section 473.¿ (Bonzer¿v. City of Huntington Park¿(1993) 20 Cal.App.4th
1474, 1477.)¿ Doubts in applying¿section 473 are resolved in favor of the party
seeking relief from default.¿ (Id. at 1478.)¿  
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s counsel contends that “due to unforeseen circumstances of
Defendants and their Counsel, as well as miscalendaring by Plaintiffs’ office,
there has unfortunately been a series of events that did not put the Court on
notice of the Parties’ agreement that Defendants, and each of them, would file
a[sic] responsive pleading no later than March 29, 2024.” (Motion, 3:12-15.)
Plaintiff’s counsel’s secretary submitted a declaration that she made a mistake
calendaring the court’s 12/15/23 and 1/10/24 Orders, causing Plaintiff’s counsel
not to be notified. (See Feather Decl. generally.) Further, Plaintiffs’ counsel
contends that the parties had agreed to extend Defendants’ deadline to file an
Answer to March 29, 2024, due to one of the Defendants’ poor health. (Aman
Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.) Prior to filing this motion and after the Court entered
dismissal, on February 5, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a declaration stating
the same. (2/5/24 Aman Decl., ¶¶ 10.)
 
Defense
counsel opposes this motion and contends that Plaintiff’s counsel
misrepresented the parties’ interactions. (Herrera Decl., ¶ 20.) Defense
counsel argues that denying the motion would allow Plaintiff to name the Estate
of Robert Buell as a defendant and give the parties the opportunity to more
thoroughly discuss an informal resolution without facing a fast-approaching
statutory deadline, as Defendants are amenable to settling the claims. (Id.,
¶¶ 13, 20.) 
 
The
fact remains that the court entered dismissal of the Complaint because the
parties failed to appear at the Non-Appearance Case Reviews on December 15,
2023 and January 10, 2024. Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear because her
secretary failed to inform her of those hearings. Counsel’s secretary is
relatively new to the firm and unfamiliar with the office’s calendaring system.
(Feather Decl., ¶ 7.) Therefore, the dismissal “results” from an attorney’s “mistake”
or “neglect” within the meaning of CCP § 473(b), and the dismissal must be
vacated.
 
The
motion is GRANTED. Because one of the Defendants, Robert Bueli, has apparently died,
although the Court relieves Plaintiff from default, it does so with the
condition that it allows thirty days for Plaintiff to file a motion to amend
the complaint to name his Estate or other appropriate representative as a
Defendant in place and stead of Robert Bueli. 
The remaining Defendants are allowed to wait to file their responsive
pleadings until such time as an amended complaint has been filed, after which
time they will have twenty days to respond to the amended complaint. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 10th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



