  Case Number:  22STCV11383    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



GLAMLITE, Inc.,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KHALIL BRIAN ZAGHIAN, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.        

 

AND RELATED CROSS ACTION                       


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV11383
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A
  CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date: June 10, 2024 
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendants
Gabrielle Sue Spooner and Madison Smushkevich
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
and Cross-Defendant Awilda Gisselle Hernandez
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             Plaintiffs Glamlite, Inc. (“Glamlite”) and Awilda
Gisselle Hernandez (“Hernandez”) filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) against Khalil
Brian Zaghian (“Zaghian”) on April 4, 2022, alleging causes of action for (1)
civil theft; (2) conversion; (3) tortious interference with contractual
relations; (4) tortious interference with prospective economic advantage; (5)
breach of fiduciary duty; (6) unfair competition; (7) accounting; (8)
constructive trust; (9) identity theft; (10) invasion of privacy; (11)
declaratory relief; and (12) a temporary restraining order (“TRO”), preliminary
injunction, and permanent injunction.  
The Complaint alleges in pertinent part as follows. In
2015, Hernandez developed a product known as “Glamlite,” a lighted mirror for
“selfie” photos.  Hernandez wanted to
incorporate her business.  Her
then-boyfriend Zaghian recommended using the services of his accountant Azad
Yavari (“Yavari”).  Hernandez instructed
Yavari to give Zaghian a 40% share of Glamlite and the role of Chief Financial
Officer, while Hernandez would retain 60% of the company and the title of Chief
Executive Officer.  Hernandez later
learned that Yavari instead distributed shares in a 50-50 split and forged her
signature in the process. In 2022, Hernandez discovered that Zaghian had been
misappropriating corporate funds and taking out loans under Glamlite’s name for
his own benefit. Hernandez also discovered that Zaghian had neglected his
duties, including ignoring sizeable orders. 
On May 6, 2022, Zaghian filed a Cross-Complaint (the “XC”)
against Glamlite and Hernandez, adding as cross-defendants Tawny Tyndall
(“Tyndall”), Gabrielle Sue Spooner (“Spooner”), and Madison Smushkevich (“Smushkevich”).  
On January 27, 2023, the Complaint, in its entirety,
and the XC, as to the claims against Glamlite, Hernandez, and Tyndall, were
dismissed pursuant to a settlement agreement. The only remaining claims in this
action are Zaghian’s claims in the XC against Spooner and Smushkevich.
Zaghian’s causes of action against Spooner and Smushkevich are: (8) Conversion,
(9) Common Count for Claim and Delivery, (10) Constructive Trust and Unjust
Enrichment, (11) Common Count for Money Had and Received, (12) Accounting, (13)
Violation of Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, (14) Fraud: Concealment, (15) Libel
Per Se, (16) Slander Per Se, (17) Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Relation, and (19) Temporary Restraining Order, Preliminary
Injunction, Permanent Injunction.
Spooner and Smushkevich now seek leave to file their
own Cross-Complaint against Zaghian, Glamlite, Hernandez and Anthony Ares (“Ares”)
for (1) Conversion of Intellectual Property; (2) Failure to Prevent Harassment;
(3) Gender Discrimination; (4) Wrongful Termination; (5) Defamation Per Se; (6)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (7) Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress; (8) Misclassification as an Independent Contractor; (9) Meal
and Rest Period Violations; (10) Failure to Pay Overtime Wages; (11) Unlawful
Withholding of Wages Due; (12) Non-Compliant Wage Statements; (13) Waiting Time
Penalties; and (14) Whistleblower Protection.
The motion is opposed by Hernandez only. Zaghian did
not file an opposition.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
             A trial court may decline to rule on evidence
that is not material to the disposition of the motion. (Code of Civ. Proc.
437c(q).) The Court declines to rule on Spooner and Smushkevich’s objections to
the Declaration of Hernandez.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The Court grants the request of Spooner and Smushkevich for  judicial notice of Spooner, Smushkevich, and
Hernandez’s Answers to Zaghian’s Cross-Complaint filed in this action.
 


 
DISCUSSION
Parties generally must file a cross-complaint against the
party who filed the complaint before or at the same time as the answer to the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50(a).)  Parties seeking to file
untimely compulsory cross-complaints, however, may file with the Court for
leave to do so, even though the failure to timely file resulted from oversight,
inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause.  (Id. §
426.50.)  In such a case, after notice to the adverse party, the Court
must grant leave to file the cross-complaint if the party acted in good faith.
Courts liberally construe section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of
action.  (Ibid.)  
The purpose of the compulsory cross-complaint statute is to
prevent piecemeal litigation.  (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran
(2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949, 959.)  Compulsory cross-complaints consist of
those causes of action existing at the time of service of the answer that the
defendant must bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right to bring
them in any other action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30(a).) 
Specifically, compulsory cross-complaints consist of the causes of action that
“arise out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his
complaint.”  (Id. § 426.10(c).)  To avoid piecemeal
litigation, courts liberally construe the term “transaction”—it is “ ‘not
confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . . . but may embrace a series
of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’ ” (Align Technology, at
p. 960.) 
Thus, a motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint at any
time during the course of the action must be granted where forfeiture would
otherwise result, unless the moving party engaged in bad faith conduct.  (Silver
Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  The
determination that the moving party acted in bad faith must be supported by
substantial evidence. (Ibid.; Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v.
Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902 [“We conclude that this
principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in
order to support a denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this
section”].) 
Spooner
and Smushkevich argue that the claims they seek to bring are compulsory claims.
They contend that the Complaint, Zaghian’s XC and this proposed XC all arise
out of the parties’ employment at Glamlite. Spooner and Smushkevich both joined
Glamlite in 2022, and they allege that they were subjected to consistent
fraudulent activity, including the conversion of their intellectual property, harassment,
violations of their employment rights, and retaliation against them for voicing
these concerns. Spooner and Smushkevich also allege that they were deceived by
the other parties’ insistence that they be represented in this action by the
same counsel as Hernandez and Glamlite.
In
opposition, Hernandez contends that Spooner and Smushkevich’s proposed claims are
independent of the disputes alleged in the Complaint and Zaghian’s XC. Whereas
the Complaint and Zaghian’s XC dealt with the internal dispute between the
owners of Glamlite alleging wrongdoings between themselves, Spooner and
Smushkevich’s claims deal with theft of intellectual property during their
employment with Glamlite, wage and hour claims against Glamlite, wrongful
termination, and FEHA claims of harassment. 
A related cause of
action is one “which arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff
alleges in his complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc § 426.10(c).) Section § 426.10(c)
does not require that the causes of action in a proposed cross-complaint and
previous complaint be identical; rather, they must share a logical relationship
(ZF Micro Devices, Inc. v. TAT Capital Partners, Ltd. (2016) 5 Cal.App.
5th 69, 82.) The Court disagrees with Spooner and Smushkevich that the claims
alleged in the proposed XC arise from a common nucleus of operative facts as
the Complaint and Zaghian’s XC—namely, their employment relationship with
Glamlite. The Complaint and Zaghian’s XC are both entirely based on the claims
between Plaintiff and Zaghian and Yavari relating to the ownership of
Glamlite.  Spooner and Smushkevich are
only included as being among “All Cross-Defendants” on the Claim and Delivery
cause of action in the Zaghian XC.  The
issues raised by Spooner and Smushkevich in the proposed XC are not related to,
nor do they arise from the issues currently in this case.  Therefore, the proposed XC is not appropriate
to be brought in this action.
            Accordingly, the motion is DENIED. 
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 10th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



