  Case Number:  24TRCV01079    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CHUNG
  BACK, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV01079




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
AMERICAN
  HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.,


 
 
 
Defendant.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          August 2, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Chung Back
Demurrer to Complaint
 
            The Court considered the moving, opposition,
and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action.
BACKGROUND
            On March 29, 2024, plaintiff Chung
Back filed a complaint against American Honda Motor Co., Inc. for (1) breach of
implied warranty of merchantability under Song-Beverly Act and (2) breach of
express warranty under Song-Beverly Act. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
DISCUSSION
Defendant American Honda demurs to the
first and second causes of action in the complaint on the ground that they fail
to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action.
The complaint alleges that in
January 2018, plaintiff purchased a 2018 Honda automobile.  Complaint, ¶8.  During the warranty period, the vehicle
developed various defects and conditions affecting the safety, value, and/or
use of the vehicle, including the vehicle’s air conditioner repeatedly
malfunctioning.  Id., ¶11.  Plaintiff has delivered the vehicle to
Honda’s designated facilities for repair of these defects and safety-related
impairments on multiple occasions. 
Honda’s designated repair facilities have been unable to service or
repair the vehicle so as to conform to the express warranties made to plaintiff
by defendant.  Id., ¶12.
            First
cause of action for breach of implied warranty of merchantability
Defendant argues that the claim
fails because it is barred by the statute of limitations under Civil Code §1791
and Comm. Code §2725, which runs from the date of sale and has a minimum period
of four years and a maximum period of five years when breached on the last day
of Song-Beverly’s one year duration period. 
Defendant also contends that plaintiff cannot amend to allege facts to
show delayed discovery because that doctrine cannot be applied.
In opposition, plaintiff disagrees
that the claim is barred by the statute of limitations because an implied
warranty claim is actionable where a defect exists at the time of sale, even if
it manifests outside the one year implied warranty duration.  Plaintiff also seeks leave to amend to add
fraudulent concealment.
In reply, defendant argues that the
claim does not exist in perpetuity. 
Further, defendant contends, an implied warranty claim cannot be tolled
by the doctrine of fraudulent concealment because it directly conflicts with
Comm. Code §2725(2)’s plain language eliminating knowledge of the breach from
the equation.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient as they show that the statute of limitations
expired.  Civil Code §1791.1(c) extends
that time in which an implied warranty exists to be breached by no more than
one year beyond the date of sale. 
Plaintiff alleges the sale was in January 2018; the date must have
accrued on or before January 31, 2019, and the four year statute of limitations
expired no later than January 31, 2023. 
The complaint was filed on March 29, 2024. 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Second
cause of action for breach of express warranty
The complaint alleges that as
consideration for plaintiff’s payment, plaintiff received from defendants the vehicle
and an express written warranty, pursuant to which defendants undertook to
preserve and maintain the utility and performance of the vehicle, or to provide
compensation to plaintiff if there was a failure in such utility or performance
during the warranty period.  Complaint, ¶9.  The warranty provided, in relevant part, that
in the event a defect developed with the vehicle during the warranty period, plaintiff
could deliver the vehicle to Honda’s designated independent repair facilities,
and the vehicle would be repaired at Honda’s expense.  Id., ¶10. 
The vehicle had defects, malfunctions, misadjustments, and/or
nonconformities covered by the warranty that substantially impaired its value,
use, or safety to plaintiff.  Id.,
¶33.   Plaintiff delivered the vehicle to the
manufacturer or its authorized repair facilities for repair.  Id., ¶34. 
Defendants failed to service or repair the vehicle to match the written
warranty after a reasonable number of opportunities to do so.  Id., ¶35.
Defendant argues that the
allegations are conclusory and parrot the statute.
In opposition, plaintiff argues
that the allegations are sufficient, but that it could allege the duration and
type.
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient and conclusory. 
“Simply parroting the language of [a statute] in the complaint is
insufficient to state a cause of action under the statute.”  Hawkins v. TACA Internat. Airlines, S.A.
(2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 466, 478.  “[S]tatutory
causes of action must be pleaded with particularity.”  Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.  Further, pleading
a breach of express warranty requires that a plaintiff allege the written
warranty by either setting out the terms verbatim, by attaching a copy of the
warranty and incorporating the terms, or by pleading its legal effect.  See McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc.
(2006) 142 Cal. App. 4th 1457, 1489. 
Plaintiff does not allege the terms of the written warranty, including
duration, or attach a copy or plead its legal effect.  Plaintiff should also plead the specific code
section under the Song-Beverly Act that plaintiff is suing upon.
            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE
TO AMEND.
 
ORDER

            The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first and second causes of action.
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.