  Case Number:  23LBCV01099    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundOn June 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Borba Investment Realty, Inc., Charles B. Roselli, and Does 1 through 100. On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff alleged the following causes of action of the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”):1. Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.4;2. Tortious Breach of the Warranty of Habitability;3. Private Nuisance;4. Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq.;5. Negligence;6. Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment;7. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress;8. Negligence Per Se;9. Violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, California Civil Code § 1750, et seq.;10. California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Gov. Code § 12955, et seq.; and11. Violation of Long Beach Tenant Harassment Ordinance.Plaintiff alleges that this action arises out of Plaintiff’s alleged tenancy at Defendant Roselli’s property located at 535 W. Third Street, Unit 12, Long Beach, California (“Subject Property”). (FAC ¶ 4.) Plaintiff alleges residing at the Subject Property from October 2018 to February 2023 and it was inhabitable due to cockroaches, plumbing issues, weatherproofing and an inoperable electric garage door opener. (FAC ¶¶ 22, 25.) Plaintiff alleges that repair requests communicated to Defendant Roselli were ignored or only partially repaired. (FAC ¶¶ 33, 34.)Procedural HistoryOn October 25, 2023, Defendant Borba Investment Realty, Inc. (“Defendant Borba”) filed a Demurrer and Motion to Strike to the original complaint. That same day, Defendant Charles B. Roselli (“Defendant Roselli”) filed a Demurrer to the original complaint. On February 15, 2014, this Court, per the Honorable Mark C. Kim, issued itsMinute Order following the hearing. The Court sustained Defendant Borba’s demurrer without leave to amend and sustained Defendant Roselli’s demurrer with leave to amend.On March 14, 2024, this Court, per the Hon. Mark C. Kim, granted judgment of dismissal following sustaining Defendant Borba’s demurrer without leave to amend. On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to set aside/vacate dismissal. The hearing for the motion to set aside/vacate dismissal is set for October 10, 2024.On April 15, 2024, Defendant Roselli filed the instant demurrer with motion to strike. As of May 24, 2024, no opposition or reply has been filed.Legal StandardA demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading. It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true, however improbable they may be.A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 [grounds], § 430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be taken], and § 430.50, subd. (a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of action within]. Specifically, a demurrer may be brought per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e) if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. Per Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (a), a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably respond. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)However, in construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769.) And, if the facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 92, subd. (c).)Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Ibid.)Finally, Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(3).)Meet and ConferDefendant Roselli’s counsel declares that he sent a detailed email to Plaintiff’s counsel on April 12, 2024, prior to filing the instant demurrer and motion to strike. (Day Decl., ¶¶ 11, 12; Exh. B.) In effort to meet and confer, Defendant Roselli’s counsel called Plaintiff’s office on April 12, 2024 and left a voice mail; Defendant Roselli’s counsel also sent emails requesting Plaintiff’s counsel call him to discuss the grounds for the demurrer and motion to strike. (Day Decl., ¶¶ 13-15, Exh. C.) When Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond by the deadline listed by Defendant Roselli’s counsel, the instant demurrer and motion to strike was filed. (Day Decl., ¶¶ 15, 16.) The Court finds that Defendant Roselli’s counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirements prior to filing the instant demurrer and motion to strike.The February 15, 2024 Minute Order also noted Plaintiff counsel’s failure to participate in the meet and confer process regarding the demurrer and motion to strike that were filed to the original complaint. (2/15/2024 Minute Order pp. 3, 4.) This Court ordered Plaintiff’s counsel to participate in future meet and confer conversations. Plaintiff’s counsel has again failed to participate in the meet and confer process. (Ibid.)DiscussionDefendant Roselli states that in Plaintiff’s FAC contains only three differences from Plaintiff’s original complaint. The three differences are:1. The words “First Amended” are hand-written on the caption page;2. The name Borba Investment is deleted from Paragraph 4 in the definition of “Defendants”; and3. The First Amended Complaint contains the addition of one “new” Paragraph 134 in the Seventh Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.(See Day Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.)The Court notes on additional difference. The FAC also contains the addition of one “new” Paragraph 169 in the Tenth Cause of Action for FEHA. (FAC ¶ 169.)This Court sustained with leave to amend Defendant Roselli’s demurrer and motion to the strike the original complaint because Plaintiff did not attach the property lease (“subject lease”). (2/15/2024 Minute Order p. 4; Day Decl., Exh. “A”.) This Court ordered Plaintiff to attach the lease to an amended pleading. (Ibid.) Despite this Court’s earlier directive, Plaintiff has not included the subject lease to the FAC.Defendant Roselli demurs to the private nuisance, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, IIED, CLRA, FEHA, and tenant harassment ordinance causes of action in the FAC. Defendant Roselli raises the same arguments as he did in the demurrer to the original complaint. Despite this Court’s earlier directive that Plaintiff must attach the subject lease to an amended pleading, Plaintiff has not done so. The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend on the ground that Plaintiff did not attach the subject lease from which the parties’ duties under the subject lease are alleged to arise from.Defendant Roselli also argues the IIED cause of action fails to allege extreme and outrageous conduct, the FEHA cause of action fails to allege facts showing discrimination, and the tenant harassment cause of action fails to allege facts showing harassment. The Court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged enough facts to state sufficient to state causes of action for IIED, FEHA, and the tenant harassment ordinance.The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend on each of these additional grounds; Plaintiff must plead additional facts in an amended pleading if he wishes to pursue these claims.Motion to StrikeDefendant Roselli’s motion to strike is moot in light of the ruling on the demurrer.Tentative RulingDefendant Roselli’s demurrer is sustained with leave to amend for 20 days. Defendant Roselli’s motion to strike is moot.Moving party to give notice.