 Case Number:  22STCV20995    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
June 28, 2022, Plaintiff Ramona Lopez (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action against Defendants Smog
Express (“Smog Express”), Exxon Mobil Corporation (“Exxon”), United Brothers, Inc.
(“United”), and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
August 1, 2022, Smog Express filed an answer. 
On
November 3, 2022, the Court dismissed Exxon without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
May 21, 2024, Smog Express and United (“Defendants”) filed (1) a motion for leave to
take Plaintiff’s second medical examination and (2) a motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s independent neuropsychological/mental examination.  The motions were set for hearing on July 2,
2024.  On June 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition to Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s
independent neuropsychological/mental examination.  Plaintiff did not file an opposition to
Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s medical examination.  On June 25, 2024, Defendants filed a reply in
support of their motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s neuropsychological/mental examination.  The Court
continued the hearing to August 15, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 12, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court (1) for leave to take Plaintiff’s second medical examination and
(2) for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s independent neuropsychological/mental
examination. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny Defendants’ motion for leave to take Plaintiff’s neuropsychological/mental examination or to impose conditions on the examination. 
LEGAL STANDARD 

Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides: 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with
Section 2032.210), or by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court. 
“(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the
person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.” 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.310.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides in part: 
“(a) The
court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown. 
* * *
 “(d) An order
granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons
who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions,
scope, and nature of the examination.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subds. (a), (d).) 

DISCUSSION 
A.   Motion for leave to take Plaintiff’s second physical
examination 
Defendants
ask the Court for leave to take Plaintiff’s second physical examination.  While an orthopedic surgeon conducted the
first medical examination, Defendants wish to have Steven Sykes, M.D., a board-certified
neurologist, conduct the second examination because Plaintiff contends that she
has suffered neurological injuries resulting from Defendants’ alleged
negligence, placing her neurological condition at issue. 
The
Court finds good cause and grants Defendants’ motion to for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s
second physical examination.  Neurologist
Steven Sykes, M.D., will conduct the examination at 1919 Santa Monica Boulevard, Suite 100, Santa Monica, California
90404, telephone (424) 314-7810, within 30 days from the hearing on this motion
on a date and time to which the parties
agree. 
The
examination may include examination/testing of the cranial nerve, facial
sensation and strength, limited mental status, motor function, sensory response
and reflexes, coordination, gait, and related examination. 
B.       Motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s
neuropsychological/mental examination 
Defendants
ask the Court for leave to conduct a neuropsychological/mental examination of
Plaintiff with neuropsychologist Judy Ho, Ph.D., on dates to which the parties
agree.  According to Defendants, Plaintiff contends that she has suffered neuropsychological/mental
injuries, including traumatic brain injury, resulting from Defendants’ alleged
negligence, placing her neuropsychological/mental condition at issue. 
Plaintiff
does not deny that she is claiming traumatic brain injury but asks the Court to
deny the request or impose the following conditions: 
1. Allow
Plaintiff to record all aspects of the examination and testing. 
2. Allow
Plaintiff to drink liquids whenever she wishes. 
3. Allow
Plaintiff to take snack breaks on demand.
4. Allow
Plaintiff to take restroom breaks on demand.
5.
If the total time for examination and testing exceeds 6 hours, allow Plaintiff to take
a .5 hour lunch break about half-way through the day.
6. Limit
the total time for examination and testing to 1 day, 8 hours from time of arrival at
the doctor's office to the time of leaving the doctor's office, including the
lunch break of .5 hours, leaving 7.5 hours for examination and testing.
7. Allow
Plaintiff to refuse to sign any consent or arbitration forms. 
8. Provide
Plaintiff, through her counsel, copies of all raw data, testing materials, and
reports. 
9.
Limit the interview portion of the examination to relevant areas of inquiry related to the
injuries Plaintiff is claiming in this action and exclude questions regarding
medical, personal, or legal history unrelated to the present action. 
Defendants
disagree with several of Plaintiff’s proposed conditions and request a
protective order for any exchange of raw data and testing materials. 
The
Court finds good cause and grants Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct
Plaintiff’s neuropsychological/mental examination subject to the following
conditions: 
1.    Audio recording 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), provides that “The
examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by
audio technology.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.530, subd. (a).)  “[S]ince section
2032.530, subdivision (a) grants the examinee the right to record a mental
examination by audio technology, it implies the examinee may retain a copy of
the audio recording.”  (Randy's
Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837 (Randy’s
Trucking).) 
Defendants
contend that, “[a]part from the clinical interview, the standardized assessment
portions of the examination, including the administration of paper-and-pencil
questionnaires, cognitive tests, computerized questionnaires, and the
administration of the semi-structured diagnostic interview (i.e., SCID 5)
cannot be audio-recorded, videotaped, nor can photos be taken of the materials.”  (Reply p. 4.) 
According to Defendants, “these protocols constitute raw data and trade
secrets and the defense medical examiner has ethical and legal obligations to
maintain their confidentiality and administer these instruments with fidelity
to standardized procedures.” 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), allows Plaintiff to use audio technology to
record the examination without imposing any limitations.  Defendants cite no legal authority that would
allow the Court to limit Plaintiff’s rights under the statute for the reasons Defendants give. 
The
Court orders that Plaintiff may record all portions of the mental examination
by audio technology.  (See L. Edmon &
C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶
8:1595, p.8I-25 [“Both the examiner and the examinee have the right to record
the entire examination by audio (but not video) technology”].)  The parties may submit a stipulated
protective order restricting the dissemination of information contained in the
audio recording for the Court’s approval.    
2.    Raw data 
In Randy's
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, the trial court granted the
defendants’ motion to compel the plaintiff’s mental examination by a
neuropsychologist.  (Id. at p. 824.)  The court denied the defendants’ request to
transfer the testing information to the plaintiffs’ expert rather than the
plaintiffs’ counsel.  (Id. at p.
832.)  Instead, the court ordered the
neuropsychologist to provide an audio recording of the examination and “‘all
raw data’” to the plaintiffs’ counsel within 30 days after the examination
subject to a protective order.  (Ibid.)  The defendants petitioned for a writ of
mandate.  (Id. at p. 825.) 
The
Court of Appeal denied writ relief.  (Randy’s
Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.)  The court observed, “[t]here is no statutory
authority . . . precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure of test
materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.”  (Id. at p. 834, citing Carpenter v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 271.)  And “given the trial court’s broad discretion
in discovery matters, the trial court . . . has the power to order disclosure
of test materials and data to plaintiff’s attorney.”  (Id. at p. 835.)  Therefore, the trial court had discretion to
order the production to the plaintiffs’ counsel of the raw data and audio
recording.  (Id. at p. 837.) 
The
defendants argued the trial court abused its discretion because the need to
protect the neuropsychologist from violating her ethical and professional
obligations outweighed the plaintiffs’ need for the raw data and audio
recording. (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.
837.)  But the neuropsychologist “did not
explain why her ethical obligations would be violated
if a court ordered her to disclose the raw data and audio recording to
plaintiffs’ attorney subject to a protective order.”  (Id. at pp. 837-838.) 
The
Court of Appeal reasoned that, “[w]ithout the raw data and audio recording,
[the plaintiffs] cannot effectively scrutinize the way the data was collected,
determine if there are discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist
on the basis and reasons for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.”  (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 838.)  Moreover, the
plaintiffs “should not be forced to retain an expert to gain access to these
materials and even if they do retain one, that expert can only assist the
attorney in preparing for cross-examination; to prepare and conduct an
effective cross-examination, ‘the attorney must themselves possess more than a
second-hand understanding of the information being scrutinized.’ ”  (Ibid.) 
Here
too, Defendants have not submitted a declaration from their neuropsychologist
explaining why her ethical obligations would be violated if a court ordered her
to disclose the raw data to Plaintiff’s counsel subject to a protective order.  (See Randy’s Trucking, supra,
91 Cal.App.5th at pp. 837-838.)  The
Court concludes that Plaintiff has a legitimate need for the raw data and concerns about maintaining test security can be satisfied with a protective
order.  (See id. at p. 838.)  The Court exercises its discretion and orders
release of the raw data to Plaintiff’s attorney subject to a protective
order.  (See id. at p. 842.) 
3.    Length of examination, breaks, liquid 
Defendants
estimate that the examination will last 14 hours.  To support the estimate, Defendants have
provided only their counsel’s declaration stating: 
“The proposed scope of mental examination
(Neuropsychology/ Psychology) was provided by Dr. Judy Ho, the
Neuropsychologist who Defendant anticipates will complete the evaluation of
Plaintiff. Dr. Ho has indicated that this scope of testing is warranted due to
the nature and extent of the alleged injuries; with cognitive testing required
due to the mechanism of injury. I am informed and believe the total time for
the Neuropsychology examination is anticipated be 14 hours.”  (Soltis dec. ¶ 8.)         
          The Court finds that Defendants have not shown that 14
hours are required for the examination. 
The examination may not exceed 8 hours, which will include a 30-minute
lunch break if the entire examination takes place on one day.  Defendants will provide restroom breaks not
to exceed 15 minutes at Plaintiff’s request.  Defendants will provide snack breaks not to
exceed 15 minutes every two hours at Plaintiff’s request.  Plaintiff may drink liquids during the
examination. 
4.    Scope of interview         
The
Court will not limit the scope of the interview.  With a total examination time of 8 hours, the Court expects the interview portion of the examination to address
only matters relevant to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. 
5.    Arbitration and consent forms 
Plaintiff
may refuse to sign any arbitration or consent forms. 
6.    Tests 
Dr.
Ho may conduct only the following tests: 
Structured
Clinical Interview for DSM-5 (SCID-5), Structured Interview of Reported
Symptoms, 2nd Edition (SIRS-2), Structured Inventory of Malingered
Symptomatology (SIMS), Substance Abuse Subtle Screening Inventory (SASSI-4),
Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II), Beck
Hopelessness Inventory (BHI), Weschler Adult Intelligence Test-Fourth Edition
(WAIS-IV), Weschler Memory Scale - Fourth Edition (WMS-4), Delis-Kaplan
Executive Function System (D-KEFS), Woodcock Johnson Test of Cognitive
Abilities 4th Edition (WJ-IV), Neuropsychological Assessment Battery (NAB),
Boston Naming Test, Hooper, Developmental Test of Visual Perception -
Adolescent and Adult (DTVP-A), Rey Complex Figure Test (RCFT), Rey 15 Item, Dot
Counting Test, b test, Advanced Clinical Systems Tests, Wisconsin Cart Sort
Test (M-WCST), Iowa Gambling Test (IGT-2), Test of Everyday Attention (TEA),
Rivermead Behavior Memory Test (RBMT), Test of Memory and Learning (TOMAL-2),
Test of Premorbid Functioning (TOPF), Social Cognition, Conners Performance
Test (CPT 3), Memory for Intentions Test (MIST), Booklet Category Test 
CONCLUSION 
          The Court GRANTS the motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff Ramona
Lopez’s second medical examination filed by Defendants Smog Express and United
Brothers, Inc.  The Court orders Plaintiff
Ramona Lopez to attend a medical examination with neurologist Steven Sykes,
M.D, a board-certified neurologist, at 1919 Santa Monica Boulevard, Suite 100,
Santa Monica, CA 90404, (424) 314-7810, on a date within 30 days of the hearing
on this motion on which the parties agree. 
The manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination are set forth
above.         
The
Court GRANTS the motion for leave to conduct Plaintiff Ramona Lopez’s independent
neuropsychological/mental examination with Judy Ho, Ph.D., at 1600
Rosecrans Avenue, Media Center 4th Floor, Manhattan Beach, CA 90266, on a date
within 30 days of the hearing on this motion on which the parties agree.
The manner, diagnostic tests and procedures,
conditions, scope, and nature of the examination are set forth above. 
          Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
          Moving party is ordered to file the proof of service of
this ruling within five days.