 Case Number:  21STCV36551    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On October 4, 2021, Plaintiff Jeffrey Goodman
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Karin Derradji, EAN
Holdings, LLC, and Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On December 21, 2023, the Court dismissed the case
without prejudice. 
On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to vacate
the dismissal.  The motion was set for
hearing on August 15, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff asks the Court to vacate the dismissal. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides in part: 
“Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties. However, this section shall not lengthen the
time within which an action shall be brought to trial pursuant to Section
583.310.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
          Plaintiff has filed a timely motion and submitted an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.  The Court therefore grants the
motion and vacates the December 21, 2023 order dismissing the case. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Jeffrey Goodman’s motion to vacate the
dismissal.  The Court vacates the
dismissal entered on December 21, 2023. 
The
Court sets an OSC Re: Filing of Proof of Service for September 12, 2024, at
8:30 a.m., in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.