  Case Number:  20STCV48398    Hearing Date:   August 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 18, 2020, Plaintiff Francisco Perez Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Kuldeep Shukla (“Shukla”), Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), and
Does 1-50 for negligence, negligent hiring, training, and supervision, and
strict products liability. 
On
March 29, 2021, Lyft filed an answer. On May 7, 2021, Shukla filed an answer. 
On
January 25, 2024, the Court granted Lyft’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
on Plaintiff’s third cause of action for strict products liability with 30 days
leave to amend. 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Shukla,
Lyft, and Does 1-50 for negligence, negligent hiring, training, and
supervision, and “strict products liability pursuant to CPUC 5354.” 
On
March 19, 2024, Shukla filed an answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
March 27, 2024, Lyft filed an admission of vicarious liability for Shukla’s
negligence, if any. 
On
May 30, 2024, the Court sustained Lyft’s demurrer to the third cause of action under
Public Utilities Code section 5354 in Plaintiff’s
first amended complaint because the Court did not authorize Plaintiff to add an
entirely new cause of action when the Court granted leave to amend the third
cause of action in the original complaint. The Court stated that Plaintiff may
file a motion to amend the first amended complaint to add a new cause of
action. 
On
June 7, 2024, Lyft filed an answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
June 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint
including a claim under Public Utilities Code
section 5354.  The motion was set for
hearing on August 1, 2024.  On July 23,
2024, Lyft filed an opposition.  The
Court continued the hearing to August 15, 2024. 
On August 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief, which the Court has
not considered.  On August 12, 2024, Lyft
filed an objection to Plaintiff’s reply brief. 
Trial
is currently set for September 16, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to grant leave to file a second amended complaint which includes a claim against Lyft under Public Utilities Code section 5354. 
Lyft
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s factual allegations 
Plaintiff
alleges the following: 
On
December 24, 2018, Plaintiff was a passenger in Shukla’s vehicle at or near
I-10 westbound (Santa Monica Freeway) to I-110 northbound (Harbor Freeway) in
the city of Los Angeles.  Defendants
negligently, carelessly and unlawfully entrusted, managed, maintained, drove,
and operated their vehicle, causing it to collide with yellow attenuator
barrels on the left side of the freeway and injuring Plaintiff. 
B.   The original complaint’s strict products liability claim 
In
Plaintiff’s initial complaint filed on December 18, 2020, Plaintiff’s third
cause of action against Lyft and Doe defendants for “Strict Products Liability”
alleged: 
·       Lyft and Doe defendants “designed, manufactured, sold,
leased, and/or distributed the LYFT APP and/or user interface, mounting bracket
that [Shukla] was required to use as a LYFT driver and which he was using at
the time of the collision” (Complaint ¶ 29);

·       The Lyft app was defectively designed because it
requires the driver to engage in distracted driving and limits drivers’ visibility
(Complaint ¶¶ 33-34);
·       The Lyft app “failed to perform as safely as the
ordinary consumer would expect, or have a right to expect, when using the
product in an intended or reasonably foreseeable manner” (Complaint
¶ 35);

·       The risk of injury, damage, harm, and death inherent
in the Lyft app’s design outweighs the benefit of the design (Complaint ¶ 36);
·       Lyft and Doe defendants “knew, or should have known
that the use of the application would require use in such a manner as to
violate one and/or more provisions of the California Vehicle Code and create a
significant risk of harm of the type suffered by the Plaintiff in this action” (Complaint ¶ 32), and 

·       The defective product was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiff’s injury (Complaint ¶ 37).    
C.   The first amended complaint’s claim for strict products liability under Public Utilities Code section 5354 
Before
the Court sustained Lyft’s demurrer, the third cause of action for “Strict Products Liability Pursuant to CPUC 5354” in Plaintiff’s first amended complaint filed on February 13,
2024 alleged: 
·       Lyft “is a Transportation Network Company, charter
party passenger carrier, common carrier and holder of California Public
Utilities Commission Permit No. TCP0032513 – P N and governed by the California
Public Utilities Commission’s rules and regulation, including CPUC Section 5354”
(First Amended Complaint ¶ 29); 
·       “Pursuant to the express terms of CPUC Section 5354,
the acts and omissions of [Shukla] are the acts and omissions of the
Transportation Network Company and Permit Holder, [Lyft], such that the [Lyft]
is strictly liable for the acts and omissions of [Shukla]” (First Amended Complaint ¶ 30);

·       Shukla’s acts and omissions “in causing the subject
collision and plaintiff’s injuries are legally deemed to be [Lyft’s] acts and omissions”
(First Amended Complaint ¶ 31). 
D.   Plaintiff’s motion to file a second amended complaint 
Plaintiff
now seeks leave to file a second amended complaint whose third cause of action,
titled “Statutory Liability Pursuant To CPUC 5354,” essentially incorporates the first
amended complaint’s former third cause of action.  According
to Plaintiff, the new claim is based on the facts alleged in the previous
complaints and presents only a new legal theory. 
Lyft
argues that the proposed new cause of action is moot and unnecessary because Lyft has
admitted liability for Shuka’s conduct. 
As a result, according to Lyft, allowing the amendment would not further
the interests of justice. 
Lyft
also argues that Plaintiff’s motion is untimely because Plaintiff filed the
original complaint in December 2020 and trial is currently scheduled for
September 16, 2024. 
The
Court grants the motion.  Lyft has not
shown that the amendment has misled it or will prejudice it.  And the Court “will not consider the validity
of the proposed amended pleading in deciding whether to grant leave to amend. .
. . After leave to amend is granted, the opposing party will have the
opportunity to attack the validity of the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice
Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189 to 6-190.) 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Francisco Perez Sanchez’s motion
to file a second amended complaint.   Plaintiff Francisco Perez Sanchez is ordered to file and serve a second amended complaint within
10 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.