  Case Number:  21STCV23117    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.            Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Ford
Motor Company has failed to repair the subject vehicle to conform to applicable
warranties. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Autonation Ford Torrance
negligently repaired the subject vehicle.
            The Court granted Defendants Ford
Motor Company and Autonation Ford Torrance motion to compel arbitration and to
stay this action.
            Plaintiffs move for reconsideration of
the Court’s November 1, 2021 order compelling arbitration.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Plaintiffs Guadalupe Salinas Jr. and
Gabby Salinas’ motion for reconsideration  of the Court’s November 1, 2021 order
compelling arbitration is DENIED. 
ANALYSIS
Motion For Reconsideration
            Plaintiffs move for reconsideration of
the Court’s November 1, 2021 order compelling arbitration. The notice of ruling
was served by mail on that same date. This motion was filed on June 12, 2023—588
days after the Court’s order compelling arbitration was entered.
            Regarding motions for reconsideration,
Civ. Proc. Code, § 1008 provides:
 
(a) When an application for an
order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part,
or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by
the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made
the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.
 
(b) A party who originally made an
application for an order which was refused in whole or
part, or granted conditionally or on terms, may make a subsequent application
for the same order upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, in which
case it shall be shown by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown. For a failure to comply
with this subdivision, any order made on a subsequent application may be
revoked or set aside on ex parte motion.
 
(c) If a court at any time
determines that there has been a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a
prior order it entered, it may do so on its own motion and
enter a different order.
 
(d) A violation of this section may
be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7. In addition, an order made contrary to this section may be
revoked by the judge or commissioner who made it, or vacated by a judge of the
court in which the action or proceeding is pending.
 
(e) This section specifies the
court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for reconsideration of its
orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to all applications to
reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous
motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or
final. No application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous
motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this
section.
 
(f) For the purposes of this
section, an alleged new or different law shall not include a later enacted
statute without a retroactive application.
 
(g) An order denying a motion for
reconsideration made pursuant to subdivision (a) is not separately appealable.
However, if the order that was the subject of a motion for reconsideration is
appealable, the denial of the motion for reconsideration is reviewable as part
of an appeal from that order.
 
(h) This section applies to all
applications for interim orders.

     (Civ.
Proc. Code § 1008 [bold emphasis and underlining added].)
            Here, because Plaintiffs were not
the parties who originally brought the motion to compel arbitration, they cannot
avail themselves of the limitless period set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, §
1008(b). Rather, they are parties affected by the Court’s grant of Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration, and thus, are subject to the 10-day period. This
motion is thus untimely.
            Further, the Court in its discretion
declines to reconsider the motion compelling arbitration, despite subsequent
published opinions which conflict with Felisilda.
            The
Court notes that both parties have disobeyed this Court’s order compelling arbitration.
Plaintiffs have not demonstrated that they have attempted to proceed with
arbitration, and this Court has no intention of rewarding Plaintiffs for disobeying
the November 1, 2021 order.
            The
motion for reconsideration is DENIED.