  Case Number:  23PSCV03064    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Yuzheng Chen
v. Longji Guan, et al. 
1.     
Demurrer of
Defendants Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint;
and
2.     
Defendants
Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan’s Motion to Strike 
TENTATIVE
RULING           
The Court SUSTAINS Defendants Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan’s demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint without leave to amend. The Court will hear from
Plaintiff at the hearing on the demurrer to determine whether Plaintiff can make
an offer of proof to address the defects identified herein. 
            The Court DENIES the motion to
strike as moot. 
            Defendants Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan
are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of
this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract case. On October 6, 2023, plaintiff Yuzheng
Chen (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Longji Guan, Xiuhua
Liang, Bingwei Guan (Guan), Yudan Li (Li) (collectively, Defendants), and Does
1 through 4, alleging one cause of action for breach of contract. On March 11,
2024, following the Court’s sustaining of Defendants Guan and Li’s demurrer to
the complaint, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against Defendants, alleging one cause of action for breach of contract. 
On April 5, 2024, Defendants Guan and Li (collectively, Moving
Parties) demurred to and moved to strike the FAC. On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff
opposed the demurrer and motion to strike. On April 30, 2024, Moving Parties
replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD - Demurrer 
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A
demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE 
The Court
notes that Moving Parties’ demurrer does not state each ground for the demurrer
in a separate paragraph, as required by Rule 3.1320, subdivision (a), of the
California Rules of Court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a); see
Notice of Demurrer, 2:3-7.) The Court admonishes Moving Parties to comply with
the requirements of the California Rules of Court going forward. 
DISCUSSION –
Demurrer 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer before
bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds
Moving Parties’ efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Hwang Meet & Confer
Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.) 
Analysis 
“A cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a
contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's
breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written
contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint
or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) 
Moving Parties demur to the FAC on the grounds that it is barred
by res judicata and fails to state a cause of action. Moving Parties contend
that Plaintiff previously sued them based upon the same alleged breach of
contract regarding the same property which Plaintiff later dismissed with
prejudice. Moving Parties also contend the FAC fails to plead any facts
supporting the existence of a valid contract between the parties, and that the
exhibits attached to the FAC do nothing to support Plaintiff’s claim. 
In opposition, it is not entirely clear what Plaintiff argues, but
Plaintiff mentions a purported conversation had with Moving Parties in
September 2020 regarding renting the property at 1775 Paso Real Ave., Rowland
Heights, CA 91748. Plaintiff also mentions a police incident on July 31, 2021,
apparently regarding an attempted eviction of Moving Parties. Plaintiff then
mentions a different property at which Moving Parties purportedly live, and contends
that Moving Parties own a house worth more than $1 million but that they still
use legal aid. Plaintiff further mentions having rented to Defendants from July
27, 2020 to July 31, 2021, and that they owe Plaintiff three months’ rent.
Plaintiff also argues that a prior dismissal does not prevent the Plaintiff
from filing another lawsuit. 
With respect to Moving Parties’ res judicata
arguments, the Court finds the allegations of the FAC are not sufficiently
clear for it to be able to determine whether these claims have been previously
adjudicated between the parties. While it appears Plaintiff has sued the
Defendants multiple times over the past few years for issues involving rent, it
is not apparent to the Court that Plaintiff is suing over the same matter here.
(See FAC, pp. 3-4, Exs. A, B; Fed'n of Hillside & Canyon
Assns. v. City of Los Angeles (2004) 126 Cal.App.4th 1180, 1202 [“Res judicata
or claim preclusion
precludes the relitigation
of a cause
of action that previously
was adjudicated
in another proceeding
between the same parties
or parties in privity
with them.”])[1] Further, Moving Parties’ request for judicial notice does not include a copy of
the operative Complaint (or any of the complaints) filed in the prior unlimited
civil action, Case No. 21PSCV00516. 
However, the Court agrees with Moving Parties that
the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for breach
of contract. The Court finds the FAC confusing and unclear as to what
Plaintiff’s claims are here, and finds that it fails to clearly set forth the
terms of any purported contract between the parties. (See FAC, pp. 3-4.) To the
extent Plaintiff is alleging breach of contract, the terms of any purported
contract here are too indefinite for the Court to determine whether the
allegations support a claim for breach of contract. (See Moncada v. W. Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 777 [“The terms of a contract are reasonably certain if they provide a
basis for determining the existence of a breach and for giving an appropriate
remedy.”]) For example, there are no allegations of what the consideration was,
i.e., what was to be paid in exchange for what services. (San Luis Obispo Loc. Agency Formation Comm'n v. City of Pismo
Beach (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 595, 600 [“A contract requires
consideration. [Citation.]”) The FAC
certainly does not allege facts showing Plaintiff is entitled to the
$15,000,000 in damages sought. (FAC, ¶ 10, subd. (a).) The FAC also does not
clearly allege what the duration of the purported agreement was, who the
parties were, or the terms of the agreement. (See FAC, ¶¶ 3-4.) If Plaintiff is
alleging breach of a lease agreement, it is unclear which property that claim
is based on, considering the FAC mentions two properties. (Id.) 
Moreover,
none of the attachments to the FAC provide any clarity either. (See FAC, Exs. A-D.)
A number of the attachments are in mandarin, which the Court cannot read
without a proper translation. (See Id., Exs. C, D.) The other
attachments appear to be documents from previous lawsuits involving Plaintiff
and the Defendants in one form or another, but it is unclear how those form the
basis of a claim for breach of contract. (See Id., Exs. A-D.)
Furthermore, the Residential Lease Agreement attached to the FAC appears to be
an agreement between Heng Le and Longji Guan for the rental of a room at 19503
Newgarden St., Rowland Heights, CA 91748. (See Id., Ex. D.) Defendants Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan are not parties to the
agreement. Thus, the FAC fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action for breach of contract against Defendants Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan. 
Finally,
Plaintiff has not proffered any new allegations showing how the defects
identified herein can be addressed.

Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the FAC
without leave to amend. The Court will hear from Plaintiff at the hearing on
the demurrer to determine whether Plaintiff can make an offer of proof to
address the defects identified herein. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Motion to Strike 
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this
time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Id., § 436.) 
DISCUSSION
– Motion to Strike 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer telephonically
or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,
subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ efforts to meet and confer to be
sufficient. (Hwang Meet & Confer Decl., ¶¶ 4-7.) 
Analysis 
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer as discussed above,
the Court DENIES the motion to strike as moot. 
CONCLUSION           
The Court SUSTAINS Defendants Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan’s demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint without leave to amend. The Court will hear from
Plaintiff at the hearing on the demurrer to determine whether Plaintiff can
make an offer of proof to address the defects identified herein. 
            The Court DENIES the motion to
strike as moot. 
            Defendants Yudan Li and Bingwei Guan
are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of
this order.


