 Case Number:  23NWCV03067    Hearing Date:   April 10, 2024    Dept:  C ROTTERDAM VENTURES INC., ET AL. v. STARR
INDEMNITY & LIABILITY COMPANY
CASE NO.:  23NWCV03067
HEARING:  4/10/24 @ 10:30 A.M.
 
#10
TENTATIVE RULING
 
I.            
Attorney Nancy Kornegay’s unopposed application for admission pro hac
vice is CONTINUED.
 
II.           
Attorney Seth Row’s unopposed application for admission pro hac vice is CONTINUED.
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Applications to appear pro hac vice are
governed by California Rules of Court, rule 9.40. The rule requires that the
attorney be admitted to practice before a U.S. court or the highest court of
any state or territory. A member of the California bar must be associated as
attorney of record. The applicant must not be a resident of or regularly
employed in California and should not make repeated appearances in California.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(a).)
 
Application for Nancy Kornegay

The applicant is admitted to practice and is a member in good standing in the
applicant’s respective out of state jurisdictions of Oregon and Texas. The
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred from practicing law. The
applicant has associated as counsel, Julianne Avery, an active member of the State Bar of California. However, there is no
evidence that the statutory fees have been forwarded to the State Bar along
with the application.  (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 9.40(e).)
 
Thus, the application is CONTINUED to April
24, 2024, at 10:30 A.M in Dept. SE-C. Counsel is to submit proof that he
submitted the application and paid fees to the State Bar. 
 
Application
for Seth Row
 
The applicant is admitted to practice and is
a member in good standing in the applicant’s respective out of state
jurisdictions of Oregon and Washington. The applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred from practicing law. The applicant has associated as
counsel, Julianne Avery, an active member of the State Bar of California. However, there is no
evidence that the statutory fees have been forwarded to the State Bar along
with the application.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 9.40(e).)
 
Thus, the application is CONTINUED to April
24, 2024, at 10:30 A.M in Dept. SE-C. Counsel is to submit proof that he
submitted the application and paid fees to the State Bar. 
 