  Case Number:  21GDCV01353    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
andrew bergman, et al.,   
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
isaac blocher, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 21GDCV01353
 
  Hearing Date: November 15, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to be relieved as counsel 



 
Defense counsel, Na’il Benjamin
(“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendant Selling N. Atlanta
LLC (“Defendant”).  
Counsel filed this instant motion to be
relieved as counsel on October 15, 2024.  Counsel has filed the notice of motion
(MC-051)[1]
and declaration (MC-052) forms pursuant to CRC Rule 3.1362.  However, Counsel has not filed a proposed
order (MC-053) form.  
On November 7,
2024, Defendant Selling N Atlanta LLC filed a Notice of Bankruptcy (Chapter
7).  According to 11 U.S.C. § 362(a), the
filing of a bankruptcy petition operates as a stay in actions against the
debtor, enforcement of judgment against a debtor, any acts to obtain possession
of property, any act to create/perfect/enforce a lien against property of the
estate or against the property of the debtor, to collect assets against the
debtor, to setoff any debt owing to the debtor, or commencing or continuing a
proceeding before the United States Tax Court. 
The Court will inquire of Mr. Benjamin whether this motion may go
forward while a bankrtupcy stay is pending as to Defendant. 
According to the declaration of Counsel,
Counsel seeks to be relieved as counsel because there has been an irreparable
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship stemming from Defendant’s failure
to communicate and cooperate in the representation, such that the deterioration
of the relationship makes it unreasonably difficult for Counsel to effectively
represent Defendant and creates a conflict of interest.  Counsel also states that Defendant Aneaka
English has emailed opposing counsel stating that she would be hiring new
counsel to represent her interests.  (MC-052,
§2.)  For these reasons, Counsel seeks to
withdraw from representing Defendant in this action.  
Counsel properly served Defendant at its
last known mailing address, which was confirmed by email within the past 30
days of filing the motion.  Plaintiffs’
counsel was also served with the motion by mail. 
As for future hearing dates, the Final
Status Conference is set for September 4, 2025 and the Jury Trial is set for September
15, 2025.  Thus, there is time for Defendant
to obtain substitute counsel. 
Accordingly, the Court is inclined to
grant the motion to be relieved as counsel provided that Counsel can make a
showing that he may proceed with this motion with the bankruptcy stay in place.  If the motion is granted, Counsel is ordered
to electronically lodge a proposed order (MC-053) form for the Court’s
signing.  The order will become effective
upon the filing of a proof of service of a signed copy of the order on Defendant.  
In addition, as Defendant Selling N.
Atlanta LLC is a corporate entity, it cannot represent itself in propria persona.  (See Rogers v. Municipal Court (1988)
197 Cal.App.3d 1314, 1318.)  Thus, the
Court will set an Order to Show Cause re Status of Representation of Defendant
Selling N. Atlanta LLC for March 14, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. 
Notice to be provided by Counsel.
 
 
DATED: November 15, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court 
 


