 Case Number:  22BBCV00826    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
suzanne bank, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
mrs. gooch’s
  natural food markets, inc., dba whole foods market,  
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  22BBCV00826
 
Hearing
  Date:  November 15, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for trial preference pursuant to
  ccp § 36 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
      Allegations
Plaintiff Suzanne Bank (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on October 22, 2020, she was shopping at a Whole Foods Market located in
Burbank.  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Mrs. Gooch’s Natural Food Markets, Inc. dba Whole Foods Market (“Whole
Foods”) was negligent and failed to exercise reasonable care in keeping the
premises reasonably safe or failed to warn of dangers that were known or
knowable.  Plaintiff alleges that Whole
Foods failed to keep the ramp escalator reasonably safe and failed to properly hire
or supervise a third-party to install and maintain the escalator ramp.  Plaintiff alleges that she was injured from a
fall when the escalator malfunctioned and caused a shopping cart to get stuck. 
The complaint, filed October 21, 2022,
alleges causes of action for: (1) general negligence; and (2) premises
liability. 
On January 12, 2023, Plaintiff named
Schindler Elevator Corporation (“Schindler”) as Doe 1.  
B.    
Cross-Complaint 
On
February 6, 2024, Cross-Complainant P&H Casters Company, Inc. (“P&H
Casters”) filed a cross-complaint against Moes 1-100 for: (1) indemnification;
(2) apportionment of fault; (3) declaratory relief; and (4) express
indemnity.  
On
April 26, 2024, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Schindler filed a cross-complaint
against Roes 1-25 for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2) declaratory relief; and (3)
contribution.  On September 15, 2023,
Schindler named P&H Casters as Roe 1; Gatekeeper Systems, LLC as Roe 2; and
Glide Rite Corporation as Roe 3.  On
December 15, 2023, the default of P&H Casters as Roe 1 was entered.  
C.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar   
On June 24, 2024, the Court entered the
Joint Stipulation to Continue Trial and All Related Dates and Order re:
Stipulation to Continue Trial and All Related Dates.  Due to the extended hospital stay of
Plaintiff’s counsel Stephen Bernard, the addition of new parties to the
litigation, the need for extensive discovery, the need to schedule Plaintiff’s
deposition and independent medical examination, and the desire of the parties
to seek private mediation, Whole Foods, Plaintiff, Schindler, Gatekeeper,
P&H Casters, and Glide Rite agreed to continue the Final Status Conference,
Jury Trial, and all trial-related deadlines. 
The Final Status Conference is currently set for July 10, 2025.  The Jury Trial is set for July 21, 2025.  
            On August 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
first motion for trial preference pursuant to CCP § 36.  Gatekeeper Systems, Inc., Whole Foods, and
Schindler each filed opposition papers; Glide Rite joined Whole Foods’
opposition.  On October 4, 2024, the
Court denied the motion for trial preference. 
            On October 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this second motion for trial preference pursuant to CCP § 36.  On October 31, 2024, Whole Foods filed an
opposition brief.  On November 1, 2024,
Schindler filed an opposition brief.  On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
According to CCP §
36(a), a party to a civil action who is over the age of 70 must be given
preference if the party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole and
the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.  To make the findings required by CCP § 36(a),
evidence must be provided with the motion for preference establishing
Plaintiff’s age and the relevant conditions of her health warranting a
preference.  Pursuant to CCP § 36.5, an
attorney affidavit offered in support of a motion for preference may be based
on information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of a
party.  If a motion for preference based
on a party’s age is granted, the matter must be set for trial not more than 120
days from the date the motion is granted. 
(CCP § 36(f).) 
Finally, CCP § 36(c)(1) requires that all
essential parties be served with process or have appeared in the action in
order to grant a motion for preference. 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff moves for trial preference so
that trial will be set within 120 days from the hearing date.  
Plaintiff is currently 84 years old (date
of birth: June 16, 1940).  (Merzel Decl.,
¶3.)  Further, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has a substantial interest in the action as she claims she was
injured by the subject incident that occurred at Whole Foods’ store on October
22, 2020.  Thus, the remaining issue is
whether the health of Plaintiff is such that a preference is necessary to
prevent prejudicing her interest in the litigation.
Plaintiff’s counsel, Maksim Merzel,
provides his declaration in support of the motion.  Counsel states that as a result of the
subject incident, Plaintiff has suffered significant neurological, orthopedic,
and spinal injuries, including potential traumatic brain injury (“TBI”),
numerous disc herniations, and other notable injuries throughout her body.  (Merzel Decl., ¶4.)  Counsel states that due to these injuries,
Plaintiff has had trouble with basic ambulation, has difficulties caring for
herself, and constantly seeks medical care for her broad and intensive injuries.  (Id., ¶5.)  Counsel states that since the first motion
for trial preference, they have learned that Plaintiff was diagnosed with lung
cancer (adenocarcinoma of the lungs) after a CT-guided biopsy that was performed
on September 18, 2024.  (Id,
¶6.)  He states that per Plaintiff’s
oncologist, Dr. Karlton Wong, Plaintiff will need various treatment modalities,
including surgery, chemotherapy, TKI therapy, and radiation, all which will
have significant side effects and affect basic functioning.  (Id., ¶6, Ex. A [October 2024 medical
records].)  Counsel states that based
upon his review of Plaintiff’s records and communications with Plaintiff,
Plaintiff’s health is such that a preference is necessary to avoid prejudicing
her interests in the litigation, especially given the life-threatening nature
of her lung cancer diagnosis.  (Id.,
¶7.)  In the memorandum of points and
authorities, Plaintiff argues that given her health, age, and recent diagnosis
of lung cancer with a potential 5-year survival rate of less than 5%, there is
a significant possibility that Plaintiff will not survive long enough to bring
this matter to trial.  (Mot. at p.3.)  
In Whole Foods’ opposition, Whole Foods
argues that Plaintiff has refused to participate in discovery, refused to allow
Defendants to complete her deposition, and refused to appear for 2 separate,
duly noticed independent medical examinations. 
Whole Foods argues that discovery was suspended for several months at
the request of Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s counsel Stephen Bernard’s medical
issues and pursuant to a stipulation to continue trial. Whole Foods also argues
that the Court denied Plaintiff’s first motion for trial preference, finding
that most of Plaintiff’s purported health conditions were refuted by her own
deposition testimony.  It also argues that
it appears based on the medical records that Plaintiff’s lung cancer diagnosis
was first diagnosed in October 2022, and is not the new finding that
Plaintiff’s attorneys now claim. 
Schindler makes similar arguments in its
opposition brief and states that it incorporates its co-defendants’ opposition
arguments.  Schindler also argues that
Plaintiff’s deposition has not been completed and Defendants are still waiting
to conduct Plaintiff’s IME.  
On the second page of Plaintiff’s medical
records (Mot., Ex. A), there is a notation from Dr. Wong stating: “# NSCLC,
adenocarcinoma [¶] - 10/31/22: PETCT – RLL 2.3cm, suv 1.8.”  However, without more information from a
medical provider, it is unclear how to decipher the meaning of this notation –
whether this is a firm diagnosis of lung cancer or if this was a test performed
to see if she had lung cancer.  The most
recent notes from Dr. Wong show that Plaintiff currently has lung cancer, is
unable to travel for more than 15-30 minutes by car to and from doctor’s
appointment “at this time due to her new diagnosis of lung cancer,” and that
she will be undergoing a series of treatments until further notice.  (Mot., Ex. A [Dr. Wong’s 10/24/24 Letter].) 
An attorney affidavit may be made on
information and belief.  (See Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534. This lenient
standard does not prevent the credibility of the statements made in the
attorney affidavit from being evaluated. Moreover, Plaintiff’s attorneys cannot
take advantage of this lenient standard to cloud the picture before the Court. The
Court cannot help but notice that some of the broad statements regarding the
condition of Plaintiff are at odds with statements made at her deposition in
August 2024. See October 31, 2024 Bennet Declaration, Exhibit A.) Moreover, the
true nature of Plaintiff’s condition remains unclear. Plaintiff is
simultaneously moving for preference while her lawyers have yet to provide all
of the information necessary for the objective assessment of her condition.  Finally, this Court believes that the
constitutional due process rights of Defendants must be considered, and to the
extent that the Court of Appeal ignored those interests in Fox, it could
not have meant that such interests should be broadly and completely disregarded
in every future case.  
It is the Court’s understanding that
Plaintiff will appear for her IME on November 14, 2024, and will shortly
complete her deposition. That should permit the objective assessment of her
physical condition. On this understanding the Court will continue the
preference motion to December 20, 2024.   
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
The motion for trial preference is continued
to December 20, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
Plaintiff shall give
notice of this order. 
 
DATED:  November 15, 2024                                                ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court  