 Case Number:  24NNCV00435    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
jing guang wu, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
jesus l. duran,
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.:  24NNCV00435
 
  Hearing Date:  November 15, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Motion to set aside dismissal
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Jing Guang Wu (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that on March 26, 2022, he was walking his dog on Falling Leaf Avenue,
approaching Garvey Avenue, in the City of Rosemead when he was suddenly and forcefully
attacked by Defendant Jesus L. Duran’s (“Defendant”) dog, which suddenly ran
out from 2639 Falling Leaf Ave. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s dog attacked Plaintiff and his dog,
bit Plaintiff’s arm without letting go, and caused Plaintiff to fall on the
ground and suffer injuries. 
            The complaint, filed March 22, 2204,
alleges a single cause of action for general negligence. 
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion on Calendar 
On September 23,
2024, the Court held an Order to Show Cause re: Dismissal.  The Court noted that Plaintiff failed to
appear, Plaintiff was given proper notice of the hearing via the August 15,
2024 minute order, and that there was no proof of service filed in the
action.  The Court dismissed the
complaint without prejudice.  
On October 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion to vacate the dismissal.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief.  
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff moves to set aside the dismissal pursuant to
CCP § 473(b).   
            Plaintiff provides the declaration
of his former counsel James J. Vititoe, Esq.  Mr. Vititoe states that after this action was
filed, he instructed his staff to make arrangements with a process server to
serve the summons and complaint on Defendant. 
(Vititoe Decl., ¶2.)  He states
that he later learned that service had not been accomplished and that he
“missed” calendaring the Case Management Conference that was set for August 15,
2024.  (Id.)  He states that it was his fault when he again
failed to appear at the continued Case Management Conference held on September
23, 2024, at which time the case was dismissed without prejudice.  (Id., ¶3.)  Mr. Vititoe states that he has made
arrangements to have the summons and complaint immediately served, he has
substituted out of this matter, and Plaintiff’s current attorney of record,
Alexander J. Petale, has substituted into this case. (Id., ¶4.)  (A substitution of attorney was filed on
October 16, 2024—the same day as the filing of the motion.)  
Based on the
declaration of Mr. Vititoe, the Court finds there is substantive merit to the
motion based on the mandatory prong of CCP § 473(b) based on attorney fault.  Further, the motion was timely brought within
6 months of the dismissal and the motion is unopposed.  Thus, the motion to vacate the dismissal is
granted.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER

Plaintiff Jing
Guang Wu’s motion to vacate the dismissal is granted.  
The Court sets a
Case Management Conference for May 15, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.  
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED: November 15, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court  