 Case Number:  21STCV17667    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MICHAEL
  HORNER AND THOMAS HORNER AS CO-TRUSTEES OF THE HORNER FAMILY TRUST 
                           
         vs.
 
STRONG
  WEALTH MANAGEMENT, LLC, et al. 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  21STCV17667 
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  February 7, 2024



 
 
            Defendant’s
motion for new trial is DENIED.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to set aside judgment is DENIED. 
 
On 5/11/2021,
Plaintiffs Michael Horner and Thomas Horner as Co-Trustees of the Horner Family
Trust filed suit against Strong Wealth Management LLC and George G. Strong III,
alleging: (1) fraud; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) negligence; (4) breach
of contract; and (5) financial elder abuse. 
 
Now,
Defendants move for new trial, and set aside the judgment. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
A
verdict may be vacated and
any other decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new
or further trial granted on all or part of the issues on the application of the
party aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party:¿ 
¿ 
(1)¿Irregularity
in the proceedings of the court, jury¿or
adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial;¿ 
¿ 
(2)¿Misconduct
of the jury;¿and
whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any
general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them
by the court, by are sort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may
be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors;¿ 
¿ 
(3) Accident or surprise, which ordinary
prudence could not have guarded against;¿ 
¿ 
(4) Newly discovered evidence, material for
the party making the application, which he could not, with reasonable
diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial;¿ 
¿ 
(5) Excessive or inadequate damages;¿ 
¿ 
(6) Insufficiency of the evidence to justify
the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law;¿ 
¿ 
(7) Error in¿law, occurring at the trial and¿excepted to by the party making the application.¿ 
¿ 
(See CCP
§ 657.)¿ 
¿ 
When
ruling on an application for a new trial, the court sits as an independent
trier of fact.¿(Lane
v. Hughes Aircraft Co. (2000) 22 Cal.4th¿405, 412.)¿The
court, therefore, has broad discretion to order new trials, limited only by the
obligation to state its reasons for granting a new trial and the existence of
substantial evidence in the record to support those reasons.¿(Id.)¿¿In
assessing¿the need for a new trial,¿the court must rely on its¿view of the overall record,¿taking into account such
factors, among others, as the nature and seriousness of the¿alleged¿misconduct,
the general¿atmosphere, including the judge’s control, of
the trial, the likelihood of prejudicing the jury, and the efficacy of
objection or admonition under all the circumstances.¿(Dominguez v. Pantalone¿(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d¿201, 211.)¿ 
 
To vacate a
judgment, the defendant must demonstrate an “[i]ncorrect or erroneous legal
basis for the decision, not consistent with or supported by the facts” that
“materially affect[ed] the substantial rights of the party” and entitles that
party to a different judgment. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 663(1).
 
Discussion
 
I.                  
Motion for New Trial 
 
Defendant
argues that a new trial is necessary because: (1) the Court did not make
factual findings sufficient to support liability under the financial elder
abuse cause of action; (2) there was insufficient evidence at trial to support
a doubling of damages on the elder abuse cause of action; (3) the damages award
were excessive; (4) Plaintiffs’ surprise expert testimony was improperly
admitted and an abuse of discretion; (5) the standard of care applied to
Defendants as a licensed investment adviser was erroneous.
 
After review,
the Court disagrees. 
 
As for the
first contention, Defendant argues that he cannot be liable because the Court’s
evidentiary findings supporting negligence claims are insufficient for the
higher evidentiary burden of proof required for a finding of financial elder
abuse. 
 
Section
15610.30 of the California Welfare and Institutions Code provides:
 
a) “Financial
abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any
of the following: 
 
(1) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of an
elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or both.
(2) Assists
in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or personal
property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to
defraud, or both. 
(3) Takes,
secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking, secreting,
appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of an elder
or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70.
 
(b) A person
or entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted, appropriated, obtained, or
retained property for a wrongful use if, among other things, the person or
entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains the property and the
person or entity knew or should have known that this conduct is likely to be
harmful to the elder or dependent adult. 
 
(c) For
purposes of this section, a person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates,
obtains, or retains real or personal property when an elder or dependent adult
is deprived of any property right, including by means of an agreement, donative
transfer, or testamentary bequest, regardless of whether the property is held
directly or by a representative of an elder or dependent adult.
 
Here,
Defendant argues that there is insufficient evidence to show that Defendant
“[took], secrete[d], appropriate[d], obtain[ed], or retain[ed] real or personal
property of an elder.” Moreover, Defendant argues that the Court’s conclusion
that Defendant was negligent is inconsistent with a conclusion that he engaged
in a financial transaction “for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud.”
(Welfare and Institutions Code § 15610.30) 
 
However,
first, “a person or entity shall be deemed to have taken, secreted,
appropriated, obtained or retained property for a wrongful use if, among other
things . . . if the person or entity knew or should have known
that this conduct is likely to be harmful to the elder or dependent adult.” (Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610(b), emphasis added; see also Bonfigli v. Strachan
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1302, 1316-18.) Here, the Court concluded that Defendant
should have known that his conduct would result in serious harm to
Plaintiff.  
 
Second, the
property need not be held by Plaintiff to constitute elder abuse. Rather, it is
sufficient that Plaintiff have been deprived of property by virtue of an
agreement. Here, Plaintiff entrusted more than $2.6 million to Strong,
instructing him to invest it to preserve capital and generate income. Defendant
engaged in a reckless and speculative investment strategy that deprived Plaintiff
of more than 80% of those funds. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds sufficient evidence to find liability under the Elder Abuse
Statute. 
 
As to the
second contention, Defendant argues that there was insufficient evidence to
support a doubling of damages on the Elder Abuse cause of action. More
specifically, Defendant argues that the Court cannot justify such damages
because there was no finding that Plaintiff was targeted because of his age. 
 
However,
California Civil Code section 3345 requires no such finding that a senior be
“targeted because of his age,” or treated differently than non-seniors. Rather,
it provides: “This section shall apply only in actions brought by, or on behalf
of, or for the benefit of, senior citizens or disabled persons . . . to redress
unfair or deceptive acts or practices or unfair methods of competition.”
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds sufficient evidence to support the damages awarded under the
Elder Abuse Statute. 
 
As for the
third contention, Defendant argues that the damages awarded were excessive
because the Court used a speculative method for measuring damages. 
 
      However, as the Supreme Court made clear
in Sargon Enterprises, Inc. v. University of Southern California (2012)
55 Cal.4th 747, 774–775:
 
Where the
fact of damages is certain, the amount of damages need not be calculated with
absolute certainty. The law requires only that some reasonable basis of
computation of damages be used, and the damages may be computed even if the
result reached is an approximation. This is especially true where ... it is the
wrongful acts of the defendant that have created the difficulty in proving the
amount of loss of profits or where it is the wrongful acts of the defendant
that have caused the other party to not realize a profit to which that party is
entitled. 
 
 
            Here,
the Court has set forth a basis of how it computed damages, and the Court need
not calculate the amount of damages with absolute certainty. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds the method of calculating damages was not speculative. 
 
            As
for the fourth contention, Defendant argues that the Court deprived him of fair
notice and due process by allowing Plaintiffs to present surprise expert
testimony at trial. 
 
However, as
noted by Plaintiff, Exhibits 62 and 63 were admitted without objection.
Moreover, as further noted by Plaintiff: (1) the full statement from
Plaintiff’s counsel was that the testimony exactly matched the expert’s
deposition testimony (see Opp., 4:10-5:13); and (2) the Court did offer
a continuance and defense counsel elected to proceed: “If you want to, I will
go dark the rest of the afternoon and resume tomorrow. And if tomorrow comes
around and you see something with your expert that -- that makes your head want
to explode, we can entertain potentially another continuance.” (Vallier Decl.,
Exh. A, Feb. 9 Transcript at 79:2-6.”). 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds there was no abuse of discretion to admit the testimony and
evidence that underlies this motion.
 
            Finally,
as for the fifth contention, Defendant argues that the Court applied the wrong
standard of care because Defendant was a licensed advisor and Civil Code
section 3372(a) does not apply to licensed advisors. Moreover, Defendant argues
that FINRA Rule 2111 only applies to FINRA Licensed Representatives, and
Defendant was not a member of FINRA. 
 
However, as
to Civil Code section 3372, even Defendant notes that the statute was cited as
only one of the grounds for its decision. The Court would have reached the same
conclusion even without reliance on this Code section. Accordingly, there is no
indication that Court should have reached a different ruling on the breach of
fiduciary cause of action. (CCP § 657.)
 
As for FINRA Rule 211, Defendant’s own expert testified that this
was the applicable standard of care: “So
suitability – and the basic suitability rule is Federal [sic – should be FINRA]
Rule 2111, which says you have to have a reasonable basis in making . . . for
thinking that your suggestion, your recommendation will meet the needs of the
client. Simple, simple rule.” (Vallier Decl., Exh. B, Feb. 10, 2023 Tr. at
11:28-12:5.) Evidence also was introduced at trial that Defendants were FINRA
members. 
 
Moreover,
Defendant does not offer any other applicable standard of care, nor does
Defendant argue that the evidence would not support the ruling under a
different standard. As such, Defendant has not shown that the court clearly
should have reached a different decision with regard to its finding that
Defendant had breached his fiduciary duty to Plaintiff, regardless of the
specific standard applied. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s
motion for new trial is denied. 
 
II.              
Motion to Vacate 
 
Defendant
moves to vacate the judgment on the grounds that: (1) the Court did not make
factual findings sufficient to support liability under the Financial Elder
Abuse Statute; (2) the evidence did not support a doubling of damages; and (3)
the standard of care applied to Defendant was erroneous; 
 
To vacate a
judgment, the defendant must demonstrate an “[i]ncorrect or erroneous legal
basis for the decision, not consistent with or supported by the facts” that
“materially affect[ed] the substantial rights of the party” and entitles that
party to a different judgment. (CCP § 663(1).)
 
Here, as set
forth above, the Court concluded that there were sufficient factual findings to
support liability under the Financial Elder Abuse Statute, and there was
sufficient evidence to support a doubling of damages. The Court also concluded
that Defendant has not shown that a different standard of care should apply, or
that, under a different standard of care, the Court would be required to reach
a different judgment. As such, even assuming neither Civil Code section
3372 or FINRA Rule 211 applied,
Defendant has not shown that there was insufficient evidence in the record to
find a breach of fiduciary duty under any relevant standard of care.  As such, Defendant has not shown that the inconsistency
materially affected his substantial rights, entitling him to a different
judgment. (See e.g. In re Marriage of Rothrock (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 223, 237
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to set aside the judgment is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 