 Case Number:  22STCV35638    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  17 uperior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



IRIS AU 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
ENZO ZELOCCHI, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  22STCV35638   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 7, 2024




 
Defendant’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART.
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED as to the third cause of action. Defendant’s
motion is DENIED as to the first, second, fourth, and fifth causes of action.
 
On 11/9/2022,
Plaintiff Iris Au (Plaintiff) filed suit against Enzo Zelocchi, Kenneth Childs
(Childs), and David Do, alleging: (1) intentional infliction of emotional
distress; (2) attempted extortion; (3) aiding and abetting attempted extortion;
(4) false light; and (5) defamation per se. 

 
            Now,
Enzo Zelocchi (Defendant) moves for a judgment on the pleadings. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claims against him are not factually supported, and are
merely factual conclusions.
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees, with the exception of the third cause of action. 
 
            In
its 1/11/2024 Minute Order ruling on Defendant Child’s Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings, the Court wrote: 
 
In sum,
Plaintiff has alleged facts which could show that Defendants here participated
and aided in a scheme to extort Plaintiff, and posted anonymous defamatory
comments
on public
websites. As set forth above, Plaintiff has set forth sufficient information to
support her basis for believing Defendant here to be associated with the
anonymous online comments and the anonymous “$” texter. Whether or not this
conduct, in fact, rises to the level of extreme and outrageous conduct is a
factual determination not properly made at this stage.
 
            (Pg.
4.)
 
            Here,
the allegations against Defendant regarding his alleged association with the
“$” texts are exactly the same as those pled against Defendant Childs. 
 
Defendant
here argues “[i]n fact, on the four corners of the complaint including the
exhibits the court can see that the acts and deeds Au complains of are done by
a person or persons who are anonymous.” (MJOP, 3: 11-13.) However, as already
noted by the Court, Plaintiff’s allegations clearly set forth facts to explain
why she believes that Defendant here is connected to this anonymous account.
Moreover, to the extent that Plaintiff’s allegations are based on information
and belief, “[p]laintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that
are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to
believe that the allegations are true.” (Pridonoff v. Balokovich (1951)
36 Cal.2d 788, 792.)
 
As to the
first cause of action for IIED, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant (1) sent
Plaintiff a photo of her children, a link to a wallet, a demand for a transfer
of $5,000,000, and a message stating, “Pay up or Death will rain from Above,”
under the alias “$,” (2) published false allegations online that accused
Plaintiff of defrauding innocent people to maintain an extravagant lifestyle,
and (3) sent a text to Plaintiff under the alias “$,” ominously threatening her
and her family with impending ruin, among other things. (Complaint at ¶ 45.)
These allegations are sufficient at the pleading stage. 
 
As to the
second cause of action for attempted extortion, Plaintiff alleges that Zelocchi
sent Plaintiff a photo of her children, a link to a wallet, a demand for a
transfer of $5,000,000, and a message stating, “Pay up or Death will rain from
Above,” under the alias “$” and that this was done towards the ultimate goal of
extorting Plaintiff. (Complaint ¶ ¶ 51-57.) These allegations are sufficient at
the pleading stage. 
 
As to the
third cause of action for aiding and abetting attempted extortion, the Court
agrees that Plaintiff’s claim is insufficiently pled. This is because Plaintiff
alleges facts which could show that Defendant attempted to extort Plaintiff,
but not that he aided or abetted anyone else in the extortion. Plaintiff’s own
allegations provide: 
 
            CHILDS knew ZELOCCHI was attempting
to extort money from Plaintiff.
 
Defendant DO
has provided substantial assistance and encouragement to the attempted
extortion of Plaintiff and IZA including but not limited to using his computer
skills to help publish the false websites about Plaintiff.
 
Nearly
immediately after filing a lawsuit vs Plaintiff, CHILDS provided substantial
assistance and encouragement to ZELOCCHI'S extortion attempts by contacting and
working with ZELOCCHI in the hopes of extorting millions from Plaintiff and IZA
via threats from the anonymous group "$".
 
Defendants
CHILDS and DO's conduct was a substantial factor in causing harm to Plaintiff
as fully set for above herein and incorporated by reference.
 
            (Complaint
¶¶ 61-64.)
 
            As
such, Plaintiff alleges conduct by Childs and Do to aid and abet, not Defendant
Zelocchi. 
 
As to the
fourth and fifth causes of action, while Defendant’s motion recites the
elements for these claims, it does not set forth any substantive argument  or legal basis as to why Plaintiff’s
allegations are insufficient to state a claim. Accordingly, the Court is
without any basis for granting Defendant’s motion as these causes of action.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted
in part, denied in part. Defendant’s motion is granted as to the third cause of
action. Defendant’s motion is denied as to the first, second, fourth, and fifth
causes of action. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 