 Case Number:  22STCV23028    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CHRISTIAN OCHOA 
                           
         vs.
 
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
  CALIFORNIA, et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV23028 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 7, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to an IME is GRANTED.
 
On 7/18/2022,
Christian Ochoa (Plaintiff) filed suit against the Regents of the University of
California aka University of California, Los Angeles (Defendant or UCLA),
alleging: (1) discrimination; (2) harassment; (3) retaliation; (4) failure to
prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (5) failure to
accommodate; (6) failure to engage in interactive process; and (7)
whistleblower retaliation. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to submit to an Independent Medical
Examination (IME). 
 
Legal Standard 
 
CCP section 2032.210 provides:
(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a
physical examination other than that described in Article 2 (commencing
with Section 2032.210), or by a mental
examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.
(b) A motion for an examination under subdivision (a)
shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.  The motion shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(c) Notice of the motion shall be served on the person to
be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the action.
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant
argues that good cause exists to order Plaintiff to submit to an IME because
Plaintiff asserts that his alleged mental distress was a direct result of
Defendant’s alleged actions. As a result, Defendant is entitled to explore
whether there are alternative sources for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.
 
After review,
the Court agrees. 
 
In Vinson
v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 833, 840-841, the Supreme Court of
California held: “[A] party who chooses to allege that he has mental and
emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in controversy. . .
[P]laintiff haled defendants into court and accused them of causing her various
mental and emotional aliments . . . [B]y asserting a causal link between her
mental distress and defendant's conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims that it
was not caused by a preexisting mental condition thereby raising the question
of alternative sources for the distress. We thus conclude that her mental state
is in controversy.” (Vinson, 43 Cal. 3d at p. 839.) 
 
Here,
similarly, Plaintiff alleges that he has suffered, and continues to suffer,
severe emotional and mental distress as a result of Defendant’s alleged
conduct. Specifically, he claims the following as physical, mental, or
emotional injuries: “[m]ental disabilities, including humiliation,
embarrassment, stress, mental and emotional distress, depression, anxiety,
discomfort, mental anguish.” (Plaintiff’s Response to Form
Interrogatory—Employment 212.2.) (Parker Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. F.) Plaintiff repeated
these identified mental and emotional injuries in response to other
interrogatories (Plaintiff’s Response to Form Interrogatory— Employment 204.2)
and claims that the mental and emotional injuries are ongoing. (Plaintiff’s
Response to Form Interrogatory—Employment 212.3.) (Parker Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. F.)
 
It is
axiomatic that “allegations of . . . mental injury in the complaint and denial
of the injury or the extent of the injury places the condition in controversy.”
(Reuter v. Superior Court (1979) 93 Cal. App. 3d 332, 341, citing Schlagenhauf
v. Holder (1964) 379 U.S. 104, 119.) Accordingly, Defendant is entitled to
explore whether there are alternative sources for Plaintiff’s alleged injuries.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff to submit to an IME is
granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  February   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 