 Case Number:  23CHCP00073    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept.
F-49
Date:
1-18-24
Case
#23CHCP00073
Trial
Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Sherry Goldsmith
RESPONDING
PARTIES: Defendants Electropath, Valentine Goelz, Mark Goelz, Roy & Val
Tool Grinding, Inc., and Jan Mason
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Further
Responses to Defendants’ Discovery Answers
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff Sherry Goldsmith filed
this shareholder derivative action against Electropath and other Defendants.
Plaintiff alleges that Electropath failed to hold regular meetings, created
records of meetings that did not occur, and committed other wrongful acts. 
 
As
part of Plaintiff’s case against Defendants, Plaintiff has propounded discovery
on Defendants. Defendants answered Plaintiff’s discovery requests. On September
5, 2023, Plaintiff filed two motions to compel further discovery responses
against all Defendants, one for the form interrogatories and one for the
requests for production. Plaintiff objects to Defendants’ responses on the
basis that they require verification and a privilege log, and because Defendants
made what Plaintiff alleges are improper objections due to Defendants’ late
responses.
 
Defendants
claim in their opposition that Plaintiff’s meet and confer letter did not
include many of the alleged deficiencies. Defendants also argue that Plaintiff
seeks to have Defendants change their answers to ones more favorable to
Plaintiff. Finally, Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s motions are procedurally deficient
because Plaintiff should have filed separate motions for each Defendant for
each discovery set, instead of one motion for all Defendants.
 
In
her reply, Plaintiff reiterates her argument that Defendants’ responses are
insufficient.
 
RULING: Parties are
ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer, followed by an Informal
Discovery Conference before the Court
 
The only meet and confer demonstrated by the parties’
moving parties was an exchange of emails that began with Plaintiff sending an
email to Defendants’ counsel indicating that Defendants’ responses were
inadequate. 
 
The
Court has reviewed the documents related to these motions and will not decide
the motions on the merits at this time. The Court orders an Informal Discovery
Conference. At least 10 days prior to the IDC, the parties must conduct a
meaningful meet and confer to resolve as much as they can. Additionally, the
parties are ordered to file a joint statement of remaining issues prior to the
IDC. The joint statement should briefly describe the matters in dispute,
followed by Plaintiff’s arguments, then Defendants’ arguments. 
 
ORDER

1.
The parties are ordered to conduct a meaningful meet and confer at least 10
court days prior to the Informal Discovery Conference. 
 
2.
At least 3 court days prior to the Informal Discovery Conference, the parties
shall submit a joint statement of the remaining issues as described above. If
each Defendant wishes to make a separate joint statement with Plaintiff, that
is acceptable, or all the Defendants may be included in the same joint
statement. The format should be as follows: the parties should recite the
specific discovery request as issue, followed by the moving party’s statement
of why it should be compelled, followed by the opposing party’s statement of
why it should not be compelled. To the extent that an argument is repeated for
a subsequent request, the party shall simply refer to the section where the
argument was previously made.
 
3.
The date for the IDC will be set at the hearing on these motions.
 
4.
Moving party to provide notice.
 