  Case Number:  18CHLC28988    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F43
Date:
12-03-24
Case
# 23CHCV01449, Alvarado v. American Honda Motor Co.
Trial
Date: None set.
 
Motion to Compel Vehicle Inspection
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Co.
RESPONDING
PARTY: None.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Order
compelling Plaintiff to produce his 2022 Honda Insight for inspection and
sanctions.
 
RULING: Because moving
party has failed to meet and confer with plaintiff, the Court will continue the
hearing to a future date and order the parties to meet and confer.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Plaintiff
Jacob Alvarado filed this Song-Beverly action against American Honda Motor Co. alleging
defects with American Honda’s computerized driver-assistance safety system
called “Honda Sensing”.  The First
Amended Complaint (FAC), filed May 16, 2023, alleges two causes of action for (1)
violation of Song-Beverly Act - breach of express warranty; and (2) fraudulent inducement
- concealment.
 
The
FAC alleges that on May 13, 2022, Alvarado purchased a new 2022 Honda Insight, VIN:
19XZE4F50NE013543.  Alvarado received a
New Vehicle Limited Warranty in connection with the purchase of the vehicle
from defendant American Honda.  The
vehicle was equipped with a defective computerized driver-assistance safety
system called “Honda Sensing”.  American
Honda failed to disclose that normal, everyday driving conditions can cause
problems with Honda Sensing and that American Honda knew or should have known
about the Honda Sensing defects, yet Honda sold the vehicles anyways.  American Honda knew of the Honda Sensing
defect since at least 2016, actively concealed the defect, and knowingly sold a
dangerously defective vehicle to Alvarado.  
 
On
August 28, 2024, Alvarado filed a Second Amended Complaint. 
 
On
August 9, 2024, American Honda filed this motion to compel inspection of
Alvarado’s Honda Insight. No opposition has been filed.
 
Meet and Confer
A
demanding party must attach a meet and confer declaration to its motion to
compel discovery.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2031.310, subd. (b)(2), 2016.040.)  The
declaration must “state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.) 
 
“The
level of effort at informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good
faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances.  In a larger, more complex discovery context, a
greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted.  In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a
more modest effort may suffice.  The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of discovery requested, the prospects
for success and other similar factors can be relevant.”  (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
 
Although
“discovery statutes have generally been construed to uphold the right to
discovery wherever reasonable and possible,” the Court must now balance the
principle of liberal construction in favor of discovery with the meet and
confer requirement.  (Id. at p.
434.)  In such circumstances, the court
should not deny discovery but “consider whether it would be more appropriate to
specify additional efforts which will be required before the court will
turn to the merits of the discovery dispute.” (Id. at pp. 434-435, fn.
10.)
 
Even
though this motion is unopposed, American Honda not only fails to attach the
required declaration, its motion and supporting declaration are silent as to
whether any efforts were made to meet and confer.  
 
CONCLUSION
The
Court will set a status conference on the continued hearing date and order a
joint status report re: the meet and confer with the filing date to be set at
the hearing. 
 
Moving
party to give notice.