  Case Number:  21STCV42187    Hearing Date:   June 13, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78   JACOB TITO,Plaintiff, vs. PACIFIC SPECIALTY INSURANCE COMPANY,Defendant.  Case No.:  21STCV42187 Hearing Date:  June 13, 2024   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   MOTION TO COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE FILED BY DEFENDANT PACIFIC SPECIALTY INSURANCE Defendant’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s further responses to Special Interrogatories is GRANTED.Plaintiff is ordered to provide verified further responses within 15 days after the date of this order.Sanctions in the amount of $1,185 are imposed on Plaintiff’s Counsel of Record. The sanctions are payable within 15 days after the date of this order.Moving party to give notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for breach of contract and breach of obligation of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiff alleges that he entered into an insurance agreement with Defendant Pacific Specialty Insurance Company. On May 7, 2021, Plaintiff suffered a loss compensable under the insurance agreement. Defendants refused to reimburse Plaintiff for the loss.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff Jacob Tito filed his Complaint against Defendant Pacific Specialty Insurance Company.On February 18, 2022, Defendant Answered.On April 5, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Special Interrogatories (SROGs). On April 10, 2024, the parties participated in IDC. On April 19, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to SROGs. The motion is unopposed.DISCUSSION Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s further responses SROGs, set one. I. Legal StandardUnder Code of Civil Procedure, section 2030.300, the Court may order a responding party to serve a further response to interrogatories when the Court finds that any of the following apply: (1) the answer to a particular interrogatory is incomplete or evasive, (2) the exercise of the option to produce documents is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is improper or inadequate, or (3) that an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. Such a motion “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,” which “shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., sections 2016.040, 2030.300(b)(1).) Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300, subdivision (d) authorizes a mandatory issuance of sanctions against “any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.300, subd. (d).) II. DiscussionDefendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to SROGs, set one. Specifically, Defendant seeks additional responses to SROG Nos. 6, 11, 12, and 22. Although Plaintiff provided supplemental responses, Defendant alleges the responses are still deficient.In response to an interrogatory, a responding party has three options. First, the party may respond with the information sought to be discoveryed. Second, the party may exercise an option to produce writings. Third, the party may object to the itnerrogatory. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.210(a)(1)-(3).) Each answer must be complete and straightforward as the information reasonably available to the responsive party. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.220(a).) “If an interrogatory cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.” (Id., subd. (b).) “If the responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” (Id., subd. (c).)A responding party may not respond to interrogatories by asserting an inability to respond, but must make a reasonable good faith effort to obtain the information as required under Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.220(c). (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 406.)Here, the disputed SROGs and responses state as follows:SROG 6Identify all damage which occurred to YOUR home at 5015 Noble Avenue, Sherman Oaks, California after May 7, 2021. [For purposes of these Special Interrogatories, YOU and YOUR shall refer to Plaintiff Jacob Tito.]Response: Plaintiff is unable to know the information sought because, although Plaintiff received legal possession of the property on May 7, 2021, there were other occupiers of the property brought in by Mr. Taldani. Plaintiff did not receive physical possession until after September 2021.Supplemental Response: Plaintiff cannot recall what damage occurred prior to May 7, 2021 versus after May 7, 2021. Although Plaintiff received legal possession of the property from the sheriff on May 7, 2021, the property continued to be occupied by people brought in by the tenant (Talkdani). Plaintiff did not obtain physical possession of the property until September 2021. Plaintiff’s counsel recognizes inconsistencies in the facts based on other evidence but the above-described scenario of the recollection of Plaintiff. In any event, there is coverage for any damage within sixty days after the property became vacant.Defendant asserts that Plaintiff’s previous testimony and videos produced in discovery show that he was at the subject property at various times between May 4, 2021 and June 30, 2021. (Separate statement, p.3.) Thus, Plaintiff’s representations that he did not have access to the property until September 2021 are inconsistent with his previous testimony and other evidence. Plaintiff acknowledges the inconsistencies. Plaintiff’s response does not show that he made a good faith effort to obtain the information because he is aware that his recollection is inconsistent from his prior testimony and other evidence. There is evidence available, such as videos of a May 12, 2021 inspection, Plaintiff’s prior testimony, and a May 2021 police report which could contain information Defendant seeks in this interrogatory. Additionally, Plaintiff is obligated to make a reasonable good faith effort to make inquiry to other persons who might have this information. For example, Plaintiff could ask the insurance adjuster who conducted the May 12, 2021 inspection about the damage to the property. Because Plaintiff has not shown that he made a reasonable, good faith effort to obtain the information requested in this interrogatory, Defendant’s motion is granted as to this interrogatory.SROG 11 State the names and last known addresses of each and every person who has performed any repairs to YOUR home at 5015 Noble Avenue, Sherman Oaks, California since May 7, 2021.Response: Plaintiff himself. The names of the laborers who performed work and were primarily paid in cash are unknown to Plaintiff at this time.Supplemental Response: Plaintiff himself. The names of the laborers who performed work and were primarily paid in cash are unknown to Plaintiff at this time. Plaintiff does not know the contact information for “Jose.” Nor does he know Jose’s last name.Defendant alleges that Plaintiff produced a handwritten document on March 4, 2024 containing a list of repairs, receipts, and names of various workers, including Salgado Velazquez, Jesus Hernandez, and other individuals and companies who performed repairs to the property. (Separate statement, p. 3.) Even if Plaintiff does not recollect the names of laborers who performed work on the property, the names were available to him in the handwritten note Plaintiff produced earlier during discovery. Because Plaintiff failed to respond to the interrogatory despite the information being available to him, the evidence shows Plaintiff did not make a reasonable, good faith effort to obtain the information requested in the interrogatory. Plaintiff must make a reasonable, good faith effort to obtain the names and known address of every person who made repairs to the subject property. Defendant’s motion to compel further responses is granted as to this interrogatory.SROG 12Describe any and all repairs made to YOUR home at 5015 Noble Avenue, Sherman Oaks, California after May 7, 2021.Response: Plaintiff did the demolition work for the entire kitchen and master bathroom. He also tore out the entire flooring in the house.Supplemental response: Plaintiff did the demolition work for the entire kitchen and master bathroom. He also tore out the entire flooring in the house. Materials were purchased to perform these repairs.Defendant alleges Plaintiff produced repairs, receipts, and materials relating to lumber, windows, doors, lighting, cement, plumbing, framing, and air conditioning. (Separate statement, p. 5.) Plaintiff’s response does not account for all of the repairs reflected in his receipts. Because Plaintiff’s response does not describe all repairs he made to the subject property, Defendant’s motion to compel further responses is granted as to this interrogatory. SROG 22State all persons with knowledge of the facts which YOU base the contention in paragraph 13 of YOUR Complaint that YOU are entitled to recover punitive damages against Pacific Specialty Insurance Company.Response: Jacob Tito, Naomi Tito, Cameron Mooney. Personnel of PSIC who played a role in the handling of Plaintiff’s claim for policy benefits. The names of these personnel are unknown to Plaintiff.Supplemental response: Jacob Tito, Naomi Tito, Cameron Mooney. Personnel of PSIC who played a role in the handling of Plaintiff’s claim for policy benefits. The names of these personnel are unknown to Plaintiff.Defendant alleges that it produced Plaintiff’s claim file in February 2024 and that the file contains the names of Defendant’s employees who were involved in Plaintiff’s insurance claim. (Separate statement, p. 5.) Thus, the names of the personnel are available to Plaintiff. Plaintiff had an obligation to make a reasonable, good faith effort to refer to the personnel names produced earlier in discovery and identify the personnel who would have knowledge of  the facts which would show Plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages. Because Plaintiff did not make a reasonable, good faith effort to obtain the information sought by this interrogatory, Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s further responses to this interrogatory is granted.SanctionsDefendant seeks sanctions. Sanctions may be imposed for misuse of discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.030, subd. (a). ) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2023.010, subd. (d).) Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 provides that a court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery even if no opposition was filed. Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff engaged in misuse of the discovery process by failing to make good faith efforts to respond to Defendant’s SROGs. Defendant’s request for $1,185 in sanctions is granted.DATED:  June 13, 2024______________________Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court