 Case Number:  23STCV21150    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



VIRGINIA DIAZ, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV21150
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  July 17, 2024



 
Defendants Ford Motor Company’s and Bob
Wondries Ford’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Virginia Diaz’s and Juan Diaz’s first
amended complaint is sustained as to the 2nd cause of action without
leave to amend.
 
          Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Ford”) (“Defendant”)
demurs to Plaintiffs Virginia Diaz’s (“Virginia”) and Juan Diaz’s (“Juan”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 1.)
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the moving party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41, emphasis added.) 
Defendant’s counsel declares that on February 28, 2024,
counsel for Defendant sent Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer email to
discuss the legal basis for Defendant’s demurrer, and Plaintiffs’ counsel did
not respond.  (Decl. of Patel ¶3.)  Defendant’s counsel’s declaration fails to
demonstrate she attempted to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by
video conference with Plaintiff’s counsel. 
However, the failure to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to
overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(4); Dumas v. Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors (2020)
45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355; Olson v. Hornbrook Community Services District (2019)
33 Cal.App.5th 502, 515.)  Accordingly,
the Court will consider Defendant’s demurrer.
 
          Background
          Plaintiffs filed their initial
Complaint on September 1, 2023, against Defendant Ford and Non-moving Defendant
Bob Wondries Motors dba Bob Wondries Ford (“Bob Wondries”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) alleging three causes of action: (1) violation of the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act Civil Code §§1790 et seq. (“Song-Beverly”)- breach
of express warranty [against Ford]; (2) fraudulent inducement-
concealment [against Ford]; and (3) negligent repair [against Bob
Wondries].  Plaintiff’s causes of
action arise from their December 13, 2017, purchase of a new 2018 Ford Mustang
(“Subject Vehicle”) and a transmission defect in the Subject Vehicle.  (See Complaint.)
          On January 12, 2024, this Court
sustained Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint as to the 2nd and 3rd
causes of action with 20 days leave to amend and overruled Defendants’ demurrer
to the 1st cause of action.  (1/12/24
Minute Order, pg. 7.)
          Plaintiffs filed the operative FAC
against Defendants on February 1, 2024, alleging the same three causes of
action.
          Ford filed the instant demurrer on
April 4, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their
opposition on May 3, 2024.  Defendants
filed their reply on May 9, 2024.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Ford demurs to the 2nd cause of action for fraudulent
inducement-concealment on the basis the claim still fails to plead essential
elements to state the claim and is barred by the economic loss rule as
Plaintiffs failed correct any of the pleading deficiencies in their initial
Complaint.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§430.10(e).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Fraudulent Concealment (2nd COA)
The required elements for fraudulent concealment are: “(1)
concealment or suppression of a material fact; (2) by a defendant with a duty
to disclose the fact to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant intended to defraud
the plaintiff by intentionally concealing or suppressing the fact; (4) the
plaintiff was unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he or she did if
he or she had known of the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) plaintiff
sustained damage as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact.”  (See Bank of America Corp. v. Superior
Court (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 862, 870; Civ. Code §1710(3); CACI 1901.)  The rule of specificity of pleading is only
intended for affirmative fraud cases not fraud by concealment.  (See Alfaro v. Community Housing
Improvement Systems & Planning Association, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th
1356, 1384.)
Plaintiffs failed to plead with sufficient particularity what
representations Ford made to these particular Plaintiffs regarding the
Transmission Defect that these Plaintiffs relied on in purchasing the Subject
Vehicle.  Plaintiffs do not plead that Ford made any specific
representations directly to Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs do not allege any
direct contact with Ford before purchasing the Subject Vehicle where
representations regarding the Transmission Defect at issue should or could have
been revealed.  Merely alleging that Ford omitted facts about an alleged
Transmission Defect in its general advertisements to an unknown audience cannot
establish: (1) knowledge of a particular defect in a particular vehicle,
or (2) intent to conceal this particular knowledge from these particular
Plaintiffs.  (See Tenzer v. Superscope, Inc. (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 18,
30 [“something more than nonperformance is required to prove the defendant’s
intent not to perform his promise”].) 
Plaintiffs’ interactions with a third-party dealership, i.e.
“statements made during the sales process” are not pled as specific to the
Transmission Defect and would amount to standard sales “puffery” that courts
have repeatedly held to be non-actionable anyway.  (Hauter v. Zogarts
(1975) 14 Cal. 3d 104, 111 [statements of opinion, or “puffing,” are
non-actionable].)  Further, even if Plaintiffs claim to have relied on
representations, misstatements, or omissions by an authorized dealer, such
conduct is not attributable to Ford or actionable against Ford. 
Plaintiffs do not claim there were ever representations by
Defendant or a dealership about the transmission of the Subject Vehicle on
which they relied. Therefore, the concealed or omitted fact—the Transmission
defect—cannot be “contrary to a [material] representation actually made by the
defendant.” (Gutierrez v. Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19
Cal.App.5th 1234, 1258.) 
Additionally, Plaintiffs improperly rely on the issuance of TSBs,
as a TSB does not establish knowledge of the alleged defect.  (See American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1367, 1378
[“A TSB is not and cannot fairly be construed by a trial court as an admission
of a design or other defect, because TSBs are routinely issued to dealers to
help diagnose and repair typical complaints.”].) 
As Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged Ford’s exclusive
knowledge and active concealment of the engine defects, Plaintiffs have also
failed to show Defendant had a duty to disclose to Plaintiffs.  (See
Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 803, 831 [detailing the ways in which a fiduciary duty may
arise].) 
Further, the economic loss rule bars Plaintiffs’ fraud claim.  The California Supreme Court in Robinson
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. limited its holding permitting fraud
claims to proceed in contract actions to “a defendant’s affirmative
misrepresentations on which Plaintiffs rely, and which expose Plaintiffs to
liability for personal damages independent of the Plaintiffs’ economic loss.”  (Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana
Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 993.)
Here, Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is based on an alleged fraudulent
omission rather than affirmative misrepresentation, seeks purely economic
losses, and derives from Ford’s alleged breach of warranty.  There are no allegations of physical damage to
Plaintiffs’ property beyond the defective vehicle itself, or that personal
injury accompanied such losses.  There
are no allegations of intentional acts by Ford to fit within Robinson’s
narrow exception to the economic loss rule for intentional acts.  (Robinson, 34 Cal.4th at pg. 993.)
Even if fraudulent inducement based on concealment claims are
excepted from the economic loss rule, the FAC fails to plead fraudulent
inducement to fall within Robinson’s fraudulent inducement exception as
there is no allegation that Ford did not intend to honor its warranty
obligations when Plaintiffs purchased the vehicle.  (See id. at pgs. 989-990 [limiting four
exceptions to the traditional contract remedy restrictions including where the
contract was fraudulently induced]; Food Safety Services v. Eco Safe Systems
USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1131 [stating to establish a claim
of fraudulent inducement, one must show that the defendant did not intend to
honor its contractual promises when they were made].)
Here, there is no allegation that Ford “did not intend to honor
its contractual promises” when Plaintiffs entered into the warranty contract to
state an inducement claim. The FAC reflects that the gravamen of Plaintiffs’
fraud claim is one and the same as their breach of warranty claim as it admits that
Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is based on Ford’s alleged non-performance under the
warranty contract as Plaintiffs purport to have only discovered Ford’s alleged
wrongful conduct “shortly before the filing of the complaint, as the Vehicle
continued to exhibit symptoms of defects following FMC’s unsuccessful attempts
to repair them.”  (FAC ¶8.)  Therefore, Plaintiffs’ fraud claim is barred
by the economic loss rule.
Accordingly, Ford’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is
sustained without leave to amend.
 
          Conclusion
Ford’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is sustained without
leave to amend.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  