  Case Number:  20STCV48984    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept.
F-43
Date:
2-28-24
Case
# 20STCV48984, Ahmet Alkanli vs. City of Los Angeles, et al.
Trial
Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff Ahmet Alkanli
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant City of Los Angeles
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff
has requested that the Cour reconsider its February 28 Minute Order granting
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
 
RULING: Motion for
reconsideration is denied.
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
In
this case, Plaintiff Ahmet Alkanli (Plaintiff) had claimed that on January 16,
2020, he was driving home on a rainy night when his vehicle left the road and
crashed into a light pole, which fell on top of his vehicle. He also claimed
that he sustained injuries as a result. He alleged in his complaint that the
roadway was dangerous and improperly maintained and the light pole was not
properly maintained.
 
The
Court granted Defendant City of Los Angeles’s (Defendant) motion for summary
judgment as to Plaintiff’s First and Third Causes of Action on February 28,
2024. On February 29, 2024, Defendant filed and served its notice of ruling of
order granting motion for summary judgment. On March 6, 2024, the Court entered
judgment in favor of Defendant. On March 8, 2024, Defendant filed and served
its Notice on Entry of Judgment. On March 11, 2024, Plaintiff file his Motion
for Reconsideration.
 
Defendant
opposes Plaintiff’s motion. First, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion is
improper because the Court lost jurisdiction once judgment was entered. Next,
Defendant argues that nothing in Plaintiff’s motion purports to new facts,
circumstances, or law, as is required for motions for reconsideration. Finally,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has provided no authority to support his request
to set aside the order granting the motion for summary judgment to allow for
supplemental briefing.
 
Plaintiff
agues in reply that the Court still has jurisdiction. Next, Plaintiff argues
that if the Court finds that it does not have jurisdiction, then the Court has
the authority to treat this as a motion for new trial. Finally, Plaintiff
argues that his motion for reconsideration does not contain evidence that was available
to him for the motion for summary judgment.
 
ANALYSIS
Motions
for reconsideration are allowable pursuant to CCP § 1008(a), which states that
“When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.”
 
            Jurisdiction
First,
the Court will address Defendant’s arguments concerning lack of jurisdiction. Defendant
cites APRI Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 176 and
other cases in support of its contention that Plaintiff lacks jurisdiction to
bring the motion for reconsideration. Defendant argues that because Plaintiff
filed his motion for reconsideration after judgment had been entered, then the
Court lacks jurisdiction to hear Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration. 
 
Plaintiff
argues in his opposition that a key difference between ARPI and the
current case is that the defendant in ARPI was dismissed from the case
when judgment was entered. Defendant in this case has not yet been dismissed
from the action. However, it is inconsequential that the defendant had been
dismissed, as the Court in ARPI found that a written order of dismissal
is a judgment. It was not that judgment had been entered and then the defendant
was dismissed; the court found that the dismissal constituted a judgment and
therefore the window for reconsideration had closed. (ARPI, 76
Cal.App.4th at 181.)
 
 “‘A court may reconsider its order granting or
denying a motion and may even reconsider or alter its judgment so long as
judgment has not yet been entered. Once judgment has been entered, however, the
court may not reconsider it and loses its unrestricted power to change the
judgment. It may correct judicial error only through certain limited procedures
such as motions for new trial and motions to vacate the judgment. [Citations.]’
(Passavanti v. Williams (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 1602, 1606 [275 Cal.Rptr.
887], italics omitted.)” (ARPI, 76 Cal.App.4th at 181.)
 
“‘A
final judgment terminates the litigation between the parties and leaves nothing
in the nature of judicial action to be done other than questions of enforcement
or compliance. “Until entry of judgment, the court retains complete power to
change its decision…; it may change its conclusions of law or findings of fact.
[Citation.] After judgment a trial court cannot correct judicial
error except in accordance with statutory proceedings. [Citations.] A
motion for reconsideration is not such a motion.”’ (Citations.)” (Id. at
181-182.)
 
The
timeline of this case is clear. The Court entered judgment in favor of
Defendant on March 6. Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration was filed on March
11. Judgment has been entered, meaning that the Court lacks jurisdiction over the
motion for reconsideration.
 
Plaintiff
requested in his reply that the Court consider treating this as a motion for
new trial if the Court found that it lacked jurisdiction. Given that Plaintiff
did not make this request in his initial motion and Defendant has not been
given a chance to oppose the request or argue against a new trial, the Court
will not consider Plaintiff’s motion as a motion for new trial.
 
            Merits of the Motion
Though
unnecessary to do so, the Court will also address the substantive points of Plaintiff’s
motion and whether it meets the requirements for a motion for reconsideration. 
 
CCP
§ 1008(a) requires that a motion for reconsideration be based upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law. Rather than base his motion on new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, Plaintiff’s motion is entirely based on
his arguments that this Court got the ruling wrong on the motion for summary
judgment.
 
Plaintiff’s
primary arguments are (1) that the Court should not have sustained objections
to Plaintiff’s expert declarations; (2) that the Court failed to address the
loss of design immunity; and (3) that the Court’s final ruling relied solely
upon design and construction elements of the roadway design and failed to
address Lopez principles.
 
None
of these arguments have anything to do with new or different facts,
circumstances, or law. They are all based on the same facts, circumstances, and
law that were present in Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion for summary
judgment. Though Plaintiff has submitted new supplemental declarations from his
experts, these do not present any new facts or circumstances and are instead
premised on explaining why the Court erred in sustaining objections to the
experts’ declarations. Even if they contained new facts or circumstances,
Plaintiff has not explained why these facts or circumstances were not included
with his original opposition to the summary judgment.
 
The
Court would have denied the motion for reconsideration on the basis that
Plaintiff has presented no new facts, circumstances, or law.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for reconsideration is denied on the basis that the Court lacks
jurisdiction. Alternatively, Plaintiff’s motion is denied because it does not
present any new facts, circumstances, or law.  
 
Moving
party to give notice.