 Case Number:  23CHCV03025    Hearing Date:   April 22, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-22-24
Case #23CHCV03025,
Susie Villegas vs. Rattler’s Bar B Que 1, Inc.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Susie Villegas
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Rattler’s Bar B Que 1, Inc.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant’s
further responses to certain discovery responses, as well as sanctions
 
RULING:
Motion is denied, but sanctions are awarded to Plaintiff in the amount of $500
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On November 7,
2023, Plaintiff Susie Villegas (Plaintiff) served Defendant Rattler’s Bar B Que
1, Inc. (Defendant) with Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One. After
Plaintiff gave Defendant a couple of extensions to respond to the Form
Interrogatories, Defendant served its responses on January 24, 2024.
 
Thereafter,
Plaintiff determined that some of Defendant’s responses were not
code-compliant. Plaintiff’s counsel sent a meet and confer letter to
Defendant’s counsel on February 20, 2024, requesting further responses to Form
Interrogatories Nos. 3.7, 4.1, 12.1, 12.4, and 15.1. The parties agreed to
allow Defendant to have until March 1 to respond if Defendant agreed to extend
Plaintiff’s deadline for filing a motion to compel to March 20. On March 1,
2024, Defendant served further responses to the Form Interrogatories. Plaintiff
still found Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 12.1, 12.4, and
15.1 to be deficient.
 
After Plaintiff
asked if Defendant would be providing any further responses to these three
interrogatories, Defense counsel responded on March 11 by saying that no
further responses would be provided for 12.1 and 12.4, but Defendant would
provide further response for 15.1. Defendant provided a further response to
15.1 on March 13, but it was not to Plaintiff’s satisfaction.
 
Plaintiff filed
this motion to compel further responses on March 18, 2024. On April 5, 2024,
Defendant filed its opposition. In Defendant’s opposition, Defendant indicated
that it had provided further responses to the three interrogatories on March
21, 2024. Defendant argues that this moots Plaintiff’s motion and that the
further responses were sufficient to answer the interrogatories. Defendant also
argues that Plaintiff’s motion does not cite any authority for the central
points of her motion. Finally, Defendant argues that its employees have a
constitutional right to privacy in their personal contact information.
 
In Plaintiff’s
reply, Plaintiff indicates that Defendant’s response to Form Interrogatory No.
15.1 is sufficient, but Plaintiff still seeks further responses to 12.1 and
12.4. Plaintiff argues that her interest in obtaining the employee’s contact
information is greater than their privacy interests.
 
The following are
the remaining Form Interrogatories at issue and Defendant’s most recent
responses:
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 12.1: 
State
the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each individual: 
(a) who witnessed the INCIDENT or the
events occurring immediately before or after the INCIDENT; 
(b)
who made any statement at the scene of the INCIDENT; 
(c) who heard any statements made about
the INCIDENT by any individual at the scene; and 
(d) who YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR
BEHALF claim has knowledge of the INCIDENT (except for expert witnesses covered
by Code of Civil Procedure § 2034).
 
Defendant’s Further
Response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.1: 
(a) Plaintiff; witness, Rattler’s team
members, Nathalie Lozoya and Kenneth Hill, who may be contacted through counsel
for responding party; 
(b) Plaintiff; Rattler’s team member,
Nathalie Lozoya; Rattler’s manager, Erika Diego, who may be contacted through
counsel for responding party 
(c) Rattler’s team member, Nathalie
Lozoya; Rattler’s manager, Erika Diego, who may be contacted through counsel
for responding party; 
(d) Responding party’s employee, People
and Culture Manager, Lindsey Ritenour, who may be contacted through responding
party.
 
Form
Interrogatory No. 12.4:
            Do YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR
BEHALF know of any photographs, films, or videotapes depicting any place,
object, or individual concerning the INCIDENT or plaintiffs injuries? If so,
state: 
(a)
the number of photographs or feel of film or videotape; 
(b)
the places, objects, or persons photographed, filmed, or videotaped; 
(c)
the date the photographs, films, or videotapes were taken; 
(d) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of the individual taking the photographs, films, or videotapes; and 
(e) the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of each PERSON who has the original or a copy of the photographs, films,
or videotapes.
 
Defendant’s
Further Response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.4:
            Responding party objects to this
interrogatory to the extent it calls for information or writings protected from
disclosure by the attorney-client privilege and the attorney work product
doctrine which may include information obtained or writings prepared for, or in
anticipation of, litigation concerning the incident, or which may be withheld
for impeachment. Without waiving its objections, and subject thereto,
responding party has made a diligent effort and a reasonable inquiry in an
effort to respond to this interrogatory, and states: 
(a)
Eight photographs; no cameras were operating, thus, no video exists; 
(b)
The subject metal strip on ground wherein plaintiff alleges she fell; 
(c)
Upon information and belief, February 2022; 
(d) Responding party’s General Manager for
the subject restaurant, Javier Arambula, who may be contacted through counsel
for responding party; 
(e)
Responding party. 
(a)
One photograph; 
(b)
The subject metal strip on ground wherein plaintiff alleges she fell; 
(c)
Unknown as it was marked as Exhibit 1 in plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories; 
(d)
Unknown as it was marked as Exhibit 1 in plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories; 
(e)
Plaintiff and responding party.
 
Plaintiff’s
issue with the further responses is that they do not contain the employees’
contact information. Plaintiff argues that this information is necessary in
case the employee witnesses no longer work for Defendant in the future.
 
Plaintiff also seeks
sanctions in the amount of $3,060.00 against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel
of record for abuse of the discovery process.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Form
Interrogatories
To compel a
further response to interrogatories, the movant can show that: (1) the
responding party’s answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)); (2) the responding party’s exercise of the
option to produce documents in response to an interrogatory was unwarranted or
the required specification of those documents was inadequate (CCP §
2030.300(a)(2)); and (3) the responding party’s objection to an interrogatory
is without merit or too general (CCP § 2030.300(a)(3); see, e.g., Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 550 (Williams) [defendant’s
argument that plaintiff was required to establish good cause or prove merits of
underlying claim before propounding interrogatories without merit]).
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 12.1 and 12.4
are not as complete and straightforward as possible because Defendant did not
include the addresses and phone numbers for all the witnesses listed.
 
Defendant
argues in responses that the personnel records of employees are protected by
the constitutional right of privacy. (See Hill v. NCAA (1994) 7 Cal.4th
1, 16.) However, the right to privacy is not absolute, and may be outweighed by
the legitimate interests of another party to a lawsuit. (Heda v. Superior
Court (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 525, 527.) Whether the employee contact
information is discoverable hinges on whether the request for it is “reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Williams, 3
Cal.5th at 542.)
 
It is worth
noting that Rule 4.2 of the Rules of the State Bar of California prohibits communications
between a lawyer and the current employee of the opposing corporation if the
communication is about any act or omission of the person in connection with the
matter which may be binding upon or imputed to the corporation for purposes of
civil liability. (Prof. Conduct, Rule 4.2(b)(2).)
 
In this case,
Defendant indicated that while the employees in question are employed by it, it
will take care of producing any current employee for deposition, or it will
provide Plaintiff with the former employee’s last known contact information if
the employee no longer works for Defendant.
 
The Court
agrees that this is the proper approach. Direct communication about the subject
case between an opposing lawyer and the current employee of a defendant
corporation is prohibited by Rule 4.2. It is not necessary, at this time, for
Plaintiff to obtain the contact information of Defendant’s employees.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion is denied for these two interrogatories.
 
Sanctions
CCP § 2023.030
authorizes the Court to issue sanctions against a party engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process. Failure to respond to discovery,
evasive responses, and objections lacking substantial justification are
“misuses of the discovery process.” (CCP § 2023.010, subd. (d)-(f).)
 
Plaintiff has
requested sanctions in the amount of $3,060.00 against Defendant and Defendant’s
counsel of record for having to bring this motion. The amount was based on Plaintiff’s
counsel spending an anticipated 12 hours on the motion at $250.00, as well as
the $60.00 filing fee. (Martinez Decl., ¶¶ 20-22.)
 
Defendant
argues in its opposition that it should be able to obtain sanctions from
Plaintiff on the basis that Plaintiff’s motion is baseless and constitutes an
abuse of the discovery process within the meaning of CCP § 2023.010(h).
Defendant has requested sanctions in the amount of $2,737.00 against
Plaintiff’s counsel. The amount was based on Plaintiff’s counsel spending 11.9
hours at $230 an hour. (Sawyer Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
While Plaintiff
was justified in bringing this motion because Defendant served further
responses after Plaintiff filed the motion, the Court ultimately denied the
motion for the remaining interrogatories. Therefore, the Court will award
sanctions to Plaintiff for having to bring this motion, but at the reduced
amount of $500.
 
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record is
granted in the reduced amount of $500.
 
ORDER
1.      Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to form interrogatories is denied.
2.      Defendant
and Defendant’s counsel of record are ordered to pay sanctions in the total
amount of $500.00. Defendant and Defendant’s counsel of record are ordered to
pay these sanctions to Plaintiff’s counsel within twenty (20) days.