  Case Number:  19PSCV00687    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  K Defendant Alan Boudreau’s Motion for Summary Judgment as
to Meritage Homes of California, Inc.’s Second Amended Complaint is DENIED.
Background   
Case No.
19PSCV00687
Plaintiff Meritage
Homes of California, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “Meritage”) alleges as follows:
Boudreau Pipeline Corporation (“BPC”)
constructed and installed a sewer lift station and associated improvements
(“the System”) in connection with and to service Creekside. The System’s pumps
were manufactured with undersized impeller blades, which caused issues with the
flow and pressure. BPC failed to promptly remedy the operational and
performance issues with the System, which resulted in the City of La Verne
(“City”) imposing a sales and building moratorium and ultimately resulted in
the City’s revocation of permits.
On October 22, 2019,
BPC filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against John Lisee
Pumps (“JLP”), Meritage and Roes 1-125 for:
1.                 
Express
Contractual Indemnity
2.                 
Implied
Indemnity
3.                 
Total
Equitable Indemnity
4.                 
Contribution
5.                 
Declaratory
Relief: Duty to Indemnify
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief: Duty to Defend
7.                 
Breach
of Contract
8.                 
Breach
of Express Warranties
9.                 
Breach
of Implied Warranties
10.             
Negligence
11.             
Quantum
Meruit 
On December 9, 2019,
BPC dismissed its 1st-10th causes of action against
Meritage, with prejudice.
On December 10,
2019, JLP filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Moes 1-20
for:
1.                 
Indemnity
2.                 
Contribution
3.                 
Apportionment

4.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On February 24,
2020, BPC filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein Pentair was
substituted in lieu of Roe 101. On April 27, 2020, Meritage filed an “Amendment
to Complaint,” wherein MBI was named in lieu of Doe 1.
On June 23, 2020,
MBI filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Roes 1-100 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
2.                 
Comparative
Apportionment of Fault
3.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On February 17,
2021, MBI filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein BPC was named in
lieu of Roe 1, JLP was named in lieu of Roe 2 and Pentair Flow Technologies,
LLC was named in lieu of Roe 3.
On October 22, 2021,
Meritage filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein JLP was named in lieu of
Doe 151.
On February 10,
2021, BPC filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein MBI was named in
lieu of Roe 76.
On April 25, 2022,
the court related this instant case to Case No. 18PSCV00026; Case No.
18PSCV00026 was deemed to be the lead case. On October 12, 2023, Meritage filed
a request for dismissal of the entire action in 18PSCV00026, with prejudice.
On December 7, 2022,
Meritage filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), asserting causes of action
against BPC, JLP, MBI and Does 1-300 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Express
Indemnity
3.                 
Negligence
4.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Indemnify
5.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
7.                 
Breach
of Contract—Third Party Beneficiary
8.                 
Strict
Products Liability
9.                 
Negligence
10.             
Breach
of Contract
11.             
Breach
of Implied Covenants of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
12.             
Express
Indemnity
13.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Indemnify
14.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
15.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
16.             
Fraudulent
Concealment 
17.             
Negligent
Misrepresentation
On February 1, 2023, Meritage filed an “Amendment
to Complaint,” wherein Alan Boudreau (“Boudreau”) was named in lieu of Doe 201.
The Final Status Conference is set for February 21, 2024. Trial is set
for February 27, 2024.
Legal Standard
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119 [emphasis theirs].)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) “[A] moving defendant has two means by which to shift the burden of
proof under the summary judgment statute: The defendant may rely upon factually
insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the plaintiff
cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued upon. Or
alternatively, the defendant may utilize the . . . technique of negating
(‘disproving’) an essential element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Leyva
v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1095, 1103 [internal quotations
and citation omitted].)
“Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (p)(2).) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
Discussion
Boudreau moves the court for summary judgment in his favor
and against Plaintiff on Plaintiff’s SAC.
Boudreau contends that he is entitled to summary judgment on
the basis that the only theory of liability asserted against Boudreau is that
of alter ego and that Plaintiff cannot provide the threshold evidence
necessary for consideration of application of the alter ego doctrine as a
matter of law.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court rules on
Boudreau’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) as follows:
1.                 
Granted as to Exhibit 1 (i.e., Plaintiff’s
complaint filed July 30, 2019); 
2.                 
Granted as to Exhibit 2 (i.e., BPC’s answer
filed  October 15, 2019); 
3.                 
Granted as to Exhibit 3 (i.e., Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint filed August 10, 2022); 
4.                 
Granted as to Exhibit 4 (i.e., Plaintiff’s SAC
filed December 7, 2022); 
5.                 
Granted as to Exhibit 5 (i.e., BPC’s “Motion for
Protective Order or, in the Alternative, Motion to Bifurcate Plaintiff Meritage
Homes of California’s Alter Ego Liability Theory” filed June 24, 2022); 
6.                 
Granted as to Exhibit 6 (i.e., court’s January
13, 2023 ruling); 
7.                 
Granted as to Exhibit 7 (i.e., “Amendment to Complaint” filed February 1,
2023); 
8.                 
Granted
as to Exhibit 8 (i.e., Boudreau’s answer filed March 14, 2023 ) and 
9.                 
Granted
as to Exhibit 9 (i.e., BPC’s answer filed March 14, 2023).
The court rules on
Plaintiff’s RJN as follows: Granted as to Exhibit V (i.e., complaint filed
August 23, 2022 in case styled Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut v.
Boudreau Pipeline Corporation, Case No. 22PSCV00910).
Evidentiary
Objections
The court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections, on the basis that they reflect insufficient compliance
with California Rules of Court Rule 3.1354, subdivision (b) (i.e., “[o]bjections
to specific evidence must be referenced by the objection number in the right
column of a separate statement in opposition or reply to a motion, but the
objections must not be restated or reargued in the separate statement. Each
written objection must be numbered consecutively and must: . . . (2)
State the exhibit, title, page, and line number of the material objected
to; (3) Quote or set forth the objectionable statement or material. . .”
[emphasis added].)
 
The court rules on
Boudreau’s evidentiary objections as follows: Overruled as to Nos. 1-20.
Merits
On December 7, 2022, Plaintiff filed its SAC against BPC, JLP, MBI and Does 1-300, which
included the following language in Paragraph 3 under the “Parties” subsection:
Meritage is informed and believes that
an individual, Mr. Alan Boudreau, 
is a legal alter-ego of Boudreau.
Meritage bases this allegation on the fact 
that Mr. Boudreau shares the same name
as Boudreau, he was in direct 
control of Boudreau’s conduct as it
relates to the allegations in this complaint, 
he was the superior officer in charge
of Boudreau’s conduct, he made personal 
references to company actions, Boudreau
shares the same mailing address as 
other business entities that appear to
be controlled by Mr. Boudreau, and 
Meritage is informed and believes that
Mr. Boudreau personally chose to 
withhold material information from
Meritage that may have avoided most, if 
not all, of the damages sought by this
Complaint. Additionally, Meritage 
recently learned that at least one of
Mr. Boudreau’s immediate family members 
holds an executive position at Boudreau
but has no duties or other 
responsibilities that would warrant a
paying position with the company. 
Meritage also recently learned that in
January 2019, Mr. Boudreau sold his 
entire interest in the company, which
Meritage believes was the controlling 
majority shareholder interest, to
Boudreau, after being placed on notice of this 
claim by Meritage in April 2018, and
after learning of Boudreau’s considerable 
exposure in connection therewith.
Despite selling his entire interest in the 
company, and restructuring the business
in a manner rendering equity therein 
far more inaccessible, Mr. Boudreau
maintained his paying position, authority, 
and total control over the company, and
based on information and belief, still 
benefits financially from the profits
of the company. Meritage is informed and 
believes, and based thereon alleges,
that Mr. Boudreau transferred assets from 
the company to himself and other
employees of the company, only after 
Meritage’s claim arose, and that in
doing so, Mr. Boudreau treated the company 
assets as his own, to be disposed of at
his discretion and solely to avoid the 
obligations arising under this claim.
As such, Meritage alleges that there is a 
unity of interest and ownership between
Mr. Boudreau and Boudreau such that 
Mr. Boudreau is liable for the acts of
the corporation. Further, not only did Mr. 
Boudreau manipulate the equity in the
Company in a manner that renders it 
judgment proof or near judgment proof,
Boudreau likewise failed to maintain 
proper insurance or other
capitalization to respond to and pay claims, such as 
the instant case. This allegation is
underscored by the recent lawsuit filed by 
Boudreau’s insurance carrier in which
the carrier, Travelers’ Insurance Company, 
denies and declines that there is any
indemnity coverage to fund a judgment or to 
otherwise respond to and pay this
claim. As such and due in large part to the 
actions taken by Mr. Boudreau, Boudreau
remains undercapitalized such that an 
unjust result will follow if Boudreau
is treated as the sole actor and defendant-debtor here. Further facts
supporting these alter-ego allegations are being pursued in discovery.
On February 1, 2023, Meritage
filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein Boudreau was named in lieu of Doe
201.
“Ordinarily, a corporation is regarded as a legal entity,
separate and distinct from its stockholders, officers and directors, with
separate and distinct liabilities and obligations. A corporate identity may be
disregarded—the ‘corporate veil’ pierced—where an abuse of the corporate
privilege justifies holding the equitable ownership of a corporation liable for
the actions of the corporation.” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538). “Under the alter ego doctrine,
then, when the corporate form is used to perpetrate a fraud, circumvent a
statute, or accomplish some other wrongful or inequitable purpose, the courts
will ignore the corporate entity and deem the corporation's acts to be those of
the persons or organizations actually controlling the corporation, in most
instances the equitable owners.” (Id.) “The alter ego doctrine prevents
individuals or other corporations from misusing the corporate laws by the
device of a sham corporate entity formed for the purpose of committing fraud or
other misdeeds.” (Id.)
“Whether the evidence has established that the corporate veil
should be ignored is primarily a question of fact. . .” (Toho-Towa Co., Ltd.
v. Morgan Creek Productions, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1096, 1108).
However, “[i]t is well-settled that the alter ego doctrine is essentially an
equitable one and for that reason is particularly within the province of the
trial court. . . the constitutional guaranty of the right to a jury trial does
not apply to actions involving the application of equitable doctrines and the
granting of relief that is obtainable only in courts of equity. Accordingly, a
jury cannot be demanded as of right in such actions.” (Dow Jones Co. v.
Avenel (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 147-148).
“In California, two conditions must be met before the alter
ego doctrine will be invoked. First, there must be such a unity of interest and
ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist.
Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated
as those of the corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond Corp., supra, 83
Cal.App.4th at 538). 
“Several factors are to be considered in applying the
doctrine; among them are: [c]ommingling of funds and other assets, failure to
segregate funds of the separate entities, and the unauthorized diversion of
corporate funds or assets to other than corporate uses; ... the treatment by an
individual of the assets of the corporation as his own; ... the failure to
obtain authority to issue stock or to subscribe to or issue the same; ... the
holding out by an individual that he is personally liable for the debts of the
corporation; ... the failure to maintain minutes or adequate corporate records
...; sole ownership of all of the stock in a corporation by one individual or
the members of a family; ... the failure to adequately capitalize a
corporation; the total absence of corporate assets, and undercapitalization; ...
the use of a corporation as a mere shell, instrumentality or conduit for a
single venture or the business of an individual or another corporation; ... the
concealment and misrepresentation of the identity of the responsible ownership,
management and financial interest, or concealment of personal business
activities; ... the disregard of legal formalities and the failure to maintain
arm's length relationships among related entities; ... the use of the corporate
entity to procure labor, services or merchandise for another person or entity;
... the diversion of assets from a corporation by or to a stockholder or other
person or entity, to the detriment of creditors, or the manipulation of assets
and liabilities between entities so as to concentrate the assets in one and the
liabilities in another; ... the contracting with another with intent to avoid
performance by use of a corporate entity as a shield against personal
liability, or the use of a corporation as a subterfuge of illegal transactions;
... and the formation and use of a corporation to transfer to it the existing
liability of another person or entity.” (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 399, 417-418 [internal quotations omitted].)  The above list of factors is not exhaustive
and “may be considered among others under the particular circumstances of each
case.” (Id. at 418).
Boudreau argues that Plaintiff lacks evidence to establish
that he is an alter ego of BPC and submits his declaration and that of
Veronica Casillas (“Casillas”) to show that Plaintiff cannot establish an
essential element of the causes of action sued upon.
First, “pointing out the absence of evidence to support a
plaintiff's claim is insufficient to meet the moving defendant's initial burden
of production. The defendant must also produce evidence that the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Gaggero v.
Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891). Boudreau’s proffer of Plaintiff’s
responses to Boudreau’s special interrogatories do not establish that Plaintiff
does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence to support its
claim.
Second, “summary judgment may be denied in the discretion of
the court if the only proof of a material fact offered in support of the
summary judgment is an affidavit or declaration made by an individual who was
the sole witness to that fact; or if a material fact is an individual's state
of mind, or lack thereof, and that fact is sought to be established solely by
the individual's affirmation thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (e).)
The court alternatively exercises its discretion to deny summary
judgment to the extent that Boudreau is the sole witness to what is stated in Boudreau’s
undisputed material facts Nos. 11 [i.e., that “[i]n or around 2015, discussions
began in regard to the restructuring of Boudreau Pipeline Corporation”], 12
[i.e., that “[i]n order to assist in the restructuring, Boudreau Pipeline
Corporation retained the services of outside counsel to develop an Employee
Stock Ownership Plan”], 13 [i.e., that “[t]he Employee Stock Ownership Plan is
a contribution plan that has been designed to invest primarily in qualifying
employer securities while meeting certain specified legal requirements as
required by the Internal Revenue Code”], 14 [i.e., that “[o]n or about January
1, 2019, MR. BOUDREAU sold his entire interest in Boudreau Pipeline Corporation
through this plan”], 15 [i.e., that “[f]rom that point on, MR. BOUDREAU has had
no ownership interest in Boudreau Pipeline Corporation”] and 16 i.e., that
“[a]fter selling all of his interest in Boudreau Pipeline Corporation, MR.
BOUDREAU remains employed by the company and services as its President”] and
that Casillas is the sole witness to what is stated in Boudreau’s undisputed
material facts Nos. 18 [i.e., that “Boudreau Pipeline Corporation has
continuously maintained corporate formalities such as minutes and corporate
records”], 19 [i.e., that “Boudreau Pipeline Corporation has sufficient cash to
support its day-to-day activities, including but not limited to, various operating
expenses and payroll”], 20 [i.e., that “Boudreau Pipeline Corporation has
maintained its own set of books, accounts and records since its incorporation
in 2000”], 21 [i.e., that “[s]ince 2015, Boudreau Pipeline Corporation has
maintained both general liability and excess insurance policies in a yearly
aggregate amount in excess of $5 million”] and 22 [i.e., that “Boudreau
Pipeline Corporation does not combine its funds with any other entity and/or
individual, including MR. BOUDREAU”].
The
motion is denied. 