 Case Number:  24PSCV02757    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT FCA US LLC’S NOTICE OF DEMURRER AND
DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to
amend. 
 
Background
 
This is a lemon law case arising from Plaintiff’s April
2021 purchase of a 2018 Ram ProMaster City. 
 
On August 26, 2024, Plaintiffs VANESSA AVILES and
ALEJANDRO AVILES filed suit against Defendant FCA US, LLC for: 
 
1.     VIOLATION
OF SUBDIVISION (D) OF CIVIL CODE SECTION 1793.2
2.     VIOLATION
OF SUBDIVISION (B) OF CIVIL CODE SECTION 1793.2
3.     VIOLATION
OF SUBDIVISION (A)(3) OF CIVIL CODE SECTION 1793.2
4.     BREACH
OF THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY
5.     Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment
 
On October 9, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer.
 
On October 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition.
 
On October 30, 2024, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant demurs to the 3rd COA and the 5th
COA on the grounds that both fail to allege sufficient facts to constitute a
valid COA. (See Notice of Demurrer.) 
 
A.     3rd
COA 
 
Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (A)(3) provides
that “(a) Every manufacturer of consumer goods
sold in this state and for which the manufacturer has made an express warranty
shall . . . (3) Make available to authorized service and repair facilities
sufficient service literature and replacement parts to effect repairs during
the express warranty period.”
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
violated this statute because Defendant “failed to make available to its authorized
service and repair facilities sufficient service literature and replacement
parts to effect repairs during the express warranty period” and as a result
thereof, they “have been damaged.” (¶64.) Where statutory remedies are invoked, “[f]acts, not
conclusions, must be pleaded,” and the facts “must be pleaded with
particularity.” (Demurrer p. 2, quoting Carter v. Prime Healthcare
Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 410, citing Zumbrun v.
University of Southern California (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 1, 8.) 
 
Here, however, this allegation merely recites the
statutory language; “[t]here are no facts whatsoever to give FCA any indication
of what portion of the Civil Code section specifically was violated.”
(Demurrer p. 3, italics original.) The same conclusory allegation applies to
Plaintiffs’ allegation that they have damaged as nothing more is given as to
the nature of the damages. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiffs argue that Defendant
possesses the information as to what information was withheld and that “modern
discovery procedures necessarily affect the amount of detail that should be
required in a pleading,” that falls short of pleading standards. While
discovery as to more specifics may be had, Plaintiffs, at the very
least, must plead ultimate facts. 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the demurrer as to the 3rd
COA with leave to amend. 
 
B.     5th
COA for Fraud 
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant did not disclose the
defective nature of the transmission even though Defendant knew of the
transmission defect “through sources not available to consumers such as
Plaintiffs, including but not limited to preproduction testing data, early
consumer complaints about the Transmission Defect made directly to Defendant
FCA and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty data compiled from Defendant
FCA's network of dealers, testing conducted by Defendant FCA in response to these
complaints, as well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by
Defendant FCA from Defendant FCA's network of dealers, amongst other sources of
internal information.” (¶74, subd. (a.) Courts apply a heightened standard “to
evaluate the factual underpinnings of a fraudulent concealment claim at the
pleading stage.” (Demurrer p. 3, quoting Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2024) 324 Cal.Rptr.3d 433, 465.) 
 
Here, as with above, this allegation is not specific. The
alleged defect is with a 9-speed transmission; Plaintiffs have not pled how of
any the foregoing sources speak to that defect. With that, as the claim fails
for lack of the requisite particularity, the court need not address Defendant’s
other arguments (i.e., as to transactional relationship between the parties,
corporate ratification, economic loss rule, etc.) 
 
Therefore, the demurrer as to the 5th COA is
sustained with leave to amend. 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend for Plaintiffs to plead more particular facts. 