  Case Number:  22STCV14395    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT
COVINA-VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT 'S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF THE ISSUES is GRANTED in part
(i.e., as to 1st COA for negligence) and DENIED in part
(i.e., as to 2nd COA for negligent supervision—namely as the motion
largely focuses on actual knowledge but the evidence suggests triable issues of
material fact as to whether school officials had constructive knowledge).

 
Background
 
This case
arises from allegations of sexual assault while in school. Plaintiff NICHOLAS
INCLAN (“Plaintiff”) asserts the following allegations against Defendants
COVINA VALLY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (“District” or “Defendant”), a public
entity, and KIMBERLY NORTHROP (collectively, “Defendants”): Defendant Northrop
was a teacher at Northview High School, where Plaintiffwas her student during
the 2004 to 2005 academic year. Northrop began sexually grooming
Plaintiff by seeking to earn his emotional and psychological trust. After two
weeks, Northrop began sexually assaulting Plaintiff. Northrop also sexually
assaulted two other students. Plaintiff further alleges that another District’s
teacher sexually assaulted students. Despite the District’s awareness that at
least one of its teachers sexually abused a minor student at Northview High
School, the District continued to ignore Northrop’s inappropriate behavior. 
 
On April 29,
2022, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants for the following causes of
action (COAs): 
 
1.     Negligence
2.     Negligent Supervision and Retention 
3.     Sexual Battery and
4.     Sexual Harassment
 
On July 21,
2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC), reasserting the same
COAs against the same Defendants.
 
On August 4,
2022, the court found Defendant’ demurrer x MTS moot.
 
On August 3,
2022, Defendant filed a demurrer to the MTS. 
 
On September
2, 2022, Northrop filed her answer.
 

On October 17, 2022, the court issued its final ruling as
to Defendant’s demurrer to the 4th COA found in the FAC wherein the
court overruled the namely because “employees of
the school district other than Northrop—specifically teachers and the vice
principal—observed Northrop’s inappropriate behavior and/or were aware of
information regarding Northrop’s improper/criminal activities involving
Plaintiff and other students. Yet, these employees who in the scope of their
employment, have a duty to protect students from certain known/suspected abuses
failed to take appropriate actions to safeguard Plaintiff.” (See 10/17/22 Final
Ruling.) 
 
On November 17, 2022, the District[1]
filed a cross-complaint (CC) against Northrop for:
 
1. Total Equitable Indemnity
2. Partial Equitable Indemnity
3. Declaratory Relief 
 
On November 17, 2022, the District filed
its answer to Plaintiff’s FAC.
 
On December 19, 2023, Northrop filed her
answer to the CC.
 
On January 22, 2024, Northrop filed a
substitution of attorney indicating Counsel William Blasser is no longer
serving as her counsel and she is representing herself.
 
On April 29, 2024, the District filed
the a Motion to Stay the Trial, which the court denied on 6/25/24. 
 
On May 16, 2024, the District filed the
instant summary judgment motion. 
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an EX PARTE APPLICATION TO CONTINUE
HEARING ON MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT / ADJUDICATION OF COVINA-VALLEY UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT PURSUANT TO CCP §437c(h), which the court denied. 
 
On September 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to
the MSJ.
 
On September 19, 2024, the District filed its reply. 
On September 26, 2024, the court held its hearing on the
MSJ. The court’s tentative was to continue the hearing for supplemental
briefing as the motion did not address all theories of liability. 
 
On October 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed his supplemental
opposition.
 
On October 28, 2024, Defendant filed its supplemental
reply. 
 
Discussion
 
The District demurs to the 1st
COA for Negligence, 2nd COA for Negligent Supervision and Retention,
and 4th COA for Sexual Harassment.[2]

 
1. Negligence COA 
 
Pursuant to California Government Codes sections 815.21
and 815.62, Plaintiff alleges that the District neglected its duty to safeguard
its students, including Plaintiff, by and through (1) the negligent failure to
properly supervise and protect Plaintiff; (2) negligent failure to properly
supervise Northrop; and (3) negligent failure to enact and implement adequate
policies and procedures to protect students. (See Plaintiff’s Supp. Opp, p.
7:4-9, citing FAC ¶¶57-72.) As to this COA, both parties more heavily focus on the
allegation that the District failed to “enact adequate policies and procedures
or failing to ensure their policies and procedures were followed; and by
failing to properly warn, train or educate CVUSD’s staff members about how to
spot red flags in other staff members’, and specifically Northrop’s, behavior
with minor students.” (¶69, emphasis added.)
 
The District argues that the allegation is (i) irrelevant
to Plaintiff’s claims because the claims are based upon vicarious liability not
direct liability and (ii) the District and its employees are immune from
liability for enacting, enforcing, or failing to enact or enforce a specific
policy based upon Government Code sections 818.2, 820.2, 821. (Reply p. 2.) 
 
Here,
the court need not address the issue of whether Defendant waived certain
affirmative defenses because Plaintiff does not address the
argument that evidence aimed at the District-employer and its policies, rather
than on the acts or omissions of employee(s), is irrelevant to Plaintiff’s
claims pursuant to
Government Code section 815.2, which states that a public entity may be
vicariously liable for an injury caused by an act or omission of its employee
within the scope of employment. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff cites to A.H. v.
Tamalpais Union High Sch. Dist. (2024) 325 Cal.Rptr.3d 800 for his
proposition that “school districts may be liable for failure to implement
reasonable policies to protect students,” (Supp. Opp. p. 6), that case did not
involve an allegation for the failure to adopt a policy. Instead, the plaintiff filed a complaint against the school
district asserting a single claim of negligence alleging that the school
district’s employees “fail[ed] to take appropriate action against [the teacher]
for the multiple sexual misconduct complaints, fail[ed] to so detect and deter
[the teacher’s] sexual assaults, fail[ed] to properly supervise [the
student/plaintiff] and [the teacher] so as to protect [the student] from being
sexually assaulted.” (Id. at p. 804.) The same goes for Plaintiff’s
citation to M.W. Panama Buena Vista Union School Dist. (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 508; in that case, the student
“alleged one cause of action against the school district for negligent failure
to supervise and careless failure to guard, maintain, inspect and manage the
school premises.” (Id. at 515.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff relies upon Charol
Shakeshaft, who holds a Ph.D. in Educational Administration and have served for
the past 45 years as a professor of educational administration working with
school administrators and future school administrators, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s evidentiary
objection to Shakeshaft’s declaration in its entirety. (Phan Decl., Ex.
12 [Shakeshaft Decl.], ¶3.)[3]
According to her declaration, “If employees are not trained to watch for,
discern, and interpret warning signs - they will not report . . . As in the
case of [the District], a systematic failure to adopt and enforce policies and
procedures allowed Northrop’s misconduct, harassment, and abuse.” (Shakeshaft
Decl., ¶11.) 
 
For one, it is unclear whether expert testimony is
necessary in this case as it is not a professional negligence cause of
action, but ordinary negligence. Second, as noted in both the reply and
supplemental reply, Dr. Shakeshaft’s declaration fails to provide any context
for the Court to assess the proper versus violated standards in California.
Additionally, Dr. Shakeshaft failed to indicate whether there were any
California standards she relied on to form her opinions and whether they have
been accepted as the proper standards in California. Therefore, the declaration
lacks foundation and is excluded. 
 
With that, the court finds that Plaintiff has failed to
create triable issues of material fact that Defendant/District owed a duty to
enact certain policies. 
 
 
2. Negligent Supervision COA[4]
 
As Plaintiff heavily relies upon A.H, supra, in
support of this COA, the court turns to that case.
 
In A.H., the plaintiff was a student at the high
school from 2000 to 2004. According to the findings, the district had
complaints about the teacher’s prior sexual assault of students. For
example, in 2002, the principal received a complaint that the teacher inappropriately
touched a student while measuring his body fat. (Id. at p. 804.) The principal “did not talk with any students about
their experiences with Burgos; nor did he speak with anyone in the P.E.
department about rules or policies regarding body fat testing,” but the
principal did write an incident report/warning letter to the teacher. (Ibid.)
The incident report/warning letter was “kept in a locked file cabinet” in the
principal’s office. (Id. at p. 805.) Then, there were five more similar
incidents from 1998 to 2001. (Ibid.) One of those students “testified
the body fat test was an uncomfortable experience, but his ‘friends and
classmates ... shared the experience and we discussed it amongst ourselves,’
which ‘normalized the experience.’” (Ibid.) Another also testified that
he “talked with other students on ‘several occasions’ about ‘how [the teacher]
gave those tests and how uncomfortable they made people feel.” (Id. at
p. 806.) Though the case did not involve a summary judgment but a judgment from
appeal, the case provides a helpful catalogue of the seminal cases discussing a
District’s vicarious liability for a teacher’s sexual abuse of a student. Specifically,
the opinion rests on the findings of C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861 which, in relevant part, provided
that a negligent hiring, supervision or retention COA requires more
than “assumptions or speculation. That an individual school
employee has committed sexual misconduct with a student or students does not of
itself establish, or raise any presumption, that the employing district should
bear liability for the resulting injuries.” (Id. at pp. 878-879, emphasis
added.)[5]
This negligence standard articulated by the C.A. court for negligent
hiring, supervising, or retaining a dangerous employee “thus imposes liability
on a school district on the basis of supervisory personnel's constructive
knowledge that an employee is prone to harm students. Constructive knowledge is knowledge that ‘may be
shown by circumstantial evidence ‘which is nothing more than one or more
inferences which may be said to arise reasonably from a series of proven
facts.’” (A.H., supra, 325 Cal.Rptr.3d, 813, quoting Roe v.
Hesperia Unified School Dist. (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 13, 26.) As applied to
the facts, the court provided the following analysis:
 


[T]he students’ experiences with
invasive “body fat tests,” C.S.’s discussions with friends and classmates who
had the same experience with Burgos, E.L.’s similar conversations with
students about “how Burgos gave those tests and how uncomfortable they made
people feel,” and E.L.’s description of wrestlers waiting outside Burgos's
office for body fat tests all suggest Burgos's misconduct was pervasive or,
at the very least, well-known among male students. As A.H. argues,
this evidence was relevant to show what District supervisory employees should
have known about Burgos; Principal Holleran would have discovered Burgos's
propensity to abuse boys had he properly supervised him before the 2002
complaint, conducted an adequate investigation following the 2002
complaint, or reasonably supervised Burgos after the 2002 complaint. The
trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting this evidence. (Ibid, emphasis
added.) 


 
Here, there are certain distinctions
between A.H. and the instant evidence. First, unlike A.H. wherein
the principal knew exactly what was going on, here, there is no evidence that a supervisory
employee or administrator at the District saw Plaintiff and Northrop together
acting inappropriately. Second, unlike A.H. wherein the students told other
students, here, Plaintiff did not tell school staff, his parents or friends
or family about the situation with Northrop. Plaintiff testified that November
2, 2016, was the first time he ever reported any sexual activity he had with
Ms. Northrop while he was a minor, to the police. (SS Nos. 17-18 [undisputed by
Plaintiff in his SS].) 
 
Notwithstanding
the lack of actual notice, Plaintiff relies upon A.H. for the
proposition that the District had constructive knowledge (i.e., should
have known) of inappropriate grooming or sexual misconduct based upon (i)
rumors circulating among staff and students regarding Northrop’s inappropriate
relationship with Plaintiff (see e.g., Plaintiff’s AM No. 18) and (ii) Northrop’s
conduct other students, J.S. and L.B.[6] The
following is the relevant evidence[7]:
 
- There
were rumors circulating among staff and students regarding Northrop’s
inappropriate relationship with Plaintiff. L.B. also testified about
hearing rumors concerning Northrop’s relationship with Plaintiff, which was circulating among the wrestling
team, including in the presence of coaches David Ochoa, Bobby Bellamy,
Vincent La Farge, Robert Dominguez, and Chris Lopez. (Plaintiffs AMF No. 17.) 
- Northrop had a “sister-like” relationship with another
student, L.B; they would interact on and off campus. (Plaintiff’s AMF No. 4.)
“Northrop often asked L.B. to stay behind after class to discuss her personal
life and relationship with boys. Thereafter, Northrop frequently invited L.B.
to have lunch with her in her classroom and discussed inappropriate topics such
as sex, which male students were ‘hot,’ and even made suggestions to L.B. about
which students to date. 
- “L.B.
would have lunch in Northrop’s classroom with other teachers, such as Holly
Higuera and Jenny Grise and discussed their sexual relationships and share
their opinions on the attractiveness of certain male student-athletes.
Northrop also shared and expressed her interests in student-athletes, such as
Plaintiff, J.S., and W.D.” (Plaintiff’s AMF.) 
 
Accordingly, as framed by Plaintiff, like A.H.,
the pervasive evidence of students’ rumors and observations by
teachers of Northrop’s inappropriate behavior toward the Plaintiff are both
relevant and admissible. This evidence demonstrates that at the very least, her
behavior was widely known among the students and coaches, underscoring what
CVUSD’s supervisory employees should have been aware of (Plaintiff’s Supp.
Brief. p. 12.) 
 
In its response to the AMF, the District’s main rebuttal
is that Plaintiff’s misstate the testimony of the teacher, Jenny Grise. The
court’s review of Grise’s deposition indicates that some points could be
clarified.[8] 
 
For one, Grise testified that she did not hear
rumors that Northrop was having sexual affairs with students, just staff
member(s). 
 


Q.· Were there rumors about Ms. Northrop seeing or ·3·
·in a relationship with any of her students? ·· A.· No. ·· · Q.· Did you hear
any rumors that she was in a relationship with Nicholas Inclan? ·· A.· No. ·· ·
Q.· Had you heard any rumors that she was in a · ·relationship with JS ? · · ·
A.· No. · · Q.· Did you hear that there were any rumors that 12· ·she was in a
relationship with W D ? · · · A.· No.
Q.· Isn't it true, Ms. Grise, that you were aware ·that
there were rumors that she was having sexual ··relations with her students? · ·
A.· Absolutely not.· No.· Absolutely not. (Plaintiff’s Evidence, Ex. 5, pp. 332-335 of 490 of
PDF, emphasis added.) 


 
Notwithstanding, L.B. testified that she had lunch with
Northrop and other teachers where they talked about students. 
 


Q.· ·Sorry.· Turning back to, you know, the gossip ·
about who Kim talked about, would the other teachers, · · Holly Higuera, Jenny
Patton talk about any of the  · students
as well in a similar way? · · A.· ·Yeah, Patton not so much.· Holly Higuera,
yes. · Specifically they agreed on W D .· She had an · affinity for [another
student]. . .  . · Q.· ·And when you say
they agreed, in what sense did  · you
understand that they agreed about [another student] ? · A.· ·They both said
that he was really hot.· They · · both said that he had abs for days, and they
both said · · that he had swagger. (Plaintiff’s Evidence, Ex. 3, pp. 97-98 of
490 of PDF.) 


 
And L.B. testified that other staff were privy to rumors.
 


Q.· ·When did you -- when do you first recall hearing any
rumors regarding Nicholas Inclan and  ·
Kimberly Northrop, or Kimberly Holman? · A.· ·I remember hearing rumors about
that at school  · and amongst the
wrestling team going all the way back to our sophomore year. · · Q.· ·And
that's your sophomore year? · · A.· ·My sophomore year, yes.· And it was more
just the guys, you know, teasing him, oh, yeah, you're dating Miss Holman, you
know.· It was typically treated as ] · joking. · Q.· ·Whenever you heard the jokes around wrestling  · team, were there any adults around? · · A.·
·Yes. · · Q.· ·Who were they? · · A.· ·Coaches, parents. (p. 118 of 490
of PDF.)


 
Accordingly, the evidence goes beyond Plaintiff merely
bringing Plaintiff and other students Starbucks drinks, but wide spreading and
circulating rumors about sexual misconduct between Plaintiff and Northrop. 
 
Therefore, as to the COA for negligent supervision, the
motion is DENIED. 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, while the District’s arguments largely focus on
the lack of actual knowledge, the evidence, when giving Plaintiff every
reasonable inference, shows that there were many reasons for a school
staff member, administrator or otherwise to have reasonably suspected Northrop
was molesting Plaintiff (i.e., constructive knowledge). (Reply p. 10:8-10.)[9] Based
on the foregoing, the motion is denied in part and granted in part. 
 
 
 
 
 
 



