




Background and procedural history
 
            This is a
habitability case brought by thirty-eight residential tenants who rent, or have
rented, units in a building located at 215 West Sixth Street in downtown Los
Angeles (Property).
 
            Now,
Plaintiff Daniel Kirkland’s counsel – Jacob Partiyeli – seeks to be relieved as
counsel of record only as to Plaintiff Kirkland. No opposition was filed.
 
            The
motion to be relieved as counsel is granted.   
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Partiyeli has complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the
appropriate forms (MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053). He has also submitted a supporting
declaration providing an adequate explanation for why he is moving to be
relieved as counsel; he asserts that there are irreconcilable differences that have resulted in a breakdown
of the attorney client relationship.
 
Further, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Plaintiff
via mail and his client’s address was confirmed by telephone. 
 
Lastly, trial in this matter is not set until March 24, 2025,
but a motion for judgment on the pleadings is set for March 19, 2024. However,
as there are 38 Plaintiffs in this case, counsel’s request to be removed as
counsel for only one plaintiff should not result in Plaintiffs’ inability to
defend themselves against this upcoming motion. Thus, no significant prejudice will
result from granting this motion.            
 
The Court grants the motion to be relieved as counsel.  