  Case Number:  24STCV04442    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  74 Eghbalieh v.
Walker et al. 
Defendant Madeline Ryan’s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike 
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
case arises from a reproductive freedom action.
            Plaintiff
Sammy Eghbalieh (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against defendants Wendy Ann
Walker (Walker) and Madeline Ryan (Ryan) (Defendants).  Plaintiff alleges four causes of action: (1)
Violation of the Constitutional Right to Reproductive Freedom, (2) Violation of
Civil Code section 1708.5.6, (3) Permanent Injunction, and (4) Declaratory
Relief. 
            Ryan
demurs to the entire complain and moves to strike particular parts. 
DISCUSSION
            Demurrer
            Ryan
demurs to the Complaint generally on the grounds for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action and for being uncertain, ambiguous,
and unintelligible. 
            Violation
of the Constitutional Right to Reproductive Freedom – First Cause of Action
            Ryan
demurs to the First Cause of Action on the grounds that (1) Ryan is not a state
actor and (2) Plaintiff fails to allege any state action violated his
constitutional right.
            The
guiding law regarding the Constitutional law of Reproductive Freedom is the
Reproductive Privacy Act.  The bill
authorizes “a party whose rights are protected by the Reproductive Privacy Act
to bring a civil action against an offending state actor when those rights are
interfered with; and [authorizes] a person aggrieved by a violation of the
Reproductive Privacy Act to bring a civil action pursuant to the Tom Bane Civil
Rights Act.”  (Carpenter v. Superior
Court (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1279, 1297.) 
The Tom Bane Civil Rights Act permits an individual to bring suit in the
individual’s own name against others for damages, injunctive relief, and other
appropriate relief to protect the exercise or enjoyment of the right.  (Civ. Code §§ 52.1(b), (c).)  Therefore, Plaintiff is not required to state
a cause of action against a state actor to bring an action under the
Reproductive Privacy Act. The Court overrules the demurrer to the First Cause
of Action. 
Violation of Civil Code section
1708.5.6 – Second Cause of Action
            Ryan
demurs to the Second Cause of Action on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff fails to
state facts supporting the elements of the cause of action and (2) Plaintiff
fails to establish if an embryo was ever implanted.  
            Misuse
of sperm, ova, or embryos creates a private cause of action under Civil Code
section 1708.5.6 and Penal code section 367g. 
(Civ. Code § 1708.5.6.)  The
elements are (1) knowingly using sperm, ova, or embryos (2) in assisted
reproduction technology (3) for any purpose other than indicated by the sperm,
ova, or embryo provider’s signature on a written consent form.  (Penal Code section 367g.) Under the Penal
Code, an attempt to commit a crime – even if unsuccessful – itself constitutes
a crime. (Pen. Code § 664, 1159.)  
            Plaintiff
alleges that he is the sperm provider. 
(Complaint ¶ 36.)  He also alleges
that he has not consented to the use of his sperm.  (Complaint ¶ 37.) However, Plaintiff does not
allege that Ryan (in contrast to Walker) has attempted to use the embryos conceived
with his sperm. (Complaint ¶ 39.) The Court sustains with leave to amend the
demurrer to the second cause of action. 
Permanent Injunction – Third Cause
of Action 
            Ryan
demurs to the Third Cause of Action on the grounds that a permanent injunction
is a remedy, not a cause of action. 
Plaintiff requests permanent injunctive relief, relief which the
Reproductive Privacy Act permits.
            Plaintiff
alleges that Walker is attempting to use the fertilized eggs, potentially to
implant them inside Ryan.  (Complaint ¶¶
46, 38.)  Injunctive relief may be
granted “[w]hen it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to
the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in
restraining the commission of continuance of the act complained of.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 526.)  Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action was
overruled; therefore, the complaint’s request for injunctive relief is well-stated.
The Court overrules the demurrer to injunctive relief. 
Declaratory Relief – Fourth Cause of
Action 
            Ryan
demurs to the Fourth Cause of Action on the grounds that Plaintiff Ryan was not
a party to any contract with Plaintiff. 
             Plaintiff alleges that Plaintiff and Walker
were parties to a contract.  (Complaint ¶
55.)  Plaintiff requests a declaration as
to who may use the fertilized embryos under the contract.  (Complaint ¶ 62.)  The Code of Civil Procedure allows for the
Court to declare the rights or duties of parties interested in contracts.  (Code of Civil Procedure § 1060.)  Ryan is not an interested party under the
contact.  
            The
demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike
            Ryan
moves to have the Court strike a number of allegations as irrelevant, false, or
improper.  The Court denies the Motion to
Strike except for the prayer for attorney’s fees, for which the Court gives
Plaintiff leave to amend. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court sustains in part and overrules in part Defendant’s demurrer.  The Court sustains the demurrer to the Second
and Fourth Causes of Action with leave to amend. 
The
Court strikes the prayer for attorney’s fees with 10 days leave to amend but
otherwise denies the Motion to Strike. 
Defendant
shall file her answer per Code.
            Defendant
to give notice.