  Case Number:  21STCV24843    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BEAR VALLEY 2005, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
MECHANICS BANK.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV24843
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 10, 2024



 
Defendant Mechanics Bank’s demurrer to Plaintiff
Bear Valley 2005, LLC’s second amended complaint is overruled as to the 2nd
cause of action for fraud, and sustained without leave to amend as to
the 3rd cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
 
          Defendant Mechanics Bank (“Mechanics
Bank”) (“Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Bear Valley 2005, LLC’s (“Bear Valley”)
(“Plaintiff”) second amended complaint (“SAC”) on the grounds that Plaintiff’s 2nd
cause of action for fraud and 3rd cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation fail to state sufficient facts to constitute causes of action
because they are barred by the economic loss rule.  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10
et seq.)[1]
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the moving party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41, emphasis added.) 
Defendant’s counsel declares that on August 6, 2024, the
parties met and conferred telephonically, and the parties were unable to reach
an agreement.  (See Decl. of Cronin
¶¶6-7.)  Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41. 
Accordingly, the Court will consider Defendant’s demurrer.
 
          Background
          Plaintiff filed its initial Complaint against
Defendant on July 6, 2021.  Plaintiff
filed its first amended complaint (“FAC”) on February 23, 2023.  Plaintiff filed the operative SAC on July 18,
2024, against Defendant alleging three causes of action: (1) breach of
contract; (2) fraud; and (3) negligent misrepresentation.
          Defendant filed the instant demurrer
on August 6, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its
opposition on September 30, 2024.  Defendant
filed its reply on October 3, 2024.
 
Summary of Demurrer
Defendant demurs to the 2nd and 3rd causes of action on the basis
they are barred by the economic loss rule. 
(Demurrer, pg. 3.)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal
sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (See Donabedian v.
Mercury Insurance Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a
demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to
judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].)  For purposes of ruling on a
demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the
reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital District
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
Fraud & Negligent Misrepresentation (2nd & 3rd COAs)
A cause of action for fraud requires the following elements: (1) a
misrepresentation; (2) knowledge of falsity (or “scienter”); (3) intent to
defraud (induce reliance); (4) justifiable reliance; and (5) resulting damage.  (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.)
Fraud actions are subject to strict requirements of particularity
in pleading.  (Committee on Children’s
Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Fraud must be pleaded with specificity rather
than with general and conclusory allegations.  (Small v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003)
30 Cal.4th 167, 184.)  The specificity
requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to
whom, and by what means the representations were made. (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
“Negligent misrepresentation requires an assertion of fact,
falsity of that assertion, and the tortfeasor’s lack of reasonable grounds for
believing the assertion to be true. It also requires the tortfeasor’s intent to
induce reliance, justifiable reliance by the person to whom the false assertion
of fact was made, and damages to that person. An implied assertion of fact is
‘not enough’ to support liability.”  (SI
59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 154,
internal citation omitted.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant, through its authorized
representative, Lourdes Raval (“Raval”), affirmatively represented to
Plaintiff’s representative, Joseph Michael (“Michael”), on more than one
occasion during the period May 2020 through October 2020 that Plaintiff had
preserved its right to extend the Credit Agreement under the terms thereof by
orally informing Raval of its election to extend the loan.  (SAC ¶40.) 

Plaintiff alleges these representations were material to
Plaintiff’s conduct in dealing exclusively with Mechanics Bank and in awaiting
its underwriting determination, and to not seek to replace the Loan with a loan
from a third party.  (SAC ¶41.)
Plaintiff alleges it actually and reasonably relied on the
representations made by Raval by, inter alia, continuing to deal with Mechanics
Bank, to await its underwriting determination, and to refrain from seeking to
replace the Loan with a loan from a third party.  (SAC ¶42.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendant has since taken the position that
Raval’s representations were false and, in fact, Plaintiff had not preserved
its right to extend the term of the Loan under the Credit Agreement.  (SAC ¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges if it is determined that Defendant
is correct in this contention, then Raval was aware of the falsity of the
representations at the time they were made and made them with the intent that
Plaintiff rely on them.  (SAC ¶43.)
Plaintiff alleges had it been aware of the falsity of Raval’s
representations, it would have confirmed in writing its election to extend the
loan and/or would have sought financing at more favorable rates from a
third-party lender.  (SAC ¶44.)  
Plaintiff alleges as a direct and proximate result of Defendant’s
fraud as alleged herein, Plaintiff has been damaged in an amount in excess of
$800,000 consisting of, inter alia, (a) the additional interest to be paid for
the amount of the Loan based on the difference between the interest rate it would
have paid under the extended Credit Agreement and the interest rate it will pay
under the replacement loan; or, (b) the additional interest to be paid under
the replacement loan which is in excess of the interest which Plaintiff would
have paid under a replacement loan it could have obtained in 2020; and, in
either case, (c) the additional interest and other charges paid by Plaintiff to
Defendant as a result of the Loan not being extended.  (SAC ¶45.)
Plaintiff also alleges Defendant has since taken the position that
Raval’s representations were false and, in fact, Plaintiff had not preserved
its right to extend the term of the Loan under the Credit Agreement.  (SAC ¶51.) 
Plaintiff alleges if it is determined that Defendant is correct in this
contention, then Raval should, in the exercise of reasonable diligence been
aware of the falsity of the representations at the time they were made.  (SAC ¶51.) 

The California Supreme Court stated in Erlich v. Menezes,
“conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also
violates a duty independent of the contract arising from principles of tort
law.”  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551.)  The Erlich
Court found that mere negligent breach of a contract is not sufficient to meet
this standard.  (Id. at pg. 552.)  The high court explained, “[g]enerally,
outside the insurance context, a tortious breach of contract . . . may be found
when (1) the breach is accompanied by a traditional common law tort, such as fraud
or conversion; (2) the means used to breach the contract are tortious,
involving deceit or undue coercion or; (3) one party intentionally breaches the
contract intending or knowing that such a breach will cause severe, unmitigable
harm in the form of mental anguish, personal hardship, or substantial
consequential damages.”  (Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 553-554, internal quotations and citations
omitted, emphasis added.)  Therefore,
Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of action for fraud is not barred by Erlich and
its progeny. 
Unlike Plaintiff’s cause of action for fraud, Plaintiff’s cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation alleges mere negligence in Defendant’s
performance of the contract.  Like Erlich,
Plaintiff’s claim is dependent of Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim because acceptance
of an oral notice to extend the loan at the SWAP interest rate arises solely
from the credit agreement.  (See Erlich,
21 Cal.4th at pg. 551.)  Further,
Defendant’s alleged misrepresentation about extending the loan or offering a
swap agreement is inseparable from its alleged contractual duties.  There existed no independent duty to offer
specific loan terms or a swap agreement outside the contract. Therefore, the 3rd
cause of action for negligent misrepresentation is barred by the economic loss
rule.
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s 2nd
cause of action for fraud, and sustained without leave to amend as to
the 3rd cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
 
          Conclusion
Defendant’s demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of
action for fraud, and sustained without leave to amend as to the 3rd cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  