  Case Number:  23PSCV03948    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  K Specially Appearing
Cross-Defendant Twain GL XXV, LLC’s Motion to Quash Service of Summons and
[Cross-]Complaint for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction is GRANTED. 
Background[1]  
Case No. 22PSCV01609
Plaintiff B.R. Building Resources Company (“B.R. Resources”)
alleges as follows:
B.R. Resources is a boutique builder.
Defendants SA Hospital Acquisition Group, LLC (“SAH Acquisition”), SA Hospital
Real Estate Holdings, LLC (“SAH Real Estate”) and SA Hospital Real Estate
Holdings-Jefferson, LLC (“SAH Jefferson”) (hereinafter collectively, the “SAH
Entities”) own and/or operate the South City Hospital (“Hospital”) in St.
Louis, Missouri. Defendants Lawrence Feigen (“Feigen”) and Jeffrey Ahlholm
(“Ahlholm”) are the owners/agents of the SAH Entities. B.R. Resources and the
SAH Entities entered into a “Master Service Agreement” (“MSA”), wherein B.R. Resources
agreed to perform different categories of construction projects to improve the
Hospital. The funding for the projects to be completed by B.R. Resources was
provided by Twain Financial Partners (“Twain”). The SAH Entities had an
agreement with Twain to provide the funding directly to B.R. Resources upon
completion of certain work related to the projects. These funds were deposited
into an escrow account (“Construction Fund”). Twain was to make deposits to the
Construction Fund on a per project basis. B.R. Resources entered into twelve
subcontracts (“AIA Contracts”) with the SAH Entities, each of which pertained
to specific construction work to improve different portions of the Hospital.
B.R. Resources was to be paid $15,537,397.16 to perform the work contemplated
in the AIA Contracts. To date, Twain has provided $6,460,063.24 in funds to the
Construction Fund. 
 
On January 3, 2022, Feigen and asked
B.R. Resources to give them $826,937.00 from the Construction Fund to cover
operating costs for the Hospital. On this same date an additional $200,000.00
from the Construction Fund was given to Feigen and Ahlholm upon requesting
funds from B.R. Resources and assuring B.R. Resources they had approval from
Twain to make this request. On March 3, 2022, Feigen and Ahlholm made another
request for B.R. Resources to give $400,000.00 directly to Modern HR Payroll
Company from the Construction Fund to cover the Hospital’s payroll expenses,
again assuring B.R. Resources they had Twain’s approval. On April 26, 2022,
B.R. Resources met with Dave Merrifield, an employee of Twain, to discuss
funding for ongoing projects, at which time B.R. Resources learned that Twain
did not know that Feigen and Ahlholm had requested Construction Funds from B.R.
Resources, nor that B.R. Resources had transferred Construction Funds to Feigen
and Ahlholm. Twain subsequently stopped funding the projects, which has
rendered B.R. Resources unable to complete the AIA Contracts.
 
Also, since January 2022, B.R. Resources
entered into a contract to rent a boiler and a chiller to service the Hospital.
B.R. Resources was instructed by the SAH Entities, by and through Feigen and
Ahlholm, to use the Construction Fund to pay for the aforesaid service as. Due
to no longer receiving fund deposits to the Construction Fund, B.R. Resources is
unable to continue paying the rental fees for the boiler or chiller or any
other temporary services.
 
On June 21, 2023, B.R. Resources filed an “Amendment to
Complaint,” wherein Modern HR, Inc. (“Modern HR”) was named in lieu of Doe 1. 
On August 21, 2023, Modern HR filed a cross-complaint,
asserting causes of action against SAH Acquisition, Feigen, Ahlholm and Roes
1-10 for:
1.                 
Contractual Indemnification
2.                 
Equitable Indemnification
3.                 
Intentional Misrepresentation
4.                 
Declaratory Relief
On November 14, 2023, B.R. Resources filed a First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), asserting causes of action against the SAH Entities, Feigen,
Ahlholm, Modern HR and Does 2-25 for:
1.                 
Fraud and Deceit
2.                 
Breach of Contract
3.                 
Penal Code § 496(c)
4.                 
Defamation Per Se
5.                 
Money Had and Received
On December 15, 2023, the SAH Entities, Ahlholm and Feigen
filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against B.R. Resources,
Juan Banos (“Banos”) and Roes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Fraud in the Concealment 
3.                 
Fraud in the Deceit
4.                 
An Accounting
5.                 
Unjust Enrichment 
6.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations
On March 15, 2024, the court related Case Nos. 22PSCV01609
and 23PSCV03948; Case No. 22PSCV01609 was designated as the lead case.
A Case Management Conference and Status Conference Re:
Related Case are set for May 24, 2024.
Case No. 23PSCV03948
Plaintiff Trane U.S. Inc. (“Trane”) alleges as follows:
On/about and between March 31, 2022 and
May 4, 2024, Trane and Defendants B.R. Building Resources Company fka B.R.
& Sons Co. (“B.R. Resources”) and B.R. & Co., Inc. (“B.R. Co.”) entered
into several written Equipment Leases, wherein Trane provided equipment to B.R.
Resources and B.R. Co. on credit in exchange for B.R. Resources’ and B.R. Co.’s
promise to pay monthly lease payments to Trane. B.R. Resources and B.R. Co.
have failed to make payments due.
On December 20, 2023, Trane filed a complaint, asserting
causes of action against B.R. Resources, B.R. Co. and Does 1-10 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Open
Book Account 
3.                 
Account
Stated 
On February 5, 2024,
B.R. Resources filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against the SAH
Entities, Feigen, Ahlholm, Twain GL XXV, LLC (“Twain”) and Roes 1-10 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
2.                 
Unjust
Enrichment 
On March 15, 2024, the court related Case Nos. 22PSCV01609
and 23PSCV03948; Case No. 22PSCV01609 was designated as the lead case.
On April 30, 2024, the SAH Entities, Feigen and Ahlholm
filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against B.R. Resources and
Moes 1-50 for:
1.                 
Breach of Contract
2.                 
Fraud in the Concealment 
3.                 
Fraud in the Deceit
4.                 
An Accounting
5.                 
Unjust Enrichment 
6.                 
Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations 
A Case Management Conference and Status Conference Re:
Related Case are set for May 24, 2024.
Legal Standard
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his
or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good
cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the
following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the
ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her . . .” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 418.10, subd. (a).)
“On a challenge to
personal jurisdiction by a motion to quash, the plaintiff has the burden of
proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the factual bases justifying the
exercise of jurisdiction. The plaintiff must come forward with affidavits and
other competent evidence to carry this burden and cannot simply rely on
allegations in an unverified complaint. If the plaintiff meets this burden, it
becomes the defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction
would be unreasonable.” (ViaView, Inc. v. Retzlaff (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
198, 209-210 [internal quotations and citation omitted].) 
Discussion

Twain moves the court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
418.10, for an order quashing service of summons and cross-complaint for lack
of personal jurisdiction.
Here, B.R. Resources
alleges that Feigen and Ahlholm are the owners/agents of the SAH Entities
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 18); that Twain is the owner of the land upon which the
Hospital is located (Id., ¶ 19); that on December 29, 2021, Twain
entered into a ground lease agreement with SAH Real Estate, whereby SAH Real
Estate leased the land to own and operate the Hospital (Id., ¶ 20); that
SAH Real Estate and SAH Acquisition thereafter entered into a sublease
agreement authorizing SAH Acquisition to operate the Hospital (Id., ¶
22); that, in January 2021, the SAH Entities entered into a “Master Service
Agreement” (the “MSA”) with B.R. Resources for construction projects at the
Hospital (Id., ¶ 23); that B.R. Resources entered into twelve
subcontracts with the SAH entities (the “AIA Contracts”) for specific
construction jobs at the Hospital (Id., ¶ 24); that Twain entered into a
funding agreement with the SAH Entities to provide funding for the construction
projects, for which Twain received a benefit “from the continued operation and
profiting” of the Hospital (Id., ¶ 25); that the funds were deposited
into an escrow account known as the “Construction Fund” (Id., ¶ 26); that on
January 3, 2022, Ahlholm and Feigen met with B.R. Resources’ CEO and CFO and
represented that they were allowed to use the Construction Funds at their
discretion, including for various operating expenses (unrelated to construction
(Id., ¶ 28); that Twain was privy to and approved this arrangement (Id.);
that Ahlholm and Feigen instructed B.R. Resources not to communicate with Twain
absent their explicit approval (Id.); that Ahlholm and Feigen instructed
B.R. Resources to distribute $826,937.00 from the Construction Fund, which it
did (Id., ¶ 29); and that Ahlholm and Feigen instructed B.R. Resources
to distribute another $200,000.00 from the Construction fund to cover purported
outstanding attorney fees owed by the SAH Entities, which B.R. Resources did (Id.,
¶ 30).
B.R. Resources further
alleges that in January 2022, it entered into equipment rental agreements with
Trane in connection with the construction projects (Id., ¶ 32); that
B.R. Resources was instructed by Ahlholm and Feigen to use the Construction
Fund to pay for the equipment rentals (Id.); that Trane delivered the
equipment directly to the Hospital (Id.); that on March 3, 2022, Twain
deposited additional funds in the Construction Fund (Id., ¶ 33); that
Ahlholm and Feigen instructed B.R. Resources to transfer $400,000.00 directly
to Modern HR, to meet the Hospital’s payroll expenses (Id.); that
Ahlholm and Feigen verbally assured B.R. Resources that they had Twain’s
authorization for this transfer (Id.); that B.R. Resources wired these
monies to Modern HR on March 9, 2022 (Id.); that on April 26, 2022, B.R.
Resources met with Twain’s Dave Merrifield to discuss funding for ongoing
Hospital projects and learned at this time that Twain knew nothing about
Ahlholm’s and Feigen’s disbursement requests (Id., ¶¶ 36 and 37); and
that Twain thereafter stopped funding the Hospital projects, which left B.R.
Resources “exposed” to claims by subcontractors and vendors, including Trane (Id.,
¶¶ 37 and 40).
On December 20, 2023,
Trane filed its complaint against B.R. Building, B.R. Co. and Does 1-10 for (1)
Breach of Contract, (2) Open Book Account and (3) Account Stated. On February
5, 2024, B.R. Building filed its cross-complaint against the SAH Entities,
Feigen, Ahlholm, Twain and Roes 1-10 for (1) Equitable Indemnity and (2) Unjust
Enrichment.
There are two bases for personal jurisdiction of a forum state such as
California over a non-resident: general jurisdiction and specific jurisdiction.
“General jurisdiction results where the defendant's
contacts with the forum state are so ‘systematic and so continuous as to make
it consistent with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice to
subject the defendant to the jurisdiction of the forum, even where the cause of
action is unrelated to the contacts.’” (Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior
Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 536 [citation omitted].) For a
corporation, the “paradigm forum” for general jurisdiction is “one in which the
corporation is fairly regarded as at home.” (Goodyear Dunlop Tires
Operations, S.A. v. Brown (2011) 564 U.S. 915, 924.)
                 
"Specific jurisdiction
results when the defendant's contacts with the forum state, though not enough
to subject the defendant to the general jurisdiction of the forum, are
sufficient to subject the defendant to suit in the forum on a cause of action related to or arising out of
those contacts.” (Sonora Diamond, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at 536.) “Specific
jurisdiction exists if: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed itself of
forum benefits with respect to the matter in controversy; (2) the controversy
is related to or arises out of the defendant's contacts with the forum; and (3)
the assertion of jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial
justice.” (Id.) 
B.R. Resources concedes
that Twain is a Missouri limited liability company. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 13.)
Further, Twain submits that its principal place of business is 2200 Washington
Avenue, St. Louis, Missouri, 63103 (Vigil Decl., ¶ 5); that Twain does not own,
lease, or maintain any real estate or interest in property in California (Id.,
¶ 6); that Twain has never incurred any obligation to pay, and has never paid,
franchise or property taxes in California (Id.); that Twain’s only asset
is certain real estate in St. Louis, Missouri (Id.); that Twain does not
maintain any offices in California and has no employees in California (Id.,
¶ 7); that Twain is not formally licensed, registered, or authorized to do
business in California and does not have any places of business, post office
boxes, telephone listings or bank accounts in California (Id., ¶ 8) and
that Twain does not maintain a registered agency for service of process in
California (Id.).
B.R. Resources, in turn,
asserts that Twain, “through its alter ego and/or agency relationship with
Twain Financial Partners [“TFP”], possesses significant and systematic contacts
within California.” (Opp. 4:10-12). “[G]eneral jurisdiction may exist when
evidence establishes the parent and the subsidiary are alter egos.” (DVI,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1080, 1093).
“In California, two conditions must
be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked. First, there must be such
a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable
owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do
not in reality exist. Second, there must be an inequitable result if the acts
in question are treated as those of the corporation alone.” (Sonora Diamond
Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) “In the
case of agency the corporate identity is preserved but the principal is held
for the acts of the agent. . . the hallmark of agency is the exercise of
control over the agent by the principal.” (F. Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v.
Superior Cout (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 797 [quotations and citation
omitted].)
“It is the ‘rare
occasion’ where a court is willing to treat a parent and subsidiary as one
entity for jurisdictional purposes. In the absence of a showing of fraud or
injustice, courts will generally respect the presumption of corporate
separateness in a jurisdictional analysis.” (F.
Hoffman-La Roche, Ltd. v. Superior Cout (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 782, 797.)

B.R. Resources’
cross-complaint, however, makes no specific allegations supporting personal
jurisdiction based on alter ego or agency principles. (See
Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 17 and 18). TFP, moreover, is not mentioned in the
cross-complaint whatsoever, let alone as a named cross-defendant, and it has
not been added as a cross-defendant via any amendment to cross-complaint, to
date. It is unclear to the court how Twain can have any liability exposure as
TFP’s alter ego when TFP has not been sued or even alleged in the
cross-complaint to have engaged in any underlying conduct. B.R. Resources
asserts that it was “left in the lurch” (Opp. 1:21), but has not made any
allegations that Twain did anything wrong or ever entered into an agreement
with it. As Twain points out, “the only parties charged with fraud are the SA
Defendants, who convinced Building resources to leak hundreds of thousands of
dollars for non-construction expenses.” (Reply, 4:13-15; See Cross-Complaint,
¶¶ 28-31). Further, even if the court considers Juan Banos’ statement that he
“did not understand there to be a difference between ‘Twain Financial Partners’
and ‘Twain GL XXV,” (Banos Decl., ¶ 8), B.R. Resources has failed to make any
showing of “fraud or injustice.”
The court determines
that B.R. Resources has not demonstrated that Twain is subject to general or
specific jurisdiction.[2]
Jurisdictional
Discovery
B.R. Resources
alternatively requests that the court continue the hearing and permit it, in
the interim, to conduct jurisdictional discovery on TFP’s contacts and business
presence within California. “In order to prevail on a motion for continuance
for jurisdictional discovery, the plaintiff should demonstrate that discovery
is likely to lead to the production of evidence of facts establishing
jurisdiction.” (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I & II (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 100, 127). Plaintiff has not identified what information
it hopes to obtain to that would satisfy its burden of proof; accordingly, the
court rejects its request to conduct jurisdictional discovery.
Conclusion
The motion is granted. Service
of the summons and complaint on Twain is quashed.


