 Case Number:  23VECV01576    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Hamid
  Kohan Darvish,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
                        
Khelika Bell, et al.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV01576                   107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Demurrer to
  Complaint



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
[Tentative] Ruling:   Sustained Demurrer with
Leave To Amend as to the Sole Cause of Action.
 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Hamid
Kohan Darvish filed this Complaint on April 11, 2023, arising from a motor
vehicle collision against Defendants Khelika Bell (“Bell”), El Camino Real
Charter High School (“Charter School”), Friends of ECR, a Nonprofit Public
Benefit Corporation (“FOE”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), and Does 1 through
10 (collectively, “Defendants”). (Complaint p.5.) Plaintiff alleges injuries
arising from Defendants’ negligence. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff alleges
the following: On November 6, 2022, Plaintiff was on his way to a local high
school carnival. (Id.) In attempt to access entrance to the event when
he was struck by Defendant Khelika Bell. (Id.) Consequentially,
Plaintiff suffered injuries and was rushed to the nearest hospital. (Id.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants El Camino Real Charter High School, Friends
of ECR, and the City of Los Angeles, failed to provide safe access, created a
substantial increase in local traffic, created an environment of driving
distractions for local traffic, and failed to migrate any, and all, safety
hazards, created by the event causing injuries and severe damages to Plaintiff.
(Id.)
 
On August 24, 2023,
Defendant Friends of ECR, a Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation filed this
demurrer without a motion to strike to the Complaint. 
 
On December 27,
2023, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On January 8, 2024,
Defendant filed its reply. 
 
II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS FOR THE DEMURRER 
            
            Defendant FOE demurs to the only
cause of action for negligence on the grounds that the complaint fails to set
forth facts sufficient to state a cause of action against Defendant FOE. (Not.
of Dem. p.2-3.) Moreover, the Defendant asserts that the claim is uncertain,
vague, and unintelligible because Plaintiff’s allegations do not demonstrate
that Defendant owed a duty to Plaintiff. (Id.) Additionally, Defendant asserts
that the allegations do not demonstrate any causal connection between Defendant
FOE’s alleged acts and Plaintiff being hit by a car. (Id.)
            
III. ANALYSIS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a).) However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to¿overrule or sustain a demurrer.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
 
Here, on August 16,
2023, Defendant FOE’s counsel emailed Plaintiff’s counsel meet and confer
letter. (Dec. Jacobson ¶1.) After not receiving a response, on August 17, 2023,
Defendant FOE’s counsel called Plaintiff’s counsel. (Id.) Although the
parties never met and conferred, Defendant FOE’s counsel’s attempts to meet and
confer likely satisfied the requirement.  
 
Demurrer
 
As a general
matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.
App. 4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the complaint’s
properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the
complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is
sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable
possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal. 3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to
show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244
Cal. App. 4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman
v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal. 2d 240, 245). 
 
Negligence 
 
Defendant FOE
argues that the Court should sustain this Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
because Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action
for negligence and the cause of action is uncertain. 
 
The elements of a
cause of action for negligence are “duty, breach, causation and damages.”
(County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th
292, 318.)¿The complaint alleges that “[o]n November 6, 2022, Plaintiff was on
his way to a local high school carnival. . . [I]n attempt to access entrance to
the event when he was struck by Defendant Khelika Bell. Consequentially,
Plaintiff suffered injuries and was rushed by ambulance to the nearest
hospital. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants El Camino Real Charter High School,
Friends of ECR, and the City of Los Angeles, failed to provide safe access,
created a substantial increase in local traffic, created an environment of
driving distractions for local traffic, and failed to migrate any, and all,
safety hazards, created by the event causing injuries and severe damages to
Plaintiff.” (Complaint p.5.) 
 
Although Plaintiff’s
complaint attempts to satisfy the causation and damages elements by stating
that all Defendants “failed to provide safe access, [which] created a
substantial increase in local traffic, created an environment of driving
distractions for local traffic, and failed to migrate any, and all, safety
hazards, created by the event causing injuries and severe damages to Plaintiff.”
(Complaint p.5.) Plaintiff fails to provide sufficient facts to show what duty
Defendant FOE owed. For instance, Plaintiff lists all Defendants and states
that they “failed to provide safe access” but fails to specify why they
Defendant FOE owed a duty in the first place. 
 
Defendant FOE
argues that Plaintiff failed to show that FOE owed any duty to Plaintiff, or
that a causal connection exists between any alleged negligence by FOE and the
claimed injuries that Plaintiff alleges were caused by the
pedestrian-versus-auto accident. (Mot. to Dem. p.5.)
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the negligence elements are adequately pled because the
paragraph in GN-1 is sufficient to show negligence and causation. (Opp. p.6.) Plaintiff
also argues that a claim of ordinary negligence need only be pled in general
terms. (Id.) In support, Plaintiff relies on Annocki v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC, McGarvey v. Pacific Gas & Electric Company, Bonnano
v. Central Contra Costa Transit Authority, and Pedeferri v. Seidner
Enterprises. Although these cases provide support as to premises liability
and pedestrian-versus-auto-accident liability, they fail to show why Defendant
FOE owed a duty to Plaintiff. Moreover, Plaintiff argues that the demurrer
procedurally fails because it does not specify the pleading’s uncertainties
with reference to page and line numbers. (Opp. p.3.)
 
However, Defendant
argues that the allegations fail to provide the specific factual basis to
support a duty of care or a direct causal link to the injury sustained because
they are too general. (Reply p.2.) Specifically, Defendant argues that the
distracted driving allegations and failure to mitigate safety hazards are too
general and do not “detail how Defendant FOE’s specific actions or inactions
caused Plaintiff’s injuries.” (Reply p.3.) Moreover, Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s argument about the deficiency in the demurrer is unfounded because
it included page numbers and line numbers. The Court agrees.  
 
Defendant FOE also
argues that FOE had a defined and limited role in the carnival’s organization
which would prevent them from owing any duty to manage traffic conditions.
(Reply p.2.) However, it is improper for the Court to dispute the facts at this
stage and this argument will be disregarded. 

 
The reasoning in Hegyes v.
Unijian Enterprises Inc. is instructive. The court in Hegyes found
plaintiff’s complaint to be deficient because he failed to allege facts in his
complaint showing that defendant owed a duty and instead relied on causation. (Hegyes
v. Unjian Enters. (1991) 234 Cal.App.3d 1103, 1111.) The court
reasoned that the “existence or nonexistence of ‘duty’ is the initial obstacle
which must be mastered before any liability for negligence is legally
permissible.” (Id.) Significantly, the court stated that “[a] complaint
which lacks allegations of fact to show that a legal duty of
care was owed is fatally defective.” (citation omitted.) (Id.) The court
further reasoned that the “existence of such a duty is properly challenged
by demurrer and is a question of law for the court.” (citation omitted.) (Id.)
With respect to FOE, the allegations do not suggest the existence of a legal
duty. Absent allegations of fact from which it can be inferred that FOE owed a
legal duty of care to plaintiff and breached that duty, the complaint fails to
state a cause of action for negligence.
 
Therefore, these alleged
facts are insufficient to state a cause of action for negligence because Plaintiff
does not provide facts as to what duty Defendant FOE owed. Moreover, the
complaint is uncertain because it is ambiguous as to the duty owed by Defendant
FOE. 
 
Accordingly, the
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the sole cause of action. 
 
Leave to Amend 
 
“Generally, it
is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)
“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and how
that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.” (Id.)
 
Here, Defendant
argues that leave should not be granted because there is no possibility of
curing a defective complaint by amendment because of its contractual
obligation. (Reply p.4.) In support, Defendant cites Bily v. Arthur Young
& Co. However, in Bily the issue arose from a financial
auditor’s negligent preparation of an audit which led to economic injury and
did not discuss any pedestrian-auto-accident liability. (Bily v. Arthur
Young & Co. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 398 [11 Cal.Rptr.2d 51, 834 P.2d
745].)
 
Plaintiff could
amend his complaint to specify what duty Defendant FOE owed. Moreover, Plaintiff
has not made any amendments to his Complaint. 

As such leave to
amend will be granted.  
Accordingly, the
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend as to the sole cause of action.    