  Case Number:  17STPB03474    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  200 LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION OF ESTATE OF DENNIS J. HEALEY TO DISQUALIFY PHILIP J. FRENGS AS
PETITIONER OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, TO DISMISS HIS CLAIMS, ON EX PARTE
APPLICATIONS OF RICHARD L. SOLOMON RE: SERVICE AS GAL & OF ALEX R. BORDEN FOR
APPROVAL OF SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND APPOINTING SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE, ON OSC RE:
STANDING AND SETTING FINAL STATUS CONFERENCE AND TRIAL DATES ON PETITION
AGAINST HEALEY   
 
In the
Matter of the MSF 2014 Trust dated May 1, 2014, Case No. 17STPB03474 (related
to Case No. 16STPB05554)
Hearing
Date: October 31, 2023, Time: 1:30 p.m. 
 
 
INTRODUCTION / CONTENTIONS 
On August 17, 2023, the Court issued an OSC re: dismissal of
the petition against the estate of Dennis J. Healey (“Healey”) as to whether
Philip J. Frengs (“Philip”) might properly bring that petition as conservator
of the estate of his wife, Mimi Frengs (“Mimi”), as set forth in detail therein.[1] 
On August 30, 2023, Philip filed a Response to the OSC. Philip
contended that he had standing under Probate Code sec. 2462(a), providing in
relevant part: “…unless another person is appointed for that purpose, the
conservator may commence and maintain actions and proceedings for the benefit
of the…conservatee.” Philip contends that the GAL for Mimi, Richard L. Solomon
(“Solomon”) was not appointed for the purpose of bringing the action against
Healey.[2] He
argues further that, under CCP sec. 372(a)(2)(B)(iii), he cannot be replaced
unless an application is filed showing why the “conservator of the estate is
inadequate to represent the interests” of the conservatee in the action. Philip
acknowledges that he is using personal funds to pursue this petition and that
he will seek reimbursement of those fees in the events he prevails herein based
on statute or a “substantial benefit” theory. Finally, he asserts that by
pursuing this petition he is seeking to vindicate Mimi’s personal estate,
independent of her interests as trustor of the Trust. In turn, Solomon asserts
in support of the Response that he does not believe Philip is “inadequate to
represent Mimi’s interests in the action against Healey…and would recommend
that Philip continue to fund the litigation without cost or expense to the
Trust or Mimi.” 
On September 13, 2023, the Court held a hearing on the OSC. The
Court continued the OSC to the date of the hearing on this motion to allow the
parties in the interim to conclude an asserted agreement to the appointment of
Alex Borden as successor trustee. 
On October 2, 2023, Healey filed a motion to disqualify
Philip from continuing to maintain the petition against Healey. Healey makes
four arguments:
1.      
Philip cannot bring this action as Mimi’s conservator,
rather than as trustor of the Trust, on behalf of Mimi given Probate Code sec.
2462(a). 
2.      
Any damages sought herein would be for the
benefit of the Trust, not Mimi’s personal estate as to which Philip is acting
as conservator. Specifically, Healey points to (a) paragraph 10 of the
petition, wherein Philip alleges that he “has brought the action on behalf of
the Conservatee individually and as the sole beneficiary of the Trust…”
(emphasis added), as well as (b) statements of Philip wherein he acknowledges
that the damages he secured for Mimi against the estate of Buddie Reinbold
(with whom he contends Healey was acting) were for the benefit of the Trust,
not Mimi per se.  
3.      
Philip has an impermissible conflict of interest
in having a personal interest in the outcome of the petition. 
4.      
Philip has an impermissible conflict by reason
of his intent to seek recovery of fees and costs incurred herein in the event he
has created a substantial benefit for others.  
On October 12, 2023, Solomon filed an ex parte
application for order providing for his continued involvement herein. The
hearing on that application is concurrent with this motion. 
On October 18, 2023, Philip filed Opposition to the motion. Philip
contends that Healey has no standing to seek his disqualification – as merely
the attorney who drafted the Trust - and that even if he can bring the motion,
he provides no legal basis to contend either that he cannot bring this petition
as conservator or has a conflict in doing so. Philip also requested sanctions
against Healey for bringing a frivolous motion and that the Court hold Healey
in contempt for bringing a motion to dismiss, as well as to disqualify, in
alleged violation of the order authorizing filing solely a motion to disqualify.

On October 24, 2023, Healey filed a Reply. He now also argues
Philip lacks standing where the petition alleges that he is suing only as a
beneficiary of a revocable trust whose interests are contingent where the
trustor could still change that interest. (Probate Code sec. 15800, Estate
of Giraldin (2012) 55 Cal.4th 1058, 1071)[3] Finally,
he argues that sanctions or other similar is not warranted where he has not
violated any order. Similarly, that the motion is not one for reconsideration
where the Court made no order on the OSC. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          Initially,
Healey has not shown why he should have any right to dictate who brings this
petition against him - whether it be Philip, Solomon, as Mimi’s GAL, or Borden,
as proposed successor trustee. He has not shown why it would make any
difference as far as any unfairness to him in having to respond to this
petition or how it might impact the validity of the petition. Nonetheless, the
Court will still reach the substance of the motion: 
          Probate Code
sec. 2562(a) permits Philp to pursue this petition given the facts here: It
does not appear that Solomon was appointed in this Trust case to bring this
petition; rather, only to look out for Mimi’s interests. Philip was already
acting to represent Mimi’s interests when Solomon was appointed GAL. In turn,
Solomon was not appointed at all as GAL in the conservatorship case. That he
was appointed as CAC for Mimi in the conservatorship does not mean he was
appointed to bring this petition. 
           That Philip is acting for Mimi’s
personal interests as conservator of her personal estate, as opposed to as a
trustee on behalf of the Trust, is an insufficient basis for disqualification: 
          First,
Healey has not presented any evidence to show that a trustee (such as Borden) would
act differently than a conservator such that Philip should not be pursuing this
matter against Healey. Borden stated no objection to Philip proceeding on this
petition at the September 13 hearing. 
          Second,
Healey has not presented any evidence to show that Mimi does not have a
personal interest as conservatee in pursuing this matter, independent of her
interest as trustor or sole beneficiary. It also does not appear these different
interests are in conflict or that ultimately the distinction between these
interests is material - at least for purposes of pursuing this petition against
a third party.            
          Third, even
if the damages here are solely to Mimi, as trustor, Healey has not shown how
that interest is not itself a personal interest Philip can pursue. Indeed, as
conservator, Philip holds Mimi’s right to revoke the Trust.[4] 
          Fourth, even
if Mimi’s interests herein are purely as trustor, and those rights are
independent of Mimi’s personal interests, Healey has not shown any restriction
on what rights of Mimi Philip can pursue, even if the assets under the Trust
differ from those in the conservatorship estate. Significantly, the Court notes
that the court appointed GAL for Mimi is in favor of Philip pursuing this
petition. Further, where Philip is Mimi’s long-time husband the Court has been
given no reason to believe he would not act in her best interests (leaving
aside the separate concern raised by Mimi’s daughter, Kathryn Frengs, as to what
Philip’s interest should be in the Trust.) 
          Fifth, if Philip
was pursuing this petition solely for Mimi as a Trust beneficiary, as he
contends, Healey might be correct that Philip lacks standing.[5]
However, where he is also acting for her as trustor, this itself is a
sufficient basis to do so, as discussed above.     
          That Philip
may seek to recover herein what attorney fees or costs he is incurring personally
in pursuit of this petition does not in and of itself give rise to any
impermissible conflict. This is not a situation where he is also seeking
damages himself, separate and apart from damages incurred by Mimi, where there
might be a conflict.[6] Whether
Philip might be able to recover those fees or costs is premature at this point:
It is unclear who will prevail here. In the event he was to prevail, for sake
of argument, whether he would be able to recover fees or costs the Court will
then be able to assess. Further, the GAL can weigh in on any such request. By
contrast, if Philip does not prevail herein, it may be that the fees and costs
he is electing to himself incur will not be subject to reimbursement. The Court
reserves that issue until such time - if that happens.
          In sum, the
Court does not find any basis to now disqualify Philip or find that he would be
“inadequate to represent Mimi’s interests.” Should any conflict or other
similar issue develop, Solomon, as Mimi’s GAL, can bring that issue to the
Court’s attention. Similarly, the motion does not provide any basis to dismiss
the case even if the issues raised proved to be material. 
 
CONCLUSION 
          For these reasons,
the Court denies the motion to disqualify Philip, or in the alternative, to
dismiss the petition. Neither is warranted. 
          The Court also
denies Philip’s requests: While the motion did not add anything other than was
discussed at the earlier hearing, the concerns are not frivolous. The Court did
not order that Healey could not file a motion to dismiss this case to give rise
to any potential violation of a court order. Likewise, the Court made no order
at the hearing that this motion should be treated as a motion for
reconsideration. 
 
 
RELATED ISSUES
 
          The Court grants Solomon’s
ex parte application for an order as to his continued involvement herein
and orders that he continue to act in the capacity he has to date.
 
          The Court grants
Borden’s ex parte application for order approving settlement agreement
and appointing successor trustee. If there are no persons, other than those who
signed the agreement, who Borden believes is entitled to notice, the Court will
sua sponte appoint Borden as successor trustee. Borden is then requested to
submit a revised order consistent therewith. If Borden believes there is any
person who is required to receive notice, or there is some other reason a
separate petition for appointment is required, the Court will enter the
proposed order submitted. Borden shall then promptly file a petition for
appointment. 
           The Court discharges the OSC in view
of entry of an order appointing Borden as successor trustee. 
 
           The Court has
reviewed the joint statement re: remaining issues for trial on the petition
against Healey. The Court sets the following dates:
 
Final Status Conference: August 20, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
Trial: September 3, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.     
          
The trial date is for purposes of triggering all other statutory pre-trial
dates, including for filing a motion for summary judgment and to designate
experts. Trial will proceed as soon as possible after the Court has determined
there was compliance with the requirements for a FSC and the case is ready to
proceed.  
 
In the joint statement, Philip indicates trial will be by the
court whereas Healey indicates trial will be by jury. “Except as otherwise
expressly provided in this code, there is no right to a jury trial in
proceedings under this code.” Probate Code sec. 825. However, see Estate of
Phelps (1990) 223 Cal.App.3d 332. If either party is requesting a jury
trial, that party should file a motion on the issue within thirty days. 
 
 
DATED:                                                                                 
_________________________________
                                                                                                      
DAVID J. COWAN
                                                                                                      
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


