 Case Number:  24STCV13080    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SCOTTIE J
  THOMPSON JR., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA; AND
DOES 1 THROUGH 10, INCLUSIVE, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV13080
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
DEMURRER OF DEFENDANT
CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA TO
PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTION OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
Date: November 5, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
California Department of Housing and Community Development (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Scottie J. Thompson Jr. (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            On May 4, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a complaint (“Complaint”) against Defendant asserting the
following causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Violation of Unruh
Civil Rights Act; (3) Violation of California Civil Code; (4) Negligence; (5)
Declaratory and Injunctive Relief; and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress – Eviction.
 
            On July 30, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint (the “Demurrer”).  Plaintiff filed an opposition on September
11, 2024, and Defendant filed a reply on October 29, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendant requests
judicial notice of the following documents:
 
·      
Exhibit A: Plaintiff Scottie J Thompson Jr.’s government
claim for $46,310.00 received by the California Department of General Services
(“DGS”) on August 8, 2024; and
·      
Exhibit B: DGS’s September 12, 2024 notice to Plaintiff
that his government claim was
rejected. 
 
The request is GRANTED as these are official records
of the State of California (Evid. Code, § 452(d)) and are “not reasonably
subject to dispute and [] capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”  (Id., § 452(h).)
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the
grounds for which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a
matter of which the court may take judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also
Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the
sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.”  (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153
Cal.App.3d 280, 286.)  “In the
construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its
allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice
between the parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the
demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions,
deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  
 
Notice Requirements of Tort Claims Act 
Prior to filing a suit against a public entity,
a plaintiff must comply with the Government Tort Claims Act (“GCA”), which
states, in part: “no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public
entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented . . .
until a written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has
been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the
board . . .”  (Gov. Code, § 945.4) 
 
A claim for death or injury to person or
personal property shall be presented not later than six months after the
accrual of the cause of action.  (Gov. Code, § 911.2, subd.
(a).)  A claim “relating to any other cause of action shall be presented
as provided in Article 2 (commencing with Section 915) not later than one year
after the accrual of the cause of action.”  (Id.)  When a claim required to be presented pursuant
to Government Code section 911.2, subdivision (a) is not presented within that
time, a written application may be made to the public entity for leave to
present that claim.  (Gov. Code, § 911.4, subd. (a).)  The
application shall be presented to the public entity within a reasonable time
not to exceed one year after the accrual of the cause of action and shall state
the reason for the delay in presenting the claim.  The proposed claim
shall be attached to the application.  (Gov. Code, § 911.4, subd.
(b).) 
 
The claim presentation requirement “is not
merely procedural, but is a condition precedent to maintaining a cause of
action and, thus, is an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.
(2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1236.)  A
party suing a public entity must allege compliance with this requirement, or
that a recognized exception exists.  (Gong
v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.  A party may allege compliance with this
requirement by including a general allegation that “he or she timely complied.”
 (Id.)  “If the plaintiff fails to include the
necessary allegations, the complaint is subject to attack by demurrer.”  (Id.)
 
Defendant contends, among others, that
Plaintiff’s Complaint is barred in its entirety due to Plaintiff’s failure to
demonstrate compliance with the GCA by failing to allege completion of the
government claim process and failing to show the filing of a timely government
claim. 
 
In his opposition, Plaintiff alleges that he
“submitted two government claims to the relevant agency prior to filing this
lawsuit, both of which were received by Defendant, confirmed by USPS tracking
numbers and Defendant’s attorney’s acknowledgement of receipt on August 6,
2024.”  (Opposition, p. 2.)
 
First, the Court
notes that Plaintiff’s allegations of submission of government claims are
contained in his opposition, but the Complaint does not so allege.  Second, the alleged submission of
claims occurred subsequent to the filing of the Complaint; hence it does not
establish Plaintiff’s required compliance with the GCA prior to filing a
lawsuit against the State.  Third,
Plaintiff has not alleged that he filed a pre-litigation government claim with
DGS; instead, he vaguely alleges that he filed two government claims with “the
relevant agency,” which Plaintiff equates to filing with Defendant, given his
subsequent allegation that both claims “were received by Defendant.”  A potential plaintiff, however, must file all
claims for money or damages against the state, specifically here with DGS,
before filing a lawsuit against the state. 
(Gov. Code § 905.2.)  Filing a
claim with the state agency named in the claim instead of with DGS does not
satisfy this legal requirement.  (Gov.
Code, § 915(b); see also DiCampli-Mintz v. County of Santa Clara (2012)
55 Cal.4th 983, 991-97.)  
 
Furthermore, as noted above, the Court takes judicial notice of DGS’s September 12, 2024 notice to Plaintiff that his government claim
was rejected, stating in relevant part:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plaintiff’s government claim submitted to DGS
was thus out of compliance with the GCA, and DGS has accordingly rejected the
claim.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff has not pled, and he
cannot plead, that he has met the pre-litigation claim filing requirements of
the GCA.
 
RULING
For these reasons,
Defendant’s Demurrer to the entire Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.  It is, therefore, unnecessary for
this Court to rule on Defendant’s Motion to Strike.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 5th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



