 Case Number:  22STCV19770    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LETICIA VASQUEZ,
  
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER
DISTRICT, a California Public Entity,
ALEX ROJAS, ROBERT BAKER and
DOES 1 through 25, inclusive,
 
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV19770
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION OF NON-PARTY CAPSTONE
PARTNERS GROUP, INC. FOR ORDFR QUASHING
  SUBPOENA OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE FOR A PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Date: November 5, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Non-party
CAPSTONE PARTNERS GROUP, INC. (“Capstone”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
LETICIA VASQUEZ (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleges violations of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act (the “Bane Act”).  
 
On August 13, 2024, Capstone filed
the instant Motion of Non-Party Capstone Partners Group, Inc. for Order Quashing
Subpoena or in the Alternative for a Protective Order (the “Motion”), moving
the Court for an order to quash the deposition subpoena served by Plaintiff seeking
Capstone’s bank records from Wells Fargo Bank. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on August 19, 2024, and Capstone filed a
reply on October 28, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice as to item No.
4 as to Capstone’s Articles of Incorporation filed with California Secretary of
State on November 13, 2020, as Entity File No. C4663692 identifying Manuel Jaramillo
as the Incorporator is GRANTED.  As to
Items No. 1-3 pertaining to complaints filed with the Los Angeles County
Superior Court, the Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the
documents, but not of the truth of assertions within.  (Evid. Code, § 452(c), (d); Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice of this
Court’s September 7, 2023 Minute Order is GRANTED.  
 
DISCUSSION
            The Code of Civil Procedure section
1987.1 states that if a “subpoena requires … the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.” 
 
Either
the nonparty witness who has been subpoenaed or any party to the action may
challenge the deposition subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b).) A
deposition subpoena may be quashed for: (1) defects in form or content of the
subpoena (e.g., inadequate description of requested records); (2) defects in
service of the subpoena (e.g., failure to satisfy the requirements of providing
notice to consumer); (3) requesting production of records not within the
permissible scope of discovery; and (4) being unjustly burdensome or
oppressive. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) 
 
            Here, Plaintiff served a subpoena
dated July 9, 2024 (“7/9/24 Subpoena”) on Wells Fargo Bank seeking the
following:
 
ACCOUNT
NO. 1256475128
Records
for Capstone Partners Group Inc. 11/1/20 to 6/6/23: monthly statements, cancelled
checks, withdrawals, cash transactions, deposit records, electronic transfers, wire
transfers, bank/cashier’s checks, signature authorizations, corp. resol, communications,
endorsements, text messages, emails, notices, letters, powers of attorney
 
(Declaration of Mark Koorenny, Exh. 2.)
 
 
            Capstone
points out that the 7/9/24 Subpoena is nearly identical to the subpoena dated
June 6, 2023 (“6/6/23 Subpoena”) that Plaintiff previously served on Wells
Fargo Bank.  (Koorenny Decl., Exh. 1)  The Court had previously denied Plaintiff’s
motion to compel compliance with the 6/6/23 Subpoena, finding that “[t]he
Motion does not clearly articulate why the discovery of Capstone’s bank records
may produce evidence that is relevant to the action that may not be obtained
through less intrusive means” and that “it is unclear how financial discovery
of a nonparty is reasonably calculated to prove or disprove the alleged Bane
Act violations or Defendants’ asserted affirmative defenses.”  (9/7/2023 Minute Order.)
 
            In
its present Motion, Capstone objects to the 7/9/24 Subpoena on the grounds that
the records sought are confidential and protected by the right to privacy.  Given the privacy rights at issue (i.e.
confidential bank/financial records), Capstone asserts that Plaintiff must demonstrate
that a compelling need exists for the subject documents.  
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the compelling need for these documents
outweighs any privacy concerns as the documents involve a significant public
interest pertaining to the $797,000 public funds stemming from a contract that
was allegedly fraudulently entered into by Central Basin Municipal Water
District (“Central Basin”) with Capstone.  Plaintiff also points to new evidentiary
developments that purportedly now establish a compelling need for the discovery
of the subject records:  Plaintiff has sought
the records at issue as a member of Central Basin’s Board of Directors and by
serving discovery on Central Basin, but she was unsuccessful; Central Basin’s
auditors had resigned due to a lack of cooperation and the unavailability
of documents; and that the Los Angeles County District Attorney initiated a new
criminal investigation against Alex Rojas, one of the defendants in this case, involving
Central Basin’s payments to Capstone.  
 
            Notwithstanding
the above assertions, in essence, Plaintiff asserts that there is a compelling
need for the bank records since without the Wells Fargo bank records, neither
Central Basin nor Plaintiff will ever know who received the $797,000 and how the
funds were used, and that Plaintiff has no alternative way to obtain these
records. 
 
            The
Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s justification for seeking the records
sought.  “To establish good cause, a
discovery proponent must identify a disputed fact that is of consequence in the
action and explain how the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or
disprove that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or
disprove the fact.”  (Digital Music
News LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216, 224 disapproved on
other grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)  
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts a sole cause of action for violation of the Bane
Act. As Plaintiff’s counsel himself states: “The gravamen of plaintiff’s
lawsuit is that her right to free speech and her right to participate as an
elected board member of the Central Basin Municipal Water District was
interfered with through threats, intimidation and coercion in violation of the Bane
Civil Rights Act.”  (Declaration of Ron
Wilson, ¶ 2.)  To allege a claim under Civ.
Code section 52.1 (Bane Act), Plaintiffs must allege that (1) Defendants
interfered with their constitutional rights by threatening violent acts, (2)
Plaintiffs reasonably believed if they exercised their rights, Defendant would
commit violence against them or retaliate against them, (3) Plaintiffs were
harmed, and (4) Defendant’s conduct caused the harm.  (CACI 3025.)
 
While the records sought may
be relevant to any investigation or matter involving charges of fraud or allegations
of corruption involving Capstone (a nonparty in this case), its bank records have
no bearing on the present action alleging violation of the Bane Act by other
parties.  As noted above, the essential
elements for a Bane Act violation revolve around interference with the exercise
of a plaintiff’s constitutional right through threats or intimidation. Whatever
Capstone’s bank records reveal (e.g. who received the funds, or how the funds
were spent) has no connection whatsoever to the present action.  
 
In short, Plaintiff has
not established that the records sought in the 7/9/24 Subpoena will tend in
reason to prove or disprove any relevant fact in the present action. 
 
RULING
            Accordingly, the Motion is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 5th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 