..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```yaml
Case Number: 22STCV13214
Hearing Date: October 23, 2024
Department: 53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District

Plaintiff:
James Padilla

Defendant:
County of Los Angeles, et al.

Ruling:
Tentative Ruling on Defendant's Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication

Motions:
Defendant's motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication

Issues:
1. First Cause of Action for Discrimination on the Basis of Age
2. Second Cause of Action for Discrimination on the Basis of Disability
3. Third Cause of Action for Retaliation
4. Fourth Cause of Action for Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation
5. Fifth Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process

Facts:
* Plaintiff alleges discrimination, retaliation, and failure to accommodate based on his age and disability
* Defendant argues that Plaintiff's claims are barred by the statute of limitations and lack evidence of adverse employment actions
* Defendant also argues that it reasonably accommodated Plaintiff's disability and engaged in a good faith interactive process

Dispositions:
1. First Cause of Action for Discrimination on the Basis of Age: GRANTED
2. Second Cause of Action for Discrimination on the Basis of Disability: GRANTED
3. Third Cause of Action for Retaliation: GRANTED
4. Fourth Cause of Action for Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation: DENIED
5. Fifth Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process: GRANTED

Legal Standards:
* Code of Civil Procedure section 437c
* Government Code sections 12940, 12960, and 12965
* FEHA claims are governed by two statutory deadlines: section 12960 and section 12965
* The continuing violations doctrine provides an equitable exception to the one-year statute of limitations for FEHA actions
* To establish a prima facie case of discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must show they were a member of a protected class, were qualified for the position or were performing competently in the position they held, suffered an adverse employment action, and some other circumstance suggested discriminatory motive
* To establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged in a "protected activity", (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity and the employer's action

Significant Statements:
* The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that the first, second, and third causes of action for discrimination, retaliation, and failure to accommodate have no merit because Defendant has shown that an element of each cause of action (that Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action) cannot be established
* The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of an adverse employment action because Plaintiff has not shown that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the application of the continuing violations doctrine regarding Defendant's failure to promote Plaintiff, and as to whether the conduct relating to Defendant's alleged failure to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff's disability and related work restrictions constitute an adverse employment action
* The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden to show that the fourth cause of action for failure to provide reasonable accommodation has no merit because Defendant did not present evidence showing that requiring Plaintiff to work with fiberglass did not violate his work restrictions
* The court finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of failure to provide reasonable accommodation because Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which Plaintiff asserts that he was assigned to work with fiberglass in violation of his work restrictions
```

Note: This summary is based on the provided text and may not be a comprehensive or accurate representation of the judge's actual ruling.
