  Case Number:  22STCV13214    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




james padilla

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
county of los angeles

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV13214




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   23, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant County of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff James Padilla
Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary
Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court rules on defendant County of Los Angeles’s evidentiary
objections, filed on October 18, 2024, as follows:
The court sustains Objections Nos. 5-7, 20, 28, and 32.
The court overrules Objections Nos. 1-4, 8-15, 16-19, 21-27, 29-31,
and 33-35.
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendant County of Los Angeles
(“Defendant”) moves the court for an order granting summary judgment in its favor
and against plaintiff James Padilla (“Plaintiff”) on his First Amended
Complaint, or, in the alternative, granting summary adjudication in its favor
on each cause of action alleged by Plaintiff. 
 

1.     First
Cause of Action for Discrimination on the Basis of Age
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, because
of the . . . age . . . of any person, . . . to bar or to discharge the person
from employment . . . or to discriminate against the person in compensation or
in the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.”  (Gov. Code, §
12940, subd. (a).)  “To establish a prima facie case of discrimination
under FEHA, a plaintiff must show they were a member of a protected class; they
were qualified for the position or were performing competently in the position
they held; they suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination,
demotion, or denial of an available job; and some other circumstance suggested
discriminatory motive.”  (Khoiny v. Dignity Health (2022) 76
Cal.App.5th 390, 397.)  
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the first cause of action for discrimination on the basis of age has no merit because
Defendant has shown that an element of the cause of action (that Plaintiff
suffered an adverse employment action) cannot be established because Defendant
has shown that (1) the adverse employment actions relating to the alleged
failure to promote Plaintiff fall outside of the limitations period, and (2)
the other wrongful acts identified by Plaintiff in his First Amended Complaint
and discovery responses do not constitute adverse employment actions. 
In support of this cause of action, Plaintiff has alleged that he suffered
the following adverse employment actions: (1) denial of promotions and career
advancement, (2) reassignment to job posts in violation of his work
restrictions, (3) being called a liar, and (4) receiving a reprimand for
violating the honesty policy.  (FAC ¶
61.)  Defendant has also submitted
Plaintiff’s discovery responses, in which Plaintiff has identified additional
adverse employment actions allegedly suffered by Plaintiff to be the denial of
accommodations, the revocation of identified accommodations, the requirement of
Plaintiff to work outside of his accommodations, and the failure to promote
Plaintiff in 2005, 2007, and between 2010 and 2013.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 50; Def.
Volume of Documentary Evidence (“Def. Ex.”) PP, Pl. Responses to Special
Interrogatory No. 130, p. 58:1-21 [identifying adverse employment actions
alleged to support the discrimination cause of action].) 
First, the court finds that Defendant has shown that the cause
of action, to the extent it is based on the denials of promotions in 2005,
2007, and 2010 through 2013, is barred by the statute of limitations.
“FEHA claims are governed by two statutory deadlines: section
12960 and section 12965.”  (Acuna v.
San Diego Gas & Electric Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1402, 1411.)  For the period of January 1, 2006 to December
31, 2019, “[n]o complaint [alleging violations of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.) (“FEHA”)] may be filed after the
expiration of one year from the date upon which the alleged unlawful practice
or refusal to cooperate occurred,” except that the period could be extended in
certain circumstances set forth by statute.[1]  (Gov. Code, § 12960, former subd. (d); Pollock
v. Tri-Modal Distribution Services, Inc. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 918, 931 [“At
the time of the alleged misconduct here, the FEHA provided that no
administrative complaint alleging a violation of its provisions could be filed
with the DFEH ‘after the expiration of one year from the date upon which the
alleged unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate occurred[,]’” which is the
statute of limitations for FEHA actions].)  “Section 12965 concerns a separate statutory deadline
applicable after the DFEH issues a right-to-sue notice.  The code section provides that after an
employee files a complaint and the DFEH does not issue an accusation within a
specified period, the DEFH must issue a right-to-sue letter notifying the
employee that he or she may bring a civil suit within one year of the date of
the notice.”  (Acuna, supra,
217 Cal.App.4th at p. 1413.) 
Plaintiff obtained two right to sue notices on September 16, 2021
and April 20, 2022, i.e., more than one year after the alleged denials of
promotions in 2005, 2007, and 2010 through 2013.  (FAC, Exs. 1-2; UMF No. 50; Gov. Code, §
12960, former subd. (d).)  Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has shown that the adverse employment actions
relating to the alleged denials of promotions fall outside of the limitations
period, such that Plaintiff cannot rely on those alleged wrongful acts in
support of this cause of action. 
Second, the court finds that Defendant has shown that the adverse
employment actions identified by Plaintiff in his First Amended Complaint and
discovery responses that relate to his transfers to job posts in violation of
his work restrictions and the denial or revocation of accommodations do not
constitute adverse employment actions.  Instead, this conduct is alleging other
unlawful employment practices (i.e., the failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability).  Thus, the court finds that the alleged
conduct relating to Defendant’s failure to accommodate Plaintiff cannot constitute
an adverse employment action in support of his discrimination cause of action.[2]  (Doe v. Department of Corrections &
Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 721, 735-736 [“No court has ever held
that a failure to reasonably accommodate an employee’s disability—which is a
separate cause of action under FEHA (§ 12940, subd. (m))—can qualify as the
adverse action underlying a discrimination or retaliation claim”].) 
Third, the court finds that Defendant has shown that the adverse
employment action alleged in the Complaint relating to Plaintiff’s being called
a liar does not constitute an adverse employment action because such conduct
does not materially affect the terms, conditions, or privileges of his
employment.  (Doe, supra,
43 Cal.App.5th at p. 734.) 
Fourth, the court finds that Defendant has shown that the
reprimand issued to Plaintiff does not constitute an adverse employment action.

“An ‘adverse employment action’ is one that ‘materially affects
the terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.’  [Citation.] 
‘In the case of an institutional or corporate employer, the institution
or corporation itself must have taken some official action with respect to the
employee, such as hiring, firing, failing to promote, adverse job assignment,
significant change in compensation or benefits, or official disciplinary
action.’”  (Doe, supra, 43
Cal.App.5th at p. 734 [internal citation omitted] [internal emphasis omitted].)

Defendant has submitted the declaration of Clint Yates, in which
Yates has stated that  (1) Plaintiff’s
manager, Dan Maloney, issued Plaintiff a Performance Log Entry upon reviewing
video footage of Plaintiff removing wood off the premises and shutting down the
elevator with a master key that he should not have possessed; (2) Plaintiff
filed a Policy of Equity complaint against Maloney; (3) thereafter, Plaintiff
admitted to Yates that the events in his complaint did not happen; (4) Yates
admonished Plaintiff for taking false actions; (5) Plaintiff was not issued a
written reprimand or any other form of discipline due to his complaint, and
instead, the incident was documented with a Performance Log Entry, which (i) is
“wiped out every year” and therefore was not included in Plaintiff’s file as of
2020, (ii) is not considered a form of discipline, unlike a written reprimand
or suspension, and (iii) was not included in Plaintiff’s performance
evaluations.  (Yates Decl., ¶¶ 21-22.) 
The court finds that this evidence shows that Plaintiff was not
disciplined by Defendant for his filing of a complaint against Maloney, such
that Defendant has shown that it did not take an action that materially
affected the terms, conditions, or privileges of Plaintiff’s employment.  (Doe, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at
p. 734.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of an adverse
employment action because Plaintiff has not shown that a triable issue of
material fact exists (1) as to the application of the continuing violation
doctrine regarding Defendant’s failure to promote Plaintiff, and (2) as to
whether the conduct relating to Defendant’s (i) alleged failure to reasonably accommodate
Plaintiff’s disability and work restrictions and (ii) admonishment of Plaintiff
constitute an adverse employment action that can support Plaintiff’s claim for
discrimination.   
First, the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that the
continuing violation doctrine applies as to the adverse employment actions identified
in his First Amended Complaint and discovery responses.  
“Where applicable, the continuing violations doctrine provides an
equitable exception to the one-year statute of limitations for FEHA
actions.  [Citation.]  The doctrine ‘allows liability for unlawful
employer conduct occurring outside the statute of limitations if it is
sufficiently connected to unlawful conduct within the limitations period.’  [Citation.] 
The employer’s unlawful actions are ‘sufficiently connected’ if they
satisfy three criteria: (1) the unlawful conduct occurring outside the statute
of limitations is ‘sufficiently similar in kind’ to the unlawful conduct within
the limitations period, (2) the unlawful actions have occurred with ‘reasonable
frequency,’ and (3) they have not ‘acquired a degree of permanence.’  [Citation.]” 
(Hoglund v. Sierra Nevada Memorial-Miners Hospital (2024) 102
Cal.App.5th 56, 71 [internal citations omitted].) 
As to the adverse employment actions relating to Defendant’s
alleged refusal to promote Plaintiff, Plaintiff has not presented evidence
showing that (1) Plaintiff was denied a promotion after 2013, such that this
unlawful conduct is sufficiently similar to unlawful conduct within the
limitations period, and (2) this conduct occurred with reasonable frequency
after 2013.  (Hoglund, supra,
102 Cal.App.5th at p. 71; Padilla Decl., ¶¶ 9-10 [Plaintiff was passed over for
promotions in 2005 and 2007], 22 [Plaintiff was not promoted in 2012 and 2013].)

As to the adverse employment actions relating to Defendant’s
alleged failure to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff’s disability, the court has
determined, for the reasons set forth above, that such alleged wrongful acts
allege the existence of an unlawful employment practice, and do not constitute
an adverse employment action.  (Opp., p.
13:22-27, 14:3-5.) 
Second, the court notes that Plaintiff has stated, in his
declaration, that he was “given a written memo stating that [he] violated the
honesty policy by filing the Policy of Equality Complaint and that [he] should
not make false accusations against Maloney.” 
(Padilla Decl., ¶ 32.)  But
Plaintiff did not (1) present evidence showing that the written memorandum was
a reprimand or other disciplinary warning, or (2) present argument establishing
that the effect of the written memorandum “‘materially affect[ed] the terms,
conditions, or privileges of [Plaintiff’s]’” employment with Defendant.  (Doe, supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at
p. 734.) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of an
adverse employment action taken against him. 
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the first cause of action for discrimination on the basis of
age.
2.     Second
Cause of Action for Discrimination on the Basis of Disability
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, because
of the . . . physical disability . . . of any person, . . . to bar or to
discharge the person from employment . . . or to discriminate against the
person in compensation or in the terms, conditions, or privileges of
employment.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (a).)  “To establish a prima
facie case of discrimination under FEHA, a plaintiff must show they were a
member of a protected class; they were qualified for the position or were
performing competently in the position they held; they suffered an adverse
employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available
job; and some other circumstance suggested discriminatory motive.”  (Khoiny,
supra, 76 Cal.App.5th at p. 397.)
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the second cause of action for discrimination on the basis of disability has no
merit because Defendant has shown that an element of the cause of action (that
Plaintiff suffered an adverse employment action) cannot be established. 
As with the first cause of action, Plaintiff (1) has alleged, in
his First Amended Complaint, that he suffered the adverse employment actions of
(i) denials of promotions and career advancement, (ii) reassignment to job
posts in violation of his work restrictions and that exacerbated his medical
condition, (iii) being called a liar, and (iv) receiving a reprimand for
violating the honesty policy based on a complaint that he made to the
department, and (2) has stated, in his discovery responses, that he has based
his discrimination claim on the following adverse employment actions: (i) the
refusal to provide and revocation of identified accommodations, and (ii) the
failure to promote Plaintiff in 2005, 2007, and between 2010 and 2013.  (FAC ¶ 71; UMF No. 100; Def. Ex. PP, Pl.
Response to Special Interrogatory No. 130, p. 58:1-21.) 
For the reasons set forth in connection with the first cause of
action, the court finds that Defendant has shown that (1) the adverse
employment actions relating to the failure to promote Plaintiff occurred
outside of the limitations period and therefore may not support this cause of
action, (2) the alleged wrongful acts relating to Defendant’s failure to accommodate
Plaintiff’s disability do not constitute adverse employment actions and
therefore may not support this cause of action, and (3) Defendant’s admonishment
of Plaintiff did not materially affect the terms, conditions, or privileges of
his employment and therefore does not constitute an adverse employment action
that may support this cause of action.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of an adverse
employment action because, for the reasons set forth in connection with the
court’s ruling on the first cause of action, Plaintiff has not shown that a
triable issue of material fact exists (1) as to the application of the continuing
violation doctrine regarding Defendant’s failure to promote Plaintiff, and (2)
as to whether the conduct relating to Defendant’s (i) alleged failure to
reasonably accommodate Plaintiff’s disability and related work restrictions and
(ii) admonishment of Plaintiff constitute an adverse employment action that can
support Plaintiff’s claim for discrimination.  

The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for discrimination on the basis
of disability
3.     Third
Cause of Action for Retaliation 
It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer “to
discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the
person has opposed any practices forbidden under this part . . . .”  (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (h).)  Similarly, it is an unlawful employment
practice for an employer to retaliate or otherwise discriminate against a
person for requesting a reasonable accommodation for the known physical or
mental disability of an employee.  (Gov.
Code, § 12940, subd. (m)(2).)  “‘[T]o
establish a prima facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must
show (1) he or she engaged in a “protected activity,” (2) the employer
subjected the employee to an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link
existed between the protected activity and the employer’s action.’”  (Meeks
v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855, 878-879.)  
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the third cause of action for retaliation has no merit because Defendant has shown
that an element of the cause of action (that Defendant subjected Plaintiff to
an adverse employment action) cannot be established. 
Plaintiff has based his retaliation cause of action on the same
adverse employment actions that support his first and second causes of action
for discrimination.  (FAC ¶ 79 [alleging
that he “suffered the adverse employment actions of denial of promotions and
career advancement, reassignment to job posts in violation of his work
restrictions that exacerbated his medical condition, being called a ‘liar,’ and
reprimanding for violating the honesty policy based on a complaint that
Plaintiff had made to the department”]; Def. Ex. PP, Pl. Response to Special
Interrogatory No. 131 [stating that he bases his retaliation cause of action
based on the adverse employment actions regarding Defendant’s refusal to
provide him with and revocation of reasonable accommodations, requiring
Plaintiff to work outside of his job restrictions, and denial of promotions in
2005, 2007, and 2010 through 2013].)  Thus, for the reasons set forth in connection
with the first and second causes of action, the court finds that Defendant has shown
that (1) the adverse employment actions relating to the failure to promote
Plaintiff occurred outside of the limitations period and therefore may not
support this cause of action, (2) the alleged wrongful acts relating to
Defendant’s failure to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability do not constitute
adverse employment actions and therefore may not support this cause of action,
and (3) Defendant’s admonishment of Plaintiff did not materially affect the
terms, conditions, or privileges of his employment and therefore does not
constitute an adverse employment action that can support this cause of action.
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of an adverse
employment action because, for the reasons set forth in connection with the
court’s ruling on the first cause of action, Plaintiff has not shown that a
triable issue of material fact exists (1) as to the application of the
continuing violation doctrine regarding Defendant’s failure to promote
Plaintiff, and (2) as to whether the conduct relating to Defendant’s (i) alleged
failure to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff’s disability and related work
restrictions and (ii) admonishment of Plaintiff constitute an adverse
employment action that can support Plaintiff’s claim for retaliation.   
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the third cause of action for retaliation.
4.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodation 
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to
fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known physical or mental
disability of an applicant or employee.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(m)(1).)  “‘The essential elements of a failure to accommodate claim are:
(1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the FEHA; (2) the plaintiff is a
qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform the essential functions of
the position); and (3) the employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s
disability.  [Citation.]’”  (Cuiellette v. City of Los Angeles (2011)
194 Cal.App.4th 757, 766 [internal citation omitted].)  
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the fourth cause of action for failure to provide reasonable accommodation
has no merit because Defendant has not shown that the element of Defendant’s
failure to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff’s disability cannot be established.

The court acknowledges that Defendant has presented evidence
showing that it may have reasonably accommodated Plaintiff by, inter alia,
providing him with masks and offering him a position at the Hall of
Justice.  However, Defendant did not
present evidence showing that, by requiring Plaintiff to work with fiberglass,
it did not fail to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff’s disability.[3]
 (FAC ¶¶ 33 [“Maloney assigned Plaintiff
to work with fiberglass in violation of his restrictions”], 40 [“In or around
January 2020, [Plaintiff] again reported being put in unsafe working
conditions, being forced to handle fiberglass . . . .”].) 
On March 13, 2013, Plaintiff presented work restrictions from Dr.
Lonky noting that Plaintiff could not work in a dusty environment.  (Yates Decl., ¶ 16.)  On April 4, 2013, an interactive process
meeting was held, and Plaintiff was accommodated via an assignment to the crime
lab.  (Ibid.; UMF No. 179; Def.
Ex. M, p. PL000133 [April 4 Interactive Process Meeting Worksheet noting that
Plaintiff’s medical certification stated that “‘he cannot work in a dusty
environment’”].)  Plaintiff testified
that he felt that his restrictions were accommodated during the eight years in
which he was assigned to the crime lab (from 2013 through 2021), except when
Maloney required Plaintiff to work with fiberglass, which occurred “towards the
end of [Plaintiff’s] time there [in the crime lab].”  (Def. Ex. KK, Pl. Dep., pp. 136:24-137:15,
140:18-25.)
Thus, Defendant’s evidence shows that Plaintiff was required to
work with fiberglass, which Plaintiff contends violated his work restrictions
and therefore did not accommodate his disability.  (Def. Ex. KK, Pl. Dep., pp. 136:24-137:15,
140:18-25; FAC ¶¶ 33, 40.)  However,
Defendant did not (1) present evidence showing that requiring Plaintiff to work
with fiberglass did not violate his work restrictions, which restricted him
from working in a dusty environment (e.g., by submitting evidence showing that
fiberglass did not result in a dusty environment), or (2) present argument and
authority showing that any such violation of Plaintiff’s work restriction does
not constitute a failure to accommodate Plaintiff.  While the court notes that, in reply,
Defendant has argued that “not a single work restriction precludes Plaintiff
from working with fiberglass[,]” Defendant did not raise that argument in its
moving papers.  (Reply, p. 9:27-28; Cox
v. Griffin (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 440, 453 [points raised in the reply brief
for the first time will not be considered].) 
The court therefore finds that Defendant has not met its burden to
show that this cause of action has no merit since Defendant has not shown that
it reasonably accommodated Plaintiff’s disability.   
Even if the court were to find that Defendant had met its burden
to show that it did not fail to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff, the court
finds that Plaintiff has met his burden to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to that element. 
Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which Plaintiff asserts that
he was assigned to work with fiberglass in violation of his work restrictions.  (Padilla Decl., ¶¶ 27, 34.) 
The court therefore denies Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fourth cause of action for failure to provide reasonable
accommodation.
5.     Fifth
Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to
fail to engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process with the employee
or applicant to determine effective reasonable accommodations, if any, in
response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant
with a known physical or mental disability or known medical condition.” 
(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n).)  “‘The employee must initiate the process
unless his or her disability and the resulting limitations are obvious. 
Once initiated, the employer has a continuous obligation to engage in
the interactive process in good faith.’”  (Kaur v. Foster Poultry Farms
LLC (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 320, 347 [emphasis in original].)  
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the fifth cause of action for failure to engage in the interactive process has
no merit because Defendant has shown that an element of the cause of action (that
Defendant failed to engage in a timely, good faith interactive process) cannot
be established.  
Defendant has submitted evidence showing that it engaged in
multiple interactive process meetings with Plaintiff upon receiving (1) work
restrictions presented by Plaintiff, and (2) complaints from Plaintiff
regarding the adequacy of his accommodations. 
(Def. Exs. U [April 26, 2021 Interactive Process Meeting for the April
15, 2021 work restriction], V [June 24, 2021 Interactive Process Meeting for
the April 15, 2021 work restriction]; W [October 12, 2021 Interactive Process
Meeting for the April 15, 2021 work restriction], X [February 15, 2022
Interactive Process Meeting based on email sent by counsel for Plaintiff
regarding the alleged failure to accommodate Plaintiff], Y [March 8, 2022
Interactive Process Meeting based on email sent by counsel for Plaintiff
regarding the alleged failure to accommodate Plaintiff as well as his request
to be relocated to the crime lab], DD [February 26, 2024 Interactive Process
Meeting regarding work restriction].)  Thus,
the court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show that it did not fail
to engage in the interactive process with Plaintiff. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant failed to
engage in the interactive process with Plaintiff.  
Plaintiff has submitted his declaration, in which he states that
(1) Maloney assigned him to work with fiberglass in violation of his
restrictions, (2) Defendant forced him to work in the Main Shop where his
condition had been exacerbated by the bad air quality; and (3) he and Defendant
engaged in meetings in which Plaintiff requested to return to the Crime Lab as
the safer location, but Defendant (i) advised him that there were no vacancies
there, and (ii) required him to work in the Main Shop.  (Padilla Decl., ¶¶ 27, 33-34, 39, 41-43.) 
First, as set forth above, the court notes that there is a triable
issue of material fact as to whether Defendant failed to reasonably accommodate
Plaintiff’s work restrictions (and, therefore, his disability) by requiring him
to work with fiberglass.  But (1) “an
employer’s failure to engage in the interactive process and failure to provide
a reasonable accommodation represent independent causes of action subject to
different elements of proof[,]” and (2) Plaintiff did not present argument and
authority showing that Defendant violated its obligations to continue to engage
in the interactive process in good faith regarding this restriction.  (Miller v. California Department of
Corrections and Rehabilitation (2024) 105 Cal.App.5th 261, 2024 WL 4262759
at *7; Kaur, supra, 83 Cal.App.5th at p. 347.)   
Second, the court acknowledges that Plaintiff has stated that
Defendant forced him to work in the Main Shop where his condition was
exacerbated by the bad air quality. 
However, Plaintiff did not present evidence or adequate argument and
authority showing that Defendant violated its obligation to continue to engage
in the interactive process in good faith regarding this restriction.  Specifically, although Plaintiff stated that
he provided an updated doctor’s note recommending that he work in an
environment with good air quality in January 2021, Plaintiff did not submit
such a doctor’s note.  (Padilla Decl., ¶
38.)  Moreover, Plaintiff did not
meaningfully dispute that he and Defendant engaged in the interactive process
regarding his April 15, 2021 work restriction that prohibited him from being
exposed to dust, fumes, and bad air quality (1) by holding meetings on April
26, 2021, June 24, 2021, and October 12, 2021, and (2) offering an
accommodation for this restriction (i.e., the provision of masks).  (Def. Exs. U, p. 1 [accepting accommodation
of masks by the employee], V, W.) 
Third, Plaintiff has stated that Defendant informed Plaintiff that
his requested transfer location (the crime lab) had no vacancies and stated
that he could only be transferred to the Department of Justice Building.  (Padilla Decl., ¶ 41.)  However, Plaintiff did not present argument
and authority to show that Defendant’s election not to transfer Plaintiff to
the crime lab shows that it was not engaging in the interactive process by
attempting to offer to Plaintiff a reasonable accommodation to address his work
restriction.  Moreover, the interactive process
meeting notes assert that Defendant offered Plaintiff temporary accommodations
at the STARS Center “pending the results of an air quality test that
will be conducted at the Hall of Justice[,]” which shows an attempt by
Defendant to identify a reasonable accommodation for Plaintiff.  (Def. Ex. Y, ¶ IV [March 8, 2022 Interactive
Process Meeting] [emphasis added].) 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendant
violated its obligation to engage in the interactive process in good faith or
obstructed the process.  (Kaur, supra,
83 Cal.App.5th at p. 347.)
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action for failure to engage in the
interactive process.
6.     Sixth
Cause of Action for Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation 
It is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer . . . to fail
to take all reasonable steps necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment
from occurring.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (k).)  
The court finds that Defendant has met its burden of showing that
the sixth cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation
has no merit because Defendant has shown that an element of the cause of action
(that Defendant discriminated or retaliated against Plaintiff) cannot be established
since Defendant has, for the reasons set forth above, met its burden to show
that Plaintiff’s first through third causes of action for discrimination and
retaliation have no merit.  (FAC ¶ 97
[alleging that Defendant failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent
discrimination and retaliation from occurring]; Featherstone v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1166
[“Where, as here, a plaintiff cannot establish a claim for discrimination, the
employer as a matter of law cannot be held responsible for failing to prevent
same”].)   
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met his burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists as to the element of an underlying
claim for discrimination or retaliation because Plaintiff has not, for the
reasons set forth above, met his burden to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the merits of his first through third causes of
action.
The court therefore grants Defendant’s motion for summary
adjudication as to the sixth cause of action for failure to prevent
discrimination and retaliation.
7.     Seventh
Cause of Action for Declaratory Judgment
“Any person . . . who desires a declaration of his or her rights or
duties with respect to another . . . may, in cases of actual controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an
original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of
his or her rights or duties in the premises, including a determination of any
question of construction or validity arising under the instrument or
contract.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.)  The two elements of declaratory relief are
“‘(1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy
involving justiciable questions relating to the rights or obligations of a
party.’”  (Lee v. Silveira (2016)
6 Cal.App.5th 527, 546.) 
The court finds that Defendant has not met its burden of showing
that the seventh cause of action for declaratory judgment has no merit because
Defendant has not shown that the element of an actual controversy between
Plaintiff and Defendant cannot be established since the court has denied
Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication as to the fourth cause of action,
and therefore this cause of action, to the extent that it seeks a declaration
that Defendant failed to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability, survives.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1060; Mot., p. 28:1-4
[arguing that there is no active controversy]; FAC ¶ 106 [requesting a
declaration that Defendant failed to accommodate Plaintiff’s disability].)
 
 
 
8.      Plaintiff’s Request for Leave to Amend
The court exercises its discretion to deny Plaintiff’s request for
leave to amend his First Amended Complaint. 
(Falcon v. Long Beach Genetics, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1263,
1280.) 
ORDER
The court denies defendant County of Los Angeles’s motion for summary judgment.
 
The court grants defendant County of Los Angeles’s motion for summary
adjudication as to plaintiff James Padilla’s first cause of action for
discrimination (age), second cause of action for discrimination (disability),
third cause of action for retaliation, fifth cause of action for failure to
engage in a good faith interactive process, and sixth cause of action for
failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation. 
The court denies defendant County of Los Angeles’s motion for summary
adjudication as to plaintiff James Padilla’s fourth cause of action for failure
to provide reasonable accommodation and seventh cause of action for declaratory
judgment. 
The court orders defendant County of Los Angeles to give notice of
this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 23, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


