  Case Number:  22STCV38179    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   February
8, 2024                                             
 
CASE NAME:           D.L.
v. DOE 1
 
CASE NO.:                22STCV38179

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT; MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
DOE 1
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff D.L.
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First and Second Causes of Action for failure to state sufficient facts
to constitute a cause of action;
2.      Motion
to Strike various portions of the First Amended Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
to the First and Second Causes of Action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend;
2.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED as moot.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On December 7, 2022, Plaintiff D.L. (Plaintiff) filed a
Complaint against Defendants DOE 1, a New York corporation and DOE 2, a
California nonprofit corporation (Defendants) with three causes of action for:
(1) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention; (2) Negligent Supervision of
a Minor; and (3) Negligence.
 
On August 7, 2023, Defendant DOE 1 filed a motion to strike
portions of the Complaint.
 
On August 8, 2023, Defendant DOE 1 filed a demurrer to the
Complaint.
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) with the same three causes of action.
 
According to the FAC, this is an action to recover damages
on behalf of an adult who was a victim of childhood sexual assault pursuant to
Cal. Code of Civil Procedure § 340.1. The alleged perpetrator was Lowell Banks (Banks)
who is now deceased. Plaintiff alleges she met Banks through Defendants’
Highland Park Congregation where Banks held a position of authority.  
 
On November 28, 2023, Defendant DOE 1 filed the instant
demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC. On January 26, 2024,
Plaintiff filed oppositions. On February 1, 2024, Defendant filed replies.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
The court DENIES Defendant’s request
for judicial notice of fact. The court grants Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice as to Exhibits 1, 2, and 3. (Evid. Code § 452(a), (c), (h); See Kalnoki v. First American Trustee Servicing
Solutions, LLC (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 23,37.) However, the court only takes
judicial notice of the foregoing documents only as to “the existence, content
and authenticity of public records and other specified documents”; it does not
take judicial notice of the truth of the factual matters asserted in those
documents. (Dominguez v. Bonta (2022)
87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)¿¿
 
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Motion
to Strike
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)¿ 
 
Meet
and Confer
 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) & (3).
The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to strike. (CCP §
435.5.) Here, the parties met and conferred via telephone on July 14, 2023.
(Walters Decl. ¶ 4.) Accordingly, this requirement is met.
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
CCP § 340.1
 
The court starts its analysis with CCP § 340.1 because the
two causes of action at issue here depend upon it.
 
Defendant contends that Plaintiff failed to sufficient plead
a special relationship. Specifically, the FAC lacks facts that they had any
control over DOE 3 (presumably this is Banks), that Plaintiff was in
Defendant’s custody or control or expected protection from DOE 1 at her private
residence, or that being a member of Defendant’s congregation established a
special relationship.  Defendant also
contends that there are insufficient facts that Defendant had actual knowledge
of Banks’ past unlawful sexual conduct prior to the alleged abuse therefore
there are insufficient facts that Defendant was the legal cause of the sexual
assault. Plaintiff argues that Defendant misinterprets CCP § 340.1(c).
Plaintiff additionally argues that the FAC sufficiently alleges Banks’
misconduct during the course and scope of his employment for Defendant and that
Defendant created the harm by mandating she attend, obey, and be led and
isolated by Banks without any reasonable safeguards. Defendant replies that CCP
§ 340.1(c) is not a standalone basis for liability and that Plaintiff failed to
sufficiently plead a special relationship/legal duty. 
 
CCP § 340.1[1]
effective from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023 provides:
 
(a) In an action for recovery of
damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault, the time for
commencement of the action shall be within 22 years of the date the plaintiff
attains the age of majority or within five years of the date the plaintiff
discovers or reasonably should have discovered that psychological injury or
illness occurring after the age of majority was caused by the sexual assault,
whichever period expires later, for any of the following actions:
 
(1) An action against any person for
committing an act of childhood sexual assault.
 
(2) An action for liability against any
person or entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or
negligent act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood
sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
 
(3) An action for liability against any
person or entity if an intentional act by that person or entity was a legal
cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the
plaintiff.
 
(c) An action described in paragraph
(2) or (3) of subdivision (a) shall not be commenced on or after the
plaintiff's 40th birthday unless the person or entity knew or had reason to
know, or was otherwise on notice, of any misconduct that creates a risk of
childhood sexual assault by an employee, volunteer, representative, or agent,
or the person or entity failed to take reasonable steps or to implement
reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of childhood sexual assault. For purposes
of this subdivision, providing or requiring counseling is not sufficient, in
and of itself, to constitute a reasonable step or reasonable safeguard. Nothing
in this subdivision shall be construed to constitute a substantive change in
negligence law.
 
A plain reading of CCP § 340.1(c) indicates there are two
methods to attach liability: first, with knowledge of any misconduct that
creates a risk of childhood sexual assault by an employee, or, second, by
failure to take reasonable steps or to implement reasonable safeguards to avoid
acts of childhood sexual assault.[2]
Plaintiff argues that she sufficiently pled facts under either theory. 
 
i.                   
Knew
or had reason to know, or was otherwise on notice, of any misconduct that
creates a risk of childhood sexual assault by an employee, volunteer,
representative, or agent
The first avenue for liability requires actual knowledge or
notice of the perpetrator’s unlawful sexual conduct. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 545-549 (Doe); Deutsch v. Masonic Homes of California, Inc. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
748, 774-775 (Deutsch); Santillan v. Roman Catholic Bishop of Fresno
(2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 708, 717-718, 722 (Santillan).)
This does not mean inquiry notice and does not create an inquiry duty. (Santillan, supra, at p. 718.) “Knew”
means actual knowledge, “reason to know” means a person would have inferred the
existence of the ultimate fact or would have regarded the existence of the
ultimate fact as so highly probable as to have behaved in conformity with that
belief, and “otherwise on notice” does not require a formal complaint or formal
notice. (Doe, supra, at pp. 546-548
[noting, however, that the Doe court
did not further develop what “otherwise on notice” means.]) In sum, “the
knowledge or notice requirement refers to knowledge or notice of past unlawful
sexual conduct by the individual currently accused of other unlawful sexual
conduct.” (Id. at 549.)
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged knowledge by Defendant of any misconduct by Banks that created a risk
of childhood sexual assault. First, Plaintiff alleges on information and belief
that Defendants “knew or should have known of Banks’ dangerous propensities and
prior inappropriate behavior with minor children but failed to warn Plaintiff
or Plaintiff’s parents . . . .” and that Defendants’ “knew or should have known
that Banks was committing inappropriate conduct with minor children, including
Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶¶ 25, 27.) This is conclusory.[3]
Second, Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants were made aware, and confirmed that
Banks had inappropriate touched, sexually assaulted and/or sexually abused, and
molested other children, including Plaintiff.” (FAC ¶ 28.) This is also
conclusory. Third, Plaintiff alleges that Banks had “a propensity and history
of which Defendants . . . had actual notice” and that “[p]rior to, during, and
after the sexual assault of Plaintiff, Defendants . . . had knowledge, and/or
were otherwise on notice, that Banks had and/or was engaged in, and/or
presented the risk of, sexual assault of Plaintiff and other minors.” (FAC ¶¶
40,43.) Again, this is conclusory. The only facts the court sees describe the
alleged assault itself. (FAC ¶ 26.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged knowledge
by Defendant.
 
ii.                 
Failed
to take reasonable steps or to implement reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of
childhood sexual assault
As a threshold matter, the court has not found authority
interpreting the second avenue for liability under CCP § 340.1(c). As such, the
court applies the plain meaning of the statute in its analysis. Upon reviewing
the FAC, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged Defendant’s failure to take
reasonable steps or to implement reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of
childhood sexual assault either. First, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
“failed to take any remedial action,” “failed to notify or warn other members,
parents of children active in their congregation, or any other persons of the
possible risk of further childhood sexual abuse by Banks, limit or supervise
Banks’ access to children, including Plaintiff, and notify law enforcement and
other appropriate agencies of the known sexual assault and/or sexual abuse, and
molestation of Plaintiff,” “refusal to timely and adequately act to prevent,
stop, and report Banks’ unlawful and inappropriate misconduct.” (FAC ¶ 27, 29, 31.)
These are conclusory. Second, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “[failed] to
take reasonable steps, and to implement reasonable policies, procedures, and
safeguards to avoid, detect, and report acts of unlawful sexual conduct by
employees, including Banks with minor children.” (FAC ¶33(f).) Again, this is
conclusory. Third, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “negligently failed to
implement and/or enforce policies and procedures that were aimed at preventing
or detecting sexual assault and assault of their minor members.” (FAC ¶ 56.)
This is not factual allegations.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged failure
to take reasonable steps or to implement reasonable safeguards to avoid acts of
childhood sexual assault.
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS Defendant’s demurrer to the
first and second causes of action with leave to amend.[4]
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant seeks to strike the following portions of the FAC:
1.      Paragraph
29 in its entirety;
2.      Paragraph
30 in its entirety;
3.      Paragraph
31 in its entirety;
4.      Paragaph
32(c) in its entirety;
5.      Paragraph
33(c) in its entirety;
6.      Paragraph
34 in its entirety;
7.      Paragraph
35 in its entirety;
8.      Paraggraph
36 in its entirety;
9.      Paragraph
42 in its entirety;
10.  Paragraph
43, “during, and after”
11.  Paragraph
44, “but failed and/or refused to take any affirmative action, including but
not limited to notifying law enforcement”
12.  Paragraph
48 in its entirety
13.  Paragraph
62 “and/or failed to notify law enforcement, despite having a legal duty to do
so”
14.  Paragraphs
13, 15, 16, 20, 39, 40, 43, 45, and 48 reference to “employee” or “employment”
In light of the ruling on demurrer, the motion to strike is
MOOT. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Demurrer to the First and Second
Causes of Action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend;
2.Motion to Strike is DENIED as
moot.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              February 8, 2024                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


