 Case Number:  23TRCV03604    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 10, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV03604
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Maria Prado v. City of
Los Angeles, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, City of Los Angeles, and Los
Angeles World Airports
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff, Maria Prado
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set. 
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
                                                 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On October 27, 2023, Plaintiff, Maria Prado (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint
against Defendants, City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles, and DOES 1
through 100. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Liability for
Dangerous Condition of Public Property pursuant to Government Code § 835, et
seq.; and (2) Vicarious Liability for the Wrongful Acts of Omissions by Public
Entity Employees and/or Retention of Unfit Employee – CA Gov. Code § 815.2. The
Complaint is based on the allegation that on April 21, 2023, Plaintiff slipped
and fell while trying to get into an airport wheelchair provided by an airport
employee. Plaintiff asserts that Defendants breached their duty to ensure that
the walkway was not in a dangerous condition. 
 
On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Vicarious Liability for the Wrongful
Acts of Omissions by Public Entity Employees and/or Retention of Unfit Employee
– CA Gov. Code § 815.2; and (2) Negligence. 
 
Now, Defendants, Aeroenlaces Nacionales, S.A. DE C.V., trading as
Viva Aerobus (sued as Doe #3) (hereinafter “Viva Aerobus”) has filed a demurrer
to the FAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On August 15, 2024, Viva Aerobus filed this demurrer
to Plaintiff’s FAC. To date, no opposition brief has been filed. Viva Aerobus USA LLC has been dismissed by
Plaintiff on August 19, 2024.  
 
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            With Vivo Aerobus’
demurrer, it also filed a request for judicial notice, requesting this Court
take judicial notice of the following documents: 
1.    
Viva Aerobus requested that this Court take
judicial notice of Viva Aerobus’ Statement and Designation of Foreign
Corporation filed with the California Secretary of State on July 16, 2018.
(Exhibit A.) 
2.    
Viva Aerobus requested that this Court take
judicial notice of Viva Aerobus’ Statement of Information Corporation filed
with the California Secretary of State on July 27, 2023. (Exhibit B.) 
3.    
Viva Aerobus requested that this Court take
judicial notice of the fact that Viva Aerobus is a foreign corporation.
4.    
Viva Aerobus requested that this Court take
judicial notice of the fact that Viva Aerobus is not a “public corporation in
the State.” 
5.    
Viva Aerobus requested that this Court take
judicial notice of the fact that Viva Aerobus is not an “independent political
or governmental entity in the State.”
 
The Court GRANTS this request and takes
judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 

A.    Legal Standard  
 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be
alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of
action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
 
B.   
Discussion

 
Here,
Viva Aerobus demurs to Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that it argues the first
cause of action for Vicarious Liability for the
Wrongful Acts of Omissions by Public Entity Employees and/or Retention of Unfit
Employee – CA Gov. Code § 815.2 fails on the grounds that Viva Aerobus is not a
public entity as defined by the Government Code, and therefore, cannot be
liable under Government Code Section 815.2.
                                                                                  
Generally, public entities are not liable for a tortious injury
unless specifically imposed by statute. (Gov’t Code, § 815.) Government Code
section 815.2, subd. (a) provides that, “[a] public entity is liable for injury
proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart from
this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee or his
personal representative.” (Gov’t Code, § 815.2, subd. (a).) The code defines a
“public entity” as, “the State, the Regents of the University of California, a
county, city, district, public authority, public agency, and any other
political subdivision or public corporation in the State.” (Gov’t Code § 811.2.)

 
However, Viva Aerobus asserts that it is not a “public corporation
in the State,” nor is it an “independent political or governmental entity in
the State.” Instead, Viva Aerobus has asserted that it is a foreign
corporation, and as such, Section 815.2 of the Government Code is inapplicable
to Viva Aerobus. Exhibit A of the judicially noticed documents is a copy of
Viva Aerobus’ Statement and Designation of Foreign Corporation filed with the
Secretary of State on July 16, 2018, and indicates that Viva Aerobus is a
corporation of Mexico that has business addresses in Mexico, Los Angeles,
California, and Coral Gables, Florida. Further, Exhibit B of the judicially
noticed documents is a Statement of Information Corporation filed with the California
Secretary of State on July 27, 2023, and indicates Viva Aerobus is a
corporation formed in Mexico. Neither of the corporate documents indicate that
Viva Aerobus is a public corporation in California nor that it is an
independent political or governmental entity in California. As such, it would
not qualify as a “public entity” under the meaning of California Government
Code section 811.2. As such, the demurer is SUSTAINED, without leave to amend. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to file an opposition brief. However, this
Court will allow oral argument from the parties on this issue during the
hearing. 
 
IV.
CONCLUSION¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Viva
Aerobus’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to amend.
 
Viva Aerobus is ordered to give notice.¿
 