 Case Number:  BC700634    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 10, 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   BC700634
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Julie
A. Esphorst v. Darryl Leander Hicks, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff,
Jesse Franklin Esphorst
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant
Tung Ming and Proposed Intervenor, State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Company 
¿¿ 
DISPOSED DATE:                January 26, 2024
¿
MOTION:¿                              (1) Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Defendant’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One
                                                (2) Plaintiff’s Motion
to Compel Defendant’s Further Responses to Inspection Demands, Set One    
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED in part, DENIED
in part, and seeks oral argument as to Special Interrogatory No. 23.
                                                (2) GRANTED.
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On March 1, 2021, Plaintiffs, Jesse
Franklin Esphorst, an individual, and as successor-in-interest to The Estate of
Jesse Eric Esphorst, deceased (Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants, Tung Ming, Kwan Cheung, Teddyland, LLC, and DOES 1 through 50. On
October 16, 2018, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death – Negligence; (2) Negligence Per Se;
and (3) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (Government Code § 835). 
 
On January 26, 2024, this Court entered
judgment in favor of Plaintiffs and against Defendant, Tung Ming, in the amount
of $58,762,500 plus costs and interest. Post-trial, this Court reduced the
non-economic damages by 20%. Accordingly, on April 26, 2024, the Court entered
an Amended Judgment against Defendant, Tung Ming, in the amount of $47,410,000
plus costs and interest. 
 
On May 3, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming
filed a Notice of Appeal. On May 14, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming and its insurer
served a document entitled “undertaking on Appeal” which purports to be an
undertaking in the amount of $60,000. (Plaintiff’s Moving Papers, Exhibit 1.)
Because of this, Plaintiff, Jesse Franklin Esphorst has filed this objection to
the undertaking of $60,000 given by Defendant Tung Ming and insurer, State Farm
Fire and Casualty Company on May 14, 2024, as insufficient to stay enforcement
of the judgment because it is less than one and a half times the amount of the
Judgment (Code Civ. Proc., §917.1) Jesse Franklin
Esphorst notes that this Court has entered judgment against Tung Ming in the
amount of $47,410,000 plus costs and interest. As such, Jesse Franklin Esphorst
argues that an amount that would be sufficient is estimated to be $71,115,000.
On June 26, 2024, this Court DENIED the motion, at least as to the $60,000
amount of the undertaking. This Court noted that an appeal bond or undertaking
by Defendant’s liability insurer to stay the part of a judgment within the
policy limits is effective to stay enforcement of that part of the judgment.
Further, the Court noted that there was no other stay of enforcement besides to
the extent of the undertaking. 
 
            Now, Plaintiff, and Judgment Creditor, Jesse Franklin
Esphorst has filed two Motions to Compel Further responses to both Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Inspection Demand, Set One. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff and Judgment
Creditor, Jesse Franklin Esphorst, filed its Motions to Compel Further
Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One and Inspection Demand, Set One.
On August 26, 2024, Defendant, Tung Ming and Proposed Intervenor, State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm”) filed a joint opposition
brief to the Motions to Compel Further Responses to Discovery. On September 3,
2024, Plaintiff filed reply briefs.
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
A judgment creditor may demand that any judgment debtor produce
and permit the party making the demand to inspect and to copy documents in the
possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the demand is made and
in the manner provided by Section 2031.010, et seq. (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.030, subd. (a).) Inspection demands served pursuant to this section may be
enforced in the same manner as demands in a civil action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.030, subd. (c).)  
 
Additionally, Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300
states:¿“(a)¿On¿receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party
may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party
deems that any of the following apply:¿¿ (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete. . . . (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.¿ (b) A motion under subdivision
(a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.¿(c) Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the
service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on
or before any specific later date to which the propounding party and the
responding party have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right
to compel a further response to the interrogatories. . . .”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300.)
 
Further, on receipt of a response to an inspection demand, the
demanding party may move for an order compelling further responses to the
demand if the demanding party deems that any of the following apply:  (1)
a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete; (2) a representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) an
objection in the response is without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2031.310(a).) A motion to compel further response to requests for
production “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310(b)(1).)  “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the moving
party to show both:  [1] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how
the information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in
the case); and [2] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why
such information is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at
trial).  The fact that there is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection.  But it is not essential in every case.”  (Weil
& Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1495.6 (citations
omitted).)  “Declarations are generally used to show the requisite ‘good
cause’ for an order to compel inspection.  The declarations must contain
‘specific facts’ rather than mere conclusions.”  (Id. at 8:1495.7
(citation omitted).)  “The declarations may be on information and belief,
if necessary.  However, in such cases, the ‘specific facts’ supporting
such information and belief (the sources of the information) must also be
alleged.”  (Id. at 8:1495.8 (citation omitted).)  “Most
declarations are made by the attorney for the moving party, who is usually more
familiar with the relevancy and ‘specific facts’ constituting ‘good cause’ for
inspection.” (Id. at 8:1495.9.) 
 
“If ‘good cause’ is shown by the moving party, the burden is then
on the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure
(the same as on motions to compel answers to interrogatories or deposition
questions. . .)”  (Id. at 8:1496 (citation omitted).)  
 
B.    Discussion 
 
Meet and Confer Efforts 
 
            On July 17, 2024,
Plaintiff Jesse notes that his counsel met and conferred by exchanging emails
and discussing the matter by telephone. However, Plaintiff notes that due to
the loss of contact with Mr. Ming, Defense Counsel stands on the objections,
and is unable to provide further responses. 
 
            Defendant’s
opposition brief does not assert that Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts were
insufficient. 
 
            As such, based on
this Court’s reading of the moving an opposition papers, it finds that
Plaintiffs attempted to meet and conferred in good faith prior to the bringing
of this motion to compel further. 
 
Special Interrogatories
 
            Plaintiff seeks
this Court to order further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos.
1 through 28. Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s objections for privacy and
relevance are without merit and should be overruled because the interrogatories
seek information including contact and address information for the debtor whose
whereabouts are currently unknown and relatives, which is necessary to locate
the Defendant to serve notice of a debtor exam. Plaintiff also argues that the
interrogatories also seek information pertaining to the Defendant’s bank
accounts, assets, income and expenses. As such, Plaintiff argues that such
discovery is necessary to determine the location of Defendant’s collectible
assets, to determine the extent of exemptions that would apply, if any, and to
prepare for a judgment debtor examination. Finally, Plaintiff argues that the
information requested is all within the scope of information needed to aid in
the enforcement of the money judgment, and the objections should be overruled. 
 
            In Defendant’s opposition brief, it
argues that many Interrogatories seek information over a three-year period,
which the Opposition argues are overbroad in time as such financial information
would not aid in enforcement of the judgment (Special Interrogatory Nos. 2, 5,
7, 12, 14, 16, 18, 22, 24, 26, 28.) As noted by the Court, it does not find
five (5) years to be overbroad when it comes to financial information of a
Defendant who cannot be located, and equally finds this to be true with three
years of financial information, as such, Defendant’s objections based on three
years length of time is overruled. 
 
Defendant
also argues, in opposition, that other interrogatories are likewise overbroad
and violate Defendant’s right to privacy, including requests related to
Defendant Ming’s current address and his addresses over the past three (3)
years as well as his telephone number and email addresses over the past three
(3) years (Special Interrogatories Nos. 1-5.) Although Defendant asserts that
this information is sought and deemed necessary by Plaintiff to locate
Defendant Ming, it is not standard for post-judgment discovery. The Court again
disagrees. Even if said information is not typically standard for post-judgment
discovery, it is certainly necessary in the enforcement of the money judgment
in the case at bar. Plaintiff has alerted this Court to the fact that Defense
counsel for Ming has stated that they have been unable to contact or locate him,
and the Court is aware that Ming submitted a declaration shortly before the
trial indicating he was in Australia at the time. That said, information
regarding his previous addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses may be
required in order to locate Defendant so that the money judgment can be
enforced. 
 
Next,
the opposition brief argues that Special Interrogatories Nos. 6, 7, 10, 11, and
12, seek the address, telephone number, and email address of Defendant Ming’s
mother, Kwan Cheung, over the past three (3) years. Defendant asserts that Ms.
Cheung is not a party to the litigation and is not connected to the judgment in
any way. Similarly, Defendant notes that Special Interrogatory No. 8 seeks the
name of all of Defendant Ming’s family member’s names while Interrogatory No. 9
seeks those family member’s addresses. As with Ms. Cheung, Defendant argues
that none of Defendant Ming’s other immediate family members are connected to
this case or the judgment sought to be enforced. Defendant confirms that Ming
is an adult, and at all known times, has not lived with his mother or any other
immediate family member. 
 
In
Plaintiff’s reply brief, Plaintiff argues that information sought relating to
the contact information of Ming’s family members is necessitated by Ming’s purportedly
wrongful conduct in absconding with his assets and defying discovery requests.
The Court finds that even if Ming is absconding with his assets and defying
discovery requests, this does not give Plaintiff a reason to invade on the
privacy rights of non-parties such as Ming’s family members. Thus, Special
Interrogatories Nos. 8 and 9 are DENIED in the motion as this Court does not
find Plaintiff’s reasoning sufficient to order the discovery sought. 
 
Lastly,
with Special Interrogatory No. 23, Plaintiff asked Defendant to “IDENTIFY all
sources of your present SUPPORT.” In the Special Interrogatories, “SUPPORT” is
defined as “any benefit or economic contribution to the living expenses of
another person, including gifts.” Defendant argues that the request is
overbroad as it would include gifts or other backing provided by other
individuals, which would not be a source of collectible income for purposes of
enforcing a judgment. 
 
In
the reply brief, Plaintiff argues that the definition was verbatim taken from
the “form interrogatories – crime victim restitution” which were long ago
approved and promulgated by the Judicial Council of California, designated for
optional use by crime victims to assist them in recovering unpaid restitution
as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.720.) The Court will allow
oral argument as to whether the parties have any precedent whatsoever for the
discovery of this information being sought, other than the for interrogatories
themselves. 
 
Inspection
Demands, Set One
 
            Additionally, Plaintiff seeks an order
from this Court to compel the further responses to Inspection Demands, Set One
Nos. 1 through 9. To each of the inspection demands, Defendant objected as
follows: “Objection. Request is overbroad in scope and time, violates
right to privacy, irrelevant, burdensome, harassing and is not reasonably
calculated to aid in enforcement of money judgment.”
 
Plaintiff contends that this Court should overrule the privacy and
relevance objections on the grounds that they are without merit since the
inspection demands seek documents and information pertaining to Defendant’s
bank accounts, assets, income and expenses. Plaintiff argues that such
discovery is necessary to determine the location of Defendant’s collectible
assets, to determine the extent of exemptions that would apply, if any, and to
prepare for a judgment debtor examination. Plaintiff asserts that the
information requested is all within the scope of information needed to aid in
the enforcement of the money judgment, and the objections should be overruled. 
 
            Although the separate statement
indicates that Defendant objected to all of the Inspection Demands with the
same objection, Defendant’s opposition only discusses three specifically. In
the opposition brief, Defendant argues that many of the Inspection Demands are
seeking documentation from 2019 to the present (Inspection Demand Nos. 1, 5,
and 9), and that five (5) years of time is overbroad and would not aid in
enforcement of money judgment in 2024. The Court disagrees and finds
Defendant’s objections to be without merit. First, this case was initiated in April
of 2018, and the accident giving rise to this suit took place in March of 2017.
As such, Defendant’s financial information from 2019 to present is certainly
relevant in the enforcement of the money judgment. Because Defendant’s
opposition does not discuss any other objections, the Court overrules the
objections and GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Inspection Demand, Set One on or before October 1, 2024. 
             
¿¿ 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Special Interrogatories is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents is CONTINUED
to September 26, 2024. 
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice. 
 