 Case Number:  22TRCV00563    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 September 10, 2024¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   22TRCV00563
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Ocean Recovery, LLC
v. Sullivancutrismonroe, et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants, Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Company and
Scottsdale
Insurance Company 
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Ocean Recovery, LLC (untimely filed) 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Request for Sanctions
                                                 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DENIED. 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ 
A.    Factual
 
On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff,
Ocean Recovery, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Sullivan Curtis
Monroe Insurance Services, LLC (“SCM”), and Scottsdale Indemnity Company
(collectively “Defendants”). On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint.
On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On July 31,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). On February 21, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”). On April 18, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) alleging causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; and (3) Professional Negligence. 
 
On June 13, 2024, Defendants,
Scottsdale Insurance Company (“Scottsdale”) and Nationwide Mutual Insurance
Company (“Nationwide”) filed a Motion to Seal and/or Redact portions of the
Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication and to
seal Exhibit A in support thereof. On July 12, 2024, this Court granted that
motion. 
 
On September 4, 2024, this Court GRANTED Nationwide
and Scottsdale’s Motion for Summary Judgment as against Plaintiff on the Fifth
Amended Complaint filed by Plaintiff. 
 
Now that they have achieved dismissal from the case, Nationwide
and Scottsdale have brought a Motion for Sanctions on the grounds that in each
rendition of Plaintiff’s operative complaint, Plaintiff improperly named
Nationwide and/or Scottsdale Indemnity as defendants, even though they did not
issue the insurance policy at issue in this coverage action to Plaintiff. As
such, Nationwide and Scottsdale argue that the conduct of Plaintiff and its
counsel in this litigation is knowingly frivolous and inappropriate, and the
Court should impose sanctions under California Code of Civil Procedure section
128.5 and 128.7. 
 
B.    Procedural
 
On June 13, 2024, Nationwide and Scottsdale filed this
Motion for Sanctions. On September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an untimely opposition
brief. On September 3, 2024, Nationwide and Scottsdale filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II.
ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5 permits a
trial court to “order a party, a party’s attorney, or both, to pay the
reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a
result of actions or tactics, made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (a).)
Actions or tactics include, but are not limited to, filing or opposing motions,
complaints, answers, or other responsive pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5,
subd. (b)(1).) “ ‘Frivolous’ means totally and completely without merit or for
the sole purpose of harassing an opposing party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5,
subd. (b)(2).) Bad faith is determined using a subjective standard. (In re
Marriage of Sahafzadeh-Taeb & Taeb (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 139,
134-35.)  
 
Expenses pursuant
to Section 128.5 cannot be imposed unless noticed in a party’s moving or
responding papers, or on the court’s own motion after providing the offending
party notice and an opportunity to be heard. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd.
(c).) An order imposing expenses must be in writing and must recite in detail
the action, tactic, or circumstances justifying the order. (Id.)  Sanctions
under this section may also be awarded if the offending party is provided a
21-day safe harbor to withdraw or correct an offending document or pleading.
Specifically, “[i]f the alleged action or tactic is the making or opposing of a
written motion or the filing and service of a complaint, cross-complaint,
answer, or other responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately
corrected, the court on its own motion may enter an order describing the
specific action or tactic, made in bad faith, that is frivolous or solely
intended to cause unnecessary delay, and direct an attorney, law firm, or party
to show cause why it has made an action or tactic as defined in subdivision
(b), unless, within 21 days of service of the order to show cause, the
challenged action or tactic is withdrawn or appropriately corrected.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd. (f)(1)(D)(1).) An award of sanctions may include an
award of attorney’s fees incurred as a direct result of the offending party’s
bath faith action or tactic. (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd.
(f)(1)(D)(2).)  
 
Further, an attorney or
unrepresented party who presents a motion to the court makes an implied
certification as to its legal and factual merit, which is subject to sanctions
for violation of this certification under Code of Civil Procedure section
128.7. (Murphy v. Yale Materials Handling Corp. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th
619, 623.) The Court may impose sanctions for conduct that violates any one of
the requirements set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7,
subdivision (b). (Eichenbaum v. Alon (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 967, 976.)   
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (b) provides:  
 
(b)¿By presenting to the
court, whether by signing, filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading,
petition, written notice of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or
unrepresented party is certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge,
information, and belief, formed after an inquiry reasonable under the
circumstances, all of the following conditions are met: 
 
(1)¿It is not being presented
primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary
delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation. 
 
(2)¿The claims, defenses, and
other legal contentions therein are warranted by existing law or by a
non-frivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing
law or the establishment of new law. 
 
(3)¿The allegations and other
factual contentions have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified,
are likely to have evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for
further investigation or discovery. 
 
(4)¿The denials of factual
contentions are warranted on the evidence or, if specifically so identified,
are reasonably based on a lack of information or belief. 
 
Only “an
attorney or unrepresented party may be sanctioned” under the statute. (In re
Marriage of Reese & Guy (1999) 73 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1221.)  
 
“Under
section 128.7, a court may impose sanctions if it concludes a pleading was
filed for an improper purpose or was indisputably without merit, either legally
or factually. [Citation.]” (Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175,
189.) “A claim is factually frivolous if it is ‘not well grounded in fact’ and
is legally frivolous if it is ‘not warranted by existing law or a good faith
argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.’
[Citation.] In either case, to obtain sanctions, the moving party must show the
party's conduct in asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable.
[Citation.] A claim is objectively unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney
would agree that [it] is totally and completely without merit.’ [Citations.]” (Id.)
No showing of bad faith is required. (In re Marriage of Reese & Guy, supra,
73 Cal.App.4th at p. 1221.)  
 
In
addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7 “contains a safe harbor
provision. It requires the party seeking sanctions to serve on the opposing
party, without filing or presenting it to the court, a notice of motion
specifically describing the sanctionable conduct. Service of the motion
initiates a 21-day ‘hold’ or ‘safe harbor’ period. [Citations.] During this
time, the offending document may be corrected or withdrawn without penalty. If
that occurs, the motion for sanctions ‘‘shall not’’ be filed. [Citations.] By
mandating a 21-day safe harbor period to allow correction or withdrawal of an
offending document, section 128.7 is designed to be remedial,
not punitive. [Citation.]” (Li v. Majestic Industry Hills, LLC (2009)
177 Cal.App.4th 585, 590-591.) (Emphasis added.)  
 
B.   
Discussion 
 
                          
i.         
Sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 128.7
 
First, Nationwide and Scottsdale argue
that they are entitled to sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7
on the grounds that from the outset, Plaintiff failed to make a colorable legal
or factual argument to support the merits of its claims against Nationwide and
Scottsdale. Nationwide and Scottsdale assert that in Plaintiff’s oppositions to
four demurrers, Scottsdale’s opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for mandatory
relief, and Nationwide’s reply in support of its fourth demurrer, the pleadings
improperly named Nationwide and Scottsdale as defendants because neither
Nationwide nor Scottsdale issued the policy to Plaintiff despite Plaintiff
repeatedly alleging that they breached the Policy when they failed to defend
and/or indemnify Plaintiff. However, Nationwide and Scottsdale contend that
Plaintiff never made a reasonable factual basis for bringing claims against
them because the Policy, which was attached to Plaintiff’s original complaint,
indicated that it was issued by Scottsdale Insurance, not Scottsdale Indemnity
(the moving Defendant here.) The Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff has
been on notice since at least August 2022, if not sooner, that only Scottsdale
Insurance, not Scottsdale Indemnity or Nationwide issued the Policy and could
potentially owe any duties to Plaintiff in connection with “the Underlying
Action.” However, despite being on notice, Moving Defendants contend that
Plaintiff still frivolously asserted claims against Nationwide and Scottsdale
Indemnity, without any factual basis to do so. 
 
            The
untimely filed opposition brief makes no mention of the validity of these
arguments, nor even opposes the merits of the moving papers. Instead, Plaintiff
argues this motion should be denied on the grounds that it did not comply with
the 21-day notice requirement. In their reply brief, Nationwide and Scottsdale
referenced an “Exhibit A,” and later filed a Notice of Errata attaching Exhibit
A, which shows that on May 20, 2024, Moving Defendants served the motion,
supporting documentation, and an accompanying service letter on Plaintiff’s
counsel and his colleagues. The Court notes that the email does indicate that
attached to it was the Notice of Motion and Motion for Sanctions, sent on May
20, 2024 – which certainly meets the 21-day requirement of notice prior to the
hearing of this motion. The parties will be allowed to orally argue this issue
during the hearing as the document was attached in an Errata notice, not to the
moving papers, and thus Plaintiff arguably has not had the opportunity to
respond to said documents. 
 
 
While the Court has broad discretion to
impose sanctions if the moving party satisfies the elements of the sanctions
statute (Peake v. Underwood (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 428, 441), “the
sanctions statute must not be construed so as to conflict with the primary duty
of an attorney to represent his or her client zealously. Forceful
representation often requires that an attorney attempt to read a case or an
agreement in an innovative though sensible way.  Our law is constantly
evolving, and effective representation sometimes compels attorneys to take the
lead in that evolution.”  (Ibid., internal quotations
omitted.)  Moreover, sanctions under section 128.5 or section 128.7 “shall
be limited to what is sufficient to deter repetition of [the improper conduct]
by others similarly situated.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 128.5(f)(2)128.7(d).) 
 
Here, this Court found that, at the
pleading stage, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged liability against Moving
Defendants here on grounds that there was a valid contract for insurance.  The step from sufficiency of allegations and the
evidence to prove them separates the pleading motion from the dispositive
motion.  On May 7, 2024, Scottsdale and
Nationwide filed an Answer rather than a demurrer to the Fifth Amended
Complaint.  The allegations, if proven,
could have given rise to a viable claim. 
On the MSJ motion Plaintiff failed to present a triable issue of fact
and the Court granted the dispositive motion on the strength of defendants’
proof.  
 
While the Court views this as a close
case, in the exercise of the Court’s discretion it  DENIES Moving Defendants’ Motion under Code of
Civil Procedure Section 128.7. 
 
                        
ii.         
Sanctions
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 128.5
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.5, Moving
Defendants argue that Plaintiff filed an amended complaint without complying
with the directions of a court given upon the sustaining of a demurrer to the
complaint, and thus, acted in bad faith. Nationwide and Scottsdale assert that
Plaintiff had no basis to include them as defendants in the lawsuit, asserting
that no reasonable Plaintiff would have filed multiple amended complaints (up
to fifth amended complaint), against the Court’s findings. This Court
clarifies, however, that naming the parties did not per se run contrary to this
Court’s ruling. Again the Court views this as a close case, but it exercises
its discretion to DENY this motion. 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
For the foregoing reasons, Moving
Defendants’ Motion for Sanctions is DENIED.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
 