  Case Number:  22TRCV01281    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                          Thursday, May 23, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 11  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Andre
Belotto, et al. v. James Raack, et al. 
22TRCV01281
1.      Mary Christine Belotto’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One and for Sanctions

TENTATIVE RULING

            Mary
Christine Belotto’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One and for Sanctions is moot, in part, and
denied, in part. 
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on November 18, 2022. Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint was filed on August 9, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the
following facts. Plaintiffs are 25 percent owners of the partnership
Westchester Triangle 8. The partnership owns commercial property - 6227-6241 W.
87th Street, Los Angeles, CA 90045 - that is leased. Plaintiffs made an offer
to the other partners to purchase the property, which was accepted, and the funds
were put into escrow. However, because the other partners mismanaged the
property, the Plaintiffs’ initial funding failed. Plaintiffs were able to
obtain additional funding but needed an extension to close the sale. Instead, the
other partners accepted another offer to purchase the property from One Cole
Group, which ultimately was reduced due to defects which existed in the
property. 
 
            Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1.
Breach of Contract; 2. Intentional Interference with Contractual Relations; 3.
Breach of Fiduciary Duty; 4. Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage; 5. Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 6.
Constructive Fraud; 7. Fraudulent Concealment; 8.  Negligence; 9. Unfair Business Practices
(Bus. & Prof. Code 17200); 10. Accounting. 
 
            Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents 
 
            A party responding to an inspection demand shall respond
to each demand with one of the following: 
a statement the party will comply with the demand, a representation the
party lacks the ability to comply with the demand, or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd.
(a).)  A response to an inspection demand
may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete; contains an incomplete
statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or evasive representation
of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general objections to a
demand.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
            If a demanding party believes the responding party
responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)    
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiff set forth a meet and confer declaration in
substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Luke Manzo, ¶¶ 2-.7)
 
            Motion to Compel 
 
            Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request for
Production of Documents Nos. 1 to 3. Plaintiff’s motion is moot. Defendant
served further responses on May 7, 2024. (Decl., Matthew Eanet, ¶ 13.) Plaintiff
states that the further responses are still incomplete. However, the propriety
of these responses would be the subject of a motion directed to these responses
after an appropriate meet and confer process has been conducted.
 
            Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions and
Defendant’s counter request for monetary sanctions are denied. When parties to
a discovery dispute are each represented by counsel and the dispute centers on
further responses, the guidelines for this Court inform  counsel to schedule an IDC prior to the
hearing date.  Dept M’s guidelines do
not, nor cannot, prescribe when a party is to file a motion to compel further
discovery responses. The Court notes that a notice of motion to compel further
responses to written discovery must be served within 45 days after verified
responses, or any verified supplemental responses, were served (which may be
extended depending on the time periods for service by mail, overnight delivery,
fax, or electronically), unless the parties agree in writing to extend that
time. Delaying the motion beyond the 45-day time limit results in a waiver of
the right to compel further responses. Vidal Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685. To be clear, the Court’s minute order of
February 8, 2024, stated “Parties are to schedule an Informal Discovery
Conference prior to any Motions to Compel Hearing.”  (Minute Order, Feb. 8, 2024 (emphasis
added).)  
 
            The Court expects counsel to resolve discovery disputes
among themselves in a courteous, reasonable, and professional manner through a
credible and meaningful meet and confer process, instead of simply defaulting
to expensive and cumbersome discovery motions. Motions to compel further
responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating facts
that show a reasonable and good faith attempt was made to informally resolve
each issue presented by the motion.  (CCP
§§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2016.040.)  If,
however, the dispute remains unresolved, absent a stipulation to extend the statutory frame time to bring the motion, motions must be reserved/scheduled through the Court
Reservation System.  Subsequent
to filing the motion, however, the Court instructs the parties to contact the
Court to schedule an IDC.  
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.     