 Case Number:  24TRCP00112    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT 
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                          Thursday, May 23, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 11  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
In
Re: Petition of DRB Capital, LLC
24TRCP00112
1.      DRB Capital, LLC’s Petition for Approval for Transfer
of Structured Settlement Payment Rights
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
      DRB Capital, LLC’s Petition for Approval
for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights is granted. 
 
      Background
 
      Petitioner filed the petition on March 13,
2024. An amended petition was filed on May 1, 2024. The petition seeks approval
of the transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights from transferor
G.O. to petitioner. 
 
      Petition
for Approval of Transfer of Structured Settlement
 
      “A direct or indirect transfer of
structured settlement payment rights is not effective and a structured
settlement obligor or annuity issuer is not required to make any payment
directly or indirectly to any transferee of structured settlement payment rights”
unless the court approves the transfer in advance.  (Ins. Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a).)  To approve the settlement, the court must
make express written findings that: 
(1) The transfer is in the best interest of the payee,
taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents.
(2) The payee has been advised in writing by the
transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and
has either received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the
opportunity to receive the advice.
(3) The transferee has complied with the notification
requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has
provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and
the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.
(4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable
statute or the order of any court or other government authority.
(5) The payee understands the terms of the transfer
agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required
by Section 10136.
(6) The payee understands and does not wish to
exercise the payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.
(Ins.
Code, § 10139.5, subd. (a)(1)-(6).) 
Additionally, the court must consider “the totality of the
circumstances,” including fifteen separate factors set forth in Insurance Code
section 10139.5, subdivision (b).
 
            First,
the court finds the petition is in Gustava Ortiz aka G.O.’s (“G.O. or “payee”)
best interests.  The petition proposes
that the payee will transfer one lump sum payment of $159,121.09 due and
payable on or about April 30, 2028 to petitioner DRB Capital, LLC (“petitioner”)
in exchange for a net payment of $106,773.72. 
 
            Payee is 67 years old,
single, and with no children. The payee receives income from social security in
the amount of $935.00 per month. The payee believes it is in his best interest
to enter into this transaction stating as follows: “I would like to use a
portion of the proceeds from this transaction to pay off some of my credit card
debt. I will also use a portion of the proceeds to purchase a car. The
remaining proceeds will be used to do some renovation to my home and also
finish building my second home in Mexico. Without the proceeds from this
transaction, I lack the financial resources to pay for the aforementioned.
Therefore, I have decided to pursue this transaction with the Purchaser.” (Decl.,
G.O., ¶ 9.) The payee has completed one
prior transaction.  (Id. at ¶ 8.)  Although the payee is taking a loss of
approximately $24,000.00 in current value in this transaction, the payee is
receiving the payment now rather than waiting four years to receive the
funds.  In light of these facts, the
court finds the petition is in the payee’s best interests.
 
            Second, the court finds the “payee
has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional
advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly
waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice.”  (Amended Petition, Ex. A.)
 
            Third, the court finds the
petitioner “has complied with the notification requirements pursuant to
paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a
disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement
complies with Sections 10136 and 10138.” 
Insurance Code section 10139.5, subdivision (f)(2) requires the
petitioner to file and serve, at least 20 days before the scheduled hearing, a
notice of the proposed transfer, the petition, a copy of the proposed transfer
agreement and disclosure form, a listing of the payee’s dependents, and certain
other documents, if available.  The
petitioner timely filed and served these materials.  (Amended Petition, Notice of Hearing, Proof
of Service, filed 5/1/24.) The petitioner/transferee provided the payee with a
Section 10136 disclosure form.  (Amended Petition,
Ex. C.) 
 
            Section 10136 requires the transfer
agreement include certain information, including that it be written in 12 point
type, state it will not be effective until a court enters a final order
approving it and that payment can be delayed, and that it set forth certain
information, including the net amount to be paid to the payee.  (Ins. Code, § 10136, subd. (c).)  Section 10138 includes additional
requirements, including that a transfer agreement cannot waive the
seller/payee’s right to sue, require the seller/payee to indemnify the buyer,
or require the seller/payee to pay the buyer’s attorneys’ fees and costs.  (Ins. Code, § 10138, subd. (a).)  The transfer agreement complies with these
statutes.
 
            Fourth, the court sees no evidence
that the transfer contravenes any applicable statute or the order of any court
or other government authority.
 
            Fifth, the court determines the
payee “understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set
forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136,” based on the
payee’s affidavit.  (Amended Petition.,
Ex. B.) 
 
            Sixth, the court determines the
“payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel
the transfer agreement.”  The court
received no documents indicating the payee wishes to exercise this right.
 
            For these reasons, the court
approves the petition to transfer structured settlement payment rights. 
            
            Petitioner is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 
 