 Case Number:  23TRCV03286    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                           Thursday, May 23, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 10
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ventura V. Ramos, Jr. v. Myrna M. Ramos,
et al.
            23TRCV03286
1.      Plaintiff’s
Motion for Interlocutory Judgment and Appointment of Referee  
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s Motion for Interlocutory
Judgment and Appointment of Referee is denied. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff Ventura V. Ramos, Jr. filed the Complaint on
October 5, 2023. Plaintiff filed this action as a partition action with respect
to real property located at 27840 Palos Verdes Drive East, Rancho Palos Verdes,
California, 90275. 
 
Motion for Interlocutory Judgment and for Appointment
of Referee
 
At the outset, the Court notices that this motion is
titled as “Vince’s Motion …” in the caption to the motion and in the notice of
motion the moving party is identified as Stacey Nunez rendering the identity of
the moving party uncertain. The Court presumes that the moving party is
actually the named Plaintiff in this action – Ventura V. Ramos, Jr. Plaintiff
moves for orders: “(1) entering an interlocutory Judgment and (2) appointing
Darin DeRenzis as a partition referee to market and sell the property,
ascertain the status and priority of all liens and interests, and conduct an
accounting [.]” (Notice of Motion, page 1, lines 23-26).
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 872.610 states: “The interests of
the parties, plaintiff as well as defendant, may be put in issue, tried, and
determined in the action.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 872.710 states:
“(a) At the trial, the court shall determine whether
the plaintiff has the right to partition.
(b) Except as provided in Section 872.730, partition
as to concurrent interests in the property shall be as of right unless barred
by a valid waiver.
(c) Partition as to successive estates in the property
shall be allowed if it is in the best interest of all the parties. The court
shall consider whether the possessory interest has become unduly burdensome by
reason of taxes or other charges, expense of ordinary or extraordinary repairs,
character of the property and change in the character of the property since
creation of the estates, circumstances under which the estates were created and
change in the circumstances since creation of the estates, and all other
factors that would be considered by a court of equity having in mind the intent
of the creator of the successive estates and the interests and needs of the
successive owners.”
 
Plaintiff relies on Code Civ. Proc., § 872.720 which
states:  
“(a) If the court finds that the plaintiff is entitled
to partition, it shall make an interlocutory judgment that determines the
interests of the parties in the property and orders the partition of the
property and, unless it is to be later determined, the manner of partition.
(b) If the court determines that it is impracticable
or highly inconvenient to make a single interlocutory judgment that determines,
in the first instance, the interests of all the parties in the property, the
court may first ascertain the interests of the original concurrent or
successive owners and thereupon make an interlocutory judgment as if such
persons were the sole parties in interest and the only parties to the action.
Thereafter, the court may proceed in like manner as between the original concurrent
or successive owners and the parties claiming under them or may allow the
interests to remain without further partition if the parties so desire.”
 
In Summers v. Superior Court (2018) 24
Cal.App.5th 138, the Court of Appeal held that the trial court could
not make an order for partition of the sale of the property until the parties’
respective ownership interests were resolved. Here, the ownership interests of
the parties have not yet been resolved. Plaintiff argues that the ownership
interests have been determined merely through the pleadings. However, whether
that is true or not (and the Defendant dispute this), this Court has yet to
enter any judgment in the instant action. Thus, any motion for interlocutory
judgment and appointment of referee to sell the property is premature until a judgment
is entered via a proper procedural mechanism. For example, in Summers,
the trial court had granted a motion for summary adjudication. The instant
motion is not an adjudicative motion. Nor has the action been resolved via a
trial as noted in the authorities mentioned above. CCP § 872.610; CCP § 872.710.
The instant action must be completed to resolution either through trial or
other proper procedural means such that a judgment can be rendered. 
 
Thus, the Motion for Interlocutory Judgment and
Appointment of Referee is denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 