  Case Number:  24TRCV03302    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
RACHEL
  GARDNER, 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV03302




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
THE
  JUSTICE FIRM, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          January 17, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendants The Justice
Firm, Joseph Anthony Virgilio, Nina Aritonova, Nelson B. Hunt, and Dave
Robinson
Responding
Party:                  None
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
            The court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
            The demurrer on the grounds of the
statute of limitations is OVERRULED as it cannot be definitively determined on
the basis of the allegations of the FAC that the action is barred by C.C.P. § 340.6.
            The demurrer of Hunt and Robinson is
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as there is no allegation that they are
attorneys.
BACKGROUND
            On October 7, 2024, plaintiff Rachel
Gardner filed a complaint against defendants The Justice Firm, Joseph Anthony
Virgilio, Nina Aritonova, Nelson B. Hunt, and Dave Robinson alleging legal
malpractice, breach of contract, and general negligence.
            On November 1, 2024, plaintiff filed
a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against the same defendants for legal
malpractice only.
            On December 16, 2024, defendants
filed the instant demurrer to the FAC. 
No opposition has been filed.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Generally, a party may demur a
pleading on several enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain,
meaning “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e)
and (f).) A demurrer for sufficiency
tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.) “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where
a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Indeed, such demurrers “are disfavored, and
are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot
reasonably respond.” (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.) 
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Wilson v. Transit Authority of City of
Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716, 720-21.)
A demurrer may be sustained “only if the complaint
fails to state a cause of action under any possible legal theory.” (Sheehan v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd. (2009)
45 Cal.4th 992, 998.) The
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) 
“If a complaint does not state a
cause of action, but there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can be
cured by amendment, leave to amend must be granted.” (Milligan v. Golden
Gate Bridge Highway & Transportation Dist. (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1,
6.)
Unfortunately, rather than argue
the “facts” as alleged in the FAC, defendants devote 4 of their 8 page
Memorandum of Points and Authorities stating an entire history of “facts” that
are not to be found in the FAC.  Such a
practice is improper, and merely makes it more difficult to remain focused on
the defects that are present in the FAC.
Argue Demurrers Based Only on the
Allegations in the FAC
Defendants devotes a significant
portion of their Memorandum of Points and Authorities discussing “facts” regarding
the representation and services provided to plaintiff and the hearings that
took place.  The presentation goes well
beyond the allegations of the FAC and is not proper.  (The presentation also goes well beyond the facts
that might have been judicially noticed.) 
Defendants includes information regarding the role of Mr. Hunt, an
investigator and Mr. Robinson, a Case Manager for defendant law firm.  Defendants then argue that they can have no
liability for malpractice as they were not attorneys.  The First Amended Complaint is not clear regarding
the roles of these defendants, and defendants are not entitled to supplement
the allegations so that they can make their argument based on their claimed
status as non-attorneys.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
Defendants
filed a “Request to Take Judicial Notice” asking that Court to judicially
notice “the following Orders in the underlying case styled Nasser v. Cooper
LASC Case no. 21STPT00405 (the Underlying Case): The Minute Order dated March
28, 2023 relieving Nina Aritonova and The Justice Firm as counsel of record in
the Underlying Case.”
There has
not been compliance with California Rule of Court 3.1306(c).  It states:
“A party
requesting judicial notice of material under Evidence Code sections 452 or 453
must provide the court and each party with a copy of the material.”
Defendant
has not supplied the Court or the parties with a copy of this claimed Order.  Nor has defendant provided either a certified
copy of the Order or arranged to have the Court’s file containing the Order made
available to this Court.  (See Local Rule
3.8)  And most importantly, the Court does
now know what the Order states.
The Court
DENIES the request for judicial notice of this Order based on the failure of
the defendants to comply with Rule of Court 3.1306(c) and Local Rule 3.8.
DISCUSSION
Before
filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.41, subd. (a).)
Defendants
claim they met and conferred in writing with Ms. Gardner, describing the
defects in the FAC and request that plaintiff withdraw it, but Plaintiff failed
to respond.  The Court notes that this is
only stated in memorandum of points and authorities and not supported by a
declaration.  However, given that plaintiff
provides no opposition, the Court finds defendants have satisfied the meet and
confer requirement.
Time
Barred
Defendants
argue that the complaint is barred by the statute of limitations for legal
malpractice under Code of Civil Procedure
§ 340.6.  That statute requires a
malpractice claim to be filed within one year of discovering the alleged
wrongful act or within four years of the act itself, whichever is earlier.  But there are exceptions.
“(a) An
action against an attorney for a wrongful act or omission, other than for
actual fraud, arising in the performance of professional services shall
be commenced within one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use
of reasonable diligence should have discovered, the facts constituting the
wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the wrongful act or
omission, whichever occurs first.  * * *
Except
for a claim for which the plaintiff is required to establish the plaintiff’s
factual innocence, the time for commencement of legal action shall not exceed
four years except that the period shall be
tolled during the time that any of the following exist:
(1) * * *
(2) The
attorney continues to represent the plaintiff regarding the specific subject
matter in which the alleged wrongful act or omission occurred.
* * *
Defendants
assert that plaintiff’s allegations in the FAC—that she became aware of the
alleged malpractice in March or April 2024—are irrelevant because she was on
inquiry notice of potential malpractice as early as March 2023.  The FAC is not a model of clarity regarding
when various events took place.  However,
plaintiff does make a reference in paragraph 3.7 of the FAC to testimony that
was denied in March 2023 “due to Respondent’s failure to file a witness list.”  That allegation is sufficient to establish
the date of the alleged malpractice based on the claim that defendants failed
to prepare a witness list and failed to bring crucial evidence to a restraining
order hearing.  However, the “facts” that
may be considered at this time do not include anything related to the
defendants’ claimed termination of the attorney client relationship.  Therefore, the Court cannot find that the
claim is time barred due to the tolling described in C.C.P. § 340.6(a)(2).
The
demurrer on the basis of the statute of limitations is OVERRULED without
prejudice to this argument being made again should the Second Amended Complaint
show that it is time-barred on its face or based upon facts that are properly
presented to the Court through judicial notice.
Hunt
and Robinson
Defendants
argue that Mr. Hunt is an investigator, and Mr. Robinson is a case manager, and
therefore they are improper defendants in plaintiff’s legal malpractice claim.  The FAC does identify defendants Virgilio and
Artonova as licensed attorneys.  It also
identifies Hunt and Robinson as having been employed by the defendant law
firm.  (Paragraph 1.2, 1.3.)  But it does not affirmatively allege that Hunt
and Robinson are not attorneys.  The
Court can not accept the representation made by defendants that Hunt and
Robinson are not attorneys as it is outside the allegations in the FAC.  (The Court also notes that the FAC makes
reference to the singular “defendant” when describing all the alleged acts.)
Because the
FAC does not allege that Hunt and Robinson are attorneys, the demurrer on the
grounds of failure to state a cause of action as to Hunt and Robinson shall be SUSTAINED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
ORDER
1.                 
Defendants’ demurrer on the basis of the statute of
limitations is OVERRULED without prejudice to this argument being made again
should the Second Amended Complaint show that it is time-barred on its face or
based upon facts that are properly presented to the Court through judicial
notice.
2.                 
The demurrer on the grounds of failure to state a
cause of action as to Hunt and Robinson shall be SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.
3.                 
Moving parties are ordered to give notice of ruling.