  Case Number:  22STCV32918    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants falsely accused him of giving one of the Defendants herpes.
Defendants allege that Plaintiff did in fact give Defendant Cordoba herpes.
The relevant procedural
history is as follows:
On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff filed his First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Defamation, (2) Libel, (3) Slander, (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (5) Fraudulent
Concealment, (6) Civil Extortion, and (7) Libel against Defendants Madeline
Isabel Cordoba (“Cordoba”), Justin Daily (“Daily”), Reed Aljian (“Aljian”), and
Daily Aljian LLP (“Firm”).1 The first five causes of action are asserted
against Defendant Cordoba only. The last two causes of action are asserted
against the Attorney Defendants only.
On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) for (1) Defamation, (2) Libel, (3) Slander, (4)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (5) Civil Code §
1708.85, and (6) Negligence against Defendant Cordoba.
On April 18, 2023, Defendant
Cordoba filed her First Amended Cross-Complaint (“Cross-Complaint”) for (1)
Sexual Battery, (2) Intentional Misrepresentation, (3) Concealment, (4)
Negligent Misrepresentation, (5) Negligence, and (6) IIED against Plaintiff and
ROES 1-35.
On July 30, 2024, the Court granted the parties’
stipulation regarding scheduling and discovery.
On August 12, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s medical examination.
On August 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for
reconsideration.
On September 19, 2024, Defendant Cordoba filed an
opposition.
On September 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration of the Court’s
August 12, 2024 order granting Defendant’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s medical
examination.
Decision
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc.,
section 1008 states:
(a)  
When
an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and
refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms,
any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the
party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown. 
A motion
for reconsideration must be based on “new or different facts, circumstances or
law.” (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.)
Motions for reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where a party
offers the Court some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some
valid reason for not offering it earlier. (Id.)   
Discussion
On August 12, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s medical examination. Plaintiff  now moves for reconsideration of the Court’s
ruling on the grounds that he has new information that Defendant obstructed
discovery and made material misrepresentations to the Court to induce its order
of a medical examination. However, Defendant alleges that none of the exhibits
in Plaintiff’s motion contains new evidence because the information was either
produced or was publicly available well before Plaintiff filed this motion.
Plaintiff does not deny that the exhibits attached to his motion were available
before he filed this motion. 
Even if the information had been new, the information
would not warrant reconsideration because it does not change that good cause
existed for Plaintiff’s medical examination.
Plaintiff alleges Defendant misrepresented that she had
other sexual partners than Plaintiff during her exposure window. As the Court
previously addressed in Plaintiff’s motion to stay, the records produced by
Plaintiff do not show that Defendant Cordoba made a misrepresentation to the
Court about her sexual partners: 
 “Plaintiff
provides three records as evidence that Cordoba made a misrepresentation to the
Court. The first record, a clinical provider note, states Cordoba told a doctor
she had three male partners between March 2022 and May 13, 2022. (Hutton Decl.,
Exh. 1.) This does not show Cordoba misstated her past sexual activity because
the record does not state she had more than one sexual partner between May 1,
2022 and January 6, 2023. In the second record, what appears to be a text
message to Amanda Rockwell, Cordoba texted in late May 2022 that her infection
was due to a recent exposure which could have been two men. (Hutton Decl., Exh.
4.) However, again, this record does not show Cordoba misstated her sexual
activity between May 1, 2022 and January 6, 2023. Finally, Plaintiff
screenshots another record from a July 12 conversation from an unknown year.
(Hutton Decl., Exh 6.) The record lacks a year and cannot be evidence that
Cordoba made misrepresentations about her past sexual activity because there is
no year stated on the record.” Be that as it may, whether Plaintiff caused
Defendant’s infection is a factual dispute, and does not change that there was
good cause for Plaintiff’s medical examination. In the Court’s August 12, 2024
order granting the motion to compel Plaintiff’s medical examination, the Court
found that there was good cause for the examination because Plaintiff has
placed his medical condition in controversy by alleging that Defendant made
untrue statements that Plaintiff gave her herpes and/or had a sexually
transmitted disease. Even if Plaintiff alleges Defendant had other sexual
partners who could have exposed her to herpes, whether Plaintiff has HSV-2 is
still in controversy and there is still good cause to compel his medical
examination. Therefore, information about whether Defendant had other sexual
partners would not have changed the outcome of the motion to compel Plaintiff’s
medical examination. 
Plaintiff also repeats his arguments that Defendant has
withheld her medical records. Again, whether Defendant has produced her medical
records does not change that Plaintiff’s medical condition is in controversy
and that good cause exists for Plaintiff’s medical examination. 
Finally, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
misrepresented that the proposed Western Blot Test can be limited to HSV-2. Plaintiff
supports this argument with his own declaration, stating the University of
Washington Virology Lab confirmed to him that the test could not be limited to
HSV-2. (Roe Decl., ¶6.)
Defendant’s use of the Western Blot Test was based on
the recommendation of their expert, who stated in a declaration that the test
is widely accepted as the most accurate method for identifying HSV
type-specific antibodies. (Richwald Decl., ¶19.) There is no indication that
Defendant intended to use the test to discover whether Plaintiff was infected
with HSV-1. The motion only indicates that Plaintiff would be tested for HSV-2.
Plaintiff is not a medical professional and lacks the expertise necessary to testify
as to how the Western Blot Test is administered and whether the test may be
limited to HSV-2. Because there is no evidence that Defendant misrepresented
the nature of the testing to be performed, the Court finds reconsideration is
not justified. 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is
DENIED.