 Case Number:  23BBCV00219    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
Anthony medina,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
bmw of north america, llc, 
                        Defendant.
 


 
  Case
  No.:  23BBCV00219
    
  Hearing
  Date:  September 29, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel arbitration 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Anthony Medina (“Plaintiff”) commenced this action against
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC (“BMWNA”) concerning a 2018 BMW 540i.  BMWNA is alleged to be the manufacturer and
distributer of the vehicle.  Plaintiff
alleges he purchased the vehicle and received an express written warranty in
which BMWNA undertook to preserve or maintain the utility or performance of the
vehicle or to provide compensation. 
Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle contained or developed defects during
the warranty period, including various engine and coolant system defects.  Plaintiff alleges he delivered the vehicle to
BMWNA’s authorized repair facility, but they were unable and/or failed to
service/repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts and failed to
issue a refund or replacement. 
The complaint, filed January 30, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1)
Song-Beverly Act; (2) Magnuson-Moss Act; and (3) breach of express warranty.     
B.    
Relevant Background and Motion to Compel Arbitration
On June 26, 2023, BMWNA filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate
this action (“First Scheduled Motion”).  The
motion was unopposed.  The hearing on
that motion was held on September 8, 2023. 
The Court denied the motion to compel arbitration.  
On April 27, 2023, BMWNA filed another motion to compel arbitration,
which is set for hearing this date of September 29, 2023 (“Second Scheduled Motion”).  On September 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief.  On September 21, 2023,
BMWNA filed a reply brief. 
DISCUSSION 
BMWNA moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate his claims based on the
arbitration clause in the purchase agreement for the vehicle.  
The Court already denied BMWNA’s motion to compel Plaintiff to
arbitrate his claims when it ruled on the First Scheduled Motion.  While this instant Second Scheduled Motion was
filed earlier than BMWNA’s First Scheduled Motion, the Second Scheduled Motion
was scheduled for later hearing date.  As
the Court has already denied BMWNA’s First Scheduled Motion, the Court denies
the Second Scheduled Motion as well.  The
Court will not reiterate the reasoning for the denial of the motion.  The parties may review the Court’s September
8, 2023 written order which can be accessed electronically.  
In addition, to the extent that the Second Scheduled Motion is somehow
intended to be a motion for reconsideration of the First Scheduled Motion, the
Court denies the motion to the extent that BMWNA seeks the Court’s
reconsideration on the matter.  The
motions appear to similar in form, such that there are no new or different
facts, circumstances, or law.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s motion
to compel Plaintiff to arbitration and stay the action (filed on April 27,
2023) is denied.  
Defendant shall provide notice of this order.

 