 Case Number:  23BBCV00894    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North Central District
Department B
 



 
powdered jelly donut
  investments, llc, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
flamingo heights
  development, llc, et al.,
                        Defendants.
 


 
Case No.:  23BBCV00894
 
  Hearing Date:  September 29, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
demurrer



            
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiffs Barron De Sanctis and Hrag Julian
Karlubian (“Individual Plaintiffs”) allege that on March 29, 2021, they (as
buyers) and Defendant Flamingo Heights Development, LLC (“Flamingo,” seller)
entered into the Real Estate Purchase Agreement and Seller Counter Offer No. 1
(“Purchase Agreement”) for $800,000 regarding the property located at 60325
Canterbury St., Joshua Tree, CA 92252. 
On April 8, 2021, Plaintiffs issued a Request for Repair No. 1 to
Defendants to reduce the purchase price to $780,000 after the inspection
reports indicated that additional repairs were necessary (“Reduced Purchase
Agreement”).  Plaintiffs allege that
Flamingo accepted the Purchase Agreement and was required to provide an
accurate Transfer Disclosure Statement (“TDS”) and Seller Property Questionnaire
(“SPQ”), but Flamingo failed to disclose that 2 bedrooms and 1 bathroom did not
have proper permits.  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant led them to believe that the property was properly remodeled by
Flamingo with permits, but the TDS only noted that the laundry room was
unpermitted.  Plaintiffs allege that
Defendants knew or should have known that the bedrooms and restroom were not
permitted because the MLS “private note” that Defendants had access to
indicated there were potential permitting problems and sellers Flamingo and
Defendant Stephan Kazanchian (owner and operator of Flamingo) had obtained a
Short Term Rental (“STR”) license based on 2 bed and 1 bath (as opposed to 4
bed and 2 bath), which was not discovered by Plaintiffs until they attempted to
renew the license.  Plaintiffs allege
that in March and April 2021, Defendants represented that the property was
ready and could be legally leased as an Airbnb and used as an investment
property.  Plaintiffs also allege that
Defendants led Plaintiffs to believe the property was lawfully rented out as a
4-bed/2-bath short-term rental in compliance with the County of San
Bernardino’s STR Ordinance.  
Plaintiffs allege they agreed upon the
purchase price on April 19, 2021, closed escrow, and took title and ownership
of the property under Plaintiff Powdered Jelly Donut Investments, LLC
(“Powdered”), which is alleged to be the transferee of the property (as the third-party
beneficiary).  They allege that they
sought an STR permit from the County in early 2022, but the County denied the
request on October 1, 2022 because 2 bedrooms and 1 bathroom were
unpermitted.  
Plaintiffs Lee S. Akin, Jr. (“Akin”) and
National One Mortgage Corporation (dba National Realty Group) are alleged to be
the buyer’s agent/broker.  Defendants
Madelaine Dawn LaVoie (dba Cherie Miller & Associates) and Lynee Lissa
LaVoie are alleged to be the seller’s agent/broker.  
The complaint, filed April 24, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) fraud – concealment; (3)
fraud – intentional misrepresentation; (4) fraud – negligent misrepresentation;
(5) intentional interference with prospective economic relations; (6)
negligence interference with prospective economic relations; (7) negligence;
(8) breach of fiduciary duty; and (9) violation of Business & Professions
Code, § 17200.  The 1st cause
of action is alleged against Flamingo and Kazanchian.  The 2nd to 7th and 9th
causes of action are alleged against all Defendants.  The 8th cause of action is alleged
against Akin and National One. 
B.    
Cross-Complaint
On May 31, 2023, Cross-Complainants Madelaine
Dawn La Voie dba Cherie Miller & Associates and Lynee Lissa La Voie filed a
cross-complaint against Roes 1-50 for: (1) equitable indemnity; (2)
contribution; and (3) declaratory relief. 
C.    
Demurrer
on Calendar 
On August 17, 2023, Defendants National One
Mortgage Corporation and Lee Akin Jr. filed a demurrer to the complaint.
On September 15, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition brief. 
DISCUSSION 
            Defendants National One Mortgage Corporation (“National
One”) and Lee Akin Jr. (“Akin”) demur to the 2nd to 9th
causes of action in the complaint.  
A.   
Duty
Defendants National One and Akin demur to the
2nd to 9th causes of action, arguing that they did not
have an independent duty to discover the status of the permits issued/not
issued for the subject property. 
Civil Code, § 2079(a) states: “(a) It is
the duty of a real estate broker or salesperson, licensed under Division 4
(commencing with Section 10000) of the Business and Professions Code, to a
prospective buyer of residential real property improved with
one to four dwelling units or a manufactured home as defined in Section
18007 of the Health and Safety Code, to conduct a reasonably competent and diligent
visual inspection of the property offered for sale and to disclose to that
prospective buyer all facts materially affecting the value or desirability of
the property that an investigation would reveal, if that broker has a written contract with the seller
to find or obtain a buyer or is a broker who acts in cooperation with that
broker to find and obtain a buyer.”  Civil Code, § 2079.3 states: “The inspection to be performed pursuant to this article
does not include or involve an inspection of areas that are reasonably and
normally inaccessible to this type of an inspection, nor an affirmative inspection of areas off
the site of the subject property or public records or permits concerning the
title or use of the property ….”  
Defendants argue that they did not
have a duty to inspect public records and/or determine the status of
permits.  (Defendants also make arguments
relying on extrinsic facts that they exercised reasonable diligence in
following up with the sellers on the permit of the laundry room and that they
relied on the sellers’ representations in the TDS/SPQ.  However, such arguments rely on extrinsic
facts that cannot be considered at the demurrer stage.)  
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants’ demurrer is an improper “speaking demurrer” that incorporates
evidentiary facts outside the complaint. While this may be true to an extent
and the Court will not consider the extrinsic facts, Plaintiffs have not
addressed the application of Civil Code, §§ 2079 and 2079.3 with respect to
Plaintiffs’ (buyers) agents.  As argued
by Defendants, they did not have a duty to review public records or permit
material pursuant to the code.  As no
such affirmative duty existed, Plaintiffs have not alleged facts showing that National
One and Akin breached such a duty or engaged in fraudulent behavior.  
As such, the demurrer to the 2nd
to 9th causes of action is sustained.  As this is the first attempt at the pleading,
the Court will allow Plaintiffs leave to amend. 
B.    
2nd to 4th
causes of action for Fraud 
To allege a cause of action for
fraud, the requisite elements are: (1) a representation, usually of fact, which is false; (2) knowledge of its
falsity; (3) intent to
defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon the misrepresentation; and (5) damage
resulting from that justifiable reliance. 
(Stansfield v. Starkey (1990)
220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73.)  To
allege a cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation, the requisite elements are: (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact; (2) without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true; (3)
with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented; (4)
ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom
the misrepresentation was directed; and (5) damages.  (B.L.M.
v. Sabo & Deitsch (1997) 55 Cal. App. 4th 823, 834.)  Negligent misrepresentation, unlike
fraud, does not require knowledge of falsity. 
(Apollo Capital Fund, LLC v. Roth
Capital Partners, LLC (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.)  The elements for fraudulent concealment are the
following: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact;
(2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff; (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff; (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact; and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.  (Lovejoy
v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119 Cal. App. 4th 151, 157-158.)
These causes of action are torts of
deceit and the facts constituting each element must be alleged with
particularity; the claims cannot be saved by referring to the policy favoring
liberal construction of pleadings.  (Committee on Children's Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.)  Since the claims must be pleaded with
particularity, the causes of action based on misrepresentations must allege
facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
misrepresentations were tendered.  (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) 

The 2nd cause of action generally
alleges that (all) Defendants intentionally failed to disclose that the
property was not properly permitted and that they intended to deceive Plaintiffs
by concealing the facts about the 2 bedrooms and 1 bathroom not being
permitted.  (Compl., ¶¶40, 42.)  In the 3rd and 4th
causes of action, Plaintiffs allege that (all) Defendants falsely represented
to Plaintiffs that the property could be legally leased as an Airbnb and was
properly licensed to do so.  (Id.,
¶¶47-48, 53-54.)  
As currently alleged, the
allegations of the 2nd to 4th causes of action for
concealment, intentional misrepresentation, and negligent misrepresentation are
pled generally.  The elements of fraud
must be pled with specific facts.  Currently,
the complaint alleges generally that all Defendants omitted facts and made
misrepresentations about the permitting of the property, but Plaintiffs have
not alleged specific facts regarding how, when, by what means, etc. National One and Akin made such
misrepresentations and omissions.  
Thus, the demurrer to the 2nd to 4th causes of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 

C.    
7th cause of
action for Negligence
The elements of a negligence cause
of action are “duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Carlsen
v. Koivumaki (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 879, 892.)  
In the 7th
cause of action (pertaining to Madelaine Dawn LaVoie, Cherie Miller &
Associates, Lynee Lissa LaVoie, Akin, and National One), Plaintiffs allege that
these Defendants had a duty to act with reasonable care in selling the property
because the MLS at the time indicated that the property had issues with
permitting.  (Compl., ¶77.)  Plaintiffs allege that these Defendants
breached his by failing to inform Plaintiffs of the potential problems with
permitting.  (Id., ¶78.)  
National
One and Akin argue that the 7th cause of action fails because they
did not owe a duty to inspect public records or permits.  (Civ. Code, § 2079.3.)  In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that their 7th
cause of action alleges each element of negligence.  
However,
again, Plaintiffs fail to address the issue of duty or how section 2079.3 would
absolve National One and Akin of a duty to disclose permitting issues.  The amended complaint should allege further
facts to address this issue. 
The demurrer to the 7th cause of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 

D.   
8th cause of
action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty 
To state a cause of action for
breach of fiduciary duty, the Plaintiff must allege the following: (1) the
existence of a fiduciary relationship; (2) its breach; and (3) damage
proximately caused by that breach.  (Roberts v. Lomanto (2003) 112 Cal. App.
4th 1553, 1562.) 
In the 8th cause of
action, Plaintiffs allege that National One and Akin were Plaintiffs’ real estate agents/brokers and had a
fiduciary relationship, such that they acted on Plaintiffs’ behalf for
purchasing the residential property. 
(Compl., ¶¶82-83.)  
            National One and Akin argue that the 8th
cause of action fails for the same reason discussed above regarding their lack
of duty to inspect public records and permit and make disclosures thereof.  In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that
paragraphs 15 to 31 specifically address what fiduciary duties were
breached.  However, based on the Court’s
review of these allegations (as summarized in the “Background” section above),
the allegations are generally made against all Defendants but appear mostly to
be directed against Flamingo for its failure to obtain the proper permits and
make the requisite disclosures in the TDS/SPQ. 
As currently alleged, the facts do not allege how National One and Akin breached
their duties to Plaintiffs.  Facts
specifically directed against National One and Akin should be alleged in the 8th
cause of action upon amendment.  
            The demurrer to the 8th
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  
E.    
5th and 6th
causes of action for Intentional and Negligent Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage  
The
elements of the tort of intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage are: “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some
third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.”  (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1153.)  “In addition,
the plaintiff must allege that the defendant's conduct was wrongful by some
measure beyond the fact of the interference itself. [Citation.] In this
context, an act is independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is
proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other
determinable legal standard. [Citation.] The conduct must be independently
actionable. The act of interference with prospective economic advantage is not
tortious in and of itself, but requires pleading that a defendant has engaged
in an act that was independently wrongful in order to distinguish lawful
competitive behavior from tortious interference.”  (Stevenson Real Estate Services,
Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 1215, 1220 [internal quotation marks and citations omitted].)  
“The tort
of negligent interference with prospective economic advantage is
established where a plaintiff demonstrates that (1)
an economic relationship existed between the plaintiff and a third
party which contained a reasonably probable future economic benefit
or advantage to plaintiff; (2) the defendant knew of the existence of
the relationship and was aware or should have been aware that if it did not act
with due care its actions would interfere with this relationship and
cause plaintiff to lose in whole or in part the probable
future economic benefit or advantage of the relationship;
(3) the defendant was negligent; and (4) such negligence caused damage
to plaintiff in that the relationship was actually interfered with or disrupted
and plaintiff lost in whole or in part the economic benefits
or advantage reasonably expected from the relationship.”  (Venhaus
v. Shultz (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th
1072, 1078.) 
In the 5th and 6th causes of action,
Plaintiffs allege that Plaintiffs and Airbnb (along with its guests) were in an
economic relationship that would have resulted in an economic benefit to
Plaintiffs and Defendants knew of this relationship as they intended to use the
property as an investment property. 
(Compl., ¶¶59-60, 66-67.)  Plaintiffs
allege that Defendants engaged in fraudulent misrepresentations and concealments
of fact regarding the property not being fully permitted and thus not legally
operable as a short-term rental property. 
(Id., ¶¶61, 70.)  They
allege the relationship was disrupted such that Plaintiffs are unable to
continue to lease the property through Airbnb. 
(Id., ¶¶63, 71.) 
National One and Akin argue that these causes of action
fail to allege sufficient facts because Plaintiffs have not alleged that they
had an existing economic relationship with a third party but only that they
desired to have such a relationship and that obtaining a permit was a
prerequisite.  However, the allegations
of the 5th and 6th causes of action, taken as true,
allege that they were in fact in an economic relationship with Airbnb and its
guests.  Although Defendants argue that
the relationship was hypothetical and not yet in existence (and thereby there
could be no disruption), the allegations of the complaint allege that such a
relationship existed at that time.  Whether
this fact can be proven will have to be determined beyond the pleading stage
upon the consideration of evidence. 
The demurrer to the 5th and 6th
causes of action is overruled on these demurrer grounds (re existence of an economic
relationship).  However, as discussed
above, the Court
will sustain the demurrer to the 2nd to 9th causes of
action so that Plaintiffs may allege additional facts regarding duty. 
F.      9th cause of action for violation of Business &
Professions Code, § 17200
In the 9th cause of action,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants jointly acted unlawfully by failing to
disclose information, failing to act with reasonable care, fraudulently
concealing information, etc. to cause Plaintiffs to purchase the property.  (Compl., ¶86.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants violated
Civil Code, §§ 1102 et seq. (re disclosures upon transfer), 1573
(constructive fraud), 2079, and 2079.2 (real estate broker standard of care).  (Id., ¶87.)  
National One and Akin demur to the 9th
cause of action, arguing that it is dependent on the prior causes of action and
therefore should be sustained for the reasons discussed above.  
For the reasons discussed above, the demurrer
to the 9th cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants National One Mortgage Corporation and Lee Akin Jr.’s demurrer
to the complaint is sustained with 20 days leave to amend.  
            Defendants shall provide notice of
this order. 
