 Case Number:  21STCV09678    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Daniel Suarez, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
2000 gold
  limited partnership,
  et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


  Case No.: 21STCV09678
 
  Hearing Date:  September 29, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:
motion for summary judgment; motion for summary
  judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Daniel Suarez (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that on May 20, 2019, he operated a forklift to load inventory, but the
forklift’s brakes failed and the forklift lacked a seatbelt feature (or any
safety feature), such that he fell from an open ledge and was thrown from the
seat of the forklift.  Plaintiff alleges that
the forklift fell from the open ledge onto his body, crushing him for
approximately 20 minutes.  He alleges the
incident caused him to suffer substantial head trauma and the amputation of his
left arm.  
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Power
Medic Technologies, Inc. (“Power Medic”) and Pete’s Road Services, Inc.
(“Pete’s Road Services”) were responsible for inspecting and maintaining the
forklift.  He alleges that the forklift
was a Crown Model #RC3020-30 Stand Up forklift which was designed and
manufactured by Defendant Crown Equipment Corporation (“Crown”).[1]  
Plaintiff alleges that he was on the premises
of 111 N. Baldwin Park Blvd., City of Industry, California, which is owned,
operated, and controlled by non-parties Harvard Label, Inc. & One Stop
Plastic Card, Inc. dba Harvard Card Systems; Harvard Label LLC; and PLI-Los
Angeles.  Plaintiff alleges that they
outsourced services for the subject forklift to Power Medic and Pete’s Road
Services.  
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants 2000
Gold Limited Partnership (“2000 Gold”) and Michael Tang (“Tang”) maintained an
unsafe area for forklift operation in the warehouse on the premises, including
an unguarded, open, and unsecured ledge without any surrounding barriers or
railing, which Defendants knew or should have known was dangerous.  He also alleges that Defendants knew or
should have known that a poorly, inadequately serviced forklift with faulty
brakes was dangerous.  
The complaint, filed March 11, 2021,
alleges causes of action for: (1) negligence against all Defendants; (2)
premises liability against Tang and 2000 Gold; (3) negligent hiring,
supervision, training, and/or retention against Power Medic, Pete’s Road Services,
2000 Gold, and Tang; (4) strict liability against Crown; and (5) negligent
product liability against Crown.  
On October 25, 2021, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice the complaint as to Power Medic Technologies, Inc. only.  
On November 16, 2021, Plaintiff dismissed without
prejudice the complaint as against Pete’s Road Service, Inc. only.  
B.    
Cross-Complaint
On June 30, 2021, Cross-Complainants
2000 Gold and Tang filed a cross-complaint against Power Medic, Pete’s Road
Services, and Crown for: (1) equitable indemnification; (2) apportionment of
fault; and (3) declaratory relief. 
On January 5, 2023, Cross-Complainants
dismissed without prejudice the cross-complaint as against Pete’s Road Service,
Inc. only.  
On January 11, 2023, Cross-Complainants
dismissed without prejudice the cross-complaint as against Power Medic
Technologies, Inc. only.  
C.    
Complaint-in-Intervention
On December 7, 2021, Plaintiff in
Intervention The Hartford Insurance Company of the Midwest (“Hartford:”) filed
a Workers’ Compensation Subrogation Complaint in Intervention against 2000
Gold, Tang, Crown, and Roes 1-20.  
D.   
Motions on Calendar
On January 30, 2023,
Defendants/Defendants-in-Intervention 2000 Gold and Tang filed a motion for
summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s complaint and Hartford’s
Complaint-in-Intervention.  In the
alternative, they seek summary adjudication on the following issues that there
are no triable issues of act regarding:
·        
(1) Plaintiff’s 1st cause of
action for negligence against 2000 Gold and Tang;
·        
(2) Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of
action for premises liability against 2000 Gold and Tang; and 
·        
(3) Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action
negligent hiring, training, supervision and/or retention against 2000 Gold and
Tang.
On
April 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed opposition papers.  On April 10, 2023, Hartford filed a joinder
to Plaintiff’s opposition papers.[2]  On April 14, 2023, 2000 Gold and Tang filed
reply papers.
            On February 9, 2023, Cross-Defendant
Crown filed a motion for summary judgment against 2000 Gold and Tang’s
cross-complaint.  The Court is not in
receipt of an opposition brief.  On
September 21, 2023, Crown filed a Notice of Non-Opposition to its motion,
stating that it was not in receipt of an opposition brief.  
DISCUSSION
RE 2000 GOLD AND TANG’s MSJ/MSA
A.   
Request for Judicial Notice 
Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the
complaint.  The request is granted.  (Evid. Code, § 452(d).) 
B.    
Evidentiary Objections
With the opposition brief, Plaintiff
submitted evidentiary objections to the declaration of Kevin N. Heffernan and
Exhibit A, which includes the deposition of Joe Hilger.  Specifically, Plaintiff objects to specific excerpts
of Mr. Hilger’s deposition testimony.  The
objections are overruled. 
C.    
Discussion of Merits 
2000 Gold and Tang argue that they are
entitled to summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication on
Plaintiff’s Complaint and Hartford’s Complaint-in-Intervention, arguing that
Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd, and 3rd causes of action
for negligence, premises liability, and negligent
hiring/supervision/training/retention against them fail.  (The 4th and 5th causes
of action are not alleged 2000 Gold and Tang.) 
1.     
1st and 2nd causes of action for
negligence and premises liability 
The elements of a premises liability claim
and negligence claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty,
and proximate cause resulting in injury. 
(Kesner v. Superior Court
(2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158.)  “A landlord is not liable for
injuries to a tenant caused by a condition on the premises which arises after
the tenant has taken possession. [Citations.] However, the rule in this state
is different with respect to a condition which exists at the time the property
is leased to the tenant. [Citations.]” 
(Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1605
[citations omitted].)  
2000 Gold and Tang argue that the
negligence and premises liability causes of action fail because they owed no
duty of care to Plaintiff. 
The following facts are undisputed.  2000 Gold is and was the owner of the
building and property located at 111 N. Baldwin Park Boulevard and Tang is the
CEO for 2000 Gold.  (Gold Fact 1.)  From January 2013 to October 2018, Tang
operated the business Harvard Label, Inc. (“Harvard”) out of the subject
property, which it leased from 2000 Gold. 
(Id. at 2.)  Joe Hilger is
the director of operations for PLI Card Marketing Solutions (“PLI”).  (Id. at 3.)  In October 2018, PLI purchased Harvard, which
assumed the lease of the property from 2000 Gold.  (Id. at 4.)  Neither 2000 Gold nor Tang had any ownership
interest in PLI and did not own or maintain any equipment used by PLI.  (Id. at 5-6.)  On May 20, 2019, Plaintiff was PLI’s employee
and he was not employed, supervised, or directed by 2000 Gold or Tang.  (Id. at 11-12.)  On that day, Plaintiff was operating a
forklift when the forklift went over the side of a loading dock on the subject
property.  The forklift had faulty,
poorly maintained brakes and no seatbelt. 
(Id. at 13.)  The loading
dock was equipped with bollards on either end of the loading dock and a chain
that could be stretched between the bollards. 
(Id. at 14.)  The bollards
and chain had been in place at the time PLI purchased the business and took
possession of the subject property.  (Id.)  However, the chain was not in place at the
time of Plaintiff’s accident although it was PLI’s policy that it be in
place.  (Id. at 15.)  The chain was for the area where Plaintiff’s
accident occurred and was available on the day of Plaintiff’s accident, which
was under the sole control of PLI.  (Id.
at 16-17.)  
2000 Gold and Tang argue that PLI’s
equipment was maintained by PLI, PLI managed and was in control of the subject
property, and PLI was responsible for maintenance and repairs to the subject
property.  (Gold Fact 7-10.)  Facts 7-10 are disputed by the parties. 
2000 Gold and Tang argue that PLI’s
director, Mr. Hilger, acknowledged that PLI was responsible for all repairs and
everything associated with the building, such that PLI had complete control
over the property.  (Hilger Depo at pp.
12-13, 48.)  They argue that the accident
only occurred because PLI failed to use the chain on the loading dock and PLI’s
forklift had faulty brakes.  They argue
that they as landlords cannot be held responsible for dangers inherent in a
dangerous business. 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that landowners are still liable for dangerous conditions that
exist on the property.  Plaintiff relies
on Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210 App.3d 771: 
[A]
commercial landowner, cannot
totally abrogate its landowner responsibilities merely by signing a lease.  As the owner of property, a lessor out of
possession must exercise due care and must act reasonably toward the tenant as
well as to unknown third persons. [Citations.] At the time the lease is
executed and upon renewal a landlord has a right to reenter the property, has
control of the property, and must inspect the premises to make the premises
reasonably safe from dangerous conditions. [Citations.] Even if the commercial landlord executes a
contract which requires the tenant to maintain the property in a certain
condition, the landlord is obligated at the time the lease is executed to take
reasonable precautions to avoid unnecessary danger.[] … 
However, the landlord's
responsibility to inspect is limited. Like a residential landlord, the duty to inspect charges the lessor “only
with those matters which would have been disclosed by a reasonable inspection.”
[Citations.] The burden of reducing or avoiding the risk and
the likelihood of injury will affect the determination of what constitutes a
reasonable inspection. The landlord's obligation is only to do what is
reasonable under the circumstances. The landlord need not take extraordinary
measures or make unreasonable expenditures of time and money in trying to
discover hazards unless the circumstances so warrant. When there is a potential
serious danger, which is foreseeable, a landlord should anticipate the danger
and conduct a reasonable inspection before passing possession to the tenant.[] However,
if no such inspection is warranted, the landlord has no such obligation.
Here, respondent, as the moving party of
the summary judgment motion, had the burden to show as a matter of law that
there were no triable issues of fact. [Citations.]
Once a court
finds a duty exists, it is for the jury to determine if the inspection was
reasonable under the circumstances.
(Mora v. Baker Commodities, Inc. (1989) 210 Cal.App.3d 771, 781-782 [citations and footnotes
omitted].)  
Plaintiff argues that 2000 Gold and Tang
have not provided any evidence showing that an inspection of the subject
property took place at the time of the lease. 
Plaintiff also argues that any determination of whether the inspection
was reasonable would be a question of fact for the jury to determine.  Neither party provides a copy of the lease
agreement between 2000 Gold and PLI for the premises.[3]
The Court also lacks any photographs of
the loading dock.  2000 Gold and Tang
have not provided any declarations, expert opinions, or documentary evidence of
how high the loading dock was, whether the loading dock was a “typical cargo
loading dock” (as claimed by 2000 Gold and Tang on page 3 of their reply), or
whether the loading dock constituted a dangerous condition prior to and during
the period of the lease.[4]  Based on the evidence currently before the
Court, the Court cannot ascertain whether a chain held across the bollards
would have been sufficient to stop a forklift from going over the edge of the
loading dock.  (See Pl.’s Additional
Material Fact [AMF] 29; Hilger Depo. at p. 30 [stating that “[a] chain would
have a hard time stopping a forklift.”].) 

At this time, the Court finds that 2000
Gold and Tang have not upheld their burden in summary judgment or summary
adjudication on the 1st and 2nd causes of action.  As such, the motion is denied as to the 1st
and 2nd causes of action. 
2.     
3rd cause of action for negligent
hiring/supervision/training/retention
The elements of a
negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of employee claim are: (1) the
defendant employer hired the employee; (2) the employee was/became unfit or
incompetent to perform the work for which he/she was hired; (3) the defendant
employer knew or should have known that the employee was/became unfit or
incompetent and that this unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk
to others; (4) the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed the plaintiff;
and (5) the defendant employer’s negligence in
hiring, supervising, or retaining the employee was a substantial factor in
causing the plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI
426.)  “[A]n employer can be held liable for negligent
hiring if he knows the employee is unfit, or has reason to believe the employee
is unfit or fails to use reasonable care to discover the employee's unfitness
before hiring him.”  (Evan
F. v. Hughson United Methodist Church (1992)
8 Cal.App.4th 828, 843.)  “Liability for negligent hiring ... is based upon the
reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which
might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear
the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.” 
(Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172
Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)  
In the 3rd cause of action,
Plaintiff alleges in the complaint that Defendants had a duty of care in
hiring, retaining, training, and/or supervising their employees, contractors,
or agents.  (Compl., ¶47.)  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ employees,
contractors, or agents were unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which
they were hired, including the management, service, inspection, and maintenance
of the subject forklift and the premises. 
(Id., ¶48.)  
2000 Gold and Tang argue that the 3rd
cause of action against them fails because PLI was responsible for managing,
servicing, inspecting, and maintaining the forklift and premises.  They argue that they undertook no
responsibility or actions that resulted in Plaintiff’s injury.  They argue that there is no evidence of an
employment relationship as there was no employee, agent, or contractor on the
part of 2000 Gold or Tang who was involved with Plaintiff’s incident. 
In opposition, Plaintiff did not address
the 3rd cause of action. 
Plaintiff has not raised any triable issues of material fact regarding
the unfitness or incompetence of any employee of 2000 Gold and/or Tang.  
The Court grants the motion for summary
adjudication as to the 3rd cause of action only. 
3.     
Hartford’s Complaint-in-Intervention 
2000 Gold and Tang argue that if summary
judgment is granted as against Plaintiff’s complaint, then Hartford’s Complaint-in-Intervention
too should be barred.  
However, as discussed above, the motion
for summary judgment is denied and the motion for summary adjudication is
denied as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.  As there are still active claims against 2000
Gold and Tang in Plaintiff’s complaint, the Court declines to enter summary
judgment or summary adjudication in favor of 2000 Gold and Tang on Hartford’s
Complaint-in-Intervention.  
DISCUSSION
RE CROWN’S MSJ            
Crown moves for summary judgment against Cross-Complainants
2000 Gold and Tang’s cross-complaint.  As
noted above, the motion is not opposed. 
Crown argues that the cross-complaint
fails as alleged against Crown because: (1) Crown did not owe a duty of care to
Plaintiff; and (2) Cross-Complainants have not offered any credible evidence
against Crown regarding the alleged defects in the subject forklift or
causation.  
Crown provides the following undisputed
material facts.  On March 11, 2021,
Plaintiff filed a complaint against 2000 Gold and Tang, Crown, and other
unrelated parties seeking damages for the subject May 20, 2019 accident while
Plaintiff was operating a Crown RC 3000 Series stand-up rider
forklift, Serial No. 1A315203 at a PLI Card Marketing Solutions (“PLI”)
warehouse in Industry, California. 
(Crown Fact 1.)  While operating
the subject forklift to load inventory at PLI, Plaintiff drove the forklift off
an open loading dock, falling approximately 4 feet to the ground below, with
the forklift’s overhead guard striking his head and crushing his left upper
extremity, eventually requiring amputation. 
(Id. at 2.)  Plaintiff’s
complaint asserts causes of action sounding in negligence and strict liability
against Crown, but Plaintiff has not served Crown as a defendant in this
action.  (Id. at 3-5.)  On June 30, 2021, 2000 Gold and Tang
filed a cross-complaint against Crown and Crown was served on April 13, 2022.  (Id. at 6-7.)  
First,
Crown argues that it did not owe a duty of care to Plaintiff to ensure the
adequate inspection, maintenance, repair, etc. of the subject forklift and
therefore did not breach a duty.  Crown
argues that it did not own, possess, or control the warehouse and that it did
not perform service or maintenance of the condition of the forklift at the time
of the accident.  (See e.g., Kaley
v. Catalina Yachts (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1187, 1201 [“Every owner
has a duty to maintain all brakes and component parts in good condition
and in good working order. … The duty to maintain the brakes in good working
order is not delegable.”] [citing Vehicle Code, § 26453].)  
In its undisputed facts, Crown states that
in the 1st cause of action for negligence against Crown, which
Cross-Complainants adopted, Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that Crown “had a duty to ensure adequate inspection, maintenance, repair,
replacement transporting, emptying, safety and management of the subject
forklift” and that Crown breached such duty. 
(Crown Fact at 8.)  Joe Hilger
(PLI’s director operations) testified that PLI’s maintenance department was in
charge of maintaining the forklifts at their facilities, including the subject
forklift involved in Plaintiff’s accident, because they tried to do as much
maintenance in-house.  (Id. at 9;
Hilger Depo. at 26:21-24 and 28:14-25.) 
Mr. Hilger testified that PLI was “responsible for all repairs and
everything associated with operating the building” and that he had no
information that Crown performed any maintenance or repairs on the subject
forklift.  (Crown Fact at 10-11; Hilger
Depo. at 48:12-15 and 55:6-9.)  Crown did
not own the subject forklift, did not perform service or maintenance on the
forklift, and did not own or control PLI’s warehouse.  (Crown
Fact at 12.)  
The Court finds that Crown has upheld its initial burden on the motion
as to Plaintiff’s negligence cause of action, such that it would not be liable
for indemnity, apportionment of fault, or declaratory relief as to 2000 Gold
and Tang’s cross-complaint.  “[T]here can be no indemnity without liability.”  (Children's Hospital v. Sedgwick (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 1780, 1787; Wilson v. Ritto (2003)
105 Cal.App.4th 361, 369 [“Apportionment of
noneconomic damages is a form of equitable indemnity in which a defendant may
reduce his or her damages by establishing others are also at fault for the
plaintiff's injuries.”].)  As the motion is
not opposed, Cross-Complainants have not presented opposing evidence or triable
issues of material fact that Crown owed a duty to Plaintiff and thereby have
not shown that Crown was required to indemnify Cross-Complainants. 
Second, Crown argues that
Cross-Complainants have not presented evidence that there were alleged defects
in the forklift that caused Plaintiff’s injuries.  
In its separate statement, Crown states that in the 4th
cause of action for strict liability and 5th cause of action for
negligent product liability against Crown, which Cross-Complainants adopted,
Plaintiff’s complaint alleges that the forklift was defective in design and
negligently designed because it was not equipped with seatbelts or safety guard
rails, or other safety features such as a roll cage.  (Crown Fact at 13-14.)  Crown states that Plaintiff’s allegations form
the basis for Cross-Complainants’ cross-complaint.  (Id. at 15.)  Crown states that the forklift complied with
all applicable industry standards, including the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers/American National Standards
Institute (“ASME/ANSI”) B56.1 Safety Standard for Low Lift and High Lift
Trucks, all Occupational Safety and Health Association (“OSHA”) regulations,
and all Underwriters Laboratories (“UL”) Safety Standards.  (Id. at 16-17.)  
Crown presents the declaration of Ronald
A. Grisez, who is the Director of Product Safety and the Product Safety
Coordinator at Crown.  He states that in
his role, he is knowledgeable about the design features of Crown’s forklifts
and the applicable standards that forklifts must comply with, including ASME/ANSI B56.1 Safety Standards, OSHA regulations, and UL Safety Standards.  (Grisez Decl., ¶3.)  He states that he has reviewed the design
features of the Crown RC 3000 Series stand-up rider forklift at issue in this
case and that it complied with all applicable standards and regulations.  (Id., ¶4.)  He states that the forklift was not defective
in any way and was reasonably safe for its intended user.  (Id., ¶6; Crown Fact 18.)  
The Court
finds that Crown has upheld its burden on these causes of action in the
complaint, which are the underlying claims that Cross-Complainants’
cross-claims against Crown are based upon. 
The motion is not opposed, such that Cross-Complainants have not raised
triable issues of material fact.  
As such,
Crown’s motion for summary judgment to the cross-complaint is granted. 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Defendants/Cross-Complainants/Defendants-in-Intervention
2000 Gold Limited Partnership and Michael Tang’s motion for summary judgment on
Plaintiff’s Complaint and Hartford’s Complaint-in-Intervention is denied.  In the alternative, 2000 Gold and Tang’s
motion for summary adjudication is denied as to the 1st and 2nd
causes of action to Plaintiff’s Complaint and Hartford’s
Complaint-in-Intervention.  The motion
for summary adjudication is granted as to the 3rd cause of action
alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
            Cross-Defendant Crown Equipment
Corporation’s motion for summary judgment to Cross-Complainants 2000 Gold
Limited Partnership and Michael Tang’s cross-complaint is granted.  The Court notes that the cross-complaint was
alleged against Cross-Defendants Power Medic Technologies, Inc. (dismissed),
Pete’s Road Services, Inc. (dismissed), and Crown Equipment Corporation
only.  As there are no remaining parties
and claims remaining in the cross-complaint, the cross-complaint shall be
dismissed and Crown Equipment Corporation is ordered to prepare a proposed
judgment with respect to the cross-complaint.  

            Each party shall provide notice of
their respective order.  
 


