 Case Number:  22BBCVC00836    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Mayra
  Aguayo,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
burbank
  periodontics, dental implants & laser surgery, et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00836
 
  Hearing Date:  September 29, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion for protective order and
  sanctions 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiff Mayra Aguayo (“Plaintiff”) alleges
that she worked at Burbank Periodontics, Dental Implants & Laser Surgery
(“Burbank Periodontics”) as a hygiene coordinator from November 10, 2021 to
August 15, 2022.  She alleges that her
supervisors were Defendant Marc Y. Waki, Dr. Vahe Nakashyan, Dr. Taylor, and
Dr. Martina Elenkova.  Plaintiff alleges
that she enjoyed her work, but over time, Dr. Waki began straining the professional
relationship between himself and Plaintiff and began directing a flirtatious
tone toward her in January 2022. 
Plaintiff alleges that Dr. Waki would get physically close to her and
placed his hand on her back when no one was looking.  Plaintiff alleges that toward the end of
January 2022, Dr. Waki approached her, told her she was pretty, and touched her
hair and face with his hand.  Plaintiff
alleges that she would try to interact with Dr. Waki only when others were
around, but when others were not around, he would touch her lower on her back
until he began touching her buttocks. 
Plaintiff alleges that in June 2022, Dr. Waki grabbed her hand and in
July 2022, he physically got close to her and told her that he wanted
Plaintiff.  In late July 2022, Plaintiff
alleges that she asked Dr. Waki about changing her last name after recently
having gotten married, but that Dr. Waki got visibly upset and began denying
her permission to leave work early on Fridays to pick up her daughter though
other employees were able to come and go as they pleased.  She alleges that Dr. Waki made the decision
to terminate her on August 15, 2022 without any reason. 
The first amended complaint (“FAC”), filed
June 23, 2023, alleges causes of action for: (1) harassment based on sex (Gov’t
Code, § 12940(j)) against all Defendants; (2) discrimination based on sex
(Gov’t Code, § 12940(a)) against Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan; (3) discrimination
based on marital status (Gov’t Code, § 12940(a)) against Dr. Waki and Dr.
Nakashyan; (4) retaliation in violation of FEHA (Gov’t Code, § 12940(h)) against
Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan; (5) battery against Dr. Waki; (6) sexual battery
(Civ. Code, § 1708.5) against Dr. Waki; and (7) wrongful termination in
violation of public policy against Dr. Waki and Dr. Nakashyan.   
On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed
without prejudice Defendants Burbank Periodontics, Dental Implants & Laser
Surgery and Marc Y. Waki DDS from the complaint. 
B.    
Motions
on Calendar
On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
motion for protective order and for sanctions in the amount of $2,310 against
Dr. Waki and his counsel of record.  
On September 15, 2023, Defendant Dr. Waki filed
an opposition brief.
On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            CCP §
2030.030(a)(1) states that a party may propound 35 SROGs that are relevant to
the subject matter of the pending action. 

            For additional SROGs exceeding the
35 limit, CCP § 2030.040 states: 
(a) Subject to the right of the responding party to seek a protective order
under Section 2030.090, any party who attaches a
supporting declaration as described in Section 2030.050 may propound a greater
number of specially prepared interrogatories to another party if this greater
number is warranted because of any of the following:
(1) The complexity or the quantity of the existing and
potential issues in the particular case.
(2) The financial burden on a party entailed in
conducting the discovery by oral deposition.
(3) The expedience of using this method of discovery
to provide to the responding party the opportunity to conduct an inquiry,
investigation, or search of files or records to supply the information sought.
(b) If the responding party seeks a protective order
on the ground that the number of specially prepared interrogatories is
unwarranted, the propounding party shall have the burden of justifying the
number of these interrogatories.
(CCP § 2030.040.) Section 2030.050 provides the
statements that must be made in the declaration.  
            The
responding party may promptly move for a protective order.  (CCP § 2030.090(a).)  “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires
to protect any party or other natural person or organization from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This
protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the
following directions: [¶] (1) That the set of interrogatories, or particular
interrogatories in the set, need not be answered. [¶] (2) That, contrary to the
representations made in a declaration submitted under Section
2030.050, the number of specially prepared
interrogatories is unwarranted.”  (CCP §
2030.090(b)(1)-(2).)  
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiff
moves for a protective order against Dr. Waki on the grounds that he propounded
109 Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”) on Plaintiff.  Plaintiff argues that the SROGs are
duplicative, boilerplate, and/or nonsensical and thereby harassing.  
            On
June 30, 2023, Dr. Waki served the 109 SROG requests on Plaintiff.  (Jurczak Decl., ¶3, Ex. A.)  With the SROG requests, Dr. Waki provided the
declaration of counsel Gayane Muradyan regarding the additional discovery.  In the declaration of counsel Gayane
Muradyan, defense counsel states that she is propounding on Plaintiff the 109
SROGs requests, which exceed the total number of SROGs permitted by CCP §
2030.030.  (Muradyan Decl. re Additional
SROGs, ¶¶2-3.)  Defense counsel states
that she is familiar with the issues and the previous discovery conducted by
the parties and that she has examined each of the questions in this set.  (Id., ¶¶4-5.)  Defense counsel states the number is
warranted because this action involves a complicated employment discrimination
action and Dr. Waki is entitled to know Plaintiff’s allegations and supporting
facts against him.  (Id.,
¶6.)  Defense counsel states that none of
the questions in the set is being propounded for any improper purpose or to
harass Plaintiff/Plaintiff’s counsel or to cause unnecessary delay or needless
increase in the cost of litigation.  (Id.,
¶7.)  
            Plaintiff
argues that her counsel attempted to meet and confer with defense counsel and
offered to respond to 50 SROGs, but defense counsel declined to withdraw the
SROGs or reduce the number of SROGs propounded. 
Plaintiff states that due to the filing of the motion, Plaintiff will
timely respond to the first 35 SROGs propounded.  (Jurczak Decl., ¶8.)  
            Plaintiff
argues that defense counsel’s declaration in support of additional discovery is
defective because it states that this is a complicated employment
discrimination action, but Plaintiff claims this is a straightforward
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation case and that most of the case is
based on Dr. Waki’s misconduct. 
Plaintiff also argues that the SROGs essentially take each line of the
complaint and seek factual support from Plaintiff for a particular paragraph/allegation
in the complaint, the identity of all persons with knowledge of the paragraph,
and all the documents to support the paragraph. 
Plaintiff argues that the SROGs are duplicative because the Form
Interrogatories (“FROGs”) already ask for witness information or Dr. Waki could
have asked for all witness information in one SROG request.  She also argues that many of the responses to
the SROGs are already within Dr. Waki’s possession (i.e., the identity of her
duties and responsibilities at the office). 

            In
opposition, Dr. Waki argues that Plaintiff has propounded 81 SROGs, 71 RPDs,
and 77 RFAs to which he complied and responded, such that 109 SROGs is not
unreasonable.  Dr. Waki argues that the
declaration of defense counsel is legally sufficient, that the claims in this action
are complicated and involve various employment causes of action, and the SROGs
seek discoverable information.  
            The
Court has reviewed the SROGs at issue. 
The SROGs seek specific information as to dates/times, supporting facts,
witness information, and identification of documents in support of the
allegations of Plaintiff’s complaint.  As
pointed out by Plaintiff, witness information can be condensed into fewer SROG
requests, as well as the interrogatories regarding the identity of
documents.  Also, the SROGs are
unnecessary in number such as when Dr. Waki asks over 3 SROGs why she did not
report Dr. Waki’s actions to 3 different doctors, as opposed to asking why she
did not report Dr. Waki’s actions to anyone at the office.  (See SROG Nos. 59-61.)  Dr. Waki’s discovery requests appear to have
been drafted so that they would be specific to the allegations in the
complaint, but they are excessive in number. 
There are ways for Dr. Waki to limit the number of SROGs asked in this
set of discovery.  
            Based
on the parties’ papers, it appears that Plaintiff has responded to the first 35
SROGs.  The Court will allow Dr. Waki to
choose and/or re-draft 15 SROGs to propound on Plaintiff.  Thus, Plaintiff will be ordered to respond to
a total number of 50 SROGs: (1) SROG Nos. 1-35, which Plaintiff already
responded to, and (2) 15 additional SROGs re-drafted and re-propounded by Dr.
Waki.  
            Both
parties request sanctions.  In light of
the ruling on this motion, the Court declines to award sanctions to either
party. 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Plaintiff Mayra Aguayo’s motion for
protective order is granted in part and denied in part such that Plaintiff is
ordered to respond to a total of 50 Special Interrogatories of the 109 Special
Interrogatories propounded.  Plaintiff
has already responded to the first 35 SROGs and thus will be ordered to respond
to 15 additional SROGs that Defendant Dr. Waki may choose or re-draft.  Dr. Waki is ordered to re-propound these 15 SROGs
on Plaintiff.  
No sanctions shall
be awarded on this motion.  
            Plaintiff shall provide notice of this
order. 
 
 