 Case Number:  23BBCV00388    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
alejandro
  duran,
  et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
first
  national funding corp., 
                        Defendant. 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV00388
 
Hearing
  Date:  September 29, 2023
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations

Plaintiffs Alejandro Duran and The
Standard Design Group Nurseries (“Plaintiffs”) allege that they occupied the
commercial property at 11660 Ventura Blvd., Studio City, CA 91604 as lessees
and tenants and/or sublessees and subtenants. 
Defendant First National Funding Corp. (“Defendant”) is alleged to be
the lessor of the property.  
Plaintiffs allege that in early 2020,
Defendant advertised the property available for lease as a retail space as an
auto dealership with 1,000 square feet of availability, which was zoned and
permitted as an office space.  (Compl.,
¶¶9, 12.)  Plaintiffs allege that they
negotiated a lease and entered into a written commercial lease on March 6, 2020,
with Duran signing as the lessee and Defendant signing as lessor.  (Id., ¶¶15-16, Ex. A.)  Duran then assigned/sublet the lease to TSDGN,
which Defendant was aware and approved of and collected rent from.  (Id., ¶¶19-25.)  
Plaintiffs allege that unbeknownst to
them, Defendant had been notified in writing in August 2015 by the City of Los
Angeles that the property was “substandard” and that the property, which was
advertised as an office space, was actually permitted for a gym.  (Id., ¶¶26-27, Ex. B.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant fraudulently
induced Plaintiffs to sign the lease for an “office space” while incorrectly
providing square footage information and having substandard conditions.  (Id., ¶29.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant failed to
notify Plaintiffs about these issues and instead encouraged Plaintiffs to
perform cosmetic upgrades to the building and landscaping to the adjacent hill
and these upgrades were a part of the lease negotiations.  (Id., ¶30.)  Plaintiffs allege that they opened their
commercial landscaping business in June-July 2020 at the property. (Id.,
¶31.)  However, in July 2020, the City of
Los Angeles notified Defendant that the property was still noncompliant with
its prior order.  (Id., ¶32, Ex.
C.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant failed
and refused to remedy the violations and permit issue despite Plaintiffs’
concerns and Plaintiffs requested an abatement of rent, which Defendant
denied.  (Id., ¶¶34-36.)  Defendant then served Plaintiffs with a 3-Day
Notice to Pay Rent or Quit (dated September 7, 2022) and filed an unlawful retainer
action against them on September 15, 2022. 
(Id., ¶¶37-39, Ex. D.)  
The complaint, filed on February 16, 2023,
alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) intentional misrepresentation; (4)
negligent misrepresentation; (5) fraud (concealment); (6) fraud in the
inducement; (7) retaliatory eviction; (8) violation of Business &
Professions Code, § 17200; (9) violation of Business & Professions Code, §
17500; (10) breach of quiet enjoyment; and (11) conversion.
B.    
Motion
on Calendar 
On August 1, 2023,
Plaintiffs filed a single motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to
Form interrogatories, set one (“FROG”), Request for Admissions, set one
(“RFA”), and Request for Production of Documents, set one (“RPD”). 
On August 21, 2023, Defendant filed an
opposition brief.
On August 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
reply brief. 
The matter initially came for hearing on
September 1, 2023.  The Court ruled on
the motion with respect to the FROG requests only, denying the motion as to
FROG Nos. 12.1, 12.6, and 14.2 and declining to award sanctions with respect to
the FROGs.  The Court ordered Plaintiffs
to pay additional filing fees for the motion to be heard as to the RFAs and
RPDs.  The Court continued the hearing as
to the RFAs and RPDs only to September 29, 2023.  
DISCUSSION

            Plaintiffs
move to compel Defendant’s further responses to RFA Nos. 1-10 and RPD Nos.
1-16.  
A.    RFA Requests 
RFA No. 1 asks Defendant to
admit that it did not take any action to remedy the violations contained in the
Substandard Order and Notice of Late Fees from the City of Los Angeles, Code
Enforcement Bureau (“City”) regarding the property, effective date August 28, 2015,
compliance date September 27, 2015 (Exhibit B).  RFA No. 2 asks Defendant to admit that
it did take action to remedy the violations contained in the Substandard Order
and Notice of Late Fees from the City regarding the property, effective date
August 28, 2015, compliance date September 27, 2015 (Exhibit B).  RFA No. 3 asks Defendant to admit that
it did not take any action to remedy the violations contained in the Order to
Comply – Supplemental from the City, effective date November 16, 2020,
compliance date December 16, 2020 (Exhibit C). RFA No. 4 asks Defendant
to admit that it did take action to remedy the violations contained in the
Order to Comply – Supplemental from the City, effective date November 16, 2020,
compliance date December 16, 2020 (Exhibit C). 
Defendant objected to the RFAs that the
requests were not full and complete in and of themselves, they were compound,
the scope was unduly oppressive and burdensome, and the request were
vague.  Without waiving objections,
Defendant denied Nos. 1 and 3 and admitted Nos. 2 and 4.  While Defendant raised objections, it
eventually responded to Nos. 1-4.  It
does not appear that there is anything else to add to these requests as
Defendant states that regardless of its objections, it responded to Nos. 1-4 in
their entirety.  The motion is denied as
to RFA Nos. 1-4.  
RFA No. 5 asks Defendant to
admit that prior to the date the lease was signed, it did not inform Duran of
any existing code violations as set forth in the Substandard Order and Notice
of Late Fee from the City effective date August 28, 2015, compliance date
September 27, 2015 (Exhibit B).  RFA
No. 6 asks Defendant to admit that prior to the date the lease was signed,
it did not inform The Standard Group Nurseries of any existing code violations
as set forth in the Substandard Order and Notice of Late Fee from the City
effective date August 28, 2015, compliance date September 27, 2015 (Exhibit B).

Defendant objected that the RFAs were not
full and complete in and of themselves and that the RFAs were compound.  Without waiving objections, Defendant denied
No. 5, stating that no code violations existed at the time the lease was
negotiated/signed by Duran and Defendant. 
Without waiving objections, Defendant denied No. 6, stating that no code
violations existed at the time the lease was negotiated/signed by Duran and
Defendant and denied that Defendant had a duty to disclose the information to
The Standard Design Group Nurseries as it was not a party to the lease.  While Defendant raised objections, it appears
that it has responded to RFA Nos. 5 and 6 in full as it has stated that it did
not disclose prior violations to Plaintiffs at the time of signing the lease
since there were no violations to disclose at that time.  If Plaintiffs seek a further investigation regarding
why prior violations were not disclosed (that may have been cured by the time
of the execution of the lease or if Plaintiffs know of other violations that
were not disclosed), Plaintiffs may propound additional discovery.  However, based on what is before the Court,
Defendant appears to have complied with its discovery obligations on these
RFAs.  The motion is denied as to RFA
Nos. 5-6. 
RFA No. 7 asks Defendant to
admit that Duran was not required to pay rent under the lease from the date of the
Order to Comply – Supplemental from the City, effective date November 16, 2020,
compliance date December 16, 2020 (Exhibit C).  RFA No. 8 asks Defendant to admit that Duran
was not required to pay rent under the lease because of the Substandard Order
and Notice of Late Fee from the City, effective date August 28, 2015,
compliance date September 27, 2015 (Exhibit B). 
RFA No. 9 asks Defendant to admit that The Standard Design Group
Nurseries was not required to pay rent under the lease from the date of the
Order to Comply – Supplemental from the City, effective date November 16, 2020,
compliance date December 16, 2020 (Exhibit C).  RFA No. 10 asks Defendant to admit that
The Standard Design Group Nurseries was not required to pay rent under the
lease because of the Substandard Order and Notice of Late Fee from the City,
effective date August 28, 2015, compliance date September 27, 2015 (Exhibit B).

Defendant objected that RFA Nos. 7-10 were
not full and complete, were compound, sought attorney-client privileged
communications, and sought information protected by the work product
privilege.  Without waiving objections,
Defendant denied the RFAs.  Again, while
Defendant may have raised objections, Defendant states in its opposition papers
that it responded to the RFAs in full by stating its denial.  Thus, the motion is denied as to RFA Nos. 7-10.   
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Defendant’s
further responses to RFA Nos. 1-10 is denied. 

B.     RPD Requests 
RPD No. 1 asks for all
documents consisting of, referring to or reflecting Defendant’s communications
with any person relating to the Plaintiffs from January 1, 2020 to the present.  Defendant objected that the RPD sought
irrelevant information, was unduly oppressive and burdensome, sought
attorney-client privileged communications, sought information protected by the
work product privilege, was overbroad in scope and time, and was vague as to
“RELATING TO the Plaintiffs.”  Without
waiving objections, Defendant responded to No. 1 that it performed a diligent
search and is producing BATES FNFC 0120-0279. 
Plaintiffs argue that this is not a code compliant response because
Defendant has not stated whether it is complying, will allow compliance in
whole or in part, or is unable to respond. 
(See CCP §§ 2031.220, 2031.230.)  In its opposition, Defendant argues that it
has produced documents and that its objections are meritorious because the
documents sought by Plaintiffs could include documents between Defendant and
counsel, which would be protected.  It
also argues that the RPD is not tailored in scope or time period.  The Court will require a further response
from Defendant.  While Defendant has
provided some documents, Defendant’s response does not clearly state whether
this is a full production of documents or whether there are documents it deems
outside of the scope/timeframe of the lawsuit or other privileged documents
that it is withholding.  (Based on
Plaintiffs’ moving papers, it appears that a privilege log was produced by
Defendant with its amended responses on July 27, 2023.)  If the response is not complete, Defendant
should state as such.  If there are
privileged documents, it should produce a privilege log if the privilege log
provided was not complete.  Thus, the
motion is granted as to RPD No. 1.  
RPD No. 2 asks for all
documents consisting of, referring to, reflecting or relating to Defendant’s communications
between Defendant and Daum and/or Carlos Castillo.  RPD No. 3 asks for all documents
consisting of, referring to, reflecting or relating to Defendant’s
communications between Defendant and Carlos Castillo.  Defendant objected on essentially the same
basis as No. 1 and responded without waiving objections that it performed a
diligent search and is producing BATES FNFC 0120-0190.  For the same reasons as No. 1, the motion is
granted as to RPD Nos. 2-3.  
RPD No. 4 asks for all
documents consisting of the lease between Defendant and Plaintiff.  Defendant objected that the request was vague
as to the term “PLAINTIFF.”  Without
waiving objections, Defendant responded to No. 4 that it performed a diligent
search and is producing BATES FNFC 0001-0013. 
The objection is overruled.  The
propounding party is identified as Plaintiff Duran on the RPD requests.  (See Beach Decl. at Duran’s RPD requests.)  The term “Plaintiff” was also defined on page
5 of the RPD requests to mean Duran and any person acting on his behalf.  (In addition, Plaintiff Duran was distinct
from Plaintiff The Standard Design Group Nurseries as the RPDs referring to Plaintiff
The Standard Design Group Nurseries specifically named that Plaintiff like in
RPD Nos. 8 and 10.)  In the abundance of
caution, the Court will order a further response as to RPD No. 4 (if any
further documents exist) and clarify the term “Plaintiff” in RPD No. 4 refers
to Plaintiff Duran as asked in this RPD. 

RPD No. 5 asks for all
documents consisting of, referring to, relating to or reflecting any oral
agreement between Defendant and Plaintiff regarding the property.  RPD No. 6 asks for all documents
consisting, referring, relating to, or reflecting any written agreement, other
than the lease, between Defendant and Plaintiff regarding the property.  RPD No. 8 asks for all documents
reflecting, referring, or relating to payments received by Defendant from The
Standard Design Group Nurseries relating to and/or referring to the lease.  
Defendant objected that RPD Nos. 5, 6, and
8 were unduly oppressive and burdensome, sought attorney-client privileged
communications, sought information protected by the work product privilege, and
were vague as to the term “PLAINTIFF.” 
Without waiving objections, Defendant responded to Nos. 5 and 6 that it
performed a diligent search and believes there are no such responsive
documents.  If Defendant is relying on
CCP § 2023.230 for its inability to comply, it should state the requisite
language: “A representation of inability to comply with the particular
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling shall affirm that a
diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in an effort to comply
with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether the inability to
comply is because the particular item or category has never existed, has been destroyed,
has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the
possession, custody, or control of the responding party. The statement shall
set forth the name and address of any natural person or organization known or
believed by that party to have possession, custody, or control of that item or
category of item.”  (CCP §
2031.230.)  Defendant has not stated
whether it made a reasonable inquiry as to the matter and why there are
no responsive documents—i.e., were they destroyed, stolen, misplaced, etc. or
did they never exist in the first place? A further response is warranted.  The motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 5, 6,
and 8. 
RPD No. 7 asks for all
documents reflecting, referring, or relating to payments received by Defendant
from Plaintiff related to and/or referring to the lease. RPD No. 9 asks
for all documents constituting, referring to or relating to communications
between Defendant and Duran from January 1, 2020 to February 16, 2023.  RPD No. 10 asks for all documents
constituting, referring to or relating to communications between Defendant and
The Standard Design Group Nurseries from January 1, 2020 to February 16, 2023.  Defendant objected to RPD Nos. 7, 9, and 10 in
the same manner as it did to No. 5.  Without
waiving objections, Defendant responded to No. 7 that it performed a diligent
search and is producing BATES FNFC 0015-0020. 
Without waiving objections to Nos. 9-10, Defendant responded to Nos.
9-10 that it performed a diligent search and is producing BATES FNFC 0191-0279.  For the same reasons discussed above, the
Court will require a further response to RPD Nos. 7, 9, and 10.  To clarify the RPDs, “PLAINTIFF” shall refer
to Plaintiff Duran.  Further, to the
extent any documents are being withheld based on the objections or privilege,
further responses should be provided and/or a privilege log produced (if the
privilege log provided was not complete based on this clarification).  
RPD No. 11 asks for all
documents relating to or reflecting in any way communications between Defendant
and the City regarding the property from January 1, 2010 to the present.  Defendant objected to RPD No. 11 in a manner
similar to the objections raised in RPD No. 1. 
Defendant also objected that that the term “CITY” was vague.  Without waiving objections, Defendant
responded that it performed a diligent search and is producing BATES FNFC 0022-0039
and 0280-0434.  However, the term “CITY”
is defined in the RPD requests as the City of Los Angeles, including its Code
of Enforcement Bureau, and its employees, officers, directors, governing
bodies, assigns agents and any person acting on its behalf.  Defendant has not stated how the term is
vague.  To the extent there are
additional documents responsive to RPD No. 11 or any additional privileged
documents that should be disclosed in a privilege log, the Court grants the
motion as to RPD No. 11.  
RPD No. 12 asks for all
documents reflecting, referring or relating to any actions Defendant took in
response to the 2015 letter or order from the City of Los Angeles (Compl., Ex.
B) to obtain required permits and/or eliminate code violations.  Defendant objected in the similar manner as
stated above.  Without waiving
objections, Defendant responded that it performed a diligent search and has not
located any responsive documents.  For
the same reasons discussed above regarding RPD Nos. 5, 6, and 8, the motion is
granted as to RPD No. 12 so that it is code compliant with CCP § 2023.230.  
RPD No. 13 asks for all
documents reflecting, referring or relating to any actions Defendant took in
response to the 2020 letter or order from the City of Los Angeles (Compl., Ex.
C) to obtain required permits and/or eliminate code violations. To No. 13, Defendant
raised similar objections as above and objected that the term “in response” was
vague.  Without waiving objections,
Defendant responded to No. 13 that it performed a diligent search and is
producing BATES FNFC 0025-0119 and 0191-0435. 
RPD No. 15 asks for all documents upon which Defendant will rely
to defend the allegations of the Complaint filed by Plaintiff in the
above-captioned matter.  Defendant
objected to RPD No. 15 and responded without waiving objections that it
performed a diligent search and is producing BATES FNFC 0001-0435, and that it
is aware that other third parties like City and its various departments have
responsive documents.  RPD No. 16
asks for all documents referring to the advertisement/marketing of the property
since 2018, including Defendant’s efforts to lease the property in 2023.  Defendant objected to No. 16 and responded
without waiving objections that it performed a diligent search and is producing
BATES FNFC 0014.  For similar reasons
discussed above, the motion is granted as to RPD Nos. 13, 15, and 16.    
RPD No. 14 asks for all
documents consisting of, referring to or reflecting communications between
Defendant and any insurance company related to the property.  Defendant objected to No. 14 and also
responded without waiving objections that it performed a diligent search and
believes there are no such non-privileged and non-objectionable responsive
documents.  This is not a code compliant
response with respect to CCP § 2023.230. 
The motion is granted as to RPD No. 14.
                Plaintiffs’ motion to compel
Defendant’s further responses is granted as to RPD Nos. 1-16.  
C.     Sanctions 
The parties each request sanctions for
bringing the motion and opposing the motion. 
The requests are denied.  Defendant
was largely successful in its opposition on the RFA motion and Plaintiffs were
largely successful in their arguments in the motion on the RPDs.  At this time, the Court declines to award
sanctions.  The Court may be inclined to
award sanctions on future discovery motions, but it declines to do so on this
motion to compel further.   
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
            Plaintiffs’
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses is denied as to RFA Nos. 1-10
and granted as to RPD Nos. 1-16.  Defendant
is ordered to provide further responses within 20 days of notice of this
order.  
            No
sanctions shall be awarded.  
            Plaintiffs
shall provide notice of this order. 
 
