 Case Number:  22STCV20071    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department
B
 



 
michael
  l. zinna, 
                        Plaintiffs
            v.
 
douglas olsson, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  22STCV20071
 
  Hearing Date:  September 29, 2023
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
Application of keith scully to appear as counsel pro hac vice



 
            Counsel
Keith Scully (“Counsel”) applies to appear as counsel pro hac vice for Plaintiff Michael L. Zinna.  
Under CRC Rule 9.40, attorneys licensed and in
good standing in other states may, upon the California court’s approval, appear
as counsel pro hac vice in a pending
case if an active member of the state bar is associated as attorney of
record.  (CRC Rule 9.40(a).)  Counsel is a member, in good standing, of the State Bar
of Washington.  (Counsel
Decl., ¶2.)  In addition, Counsel is not a resident of the State of California, is
not regularly employed in the State of California, and is not engaged in
substantial business, professional or other activities in the State of
California.  (Id., ¶1.)  Thus, Counsel
satisfies the eligibility
requirements of CRC Rule 9.40(a). 
Counsel’s declaration addresses the six content
requirements outlined in CRC Rule 9.40(d). 
Counsel provides: (1) his residence and office address (Counsel
Decl., ¶1); (2) the
courts to which he has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission (id., ¶2); (3) that he is a member in good
standing in those courts (id., ¶2);
(4) that he is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court (id., ¶3); (5) that he has filed one application
to appear as counsel pro hac vice in
the state of California, which was granted on April 19, 2022 in Zeta Global Corp. v. Socialcom Inc. (case no. 19SMCV01066) (id., ¶4); and (6) the name, address, and
telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record (id., ¶5).  
However, Counsel has not met the requirement of CRC 9.40(c)(1)
which states that “a person desiring to appear as counsel pro hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a
verified application together with proof of service
. . . of a copy of the application and of the notice on all parties who have
appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office.”  Further, “An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under
this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of
California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is
served on the State Bar.”  (CRC Rule
.9.40(e).)  Prior to granting the
application, the Court would like to verify that the fee was paid and that the
application papers were served on the State Bar.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The Court is inclined to grant the motion upon the filing of the proof
of service of the application papers on and fee payment to the State Bar of
California by Counsel Keith Scully. 
Thus, the Court continues the hearing on this motion to October 6, 2023
at 8:30 a.m. so that Counsel can file these documents in support of the
application.  The proof of service and
proof of payment should be filed by October 3, 2023 by the end of the business
day. Counsel is also ordered to provide his bar number, address, and phone
number.  
Counsel shall give notice of
this order.  
 
