  Case Number:  20CHCV00200    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2023    Dept:  F51 MOTIONS TO BE
RELIEVED AS COUNSEL

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 20CHCV00200

 
Motions filed: 9/5/23 
 
MOVING ATTORNEY: George G. Mgdesyan (“Counsel”)
CLIENT: Defendants Roland Gabor and Susan Gabor (collectively,
“Defendants”)
NOTICE: OK
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order relieving Counsel as attorney
of record for Defendants. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: The motions are continued pending
Counsel providing the Court with a proof of service on all parties who have
appeared in the action.
 
In a civil action, an attorney may
move to be relieved as counsel at any time during the proceedings after giving
notice to his client. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284.) The moving attorney shall file
with his motion: (1) a notice of the motion, directed to the client using
Judicial Council form MC-051; (2) a declaration in support of the motion using
Judicial Council form MC-052; and (3) a proposed order granting the motion; all
to be served on the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.) 
 
In his declaration, the moving
attorney is required to state “in general terms, and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under
Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Id., subd. (c).) The client
must be provided no less than five days’ notice before hearing on the motion.
An attorney may withdraw from a case when it can be accomplished without undue
prejudice to the client’s interests. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) On the other hand, if the attorney withdraws at a
critical point in the action, thereby prejudicing his client, he has violated her
ethical duties. (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Counsel filed the instant
motions to be relieved as counsel for Defendants on 9/5/23. Counsel properly
filed an accompanying notice of the motion using MC-051, a declaration in
support of his motion using form MC-052, and a proposed order granting the
motion. In the MC-052 declaration, Counsel cited “a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship” such that Counsel must withdraw from
representation of Defendants. (Mgdesyan Decl., ¶ 2.) The next hearing date
in this action is a Mandatory Settlement Conference set for 2/22/24. Therefore,
Counsel’s withdrawal does not raise the risk of unduly prejudicing his client.
 
However, Counsel has failed to file
a proof of service of the necessary documents on all parties who have appeared
in the action, including Defendants. Counsel’s motions to be relieved as
counsel for Plaintiff are therefore continued pending Counsel providing the
Court with a proof of service on all parties who have appeared in the action. 
 
Additionally, if the notice is
served on the client by mail, the motion must also be supported by a
declaration “stating facts showing that either: (A) The service address is the
current residence or business address of the client; or (B) The service address
is the last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney
has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable
efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1).)
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motions are continued to 12/14/2023 pending Counsel
providing the Court with a proof of service on all parties who have appeared in
the action.