 Case Number:  22STCV12388    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  47 RENEE LOTENERO, et al. vs BMW OF NORTH
AMERICA, LLC, Case No. 22STCV12388
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON MOTIONS IN LIMINE
 
PLAINTIFFS’
MIL # 1 – seeking order excluding evidence, argument,
and voir dire regarding any attorney advertising by Plaintiff’s attorneys.
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, without
opposition.  Such matters are not
relevant to any claim or defense and are potentially prejudicial and, thus,
should be excluded under Evidence Code § 352.  All counsel and parties will be
introduced to prospective jurors who will be asked by the Court if they have
ever heard of or know any of the parties, lawyers or law firms and, if so, how
they came to hear of or know any of them. 
The Court may inquire into any prior impressions these potential jurors
have of any of the parties or lawyers but this questioning may be conducted out
of the earshot of other jurors, because of the potentially prejudicial impact
of negative views of individual jurors.  
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 2:  seeking order excluding evidence and argument
regarding Plaintiff’s ability to recover attorney’s fees, suggestions that the
litigation is attorney-driven, or otherwise attacking or criticizing
Plaintiff’s counsel.
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, without
opposition, as such matters are not relevant to any claim or defense and are
potentially prejudicial and, thus, should be excluded under Evidence Code §
352.  
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 3:  seeking order prohibiting argument or
testimony that Defendant conformed the vehicle within a reasonable number of
repair attempts because Defendant repaired a particular component.  
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED. 

Plaintiffs has failed to identify any evidence he
seeks to exclude.  What is more, it
appears to the Court that the crux of Plaintiff’s motion is not to prohibit the
introduction of any evidence but rather to restrict the arguments that might be
made about the controlling law and how it applies to the facts.  While the Court would be inclined to restrict
the parties from arguing that the Court’s jury instructions mean something
other than what the law requires, a decision about that issue is premature and
should be reserved to when the Court finalizes the jury instructions based on
the evidence admitted at trial and makes decisions about proper closing
arguments to the jury.  The Court
cautions the parties that neither voir dire nor opening statements are vehicles
for counsel to advocate for their interpretation of the law, so both parties
must avoid presenting any argument about their views of how the law applies to
the facts in the case, except to say broadly that Plaintiff/Defendant believes
that the evidence will show or not show that Plaintiff’s vehicle had “defects
that were covered by the warranty and that substantially impaired its use,
value or safety” and that the evidence will show or not show that Defendant
“failed to repair the vehicle to match the written warranty after a reasonable
number of opportunities to do so.”  (CACI
3201.)  If the parties want the Court to
resolve the legal debate their briefs present before the end of trial, the
Court is open to setting a hearing for doing so.  
  
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 4:  seeking order prohibiting argument or
testimony that Plaintiff did not make sufficient efforts to ask Defendant to
repurchase or replace the vehicle.  
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED IN PART as
to questions and argument about Plaintiffs’ failure to seek repurchase or
replacement of the vehicle and related evidence and argument, and otherwise DENIED,
without prejudice to objections raised as to similar evidence being offered.  
Plaintiffs have failed to identify any specific
evidence that they seek to exclude by way of this motion in limine.  Presumably, at a minimum, Plaintiffs seek to
bar Defendant’s inquiries about whether Plaintiffs made any requests that
Defendant repurchase or replace the vehicle or whether Defendant received any
requests for repurchase or replacement of the vehicle.  Based on the legal authorities discussed in
Plaintiffs’ moving papers, the Court prohibits any such questioning as
irrelevant to the claims and defenses before the Court.  While Defendant’s responses to any requests Plaintiffs
made may be relevant at trial, questions seeking to elicit testimony that
Plaintiff made no such requests or delayed in making them is not. 
Defendant opposes the motion apparently arguing that
plaintiff’s affirmative effort to obtain a buy-back or restitution is relevant
here because it was advanced when there was no legitimate basis for repurchase
and, thus, supports Defendant’s showing of a reasonable, good faith belief that
it had no legal obligation to buy back the vehicle.  But it is not the fact of Plaintiffs’
allegedly premature buy-back request or its timing that may tend to show the
reasonable or good faith nature of Defendant’s belief, but rather the actual
repair history of Plaintiffs’ vehicle at the time Defendant declined to
repurchase.  The presence or absence of
any buyback request from Plaintiffs cannot bolster Defendant’s argument that it
was justified in failing to provide the statutory remedy.  
The motion in limine also urges the Court to approve
Plaintiffs’ Special Jury Instruction regarding Defendant’s affirmative duty to
replace the vehicle or pay restitution and Plaintiffs’ lack of any obligation
to request these remedies.  The Court is inclined
to give such an instruction in some form but is open to hearing argument about
this issue or set a later hearing on this proposed instruction and other
disputes over substantive jury instructions. 

 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 5: 
seeking order prohibiting argument that Defendant is not responsible for
its authorized repair facility or that they are not the agent of BMW. 
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.
In their motion, Plaintiffs argue that BMW’s
dealership should be considered Defendant’s agent for all matters related to
its efforts to repair Plaintiffs’ vehicle both under the reasoning of Ibrahim
v. Ford Motor Co. (1989) 214 Cal. App. 3d 878, and under generally accepted
agency standards.  In opposition,
Defendant contends that Ibrahim holds only that the number of repair
attempts undertaken by the dealership are attributable to the manufacturer and
that it would be improper to conclude that a dealership is the manufacturer’s
agent for all purposes and grossly unfair to attribute every stray remark of an
onsite mechanic to the manufacturer.  The
Court tends to agree with Plaintiffs that the connection between the
manufacturer and dealership is an agency relationship with respect to the
latter’s repairs performed on the former’s vehicles.  The repair orders and other written
communications thus are generally admissible as statements of a party opponent,
but there may be circumstances where statements made by mechanics or service
representatives, in writing or orally, fall outside the scope of the agency
relationship or should be excluded under Evidence Code § 352.  Because the motion fails to identify any
specific statements to be admitted, and because the opposition describes no
specific comments to be excluded, the Court cannot issue an effective
evidentiary order to guide the marshaling of evidence for the upcoming trial
and, thus, denies the motion. 
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 6:  seeking order precluding evidence or argument
regarding any claim of a disclaimer or expiration of the implied warranty. 
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, without
opposition.
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 7:  seeking order precluding evidence or argument
that Plaintiff misused, abused, or failed to maintain the vehicle. 
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, without opposition.
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 8:  seeking order to exclude reference to any
settlement offers or negotiations. 
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, without
opposition.
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 9:  seeking order to preclude any evidence or
suggestion re increased cost of vehicles. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, without
opposition.
 
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 10:  seeking order to preclude any evidence or
reference regarding Defendant’s arbitration program.   
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED, without
opposition.
PLAINTIFFS’ MIL # 11:  seeking order to preclude testimony regarding
Defendant’s ability to repair or cost of repairing the vehicle.   
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED.
Evidence of the current possibility, cost or method
that might be used to repair Plaintiff’s vehicle is not relevant to any claim
or defense in this action.  The issue at
trial is not what could be done now to remedy the vehicle’s defects but rather
whether Defendant did in fact repair those defects after being presented with a
reasonable number of attempts to do so. 
Further, because of the speculative character of such evidence and the
need to delve into how and when the proposed fix was developed, any marginal
relevance is outweighed by the potential for prejudice, jury confusion and
undue consumption of time and, thus, the evidence should be excluded under
Evidence Code § 352.  
 
DEFENDANT’S MIL #3: 
seeking an order to preclude evidence or argument of civil
penalties.     
TENTATIVE
RULING:  DENIED.  
Plaintiffs seek civil penalties under Civil Code §
1794(c), but not under § 1794(e). 
According to Defendant’s reply, this clarification renders the motion
moot.
 
DEFENDANT’S MIL #4:  seeking an order to preclude evidence of incidental
or consequential and other non-recoverable damages.     
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED, without prejudice
to objections made at trial to particular evidence.  Based on Plaintiffs’ authorities, it appears
they will be seeking only such damages as are recoverable the statutory
formula, which will be provided to the jury in a proper instruction.
 
DEFENDANT’S MIL #5:  seeking an order to exclude evidence regarding
other lawsuits, claims, or settlements.      
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED. 

Because Defendant has failed to identify any evidence
to be excluded, the Court cannot issue a meaningful evidentiary ruling.  That said, the Court orders Plaintiffs to
make an offer of proof before presenting any argument or evidence regarding
other lawsuits, claims or settlement to allow time for argument and a proper
ruling on the whether the evidence should be admitted under Evidence Code §§
350 and 352.
 
 
DEFENDANT’S MIL #6: 
seeking an order to exclude references to Defendant and counsel,
including Defendant’s wealth, size and financial value and Counsel’s nature,
size and location.      
TENTATIVE
RULING:  GRANTED IN
PART, as to any commentary about defense counsel and as to
the wealth and/or financial value of Defendant, and DENIED IN PART, as
to Plaintiff’s ability to argue that Defendant’s size and resources show
that it had adequate ability to root out Plaintiffs’ vehicle as defective and
offer the remedy of repurchasing it.
 
DEFENDANT’S MIL #8:  seeking an order to preclude Plaintiffs from
introducing testimony or other evidence regarding valuation of the vehicle.      
TENTATIVE RULING:  DENIED.
Under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, a
vehicle qualifies for repurchase when it has a nonconformity to warranty that
the manufacturer or its representative is unable to repair after a reasonable
number of attempts.  (Civil Code § 1793.2.)  An actionable “nonconformity” is one which
“substantially impairs the use, value or safety of the new motor vehicle to the
buyer or lessee.”  (Civil. Code § 1793.22(e)(1).)  Thus, the value of the vehicle is at the core
of the claim.  Further, any impairment of
value “tak[es] into consideration the specific circumstances of the
buyer.”  (Lundy v. Ford Motor Company (2001)
87 Cal. App. 4th 472, 478.) Thus, it is proper for Plaintiffs to offer evidence
regarding their estimation of the worth of the vehicle given their needs and
the impaired use they suffered because of any nonconformity.  This does not mean, however, that Plaintiffs
may provide evidence of the dollar value of their impaired vehicle unless they
can demonstrate some expertise or other basis for such testimony.  Evidence Code § 813 authorizes unique lay
opinion testimony limited to real property owned by the witness.   
            