 Case Number:  22STCV06327    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 17, 2024                         TRIAL
DATE: March 18, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Robert Montee v. Keck Hospital of USC
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV06327            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL INDEPENDENT MEDICAL EXAMINATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Keck Hospital of USC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 6/12/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a medical malpractice action that was filed on February 2, 2022.
Plaintiff alleges that he suffered an injury to his urethra and bladder from
the improper placement of a Foley catheter during a surgical procedure. 
 
Defendant moves to compel a defense
medical examination, erroneously called an “independent” medical examination,
of the Plaintiff. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Compliance with Demand for an Independent (sic) Medical
Examination is GRANTED. 
 
            Good
cause exists for Defendant to obtain the requested examination of Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to attend a physical examination to be conducted at 3:30 PM on July
1, 2024, at the location of Orange County Urological Medical
Associates, 23961 Calle de la Magdalena, Ste. 500, Laguna Hills, California
92653; and that the nature and scope of Dr. Spitz’s examination will include
those injuries and complaints claimed by plaintiff in this action and will not
include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted or unduly
intrusive. The examination will consist of taking history, present status,
physical/clinical examination, cystoscopy and urodynamic study and review of records.
Dr. Spitz will interview Plaintiff regarding plaintiff’s current medication,
current treating providers, therapies and daily routines.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant moves to compel a defense
medical examination of the Plaintiff. 
 
Meet and Confer
 
           A
motion to compel a defense medical examination must be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt to
informally resolve the issues presented. (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040;
2032.250(a).) 
 
           The
declaration of Anastasia K. Olano in support of the motion states that the
parties met and conferred telephonically regarding whether Plaintiff would
permit performance of a cystoscopy as part of the examination, but were not
able to reach an agreement. (Declaration of Anastasia K. Olano ISO Mot. ¶¶
5-8.) 
 
“In Controversy” Requirement 
 
Any party may obtain discovery by means of a medical
examination of a party in an action in which the mental condition of that party
is “in controversy in the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.020(a).) Leave of
court is required. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(a).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff’s medical condition is directly placed in controversy on the face of
the Complaint. (See Complaint ¶¶14-15.) As such,
Plaintiff’s continuing medical condition is “in controversy” in this action,
and Defendant may conduct a medical examination of Plaintiff, if the other
statutory requirements are met. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.020(a); Vinson v.
Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839.) 
 
Procedural Requirements 
 
A motion for compliance with a demand for a physical
examination without any painful, protracted, or intrusive test or procedure is
brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2032.250(a). (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2032.220(a)(1),
2032.250(a).) To the extent that Plaintiff considers the cystoscopy to be
“intrusive,” a motion to secure such a physical examination is made under Code
of Civil Procedure §2032.310(a).  Such a
motion must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of
the examination, as well as the identity and specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(b).)
The motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Ibid.)
Notice of the motion must be served on the “person to be examined and on all
parties who have appeared in the action” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(c).) 
 
            Here, the
Notice of Motion expressly specifies the place, manner, conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the specialty of the person performing the
examination. Notice was served on Plaintiff and specifies that board-certified
urologist will take a medical history, present status, conduct a physical and
clinical examination, conduct a cystoscopy and urodynamic study, review
Plaintiff’s medical records, and interview him regarding his current
medication, treatment providers, therapies, and daily routines. (Notice of
Motion p.2:1-7.) The motion does not set forth the time at which the
examination would take place. The Separate Statement accompanying this motion
when it was filed on January 2, 2024, states that the examination would take
place on January 16, 2024 at 3:30 p.m. and continue as long as reasonably
required. (Separate Statement p.2:5-6.)
 
            Finally, a
Court-ordered physical examination may only be performed by a licensed
physician. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.020(b).) Dr. Spitz testifies to his training
and licensure as a physician. (Declaration of Aaron Spitz ISO Mot. ¶ 3.)  Given the long delay in ruling on this motion,
the Court finds that the motion has substantially complied with the procedural
requirements to compel a defense medical examination, notwithstanding the long-passed
date for the examination. 
 
Good Cause
 
A defendant may move to compel a physical examination of a
plaintiff upon receipt of a modification or refusal of the demand which the
defendant deems unwarranted. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250(a).) A motion for a
medical examination is granted “only for good cause shown.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2032.320(a).) Good cause requires the moving party to “produce specific facts
justifying discovery and that the inquiry be relevant to the subject matter of
the action or reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Vinson v Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.) The
requirement of good cause “serves as a barrier to excessive and unwarranted
intrusions.” (Sporich v. Superior Court (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 422, 428
[superseded by statute in unrelated part].) If the moving party shows good
cause for the examination, the Court’s order must specify the “person or
persons who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner,
diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.320(d).)  
 
Defendant contends that, according to Dr. Spitz, it is necessary to a
reasonable medical probability to conduct a cystoscopy to evaluate Plaintiff’s
injuries, as this procedure is the best method to visualize the site of the
injury and determine its extent. (Spitz Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.) As Plaintiff has not
contested this motion, the Court concurs. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Compel an Independent Medical Examination is GRANTED. 
 
            Good
cause exists for Defendant to obtain the requested examination of Plaintiff.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to attend a physical examination to be conducted at 3:30 PM on July
1, 2024, at the location of Orange County Urological Medical
Associates, 23961 Calle de la Magdalena, Ste. 500, Laguna Hills, California
92653; and that the nature and scope of Dr. Spitz’s examination will include
those injuries and complaints claimed by plaintiff in this action and will not
include invasive tests or procedures. The examination will consist of taking
history, present status, physical/clinical examination, cystoscopy and
urodynamic study and review of records. Dr. Spitz will interview plaintiff
regarding plaintiff’s current medication, current treating providers, therapies
and daily routines.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 17, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge of the
Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 