 Case Number:  23PSCV03822    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  G Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Puente Hills Ford’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiffs Sylvia
V Ramirez and Osvaldo Huizar
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Ford Motor
Company and Puente Hills Ford’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint¿is SUSTAINED
IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the sixth cause of action
and OVERRULED IN PART as to the fifth cause of action.
BACKGROUND
This
is a Song-Beverly action. In January 2020, Plaintiffs Sylvia V Ramirez and
Osvaldo Huizar allegedly entered into a warranty contract with Defendant Ford
Motor Company (Ford) with regards to a 2019 Ford F150. Subsequently, Ramirez
and Huizar allege the vehicle exhibited defects with its engine, transmission, and
electrical system.
On December
8, 2023, Ramirez and Huizar filed a complaint against Ford, Puente Hills Ford,
and Does 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) violation of Civil
Code section 1793.2, subdivision (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section
1793.2, subdivision (b); (3) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (a)(3); (4) breach of implied warranty of merchantability, (5)
fraudulent inducement by concealment, and (6) negligent repair.
On January
12, 2024, Ford and Puente Hills Ford (collectively, the Ford Defendants) filed
the present demurrer. Prior to filing, the Ford Defendants’ counsel met and
conferred telephonically with Ramirez and Huizar’s counsel and was unable to
reach a resolution. (Liu Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. D.) On March 5, 2024, the court stayed
proceedings on the demurrer pending proceedings before the California Supreme
Court on similar legal issues.
A
hearing on the present demurrer is set for January 14, 2025, along with a case
management conference.
ANALYSIS
The
Ford Defendants demur to Ramirez and Huizar’s fifth cause of action
(concealment) and sixth cause of action (negligent repair). For the following
reasons, the court SUSTAINS their demurrer to Ramirez and Huizar’s sixth
cause of action with leave to amend and OVERRULES their demurrer to Ramirez
and Huizar’s fifth cause of action.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Concealment
(Fifth Cause of Action)
The
Ford Defendants argue Ramirez and Huizar’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent
inducement through concealment is barred by the economic loss rule and
insufficiently pled. The court disagrees.
Economic
Loss Rule
Pursuant to the economic loss rule, “there is no
recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning
financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” (Sheen v.
Wells Fargo Bank. N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) It “functions to bar
claims in negligence for pure economic losses in deference to a contract
between litigating parties.” (Id., at p. 922.) “Tort damages have been
permitted in contract cases where a breach of duty directly causes physical
injury [Citation]; for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing in
insurance contracts [Citation]; for wrongful discharge in violation of
fundamental public policy [Citation]; or where the contract was fraudulently
induced. [Citation.] In each of these cases, the duty that gives rise to tort
liability is either completely independent of the contract or arises from
conduct which is both intentional and intended to harm.” (Erlich v. Menezes (1999)
21 Cal.4th 543, 551-552.)¿ If fraud occurs independent of a breach
of contract, the economic loss rule does not apply. (See Robinson v.
Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979, 991.) For
example, fraudulent misrepresentations made to induce a party to enter into an
agreement are not barred because they are independent of that breach of
contract. (Id., at p. 991.) And no distinction is made with regards to
whether the act of fraud was an affirmative representation or concealment of
material facts. (See Rattagan v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2024) 17
Cal.5th 1, 39 (Rattagan).)
The Ford Defendants argue Ramirez and Huizar’s cause
of action fails because it is based on alleged concealment as opposed to
affirmative misrepresentations. But as noted above, Rattagan has since
rejected this requirement. The Ford Defendants also argue Ramirez and Huizar failed to adequately
plead the fraudulent inducement exception to the economic loss rule.
Specifically, the Ford Defendants argue Ramirez and Huizar failed to allege that Ford did not intend
to honor its warranty obligations as required by Food Safety Net Services v.
Eco Safe Systems USA, Inc. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1118, 1131. There, the
court noted “[t]o establish a claim of fraudulent inducement, one must show
that the defendant did not intend to honor its contractual promises when they
were made.” (Id., at p. 1131.) But this is not the correct standard here
as Ramirez and
Huizar did
not allege Ford made a false promise or false representation. Rather, Ramirez and Huizar have alleged Ford
concealed material facts—transmission defects—from Ramirez and Huizar. (Complaint, ¶ 36.) And
as demonstrated below, Ramirez and Huizar have adequately pled a cause of action for concealment.
Sufficiency of Concealment Allegations
“[T]he elements of a cause of action for fraud
based on concealment are: ‘(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed
a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the
fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or
suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff
must have been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had
known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the
concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained
damage.’” (Kaldenbach v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 830, 850, quoting Roddenberry v. Roddenberry (1996) 44
Cal.App.4th 634, 665-666.)
One party’s failure to disclose material facts
unknown to another party is not fraud unless “unless there is¿some
relationship¿between the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose
such known facts.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 337,
quoting BAJI No. 12.36 (8th ed. 1994.) “A duty to disclose facts arises only
when the parties are in a relationship that gives rise to the duty, such as
‘seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.’” (Shin v. Kong (2000)
80 Cal.App.4th 498, 509, quoting Wilkins v. National Broadcasting Co. (1999)
71 Cal.App.4th 1066, 1082.) “In transactions which do not involve fiduciary or
confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of material facts
may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes representations
but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts disclosed, or
which render his disclosure likely to mislead;¿(2)¿the facts are known or
accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known to or
reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff;¿(3) the defendant actively conceals
discovery from the plaintiff.” (Warner Constr. Corp. v. City of Los Angeles (1970)
2 Cal.3d 285, 294.)
Here, the Ford Defendants first argue Ramirez and Huizar failed to
allege the defect that Ford allegedly concealed. In the Complaint, Ramirez and Huizar alleges Ford
knew that the vehicles at issue had transmission defects which resulted in
hesitation, delayed acceleration, harsh or hard shifting, jerking, shuddering,
or juddering. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) Ramirez and Huizar also allege Ford actively concealed the
existence and nature of the defects from Ramirez and Huizar at the time of
purchase and repair. (Complaint, ¶ 36.) While the Ford Defendants attempt to
undermine these allegations by claiming they merely demonstrate how the
transmissions may be defective, Ramirez and Huizar’s actual
allegation does not contain such tentative language. Thus, the court finds these
allegations are sufficiently alleged.
Next, the Ford Defendants
contend Ramirez
and Huizar failed to allege facts
establishing Ford was under a duty to disclose allegedly concealed facts. They
contend Ford did not have a duty to disclose because Ramirez and Huizar failed to allege the vehicle at issue was purchased
directly from Ford. But Ramirez and Huizar also
allege Ford made express written warranties. (Complaint, ¶ 9-10.) Express
warranties are contractual in nature. (See Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14
Cal.3d 104, 117.) In supplemental briefing, the Ford Defendants contend Rattagan
and Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276 (Bigler-Engler)
support the conclusion that the existence of warranty is insufficient to create
a transactional relationship.
As discussed above, Rattagan dealt with
the applicability of the economic loss rule to concealment claims. (Rattagan,
supra, 17 Cal.5th at p. 38.) But while Rattagan discussed the
elements of a cause of action for concealment, it did not express any opinion
on whether vehicle warranties create a contractual relationship that gives rise
to the duty to disclose. Nor does the Ford Defendants’ briefing provide a
citation to such analysis.
In Bigler-Engler, the court held the fact
that an individual used a medical device manufactured by the defendant did not
evidence a relationship giving rise to the duty to disclose, noting the parties
did not transact in any way. (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th
at p. 314.) But Bigler-Engler was a products liability case and did not
involve the issue of a defendant making express warranties. (Id., at p.
284.) In fact, throughout their lengthy supplemental briefing, the Ford
Defendants failed to provide citation to a single binding authority that holds
a manufacturer’s express warranties to a consumer is insufficient to create a
transactional relationship.
The Ford Defendants next contend Ramirez and Huizar failed to plead
Ford had exclusive knowledge of the alleged defects. Ramirez and Huizar allege Ford was under a
duty to disclose because it had knowledge of defects through sources
unavailable to Ramirez and Huizar including “including but not limited to pre-production and
post-production testing data, early consumer complaints about the transmission
defect made directly to [Ford] and its network of dealers, aggregate warranty
data compiled from [Ford]’s network of dealers, testing conducted by [Ford] in
response to these complaints, as well warranty repair and part replacements
data received by [Ford] from [Ford]’s network of dealers, amongst other sources
of internal information.” (Complaint, ¶ 61.) Ramirez and Huizar also allege they “could not reasonably have been expected
to learn or discover of the Vehicle's Transmission Defect and its potential
consequences until well after [Ramirez
and Huizar] purchased the Vehicle.”
(Complaint, ¶ 64(d).)
In
response, the Ford Defendants contend Ramirez and Huizar failed to plead what the testing revealed. But Ramirez and Huizar do allege so, stating Ford
acquired its knowledge of the transmissions defect from sources including such
testing data. (Complaint, ¶ 61.) To the extent the Ford Defendants are demanding Ramirez and Huizar allege the exact results of
those tests, such specificity is not required where “the allegations indicate that ‘the defendant must necessarily
possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy’” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158, quoting Bradley
v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825) or if “the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Ibid, quoting Turner
v. Milstein (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 651, 658.)
The
Ford Defendants also contend Ramirez and Huizar
failed to allege a connection between issues raised in consumer complaints and the subject
vehicle. But again, such specificity is unnecessary where Ramirez and Huizar
have alleged Ford acquired knowledge of the defect from these complaints and
where the contents of such complaints lie more in the knowledge of Ford. To the
extent Ford contests its knowledge and the existence of such transmission
defects, such contentions are inappropriate at the demurrer stage where Ramirez
and Huizar’s well-pleaded allegations are deemed true.
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES the Ford Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action.
Negligent
Repair (Sixth Cause of Action)
Puente
Hills Ford contends Ramirez and Huizar’s sixth cause of action for negligent repair is
barred by the economic loss rule and fails to allege damages. The court agrees
it is barred by the economic loss rule.
As
noted in the previous section, the economic loss rule bars tort recovery for
“purely economic losses.” (Sheen, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 905.) This is because “conduct amounting
to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates a duty
independent of the contract arising from principles of tort law.” (Erlich v.
Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551.) In this case, Ramirez and Huizar allege Puente Hills Ford
owed Ramirez
and Huizar a
duty “to use ordinary care and skill in storage, preparation and repair of the
Subject Vehicle in accordance with industry standards.” (Complaint, ¶ 74.) But
it is unclear whether Puente Hills Ford’s duty to repair the subject vehicle is
contractual or based on an independent duty. When it is unclear if an action
arises from a contract or noncontractual duty, “the action will be considered
based on contract rather than tort.” (Arthur L. Sachs, Inc. v. City of
Oceanside (1984) 151 Cal.App.3d 315, 322.) Thus, because Ramirez and Huizar’s negligent repair action
is based on a contractual duty to repair and Ramirez and Huizar have not alleged any facts
establishing an independent noncontractual duty, Ramirez and Huizar’s sixth cause of action is
barred by the economic loss rule.
Ramirez
and Huizar contend
there is an exception to the economic loss rule for negligently performed
professional services contracts. Indeed, such an exception does exist to ensure
“that the consumer receives the services the professional agreed to provide.” (Sheen,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 933.) “In such settings, professionals generally
agree to provide ‘careful efforts’ in rendering contracted-for services,¿but
‘most clients do not know enough to protect themselves by inspecting the
professional’s work or by other independent means.’” (Ibid, quoting
Rest.3d Torts, Liability for Economic Harm (June 2020) § 4, com. a., p. 22.)
Such professional services can include those offered by doctors, attorneys,
accountants, and stockbrokers. (See Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart
& Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176, 188.) But Ramirez and Huizar fail to provide any binding
authority that holds these types of professional services contracts include
vehicle repair.
Ramirez
and Huizar also
rely on Jimenez v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 473, which holds
“California decisional law has long recognized that the economic loss rule does
not necessarily bar recovery in tort for damage that a defective product (e.g.,
a window) causes to other portions of a larger product (e.g., a house) into
which the former has been incorporated.” (Id., at p. 483.) Here however,
Ramirez
and Huizar fail
to allege that Puente Hills Ford’s failure to repair transmission issues caused
damage to other subcomponents of the vehicle.
Accordingly,
Puente Hills Ford’s demurrer to Ramirez and Huizar’s sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
Ford Defendants’ demurrer to Ramirez
and Huizar’s Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days
leave to amend as to the sixth cause of action and OVERRULED IN PART as
to the fifth cause of action.