 Case Number:  22PSCV00580    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION BY
PLAINTIFF WENDY LIN TO QUASH SUBPOENA is CONTINUED/TBD pending
supplemental briefing. 
 
Background
 
(Even though
the motion was filed in case 22PSCV00580
(filed 6/14/22), it relates to the related case of 22STCV31621 (filed 9/27/22), as acknowledged by
both parties.[1]
Therefore, the court will provide case 22STCV31621’s factual background and
related filings.) 
 
This is a contracts case. Plaintiff Wendy Lin (“Wendy” or
“Plaintiff”) alleges that she and Defendant Bo Sun (“Bo” or “Defendant”) formed
TOPTREE INVESTMENT LLC (“Toptree”) with the purpose of jointly purchasing a
property in Chino Hills (the “property”). Plaintiff paid the entire purchase
price, but Bo has failed to pay his $50,000 capital contribution such that by
the terms of the Operating Agreement, Bo has lost his entire membership
interest in the company. (See generally First Amended Complaint (FAC).)[2]

 
On June 3,
2024, Wendy filed the instant motion to quash.
 
On July 12,
2024, Bo filed his opposition.
 
On July 23,
2024, Wendy filed her reply. 
 
On July 25,
2024, the court granted Bo’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against
Wendy in addition to Nature Land, Inc. and Vua Kho Bo, Inc. which are other
third-party entities which are owned by Wendy (case 22STCV31621). That same
day, in case 22PSCV00580, pursuant to oral stipulation during the hearing due
to the court’s ongoing connectivity issues such that the reply brief was not
timely received, the hearing was continued to 8/8/24.
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1(a) provides as follows: “If a subpoena requires...the
production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things...the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b)...may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying
it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court
shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any
other orders as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”
 
Discussion
 
At the
outset, the court agrees with Bo, and Plaintiff otherwise concedes in reply,
that the motion has failed to file a separate statement as required by CRC Rule
3.1345(a)(5). However, the court exercises its discretion to overlook that
defect because (i) the motion itself sets forth the documents at issue and (2)
any factual arguments are Bo’s burden to set forth. Thus, as the separate
statement would merely be duplicative of contents set forth in the motion, the
motion will not be denied on said grounds. The court now turns to the merits of
the motion.
 
On or about May 8, 2024, Defendant Bo Sun (“Defendant”)
served Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records (“Subpoenas”)
dated May 8, 2024, on John Wu CPA, Inc., seeking the following:
 
1.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements, for Toptree
Investment LLC from December 2019 to the present time.
2.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements, for Nature
Land, Inc. from May 2008 to the present time. 
3.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements, for Jerky
King, Inc. from September 2009 to the present time. (Wendy does not take
issue with categories 3.) 
4.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Vua
Kho Bo, Inc. from December 2011 to the present time. 
5.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Vua
Kho Bo & Omai from December 2011 to the present time. 
6.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Wendy
Lin from May 2008 to the present time.
7.     Produce all documents including, but
not limited to, communications, tax returns, tax related documents, balance
sheet, profit and loss statements, general ledger and bank statements for Bo
Sun from May 2008 to the present time. (Wendy does not take issue with
category 7; Motion p. 4:5-6.)
 
Wendy moves
to quash said subpoena because they seek private financial information. As
noted by Plaintiff and not otherwise disputed in opposition, it is well established that individuals have a legally recognized privacy
interest in their personal financial information. (See Motion p.
6, citing Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal. 3d 652,
656-58; see also p. 7, citing In re Ins. Installment Fee Cases (2012)
211 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1428 [information privacy in personal financial affairs];
see p. 7, citing Look v. Penovatz (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 61, 73 [right to
privacy extends to an individual's confidential financial information in
whatever form it takes, e.g., tax returns, checks, statements, or other account
information].) “In the face of an objection based on privacy, the party seeking
discovery of the information must show that information is ‘directly relevant’
to a cause of action or defense, ‘essential to the fair resolution of the
lawsuit,’ and not available through less intrusive means.” (Ibid.) 
 
Simply put,
once the privacy objection is asserted (as Wendy has done here), the burden shifts to the
propounding party (here, Bo) to explain the relevancy of the financial
information and that the information sought cannot be obtained through less
intrusive means. However, Bo has failed to meet his burden. Bo
claims that the financial records are needed because “[a] full accounting of
all entities relating to the joint venture will show that not only Sun made his
contribution into [Toptree] but also that Lin took more than she was entitled
to take from the joint venture.” (Opp. p. 3:2-5.) But if the concern is an
accounting, it is unclear,
how, as noted by Wendy, tax returns are necessary for such computation.
(See Reply p. 2:19-21 [“This could be done with bank records, banks statements,
checks, all of which would be entirely fair game to resolve the issues in this
case. However, to then say that tax returns are also necessary is untrue and
protected.”].)  
 
As for the
corporate entities, both parties acknowledge that the right to privacy is generally
limited to natural persons. (Opp. p. 5:17-18, citing Roberts v. Gulf Oil
Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 770, 791; see also Motion p. 7:18-23, citing Ameri-Med
Corp. v. Worker's Comp. Appeals Bd. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1260 (Ameri-Med)
Notwithstanding, “the law is developing in the
direction that the strength of the privacy right being asserted by a nonhuman
entity depends on the circumstances. Two critical factors are the strength of
the nexus between the artificial entity and human beings and the context in
which the controversy arises.” (Id. at p. 1288, quoting Roberts,
supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at pp. 796-797.) Neither party has adequately
briefed this balancing test.
 
Therefore, the
court will allow for supplemental briefing to explain in detail the relevancy
of the financial documents and why all sources of financial information
are needed. Regardless of the outcome, the court will not award monetary sanctions
to either party.[3]

 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is continued/TBD pending supplemental briefing. 


