  Case Number:  20STCV15419    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF TED
SAKAIDA & SONS TRUCKING INC. (v. FAC of Plaintiff Edgardo Pano, Jr. and
the FACC of Serrano Development Group, Inc, Pacific Empire Builders, and Azusa
Block 36) is DENIED without prejudice as to Plaintiff’s complaint
because no separate MSJ was filed. 
 
(2)   MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF SUN
AGGREGATES, LLC (v. First Amended Cross-Complaint of Serrano Development Group,
Inc., Pacific Empire Builders, and Azusa Block 36) is GRANTED. 
 
 
Background[1]
 
This is a
wrongful death case. 
 
On April 22,
2020, Plaintiff Edgardo Pano, Jr.[2]
filed suit against SERRANO DEVELOPMENT GROUP, INC. (“Serrano”); PACIFIC EMPIRE
BUILDERS, INC. (“Pacific Empire”); AZUSA BLOCK 36, LLC (“Azusa Block”); CITY OF
AZUSA (“the City”); JONELLE SOLLER (“Soller”)[3]
(collectively, “Defendants”) for the death of his father who was struck by a
truck while riding his bicycle. More specifically, Plaintiff alleges that the
width of the roadway where decedent was struck had been reduced by the
placement of concrete barriers to accommodate construction, but that said
barriers were placed without any adequate warnings. 
 
On July 23, 2020, Plaintiff filed his first
amended complaint (FAC) asserting the following causes of action (COAs): 1.     Negligence—Motor Vehicle 2.     Negligence Per Se 3.     Negligent Entrustment 4.     Negligent Hiring, Retention and
Supervision 5.     Negligence—Premises Liability 6.     Dangerous Condition of Public Property 
On October 8,
2020, Plaintiff named Luis Morales (“Luis”) as Doe 1 and Rios Trucking as Does
2. 
 
On November
4, 2020, Plaintiff named Right Truck, Inc. as Doe 3.
 
On December
11, 2020, Luis Eduardo Rios Morales Dba Rios Trucking (“Rios Trucking”) filed a
cross-complaint (“CC”) against named Defendants for indemnity.
 
On January
15, 2021, Serrano, Pacific Empire, and Azusa Block filed a CC against B.L.
PRICE CO., INC (“BL Price”); TED SAKAIDA & SONS, INC. (“Ted Trucking”);
MANUAL D. TEJEDA TRUCKING INC. (“Tejeda Trucking”); Rios Trucking; and Right
Truck Inc. (“Right Trucking”) for: 1.     Breach of Contract 2.     Express Indemnity 3.     Equitable Indemnity 4.     Contribution 5.     Declaratory Relief
 
On January
19, 2021, Soller, as a successor in interest to decedent and in her personal
capacity, filed a complaint for wrongful death (21STCV02124) against Serrano,
Pacific Empire, Azusa Block, the City, Rios Trucking, Right Truck, and Luis. 
 
On March 1,
2021, Ted Trucking filed a CC against Serrano, Pacific Empire, Azusa Block, the
City, and Soller for:
 
1.     Equitable Indemnity 
2.     Contribution
3.     Express Indemnity and
4.     Declaratory Relief
 
On March 15,
2021, Right Trucking filed a CC against Serrano, Pacific Empire, Azusa Block,
the City, and BL Price for indemnity.
 
On March 17,
2021, BL Price filed a CC against Manual D. Tejeda Trucking, Inc. (“Tejeda
Trucking”) and Rios Trucking (and later on 4/14/21 naming Right Truck for
indemnity. 
 
On April 13,
2021, Plaintiff named various doe defendants.
 
On July 22,
2022, Tejeda Trucking filed a CC against Zoes for indemnity.
 
On March 8, 2022, Serrano, Azusa Block, and
Pacific Empire filed their first amended CC v. BL Price, Ted Trucking, Tejeda
Trucking, Rios Trucking, and Right Truck (which is the subject of Sun
Aggregates’ MSJ). 
 
On June 10,
2022, Serrano, Azusa Block, and Pacific Empire named Hi-Way Safety Rentals,
Inc. as Roe 1 and on September 22, 2022, they named Sun Aggregates LLC as Doe 2. 
 
On October
19, 2022, Sun Aggregates LLC (“Sun Aggregates”) filed a Cross Complaint for indemnity
against Serrano, Pacific Empire, Azusa Block, Tejeda Trucking, Rios Trucking,
and Right Truck.
 
On December
29, 2022, Serrano, Pacific Empire, and Azusa Block (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”) a demurrer to Sun Aggregates’ cause of action for express
indemnity, which on 2/15/23 was sustained with leave to amend as the pleading
failed to provide the express language allowing for express indemnity. 
 
On November
8, 2023, the court entered the order granting Hi-Way’s Motion to quash
Plaintiffs’ improper/incomplete service of process. As the Plaintiffs were not
truly ignorant of Hi-Way’s identity, their claims against Hi-Way are barred by
the applicable statute of limitations and were dismissed with prejudice.
 
On May 10,
2024, the two instant MSJs were filed.[4]
 
On July 25,
2024, Serrano + filed its respective oppositions.
 
On July 29,
2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to Ted Trucking’s MSJ, indicating that he
“hereby joins [Serrano +] in their opposition to the Motion for Summary
Judgement filed by [Ted Trucking].”
 
On August 2,
2024, both Ted Trucking and Sun Aggregates filed their respective replies in
support of their respective motions.
 
For simplicity, the court will
refer to Serrano Development Group, Inc., Pacific Empire Builders, and Azusa
Block 36 as Serrano + and Sun Aggregates as Sun. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3)
determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable,
material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“The motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) For emphasis,
only material facts govern summary judgment.4 To be material, a fact must be
essential to the action and, if proven, change the outcome of the case. (Los
Angeles Nat’l Bank v. Bank of Canton (1991) 229 Cal.App.3d 1267, 1274.)5 As
A moving defendant bears the
initial burden of production to show that one or more elements of the cause of
action cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to the cause
of action, at which point the burden shifts to the plaintiff to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a
separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that
the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to
comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s
discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1). 
 Once the moving party meets its evidentiary
burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to show triable issues of
material. Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party
opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor
of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra, 135
Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether
the papers show that there is a triable issue as to any material fact, the
court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the moving papers, except
that as to which objections have been made and sustained, and all inferences
reasonable deducible from such evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)
Discussion
 
At the
outset, Ted Trucking seeks summary judgment as to two pleadings, but
that is improper because the pleadings are predicated upon different legal
issues. The cross-complaint is one for indemnity whereas the complaint is
predicated upon negligence. (See Rutter
Group, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial ¶9:24.3 (2024) [practice for combining
motions].) With that, the Ted Trucking’s MSJ is denied without prejudice so it
can be properly filed.   
 
The court now turns to the merits of Sun’s motion,
but before doing so, the court outlines the role of the relevant parties,
which is not otherwise disputed by the parties.  
 
-       
Serrano
+ were the owners/developers on the Orchard project (mix used project) (Opp. p.
2)[5]
-       
Serrano
+ entered into a written agreement with grading subcontractor BL Price whose
scope of work including demolition, shoring, grading, and exporting soil and
other materials from the project site (Opp. p. 2; see also Motion p. 10; see
also Serrano + FACC ¶17)
-       
BL
Price subcontracted the exporting scope of the work to Ted Trucking and/or Sun
that was memorialized by a “Trucking Agreement” (Opp. p. 3, 4) 
-       
Sun
is a brokerage company (Motion p. 10)[6]
-       
Sun
subcontracted with Tejeda Trucking (Motion p. 10). There was no written
contract between Tejeda Trucking and Sun because Sun has brokered to Tejeda
Trucking for years. The Trucking Agreement between BL Price and Sun did not
preclude the use of a subhauler (Opp. p. 4:21-23). 
-       
Tejeda
Trucking subcontracted with Right Truck (Motion p. 10). There was no written
contract between Sun and Right Truck. (Motion p. 5, ¶4.) 
-       
Right
Truck subcontracted with Rios Trucking (Motion p. 10). There was no written
contract between Sun and Rios Trucking. (Motion p. 5, ¶4.) 
-       
Luis
Rios Morales of Rios Trucking was the truck driver involved in the accident (Motion
p. 10)
 
As the
pleadings frame the issues on summary judgment, the court turns to the relevant
FACC which provides that “BL Price [] and Roes 1 through 25, and each of them, have
an EXPRESS DUTY and are obligated to indemnify and hold [Serrano +]
harmless …costs…incurred arising from their work in connection with the Project
pursuant to the WRITTEN CONTRACTS.” (FACC ¶ ¶22, 23, emphasis and
capitalization added.) With that, the burden of Sun only requires that they negate
the “theories of liability as alleged in the complaint; that
is, a moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical possibility
not included in the pleadings.” (Hutton
v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493.” “[P]apers
filed in response to a defendant's motion for summary judgment may not
create issues outside
the pleadings and
are not a substitute for an amendment to the pleadings… [s]imilarly, [d]eclarations in opposition
to a motion for summary judgment ‘are no substitute
for amended pleadings.’
... If the motion for summary judgment presents evidence sufficient to
disprove the plaintiff's claims, ... the plaintiff forfeits an opportunity to
amend to state new claims by failing to request it.” (Ibid, internal
citations omitted.) But, as noted by moving Defendants and not otherwise
disputed, the only contract into by Sun relating to the Project was with BL
Price; they did NOT have a written contract with Serrano +. (See e.g., Sun Reply
p. 3:10-16.) Therefore,
the indisputable material fact is that there is no express duty that Sun
indemnifies Serrano + because there was no written contract between Sun and
Serrano +.  
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing—in that Sun had no contract with, and did not hire, Rios Morales—Sun’s
motion is granted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


