  Case Number:  23VECV00077    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  T AVASHARIAN V GOULOOMIAN
23VECV00077
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Arpy Gouloomian and RP&A LLC’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is GRANTED but at a reduced amount of $18,812.50.
Defendants Arpy Gouloomian and
RP&A LLC’s Motion for Costs is NOT CONSIDERED.
Introduction 
Defendants Arpy Gouloomian
(Gouloomian) and RP&A LLC (RP&A) (collectively, Defendants) moved for
attorneys’ fees ($24,456.25) and costs ($1,326.30) as against Plaintiff Minas
Michael Avsharian.  Plaintiff filed an
opposition and Defendants filed a reply.
Discussion 
Defendants requested attorneys’
fees based upon the Lease’s attorneys’ fees provision.  (Gouloomian Decl. Exh., 1, par. 31.)  The parties are not in dispute that
Defendants are the prevailing parties. 
Plaintiff argued that the reasonable hourly rate is excessive because
the case was not complicated, pretrial hearings/motion work was not extensive,
experts were not utilized, and it was Defendants’ actions that caused
Plaintiff’s losses/damages.  Defendants’
Counsel argued that $650/hr. was reasonable based upon Counsel’s education and
experience. (Gerro Decl. par. 3.) 
Although it is undisputed that Counsel has extensive experience in real
estate law, the Court finds the hourly rate excessive because the legal issues
presented to be straightforward and the quantity of law and motion work to be
below average, as well as the usual hourly rate for similar services in Los
Angeles County.  For these findings, the
Court reduced the hourly rate to $500/hour. 

Plaintiff disputed Defendants’
entitlement to fees under the Lease because Defendants’ entire defense depended
on disputing that any Lease existed. 
However, “numerous appellate decisions have applied section 1717 to
award attorney fees to prevailing parties even in situations where the contract
containing the attorney fees provisions is unenforceable, rescinded, or
nonexistent, or where the party sued on a contract is actually a non signatory.
[Citations omitted.]”  (North Associates
v. Bell (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 860, 865.) 
“[T]he fundamental purpose of section 1717 to insure mutuality of a
prevailing party's access to an award of attorney fees. As long as an action
“involves” a contract, and one of the parties would be entitled to recover
attorney fees under the contract if that party prevails in its lawsuit, the
other party should also be entitled to attorney fees if it prevails, even if it
does so by successfully arguing the inapplicability, invalidity,
unenforceability, or nonexistence of the same contract. [Citations
omitted.]  As stated in Jones v. Drain,
supra., 149 Cal.App.3d at pages 489-490: “The courts have consistently held
that the award of Civil Code section 1717 contractual attorney's fees is to be
governed by equitable principles. [Citations.]” 
(Ibid.)  Despite Defendants’
contentions/arguments to invalidate the alleged Lease with the fees provision,
it would be inequitable to deny attorneys’ fees to Defendants, as prevailing parties,
simply because they succeeded on their arguments, especially when Plaintiff
would have been entitled to fees had Plaintiff prevailed.  Plaintiff’s argument to disavow Defendants’
rights to fees is unpersuasive.
Defendants Counsel’s invoices
provide that they charged 37.625 hours. 
The Court finds the hours expended to be reasonable.  When factoring in a $500/hour rate,
Defendants reasonable fees amount to $18,812.50.
The motion for attorneys’ fees is
GRANTED at the reduced amount of $18,812.50.
The requested costs identified in
the two Cost Memos filed by Defendants and the costs identified in the instant
motion are different.  The two Cost Memos
requested a total of $1,264.65 and the instant motion requested $1,326.30.  Issues related to a request for costs is
placed before the Court by Cost Memos and Motion to Tax/Strike Costs.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700.)  There is no motion to tax/strike costs
pending before the Court.  Because the
request for costs in the instant noticed motion improperly placed the issue of
costs before the Court, the Court does not consider or rule upon the requested
costs of $1,326.30.  Costs are to be
entered by way of the two Cost Memos.
The motion’s request as to Costs
are NOT CONSIDERED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.