  Case Number:  20STCV48398    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 18, 2020, Plaintiff Francisco Perez Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Kuldeep Shukla (“Shukla”), Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), and
Does 1-50 for negligence, negligent hiring, training,
and supervision, and strict products liability. 
On
March 29, 2021, Lyft filed an answer. On May 7, 2021, Shukla filed an answer. 
On
January 25, 2024, the Court granted Lyft’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
on Plaintiff’s third cause of action for strict products liability with 30 days
leave to amend. 
On
February 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Shukla,
Lyft, and Does 1-50 for negligence,
negligent hiring, training, and supervision, and “strict
products liability pursuant to CPUC 5354.” 
On
March 19, 2024, Shukla filed an answer to the first amended complaint. 
On
March 27, 2024, Lyft filed a demurrer to be heard on May 1, 2024.  Lyft also filed an admission of vicarious
liability for Shukla’s negligence, if any.  On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the demurrer.  On April 24,
2024, Lyft filed a reply.  The Court
continued the hearing on the demurrer to May 30, 2024. 
Trial
is scheduled for September 16, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Lyft
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer to the third cause of action for strict
products liability under Public Utilities Code section 5354. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer. 
PLAINTIFF’S REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
          Denied. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have
the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the same
parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it cannot
be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or
is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section
411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25,
emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaints 
1.    The original complaint 
Plaintiff’s
original complaint alleged the following: 
On
December 24, 2018, Lyft driver Shukla’s vehicle, in which Plaintiff was a
passenger, collided with yellow attenuator barrels on the side of the Harbor
freeway, injuring Plaintiff.  Shukla was
using the Lyft app, a computer-based technology platform which matches drivers
with passengers in real time. Lyft required Shukla to use the Lyft app.   
Lyft
knew or should have known that its drivers’ use of the Lyft app “would require
use in such a manner as to violate one and/or more provisions of the California
Vehicle Code and create a significant risk of harm of the type suffered by the
Plaintiff in this action.” (Complaint ¶ 32.) Specifically, “[t]he LYFT APP is
defective in its design as it requires a driver, such as Defendant, KULDEEP
SHUKLA, to engage in distracted driving including but not limited to conduct
that requires the driver to constantly monitor the LYFT APP and its associated
hardware for incoming messages, to respond and communicate through the LYFT APP
and its attendant hardware in such a manner which constitutes instant messaging
and/or text messaging and/or distracted driving and/or which causes the driver
to redirect their attention from the roadway.” (Complaint ¶ 33.) 
In
addition, “the location of the LYFT APP within the vehicle, as directed and
instructed by Defendants, LYFT, INC. and/or Does 31-40, so as to monitor and
interface with it, creates a visual block which limits and restricts visibility
of the driver creating a danger to those who are outside the vehicle.”
(Complaint ¶ 34.) “The LYFT APP failed to perform as safely as the ordinary
consumer would expect, or have a right to expect, when using the product in an
intended or reasonably foreseeable manner.” (Complaint
¶ 35.) The risk of injury, damage, harm, and death inherent in the Lyft app’s
design outweighed the benefits of the design. (Complaint ¶ 36.) 
The
defective product was a proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injury. 
2.    The first amended complaint 
Plaintiff’s
first amended complaint alleges the following: 
On December
24, 2018, Plaintiff was a passenger in Shukla’s vehicle at or near I-10
westbound (Santa Monica Freeway) to I-110 northbound (Harbor Freeway) in the
city of Los Angeles.  Defendants drove,
managed, operated, maintained and/or entrusted their vehicle, which collided with the yellow attenuator
barrels on the left side of the freeway. 
(FAC ¶ 16.) 
Lyft
is a “Transportation Network Company, charter party passenger carrier, common
carrier and holder of California Public Utilities Commission Permit No.
TCP0032513 – P N and governed by the California Public Utilities Commission’s
rules and regulation, including CPUC Section 5354.” (FAC ¶ 29.)  “Pursuant to the express terms of CPUC
Section 5354, the acts and omissions of Defendant, KULDEEP SHUKLA, are the acts
and omissions of the Transportation Network Company and Permit Holder, LYFT,
INC., such that the LYFT, INC. is strictly liable for the acts and omissions of
KULDEEP SHUKLA.”  (FAC ¶ 30.) “Accordingly,
the acts and omissions of KULDEEP SHUKLA in causing the subject collision and
plaintiff’s injuries are legally deemed to be the acts and [omissions] of LYFT,
INC, in causing the subject collision and plaintiff’s injuries.” (FAC ¶ 31.)  “Plaintiff
has suffered harm, loss and damage and, therefore, is entitled to recover
damages in an amount according to proof at the time of trial.” (FAC ¶ 32.) 
B.   The demurrer 
1.    Scope of leave to amend 
“ ‘Following
an order sustaining a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings with
leave to amend, the plaintiff may amend his or her complaint only as authorized
by the court's order. [Citation.] The plaintiff may not amend the complaint to
add a new cause of action without having obtained permission to do so, unless
the new cause of action is within the scope of the order granting leave to
amend.’ ” (Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 431, 456 (Zakk),
quoting Harris v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018,
1023.) In Zakk, the trial court sustained demurrers to the complaint
on statute of frauds grounds and granted the plaintiff leave to amend by adding
a quantum meruit cause of action.  (Zakk, supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at p. 456.)  Instead, the plaintiff amended the complaint
to add a promissory estoppel claim, which the trial court dismissed.  The Court of Appeal affirmed, rejecting the
plaintiff’s argument that “even though the court did not directly give him
leave to add a promissory estoppel cause of action, he was allowed to do so
because that cause of action ‘directly responds to the Trial Court's concerns’ regarding
the statute of frauds because promissory estoppel is not subject to the
statute.”  (Ibid.)  The Court of Appeal explained, “The granting
of leave to amend after a demurrer is sustained on one ground does not give the
plaintiff a license to add any possible cause of action that might not be
subject to dismissal on that ground. Otherwise, there would be virtually no
limitation on amendments following the sustaining of a demurrer.”  (Ibid.) 
Thus,
“[w]hen a demurrer is sustained with leave to amend, the leave must be
construed as permission to the pleader to amend the causes of action to which
the demurrer has been sustained, not add entirely new causes of action.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶
7:148.1a, p. 7(l)-70.) 
“To
raise claims unrelated to those pleaded in an earlier complaint (i.e., a wholly
distinct and different legal obligation of the defendant), plaintiffs should
file either a new lawsuit or a motion for leave to amend (or supplement) their
earlier complaint.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 7:148.1b, p. 7(l)-70.) 
2.    Plaintiff’s new claim under Public Utilities Code
section 5354 
In
granting Lyft’s motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court concluded that
the “Lyft app” was not a product for purposes of the strict products liability claim
in Plaintiff’s original complaint.  The
Court granted leave to amend the claim for strict products liability. 
Plaintiff’s
new claim under Public Utilities Code section 5354 is not a strict products
liability claim.  Public Utilities Code
section 5354 provides: 
“In construing and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter relating to the prescribed privileges and obligations of the holder of
a permit or certificate issued hereunder, the act,
omission, or failure of any officer, agent, or employee, or person offering to
afford the authorized service with the approval or consent of the permit or
certificate holder, is the act, omission, or failure of the permit or
certificate holder.” 
(Pub. Util. Code, § 5354.) 
Although
Plaintiff titles the new claim “strict products liability pursuant to CPUC 5354,”
the claim seeks to impose a form of vicarious liability on Lyft – the permit holder – based on the acts, omissions, or failures of Lyft's officers,
agents, or employees, or persons offering to afford authorized service with
Lyft’s approval or consent.  Indeed, in
his opposition Plaintiff admits that the new claim “is not a cause of action
for products liability.”  (Opposition p. 5.) 
Plaintiff
opposes the demurrer, asserting the Court granted Plaintiff’s request for leave
to add the new claim, which Plaintiff made in response to Lyft's motion for judgment on the pleadings.  (Opposition pp. 2,
8.)  The Court’s order granting the
motion for judgment on the pleadings says nothing about Plaintiff’s request to
add a new claim under Public Utilities Code section 5354.  Plaintiff’s assertion that the Court
authorized the new claim is meritless. 
The
Court sustains Lyft’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s new claim under Public Utilities
Code section 5354 because the Court did not authorize Plaintiff to add an
entirely new cause of action when the Court granted leave to amend the third cause of action in the original complaint. 
          In light of the Court’s conclusion, the Court does not
address the other arguments raised in the parties’ papers. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court SUSTAINS Defendant Lyft, Inc.’s demurrer to the third cause of action in
Plaintiff Francisco Perez Sanchez’s first
amended complaint without leave to amend. 
Plaintiff may file a motion to amend the first amended complaint to add
a new cause of action. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.