 Case Number:  21STCV00728    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 7, 2021, Plaintiff Dehkora Tupuola (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Haydee Veronica Hernandez Loyo (“Hernandez Loyo”), Jose L.
Davila Antonio (“Davila Antonio”), Nazario Lopez Gonzalez (“Gonzalez”), and
Does 1-100 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
December 15, 2022, Defendants Hernandez Loyo, Davila Antonio, and Gonzalez
(“Defendants”) filed an answer. 
On
March 21, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for leave to submit tardy expert
witness information, to be heard on May 30, 2024.  On May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a notice of errata. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for June 26, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendants
ask the Court for leave to submit tardy expert witness information. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion and to impose monetary sanctions on Plaintiff. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.710
provides:  
“(a) On
motion of any party who has failed to submit expert witness information on the
date specified in a demand for that exchange, the court may grant leave to
submit that information on a later date. 
“(b) A motion
under subdivision (a) shall be made a sufficient time in advance of the time
limit for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section
2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to
be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may
permit the motion to be made at a later time. 
“(c) The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.710.) 
          Code of
Civil Procedure section 2034.720 provides: 
“The court
shall grant leave to submit tardy expert witness information only if all of the
following conditions are satisfied: 
“(a) The
court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied
on the absence of a list of expert witnesses. 
“(b) The
court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits. 
“(c) The
court has determined that the moving party did all of the following: 
“(1) Failed
to submit the information as the result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. 
“(2) Sought
leave to submit the information promptly after learning of the mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
“(3) Promptly
thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information described
in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action. 
“(d) The
order is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available
immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section
2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited
to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert
witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a
continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of
costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.720.) 
DISCUSSION 
On
February 1, 2024, Plaintiff served a demand for exchange of expert witness
information on Defendants.  The demand
set February 21, 2024 as the date of exchange. 
On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff served expert witness information
on Defendants.  Defendants did not timely
serve their expert witness information on Plaintiff. 
Defendants
proffer two inconsistent reasons for their failure to make a timely exchange of
expert witness information. 
First,
Defendants assert: “As set forth in the Declaration of M. Reza Lajevardi,
Defendant’s failure to make a timely exchange was the result of counsel’s
mistake and excusable neglect, in that this matter was recently reassigned to
Defense Counsel, M. Reza Lajevardi, Esq., on May 18, 2023 and during the
process of transferring the information from the previous attorney’s system to
my system, the expert designation date was not accurately recorded in the
calendar.”  (Motion p. 3.) 
Second,
Defendants assert: “On the very day the designation was due, my paralegal faced
an urgent and severe personal emergency that necessitated her immediate
attention, culminating in the need to file for a restraining order. This
unforeseen event compelled her absence from the office, preventing her from
executing her duties, one of which was to send out the expert designation that
had already been prepared and was scheduled for dispatch. Therefore, this can
be deemed as excusable neglect since Defense Counsel missed the deadline due to
a personal emergency that arose that day.” 
(Motion p. 5.) 
According
to Defendants, they discovered their failure to make a timely exchange of
expert witness information on February 22, 2024.  The same day, Defendants served a copy of
their proposed expert witness list, which designated
Nickul Jain, M.D. as Defendants’ expert witness.  On February 26, 2024, Defendants’ counsel
asked whether Plaintiff would allow Defendants to make an untimely designation
of expert witnesses but Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to the request.  
Defendants
believe that (1) Plaintiff has not relied heavily on the absence of Defendants’
expert witness information and (2) Plaintiff will not be prejudiced in maintaining her action on the merits. 
Plaintiff
opposes the motion, arguing that on March 21, 2024, Plaintiff noticed Nickul Jain,
M.D.’s deposition for April 3, 2024.  Plaintiff’s
counsel offered to waive the tardy designation and proceed with the deposition
of Defendants’ expert.  (Opposition p. 9.)
 Although Defendants promise to make
their experts available for deposition at Plaintiff’s earliest convenience (Motion
p. 5), Defendants did not respond to the deposition notice.  (Opposition p. 8.) 
Plaintiff
also argues that Defendants’ motion is moot because, on April 3, 2024, the
Court granted Defendants’ ex parte application to continue the trial and
related dates.  The Court continued the
trial from April 11, 2024 to June 26, 2024 and ruled that discovery and related
dates would be based on the new trial date. Subsequently, on April 17, 2024,
Plaintiff served a demand for designation of expert witness information on
Defendants.  The demand set May 7, 2024
as the date of exchange.  On
May 7, 2024, Plaintiff served her expert designation.  Defendants, however, failed to serve an
expert designation. 
The
Court denies the motion because it is moot and because it does not satisfy the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.720, subdivision (c).  
The
Court denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.630, which Plaintiff cites as
authority, applies to motions “to augment or amend expert witness
information . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.630.)  The statute does not apply
here. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court DENIES the motion of Defendants Haydee
Veronica Hernandez Loyo, Jose L. Davila Antonio, and Nazario Lopez Gonzalez Defendant for leave to submit tardy expert witness information. 
The
Court DENIES Plaintiff Dehkora Tupuola’s
request for sanctions. 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.