 Case Number:  23AHCV00997    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



Y.L., et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HRC
   FERTILITY, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV00997
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS HUNTINGTON REPRODUCTIVE CENTER MEDICAL GROUP,
   BAYLA CAO, AND BRADORD ALAN KOLB, M.D.’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE
  CROSS COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   15, 2024



 
On May 3,
 2023, plaintiffs Y.L. and W.Q. (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed
this action against defendants Huntington Reproductive Center Medical Group (“HRC
 Medical Group”) (erroneously sued as “HRC Fertility” and “HRC Fertility
 Management LLC”), Bayla Cao (“Cao”), and Bradford Alan Kolb, M.D. (“Dr. Kolb”)
 (collectively, “HRC Defendants”). Plaintiffs allege that HRC Defendants
were retained to perform a medical screen and egg retrieval from an approved
donor (AD1121), fertilize the eggs and verify the genetics of the fertilized
eggs before transplanting the embryos into Y.L. (Compl. ¶¶ 1-2, 7-8.) Plaintiffs
allege that HRC Defendants failed to verify the identity of the egg donor and
that the eggs were harvested from an unidentified egg donor who was not AD1121.
HRC Defendants filed an Answer on September
 7, 2023. 
On August 19, 2024, Plaintiffs amended
the Complaint to add Faletta & Klein Law Firm as Doe 1. 
On September
 10, 2024, HRC Defendants filed this motion seeking leave to file a
cross-complaint against co-defendant Angels Creation Reproductive Center,
 Inc. aka ACRC Global (“ACRC”), Shen Li (“Li”), and Jingyu Zang (“Zang”), as
 well as Brian S. Klein (“Klein”) for indemnity, contribution, and
declaratory relief. 
ACRC, Li, and Jingyu Zang, filed an
opposition brief on October 2, 2024. 
HRC Defendants filed a reply brief on
October 8, 2024.  
A party shall file a cross-complaint
against any of the parties who filed the complaint or cross-complaint against
him or her before or at the same time as the answer to the complaint or
cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (a).) Any other
cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a date for
trial. (Id., subd. (b).) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any
cross-complaint except one filed within the time specified in subdivision (a)
or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any time during the course
of the action. (Id., subd. (c).) Where the proposed cross-complaint
arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant
leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith.
(Id., § 426.50.)
HRC Defendants’ proposed
cross-complaint arises from the same transaction as Plaintiffs’ claims. HRC
Defendants argue that they are acting in good faith by requesting that issues
of comparative fault be adjudicated in this action. HRC Defendants explain that
they did not bring this motion earlier due to an attempt to mediate the matter
(which was ultimately unsuccessful).
ACRC, Li, and Zang claim that allowing
the cross-complaint will be prejudicial to them. However, the Court disagrees,
especially when ACRC also admits that the proposed cross-complaint is “a wholly
unnecessary exercise” that does not assert any additional cause of action or
theory of recovery. (Opp., p. 5.) Accordingly, HRC Defendants’ motion is GRANTED
and HRC Defendants are ordered to file the proposed cross-complaint within 5
days of the date of this Order. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 15th
day of October
  2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 