 Case Number:  23STCV20209    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



BRANDY MILLINER, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
JOSE
   RIVERA, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23STCV20209
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT EDWIN CASTRO’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   15, 2024



 
I.      INTRODUCTION
         On August 28,
2023, plaintiff Brandy Milliner (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant
Edwin Castro (“Defendant”), Jose Rivera (“Rivera”), and “Reggie” arising from
the alleged theft of a winning lottery ticket. Plaintiff alleges that he is a
tow truck driver and on or about November 7, 2022, he purchased a lottery
ticket scheduled for the $2.04 billion Powerball Lottery draw. (Compl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff alleges that he placed the purchased ticket in his tow truck and that
Defendant stole the ticket from his tow truck. (Compl., ¶ 11.) The ticket was
then allegedly stolen from Defendant by Rivera, and then stolen from Rivera by
“Reggie”, who returned the ticket to Defendant (Compl., ¶ 11.) Plaintiff
alleges he is the rightful owner of the winning ticket and entitled to the
lottery winnings. 
          On
March 1, 2024, Defendant filed this demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint arguing
that Plaintiff’s causes of action for intentional and negligent interference
with prospective economic relations failed to state sufficient facts.
Plaintiff
filed an opposition brief on July 24, 2024. 
Defendant
filed a reply brief on July 24, 2024. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer may be brought if
insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action asserted. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on its
face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) 
III.    DISCUSSION
Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s fourth
and fifth causes of action for interference with prospective economic
relationship. An element of a claim for interference with prospective economic
relations is an existing economic relationship between the plaintiff and a
third party that is “reasonably probable” to produce economic advantage. (Youst
v. Longo (1987) 43 Cal.3d 64, 71; Overstock.com, Inc. v. Gradient
Analytics, Inc. (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 688, 713.) An expectation that the
relationship will be created in the future is not sufficient. (Korea Supply
Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1164.)  
Plaintiff alleges he had an economic
relationship with the California Lottery which Defendant interfered with.
(Compl., ¶¶ 41, 50.) However, it is well established that the purchaser of a
lottery ticket has no economic relationship with the state lottery prior to the
drawing of any numbers. (See Brown v. California State Lottery Com.
(1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 1335, 1339.) In Brown, the court of appeals
explained that “[a] bet does not create a wagering contract between the bettor
and the operator of a parimutuel pool [such as a lottery]. [cit.] No contract
agreement or bet exists between the bettor and the operator of the pool [i.e.,
the State]. The transaction is between the participants in the pool, the odds
and terms thereof being determined by the participants according to the amount
of their payment into the pool.” (Ibid.)
Because no economic relationship
between Plaintiff and the lottery commission could have existed at the time of
Defendant’s allegedly tortious conduct, i.e., before the winning lottery
numbers were drawn, the claims for tortious interference fail. Also, the
probability of economic advantage resulting from a lottery ticket purchase is inherently
low. Plaintiff’s opposition, which only argues that the defendant need not act
with the specific intent of interfering with a business expectancy, does not show
how amendment is possible. Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained without leave
to amend. 
 
 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the Fourth and
Fifth Causes of Action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 15th
day of October
2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 