 Case Number:  23AHCV01054    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ZHI FEI CHENG, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
CANG
   HOANG NGUYEN,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 23AHCV01054
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF COMPROMISE WITH SPECIAL NEEDS
   TRUST
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   15, 2024



 
Claimant Zhi Fei
 Cheng (“Claimant”), a person with a disability, by and through their
Guardian Ad Litem, Naiwei Hsu (“Petitioner”), has agreed to settle their
claims against Defendant Canh Hoang Nguyen. Court approval is
required for all settlements of claims by a person with a disability. (Probate
Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code of
Civ. Proc. § 372.)  The Court finds the
settlement amount to be fair and reasonable. 
Further, the requested attorney’s fees, which amounts to approximately 27%
of the total settlement amount, is fair and reasonable. 
As required
by Probate Code section 3604(b), the Court makes the following findings: (1)
the SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs the
individual’s ability to provide for his own care or custody and constitutes a
substantial handicap; (2) the SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs
that will not be met without the trust; and (3) the money to be paid to the
trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the
SNT beneficiary’s special needs.

The proposed trust instrument meets the
requirements set forth in California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and
LASC rule 4.116(b) and is ready for approval for creation and/or funding.
However, Petitioner requests to modify the investment standard so that the
co-trustees have the authority to purchase mutual funds and bonds with maturity
dates later than 5 years to provide for diversification and a higher rate of
investment return. While the Court is inclined to grant this request, it must
be included in a revised proposed order.  
The proposed order is also deficient in
that Item 11 states that bond is not required. Here, the
proposed co-trustees are Naiwei Hsu
 and May Hsu. Bond must
be required of a trustee unless they are a corporate fiduciary.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5); Prob.
Code, § 2320.) Accordingly, the Court will require a $1,756,000 bond from the co-trustees and for the proposed order to
 be revised to reflect this requirement.
In
light of the required changes to the proposed order, the Court CONTINUES the
hearing on this petition to _______________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the
Alhambra Courthouse. 

Moving party to give notice.
 
Dated
this 15th
day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.