 Case Number:  21PSCV00427    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Yongyi Liu’s Motion to Enter Default Against
Defendants Feng Li and Jinh Li is GRANTED. 
Background   
Case No. 21PSCV00427
Plaintiff Yongyi Liu (“Liu”) alleges as follows:
Liu is the equitable owner and is in
possession and control of the real property located at 636 East Boxwood Lane,
Azusa, California 91702 (“subject property”). On or about August 18, 2005, Liu
and Feng Li (“F. Li”) F. Li had a child, Meixi Li (“Meixi”). At the time Meixi
was born and to date, F. Li was and has been married to another woman. On July
27, 2012, F. Li purchased and gifted the subject property to Liu to help Liu
since she was raising Meixi by herself. Prior to and upon closing of the escrow
of the subject property, F. Li told Liu that he had purchased the subject
property for her and was giving it to her. F. Li told Liu he would transfer
title to the subject property at a future time. In or about early August 2012,
shortly before escrow closed on the subject property, F. Li asked Liu to come
to the United States with him so that he could transfer title on the subject
property from him to her and give possession of same to her. Liu came with her
mom, her other daughter Helin Xu (“Xu”), and Meixi and took possession of the
subject property; however, due to an unexpected event, F. Li had to return to
China before the transfer paperwork was completed. 
 
In or about December 2013, F. Li came to the
United States for a short trip; Liu was then in China. F. Li promised to
transfer title to the subject property to Liu when they were both in the United
States. In or about April 2014, F. Li was incarcerated in China on a 13-year
sentence. F. Li remains incarcerated. On March 27, 2021, while still
incarcerated, F. Li purportedly signed a grant deed granting the subject
property to Sunnyland International Group (“Sunnyland”). 
 
On or about April 14, 2021, F. Li sent a
Notice to Quit to Liu’s address in China, claiming therein that the subject
property was owned jointly by him and his wife, Jing Li (“J. Li”), and that
they had sold same to a third party. On April 16, 2021, Xi Lin (“Lin”) went to
Liu’s house and told Xu that Lin was the president of Sunnyland and demanded
possession of the subject property. Lin represented to Xu that F. Li had
transferred title of the subject property to Sunnyland to settle a loan he owed
to the company and placed a Notice to Quit on the front door of the subject
property. On April 26, 2021, Xu served a 30-day Notice to Terminate Tenancy at
Will on Liu. 
On May 21, 2021, Liu filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against Sunnyland, Lin, F. Li, J. Li and Does 1-50 for:
1.                 
Quiet
Title
2.                 
Cancellation
of Instrument
3.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On August 19, 2021, the court related and consolidated this case with
Case No. 21WCUD00362 and designated this case as the lead case.
On September 30, 2021, Sunnyland filed a cross-complaint, asserting
causes of action against Liu, F. Li and M. Li for:
1.                 
Declaratory
Relief
2.                 
Quiet
Title
3.                 
Equitable
Lien
4.                 
Unjust
Enrichment
A Case Management Conference is set for April 9, 2024.
Case No. 21WCUD00362
This is an unlawful detainer action regarding the subject property. On
June 10, 2021, Sunnyland filed a complaint for unlawful detainer against Xu,
Liu and Does 1-10.
On August 19, 2021, the court related and consolidated Case No.
21PSCV0042 with this case and designated Case No. 21PSCV0042 as the lead case.
Legal
Standard
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, a summons shall be
served on a person: . . . (c) Outside the United States, as provided in this
chapter or as directed by the court in which the action is pending, or, if the
court before or after service finds that the service is reasonably calculated
to give actual notice, as prescribed by the law of the place where the person
is served or as directed by the foreign authority in response to a letter
rogatory. These rules are subject to the provisions of the Convention on the
‘Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents’ in Civil or Commercial
Matters (Hague Service Convention).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 413.10, subd. (c).)
Discussion
Liu
moves the court for an order, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 413.10,
subdivision (c), to enter default against F. Li and J. Li.[1]
Request
for Judicial Notice
The
court rules on Liu’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”) as follows: Granted as
to Exhibit 1 (i.e., Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters [Service Rules]).
Merits
As
a preliminary matter, the court notes that a list of the signatory countries to
the Hague Service Convention can be found at www.hcch.net. China is a signatory country.
The Service Rules provide that “[e]ach Contracting State shall designate
a Central Authority which will undertake to receive requests for service coming
from other Contracting States and to proceed in conformity with the provisions
of Articles 3 to 6…” (RJN, Exh. 1, Article 2.)
Article 3 therein provides that “[t]he authority or judicial
officer competent under the law of the State in which the documents originate
shall forward to the Central Authority of the State addressed a request
conforming to the model annexed to the present Convention, without any requirement
of legalisation or other equivalent formality. The document to be served or a
copy thereof shall be annexed to the request. The request and the document
shall both be furnished in duplicate.” (Id., Article 3.)
Article 4 provides that “[i]f the
Central Authority considers that the request does not comply with the
provisions of the present Convention it shall promptly inform the applicant and
specify its objections to the request.” (Id., Article 4.)
Article 5 therein provides, in
pertinent part, that “[t]he Central Authority of the State addressed shall
itself serve the document or shall arrange to have it served by an appropriate
agency, either – a) by a method prescribed by its internal law for the service
of documents in domestic actions upon persons who are within its territory, or b)
by a particular method requested by the applicant, unless such a method is
incompatible with the law of the State addressed. . .” (Id., Article 5.)
Article 6 therein provides that
“[t]he Central Authority of the State addressed or any authority which it may
have designated for that purpose, shall complete a certificate in the form of
the model annexed to the present Convention. The certificate shall state that
the document has been served and shall include the method, the place and the
date of service and the person to whom the document was delivered. If the
document has not been served, the certificate shall set out the reasons which
have prevented service. The applicant may require that a certificate not
completed by a Central Authority or by a judicial authority shall be
countersigned by one of these authorities. The certificate shall be forwarded
directly to the applicant.” (Id., Article 6.)
Article 15 therein provides that “[w]here a writ of summons or an
equivalent document had to be transmitted abroad for the purpose of service,
under the provisions of the present Convention, and the defendant has not
appeared, judgment shall not be given until it is established that –
a) the document was served by a
method prescribed by the internal law of the State addressed for the service of
documents in domestic actions upon persons who are within its territory, or 
b) the document was actually
delivered to the defendant or to his residence by another method provided for
by this Convention, and that in either of these cases the service or the
delivery was effected in sufficient time to enable the defendant to defend. 
Each Contracting State shall be
free to declare that the judge, notwithstanding the provisions of the first
paragraph of this Article, may give judgment even if no certificate of service
or delivery has been received, if all the following conditions are fulfilled – a)
the document was transmitted by one of the methods provided for in this
Convention, b) a period of time of not less than six months, considered
adequate by the judge in the particular case, has elapsed since the date of the
transmission of the document, c) no certificate of any kind has been received,
even though every reasonable effort has been made to obtain it through the
competent authorities of the State addressed. Notwithstanding the
provisions of the preceding paragraphs the judge may order, in case of urgency,
any provisional or protective measures. (Id., Article 15 [emphasis
added].)
Lui’s counsel Jason J.L. Yang (“Yang”) represents, in relevant part, as
follows:
On December 23, 2021, Yang initiated
the service of the complaint on F. Li and J. Li through the Hague Convention by
mailing the court documents, together with its Chinese translations, to the
Central Authority in China. (Yang Decl., ¶ 8, Exhs. 1 and 2 [i.e., as to J. Li].)
China’s Central Authority’s (CCA) contact information can be found at https://www.hcch.net/en/states/authorities/details3/?aid=243.
(Id., ¶ 8.) The address is Ministry of Justice of China, 33, Pinganli
Xidajie, Xicheng District, Beijing 100035. (Id.) The contact person is
Ms. Li Zhiying (Zhiying) at ivylee319@vip.sina.com.
(Id.) 
On January 14, 2022, the Chinese Central
Authority (CCA) received Liu’s complaint and the translated documents. (Id.,
¶ 10, Exh. 3.) On May 5, 2022, Yang sent an email to CCA representative Zhiying
to get an update on the Hague Convention service, but did not receive any
response. (Id., ¶ 12, Exh. 4.) On June 8, 2022, Yang sent another follow
up to Zhiying to get an update on the Hague Convention service; again, no
response was received. (Id., ¶ 13, Exh. 5.) On June 23, 2022,[2] Liu
filed a motion to enter F. Li’s and J. Li’s defaults, which was set for hearing
on November 1, 2022. (Id., ¶ 15). On November 1, 2022, the court
continued the hearing to December 1, 2022 to allow supplemental information to
be filed. (Id., ¶ 16). The hearing was eventually continued to January
26, 2023; however, in the interim, Yang realized that the address for F. Li was
inaccurate. (Id., ¶¶ 17 and 18). Yang inadvertently took the motion off
calendar as to both F. Li and J. Li, instead of just taking it off calendar as
to F. Li and proceeding with the default as to J. Li. (Id., ¶ 18).[3] 
On February 1, 2023, Yang began a new
Hague Convention process against F. Li. (Id., ¶ 19). the CCA received
Liu’s complaint and the translated documents. (Id., ¶ 19, Exh. 6.) On or
about June 22, 2023, Yang received correspondence from the CCA indicating that
Hague Convention applications should be done online instead of mailing hard
copies. (Id., ¶ 20). Yang submitted Hague Convention documents that day.
(Id., ¶ 21, Exh. 7.) On July 3, 2023, the CCA approved the Hague
Convention request. (Id., ¶ 22, Exh. 8.) On December 21, 2023, Yang sent
an email to Zhiying to get an update on the Hague Convention service, and was
advised that the court had not sent back anything concerning the service. (Id.,
¶ 23, Exhs. 9 and 10). On January 3, 2024, Yang sent a follow up email to
Zhiying concerning the Hague Convention service; Zhiying, in response, again
advised that the court had not sent back anything concerning the service. (Id.,
¶ 24 and 25, Exhs. 11 and 12). Yang has not received any further response from
the CCA as of the January 16, 2024 date of his declaration. (Id., ¶ 26,
Exh. 13.) 
The court determines that Plaintiff has effected service on J. Li and F.
Li pursuant to Article 15 of the Hague Convention. The motion is granted.


