  Case Number:  19PSCV00687    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  K  
1.         Plaintiff Meritage Homes of California,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel [Further] Responses to Interrogatories and Strike
Objections is DENIED in part (i.e., as to Special Interrogatory No. 6) and
GRANTED in part (i.e., as to Special Interrogatory No. 9 and Form Interrogatory
No. 324.1).
 
2.         Plaintiff Meritage Homes of California,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel [Further] Production of Documents and Strike Objections
is GRANTED. 
Background   
Case No. 18PSCV00026
Plaintiff Meritage Homes of California, Inc. (“Meritage”) alleges as
follows:
Michael Barker International Inc. fka RBF
Consulting (“MBI”) failed to properly perform engineering services in
connection with the development of the Creekside residential subdivision in La
Verne, California (“Creekside”).
On October 12, 2018, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting
causes of action against MBI and Does 1-200 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
3.                 
Gross
Negligence
On November 13, 2018, MBI filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of
action against Roes 1-100 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity 
2.                 
Comparative
Apportionment of Fault
3.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On April 25, 2022,
the court related this instant case to Case No. 19PSCV00687; this instant case
was deemed to be the lead case.
On August 3, 2023,
Meritage filed a conditional “Notice of Settlement of Entire Case.”
On October 12, 2023,
Meritage filed a request for dismissal of the entire action, with prejudice.
Case No.
19PSCV00687
Meritage alleges as
follows:
Boudreau Pipeline Corporation (“BPC”)
constructed and installed a sewer lift station and associated improvements
(“the System”) in connection with and to service Creekside. The System’s pumps
were manufactured with undersized impeller blades, which caused issues with the
flow and pressure. BPC failed to promptly remedy the operational and
performance issues with the System, which resulted in the City of La Verne
(“City”) imposing a sales and building moratorium and ultimately resulted in
the City’s revocation of permits.
On October 22, 2019,
BPC filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against John Lisee
Pumps (“JLP”), Meritage and Roes 1-125 for:
1.                 
Express
Contractual Indemnity
2.                 
Implied
Indemnity
3.                 
Total
Equitable Indemnity
4.                 
Contribution
5.                 
Declaratory
Relief: Duty to Indemnify
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief: Duty to Defend
7.                 
Breach
of Contract
8.                 
Breach
of Express Warranties
9.                 
Breach
of Implied Warranties
10.             
Negligence
11.             
Quantum
Meruit 
On December 9, 2019,
BPC dismissed the first through tenth causes of action against Meritage, with
prejudice.
On December 10,
2019, JLP filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Moes 1-20
for:
1.                 
Indemnity
2.                 
Contribution
3.                 
Apportionment

4.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On February 24,
2020, BPC filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein Pentair was
substituted in lieu of Roe 101. On April 27, 2020, Meritage filed an “Amendment
to Complaint,” wherein MBI was named in lieu of Doe 1.
On June 23, 2020,
MBI filed a cross-complaint, asserting causes of action against Roes 1-100 for:
1.                 
Equitable
Indemnity
2.                 
Comparative
Apportionment of Fault
3.                 
Declaratory
Relief
On February 17,
2021, MBI filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein BPC was named in
lieu of Roe 1, JLP was named in lieu of Roe 2 and Pentair Flow Technologies,
LLC was named in lieu of Roe 3.
On October 22, 2021,
Meritage filed an “Amendment to Complaint,” wherein JLP was named in lieu of
Doe 151.
On February 10,
2021, BPC filed an “Amendment to [Cross-]Complaint,” wherein MBI was named in
lieu of Roe 76.
On April 25, 2022,
the court related this instant case to Case No. 18PSCV00026; Case No.
18PSCV00026 was deemed to be the lead case.
On December 7, 2022,
Meritage filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), asserting causes of action
against BPC, JLP, MBI and Does 1-300 for:
1.                 
Breach
of Contract
2.                 
Express
Indemnity
3.                 
Negligence
4.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Indemnify
5.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
6.                 
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
7.                 
Breach
of Contract—Third Party Beneficiary
8.                 
Strict
Products Liability
9.                 
Negligence
10.             
Breach
of Contract
11.             
Breach
of Implied Covenants of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
12.             
Express
Indemnity
13.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Indemnify
14.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
15.             
Declaratory
Relief Re: Duty to Defend
16.             
Fraudulent
Concealment 
17.             
Negligent
Misrepresentation
On February 1, 2023, Meritage filed an “Amendment
to Complaint,” wherein Alan Boudreau (“Boudreau”) was named in lieu of Doe 201.

The Final Status Conference is set for May 21, 2024. Trial is set for
June 4, 2024.
1.         Motion to Compel Furthers Re:
Interrogatories
Legal Standard
“[T]he propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that . .
. (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete[,] (2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate[,
and/or that] (3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too
general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)
The moving
party must demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at an informal
resolution of each issue presented. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2030.300,
subd. (b)(1).) “In lieu of a separate statement required under the California
Rules of Court, the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise
outline of the discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (b)(2).)
Notice of the motion must be provided “within
45 days of the service of the verified response, or any supplemental verified
response, or on or before any specific later date to which the propounding
party and the responding party have agreed in writing. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections to the requests. (Coy v.
Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction. . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes
or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)
Discussion
Meritage moves the court for an order compelling Boudreau to
provide further responses to Meritage’s Special Interrogatories, Set One (i.e.,
Nos. 6 and 9) and Form Interrogatories, Set One (i.e., No. 324.1) and to strike
all objections.
Procedural Issues
Boudreau points out that the instant motion is styled as a
straightforward “Motion to Compel Responses to Interrogatories and Strike
Objections,” when it is, in actuality, a motion to compel further responses.
This is true; however, the court declines to deny the motion on this technical
ground, inasmuch as it was brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
2030.300 (i.e., in addition to section 2030.290) and was accompanied by a
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1345 separate statement.
Boudreau also points out that Plaintiff has combined two
different items of discovery—responses to two special interrogatories and
responses to one form interrogatory—into one motion. The court declines to deny
the motion on this basis as well. There are only three interrogatories total in
issue. Although the court would normally require two separate motions and two
separate filing fees for a discovery motion involving two different items of
discovery, the court believes that one motion and filing fee under the
circumstances is sufficient, The court will proceed to the merits of the
motion.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court grants Meritage’s Request for Judicial Notice in
full.
Merits
Meritage’s counsel Drew C. Wagner-Weir (“Wagner-Weir”)
represents as follows:
On February 1, 2023, Meritage named
Boudreau as Doe 201. (Wagner-Weir Decl., ¶ 2). On March 14, 2023, Boudreau
filed his answer. (Id., ¶ 3). On July 18, 2023 Boudreau propounded Form
and Special Interrogatories, Requests for Admissions and Requests for
Production. (Id., ¶ 4). On September 1, Meritage served verified
responses. (Id., ¶ 5).
 
On September 25, 2023, Meritage
propounded the subject discovery. (Id., ¶ 6, Exhs. A & B.) On
October 16, 2023, Boudreau provided objection-only responses, asserting that
the discovery propounded was untimely. (Id., ¶ 7, Exhs. C & D.) On
October 19, 2023, Wagner-Weir sent a letter to Boudreau’s counsel disputing the
timeliness issue. (Id., ¶ 8, Exh. E.) On November 7, 2023, Boudreau
filed a Motion for Summary Judgment based on the issue of alter ego. (Id.,
¶ 9). On November 27, 2023, the court held an Informal Discovery Conference
(“IDC”), which did not resolve the discovery dispute. (Id., ¶ 11).
Immediately following the IDC, Boudreau’s counsel Catherine Cannon (“Cannon”)
called Wagner-Weir and advised him that Boudreau
would provide responses and a production. (Id., ¶ 12). Wagner-Weir
agreed to give Boudreau until December 20, 2023 to provide responses and a
production. (Id., ¶ 12, Exh. F.) On December 20, 2023, Boudreau served
supplemental responses. (Id., ¶ 13, Exhs. G and H.). 
 
On December 22, 2023, Wagner-Weir sent
a meet and confer email to Cannon, to which Cannon responded on December 28,
2023. (Id., ¶ 14, Exh. I). A second IDC occurred on January 17, 2024; at
the conclusion of same, the court permitted Meritage to proceed with filing the
instant motions. (Id., ¶ 18). Counsel thereafter unsuccessfully met and
conferred on February 1-2, 2024. (Id., ¶ 19, Exh. L.) 
The interrogatories in issue read as follows:
Special Interrogatory No. 6: If you contend that you
have complied with corporate formalities for Defendant Boudreau Pipeline
Corporation, please identify each document that supports your contention.
Special Interrogatory No. 9: If you contend that
Defendant Boudreau Pipeline Corporation was capitalized in a manner that would
allow it to pay its individual debts, please identify each document that
supports your contention.
Form Interrogatory No. 324.1: Identify each denial of
a material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your
pleadings, and for each:
(a)              
State all facts on which you base the denial or special
or affirmative defense;
(b)              
State the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of
all persons who have knowledge or those facts; and 
(c)              
Identify all documents and other tangible things that
support your denial or special or affirmative defense, and state the name,
address, and telephone number of the person who has each document.
It is Boudreau’s position that on March 27, 2023[1] Judge
Wesley L. Hsu (“Judge Hsu”) ruled that discovery was cut off in general, but that
Boudreau, at his counsel’s request, could conduct discovery since he was a
newly named defendant. (Cannon Decl., ¶ 9). It is also Boudreau’s position that
Meritage’s counsel did not request a corresponding right to propound discovery
on that date. (Id.) It is Meritage’s position that Judge Hsu ruled that
both Boudreau and Meritage would be permitted to engage in alter ego
discovery. (Craig Decl., ¶ 4). The March 27, 2023 minute order states, without
more, as to the issue of discovery: “The Court does not make any new orders
regarding discovery cut off; any party wishing to be heard regarding discovery
shall file motion papers accordingly.” Neither Meritage’s nor Boudreau’s
respective counsel filed a notice of ruling. Neither Meritage’s nor Boudreau’s
respective counsel have lodged a transcript of the March 27, 2023 proceedings
with the court.[2]
Boudreau has not provided the court with any information,
aside from its counsel’s declaration, confirming that Judge Hsu granted an
exception to the discovery cut-off deadline to Boudreau only. The court, then, will
treat the discovery cut-off exception as mutually applicable to Boudreau and
Meritage.
Boudreau’s objections raised for the first time in his
supplemental responses, then, are untimely and disregarded. The court notes
that Boudreau has not filed a motion for relief from waiver of objections, to
date. Further, the court will not entertain Boudreau’s “Preliminary Statement”
and “General Objections” preceding his original responses on the basis that
they are improper. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.240, subd. (b) [“If an objection is
made to an interrogatory or to part of an interrogatory, the specific ground
for the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response. If an objection
is based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be
clearly stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information sought
is protected work product. . ., that claim shall be expressly asserted”].)
Boudreau’s assertion of third-party privacy on behalf of BPC
is not well-taken. “While corporations do have a right to privacy, it is not a
constitutional right. The corporate right to privacy is a lesser right than
that held by human beings and it not considered a fundamental right.” (SCC
Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756).
Since the corporate privacy right is not constitutionally protected, the court
must engage in a balancing test wherein the “discovery’s relevance to the
subject matter of the pending dispute and whether the discovery appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence is
balance against the corporate right of privacy. Doubts about relevance
generally are resolved in favor of permitting discovery.” (Id. [internal
quotations and citation omitted].) Meritage’s special interrogatories in
question are relevant to whether or not Boudreau is liable in the instant
litigation as an alter ego of BPC.
With that said, Boudreau provided a substantive response to
Special Interrogatory No. 6 (i.e., “After a diligent search and reasonable
inquiry, Responding Party herein again refers to documents previously produced
by Boudreau Pipeline Bates No. BOU 0000001 to BOU 0013634 which are already in
Plaintiff’s possession”). Meritage has failed to explain why it is improper or
deficient; as such, no further response is warranted.
The motion is otherwise granted as to Special Interrogatory
No. 9 and Form Interrogatory No. 324.1.
Boudreau is to serve further, Code-compliant responses,
without objections, within 15 days from the date of the notice of ruling.
2.         Motion to
Compel Furthers Re: Requests for Production of Documents
Legal Standard
“[T]he
demanding party may move for an order compelling further response to the demand
if the demanding party deems that. . . (1) A statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete[,] (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive [and/or that] (3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a).)
The moving party must demonstrate a
“reasonable and good faith attempt” at an informal resolution of each issue
presented. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) “In lieu of
a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court, the court
may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the discovery request
and each response in dispute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(3).)
A motion to compel further responses to a demand for
inspection or production of documents must “set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.310, subd. (b)(1).) If the moving party has shown good cause for the
production of documents, the burden is on the objecting party to justify the
objections. (Kirkland v. Superior Court
(2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) 
Notice
of the motion must be provided “within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.310, subd. (c).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction. . . against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (h).)
Discussion
Meritage moves the court for an order compelling Boudreau to
provide further responses to Meritage’s Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One (i.e., Nos. 1-3) and to strike all objections.
Procedural Issues
Boudreau argues that Meritage’s CRC Rule 3.1345 separate
statement reflects non-compliance with subdivision (c)(5) [i.e., “[t]he
separate statement must include. . . (5) If the response to a particular discovery request
is dependent on the response given to another discovery request, or if the
reasons a further response to a particular discovery request is deemed
necessary are based on the response to some other discovery request, the other
request and the response to it must be set forth”]) with respect to Requests
Nos. 1 and 2. However, the separate statement notes that Meritage filed a
concurrent motion to compel interrogatories which, if granted, would
necessitate the further production of documents. Also, Meritage identified the
“Employee Stock Ownership Plan” (“ESOP”) as a responsive document to Form
Interrogatory No. 326.1 and Special Interrogatory No. 3.
Boudreau points out that the instant motion is styled as a
straightforward “Motion to Compel Production of Documents and Strike Objections,”
when it is, in actuality, a motion to compel further responses. This is
true; however, the court declines to deny the motion on this technical ground,
inasmuch as it was brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.310
(i.e., in addition to section 2031.300) and was accompanied by a California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1345 separate statement. The court will proceed to the
merits of the motion.
Request for Judicial Notice
The court grants Meritage’s Request for Judicial Notice in
full.
Merits
See synopsis of Motion #1.
The requests in issue read as follows:
Request for Production No. 1: Each document
identified in your responses to Meritage’s Form Interrogatories—Construction
Litigation, Set One, propounded and served on you concurrently with these
Demands for Production.
Request for Production No. 2: Each document
identified in your responses to Meritage’s Special Interrogatories, Set One,
propounded and served on you concurrently with these Demands for Production.
Request for Production No. 3: Any and all documents
relating to the transfer of your equity in Boudreau Pipeline.
Again, the court will treat the discovery cut-off exception
as mutually applicable to Boudreau and Meritage. The court determines that
Boudreau’s objections raised for the first time in his supplemental responses
are untimely and thus waived. Boudreau’s third party privacy objection is not
well taken, for the reasons set forth above and below.
Although Boudreau provided substantive responses to Request
for Production Nos. 1 and 2 (i.e., “After a diligent search and reasonable
inquiry, Responding Party herein again refers to documents previously produced
by Boudreau Pipeline Bates No. BOU 0000001 to BOU 0013634 which are already in
Plaintiff’s possession”), Meritage advises that Boudreau failed to produce ESOP
documents identified in his responses to Form Interrogatory No. 326.1 and
Special Interrogatory No. 3.[3]
Additionally, Meritage points out that any documents identified in Boudreau’s
further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 324.1 and Special Interrogatory 9
will need to be produced. Further responses, then, are warranted.
The motion is otherwise granted as to Request for Production
No. 3.
Boudreau is to serve further, Code-compliant responses,
without objections, within 15 days from the date of the notice of ruling.


