 Case Number:  23PSCV02299    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  K 1.         The
hearing on Plaintiff Robert Lee Johnson’s Motion to Strike First Amended Answer
is DENIED.
2.         Plaintiff Robert Lee Johnson’s Motion for
Appointment of Counsel is DENIED.
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Robert Lee Johnson
(“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
On April 13, 2023,
Pomona police officers conducted a traffic stop of his vehicle and arrested
him. Pomona police officers refused to loosen the handcuffs that were placed on
him, causing him injury. Plaintiff was transported to the Twin Towers facility
via a police transportation van without a seatbelt; during the ride there,
Plaintiff slipped and fell off of the van’s backseat, sustaining a head injury.
Plaintiff’s vehicle was also damaged and his personal property left inside the
vehicle was taken.
On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting causes of action
against City of Pomona (“City”) and Officers A. Lopez, #424, J. Smith, #42115,
P. Hutchinson, #42042 and S. Erfan, #42305 for:
1.                 
Excessive
Force Tight Handcuffs
2.                 
Damages
to Vehicle Range Rover
3.                 
Negligence
Failure to Secure Property
4.                 
Tort
Personal Injury/Failure to Secure Plaintiff in a Safety Seat Belt
 
A Case Management Conference is set for April 9, 2024.
1.
        Motion to Strike
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order striking out City’s,
Officer Alejandro Lopez’s, Officer Jacqueline Smith’s, Officer Prince
Hutchinson’s and Officer Shreef Erfan’s (collectively, “Defendants”) first
amended answer, on the basis that it is not verified and that Defendants failed
to admit or deny each of Plaintiff’s 37 paragraphs.
Plaintiff apparently seeks to strike the First Amended
Answer because Defendants did not comply with section 446 of the Code of Civil
Procedure. (See CCP § 446 [“When the complaint is verified, the answer shall be
verified.”].) However, a further reading of section 446 provides that in this
case, such verification is not necessary. (Id., [“[I]f the state, any
county, thereof, city,  school district,
district, public agency, or public corporation, or any officer of the . . .
city . . ., in his or her official capacity is defendant, its or his answer
need not be verified.”].) Here, the Defendants appear to include a “city” and its
corresponding police officer. Moreover, the Complaint suggest the “officers”
were in their official capacity as policy officers during the alleged incident.
Plaintiff also contends that Defendants needed to
individually respond to each of the paragraphs set forth in the Complaint. Plaintiff’s
contention is incorrect. Under section 431.30(b) of the Code of Civil
Procedure, the answer to a complaint may contain a general or specific denial
of the allegations. Moreover, only affirmative defenses shall be separately stated.
(CCP § 431.30.) The court’s review of the First Amended Answer demonstrates
compliance with section 431.30.
The motion is, therefore, denied.
2.         Motion to Appoint Counsel
Johnson requests
that the court appoint counsel to represent him in this case.
 “[T]he general rule is that there is no
due process right to counsel in civil cases. Generally speaking, the right
to counsel has been recognized to exist only where the litigant may lose his
physical liberty if he loses the litigation.” (Walker v. State Bar
(1989) 49 Cal.3d 1107, 1116.) Johnson is not at risk of losing his physical
liberty in this proceeding; as such, he cannot show a right to assistance of
counsel.
Johnson cites to Title 28, United States Code, section 1915;
however, this statute “confers on a district court the discretion to
designate counsel to represent an indigent civil litigant” only in “exceptional
circumstances” requiring an evaluation of both “the likelihood of success on
the merits [and] the ability of the petitioner to articulate his claims pro se
in light of the complexity of the legal issues involved.” (Wilborn v.
Escalderon (9th Cir. 1986) 789 F.2d 1328, 1331 [emphasis added].) This is not a district court. The motion is
denied.


