 Case Number:  24STCP02626    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 16, 2024                TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         MTC Financial, inc., v. 1422 South
Orange Dr., Los Angeles CA 90019
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP02626            
 
PETITION
TO DEPOSIT SURPLUS PROCEEDS FROM TRUSTEE’S SALE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner MTC Financial, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 12/12/24
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
08/16/24: Petition filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a petition to deposit undistributed surplus proceeds from a
trustee’s sale. 
 
Petitioner seeks to deposit the
surplus funds and be discharged of liability. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Petitioner’s
Petition to deposit surplus funds and be discharged of liability is GRANTED.
 
            Petitioner
is awarded $6,703.02 in attorney’s fees and costs to be paid out of the surplus
funds.  Petitioner is to deposit the
balance of $393, 318.69 with the Court.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Petitioner seeks to deposit $393,
318.69 in surplus funds from a trustee’s sale and be discharged of
liability. 
 
//
 
 
Legal Standard for Disposition of Surplus Funds from
Trustee’s Sale
 
            Distribution
of surplus funds from a trustee’s sale is governed by Civil Code section 2924j.
This statute provides, in relevant part:
 
(b) The trustee shall exercise due diligence to determine
the priority of the written claims received by the trustee to the trustee’s
sale surplus proceeds from those persons to whom notice was sent pursuant to
subdivision (a)…If the trustee has failed to determine the priority of written
claims within 90 days following the 30-day notice period, then within 10 days
thereafter the trustee shall deposit the funds with the clerk of the court
pursuant to subdivision (c) or file an interpleader action pursuant to
subdivision (e). Nothing in this section shall preclude any person from
pursuing other remedies or claims as to surplus proceeds. 
 
(c) If, after due diligence, the trustee is unable to
determine the priority of the written claims received by the trustee to the
trustee’s sale surplus of multiple persons or if the trustee determines there
is a conflict between potential claimants, the trustee may file a declaration
of the unresolved claims and deposit with the clerk of the superior court of
the county in which the sale occurred, that portion of the sales proceeds that
cannot be distributed, less any fees charged by the clerk pursuant to this
subdivision. The declaration shall specify the date of the trustee’s sale, a
description of the property, the names and addresses of all persons sent notice
pursuant to subdivision (a), a statement that the trustee exercised due
diligence pursuant to subdivision (b), that the trustee provided written notice
as required by subdivisions (a) and (d) and the amount of the sales proceeds
deposited by the trustee with the court. Further, the trustee shall submit a
copy of the trustee’s sales guarantee and any information relevant to the
identity, location, and priority of the potential claimants with the court and
shall file proof of service of the notice required by subdivision (d) on all
persons described in subdivision (a). 
 
The clerk shall deposit the amount with the county
treasurer or, if a bank account has been established for moneys held in trust
under paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 77009 of the Government Code,
in that account, subject to order of the court upon the application of any
interested party. The clerk may charge a reasonable fee for the performance of
activities pursuant to this subdivision equal to the fee for filing an
interpleader action pursuant to Chapter 5.8 (commencing with Section 70600) of
Title 8 of the Government Code. Upon deposit of that portion of the sale
proceeds that cannot be distributed by due diligence, the trustee shall be
discharged of further responsibility for the disbursement of sale proceeds. A
deposit with the clerk of the court pursuant to this subdivision may be either
for the total proceeds of the trustee’s sale, less any fees charged by the
clerk, if a conflict or conflicts exist with respect to the total proceeds, or
that portion that cannot be distributed after due diligence, less any fees
charged by the clerk. 
 
(d)¿Before the trustee deposits the funds with the clerk of
the court pursuant to subdivision (c), the trustee shall send written notice by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all persons described in subdivision (a)
informing them that the trustee intends to deposit the funds with the clerk of
the court and that a claim for the funds must be filed with the court within 30
days from the date of the notice, providing the address of the court in which
the funds were deposited, and a telephone number for obtaining further
information. 
 
Within 90 days after deposit with the clerk, the court
shall consider all claims filed at least 15 days before the date on which the
hearing is scheduled by the court, the clerk shall serve written notice of the
hearing by first-class mail on all claimants identified in the trustee’s
declaration at the addresses specified therein. Where the amount of the deposit
is twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000) or less, a proceeding pursuant to
this section is a limited civil case. The court shall distribute the deposited
funds to any and all claimants entitled thereto. 
 
(Civ. Code § 2924j(b)-(d).
 
Discharge and Deposit
 
            Petitioner
MTC Financial Inc. is the Trustee under a Deed of Trust executed by Mildred H.
Johnson and recorded on July 2, 2008. (Petition ¶¶ 1-3.) The Deed of Trust was
secured by real property commonly known as 1422 South Orange Dr., Los Angeles,
CA 90019. (Id. ¶ 2.) The property was sold at a trustee’s sale on June
27, 2023 for $855,500, which exceeded the amount owing under Civil Code section
2924k subdivision (a)(1) and (a)(2) by $400,221.71. (Petition ¶¶ 4-7.)
Petitioner mailed notice of surplus funds to all claimants on September 11,
2023. (Petition ¶ 8; Attach. 8.) Petitioner has received two claims for surplus
funds: the first from Lavonne Hill on July 1, 2023, as next of kin to the
former owner, and the second from Johnathan Morales on October 12, 2023
pursuant to a May 24, 2023 Deed of Trust. (Petition ¶ 11; Attach. 11b Exhs. A-F.)
Ms. Hill has objected to Mr. Morales’s claim on the grounds that the May 24,
2023 Deed of Trust is allegedly fraudulent. (Id. Exh. G.) Petitioner
thus contends that an actual conflict exists between claimants.
 
            All
claimants were served with the Petition and supporting papers by mail on August
23, 2024 at the addresses presented in their claims. (Proof of Service by Mail
filed August 28, 2024.) 
 
Petitioner requests permission to deposit the surplus funds
with the Court and a court order discharging Petitioner from the matter.
(Petition Attach. 11b.) Having reviewed the Petition, the Court finds it
satisfies the requirements of Civil Code §¿2924j with respect to the trustee’s
declaration, trustee’s notice, and service of written notice to all potential
claimants to the surplus funds. 
 
Costs and Expenses
 
            Civil Code section 2924k(b) allows the
trustee to “charge costs and expenses incurred for such items as mailing and a
reasonable fee for services rendered in connection with the distribution of the
proceeds from a trustee's sale, including, but not limited to, the
investigation of priority and validity of claims and the disbursement of funds.
If the fee charged for services rendered pursuant to this subdivision does not
exceed one hundred dollars ($100), or one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125)
where there are obligations specified in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a), the
fee is conclusively presumed to be reasonable. 
 
Petitioner
requests $6,703.02 in fees and expenses to be awarded from the surplus funds.
(Petition ¶¶ 15; 16e.) Petitioner has provided an itemized breakdown of the
fees incurred, demonstrating that fees were incurred in the amount of $5,045.50
for 14.3 hours of work at hourly rates from $175.00 to $425.00 per hour.
(Petition Attach. 15.) 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly, Petitioner’s
Petition to deposit surplus funds and be discharged of liability is GRANTED.
 
            Petitioner
is awarded $6,703.02 in attorney’s fees and costs to be paid out of the surplus
funds.  Petitioner is to deposit the
balance of $393, 318.69 with the Court.
 
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  December 16,
2024                            ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 