  Case Number:  19STCV31868    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




ricardo flores

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
pine enterprise, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


19STCV31868




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


October
   12, 2023




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendants’ motion for summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:              Defendants Pine Enterprise, LLC,
and Tony Chang  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Ricardo Flores
Motion for Summary Adjudication
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion.  
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS  
The court overrules plaintiff Ricardo Flores’s evidentiary objections,
filed on September 28, 2023.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The
court grants defendants Pine Enterprises, LLC, and Tony Chang’s requests for
judicial notice.  (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subd. (d).) 
LEGAL STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510,
1519.)  A defendant or cross-defendant
moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden
of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “Once the
defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Id. at
p. 467; Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
DISCUSSION
Defendants Pine Enterprises, LLC, and Tony Chang (“Defendants”) move
the court for an order granting summary adjudication in their favor and against
plaintiff Ricardo Flores (“Plaintiff”) as to Plaintiff’s first through seventh
and ninth causes of action.  Defendants
move for this relief on the ground that Plaintiff cannot establish the element
of having a physical disability, perceived physical disability, or covered
medical condition.  
            First, the court finds that Defendants have not met their burden of
showing that the first through seventh and ninth causes of action have no merit
because Defendants have not addressed each theory underlying these causes of
action alleged in the Complaint.  
            Defendants
have argued that they are entitled to summary adjudication on the sole ground
that “Plaintiff does not have a disability or perceived disability pursuant to
either the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) or the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”).” 
(Notice of Mot., p. 
2:18-21.)  Plaintiff appears to
allege, in his Complaint, the existence of two disabilities: (1) his abdominal
injuries caused by consuming rotten meat provided by Defendants, and (2) the
resultant “severe anxiety, including panic attacks.”  (Compl., ¶¶ 24-25.)  However, Defendants have neither addressed
the second disability alleged by Plaintiff in his Complaint nor presented evidence
establishing that Plaintiff does not intend to pursue this theory.  Because Defendants have not addressed each
theory underlying the challenged causes of action, the court cannot grant
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1) [“A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action”] [emphasis added].) 
Second, even if Defendants had met their burden to show that they
could dispose of each challenged cause of action based on the determination that
there exists no triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s disability resulting
from his foodborne illness, the court finds that Defendants have not met their burden of
showing that the element of the existence of Plaintiff’s disability cannot be
established.  
In his Complaint, Plaintiff has alleged that (1) Defendants
discriminated against Plaintiff because of his disability, medical condition,
or perception that he suffered from a disability or medical condition; (2)
Defendants harassed Plaintiff based on his disability and/or medical condition,
real or perceived, and use of medical leave and engagement in other protected
activities; (3) Defendants retaliated against Plaintiff for engaging in
protected activities of requesting accommodations, requesting medical leave,
complaining about Defendants’ conduct, and because of his disability or medical
condition, real or perceived; (4) Defendants failed to present the alleged
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation; (5) Defendants failed to provide
reasonable accommodations for a disability or medical condition, actual or as
perceived by Defendants; (6) Defendants did not engage in the interactive
process; (7) Plaintiff is entitled to judicial declarations that he was
harassed on the basis of his disability, real or perceived, and that Defendants
subjected him to adverse employment actions based thereon; and (8) Defendants
wrongfully terminated Plaintiff because of his disability or medical condition,
real or perceived, use of medical leave, his complaints about their conduct,
and his engagement in protected activity. 
(Compl., ¶¶ 53, 46 [first cause of action for discrimination], 56
[second cause of action for harassment], 65 [third cause of action for
retaliation], 75 [fourth cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation], 82-83 [fifth cause of action for failure to
provide reasonable accommodations], 91 [sixth cause of action for failure to
engage in the interactive process], 101-103 [seventh cause of action for
declaratory relief], 118 [ninth cause of action for wrongful
termination].)  Thus, Plaintiff has based
the challenged causes of action, in part, on the existence of a disability,
actual or perceived, resulting from his consumption of rotten meat.  (Compl., ¶ 24.) 
In order to establish that a plaintiff has a physical disability under
FEHA, a plaintiff must show that he “has or is perceived by an employer as
having a condition that ‘limits a major life activity.’”  (Hodges v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2023)
91 Cal.App.5th 894, 905.)  
“Physical disability” is statutorily defined to include (1) any
physiological disease, disorder, or condition that both (A) affects one or more
enumerated body systems, including neurological, immunological, digestive, and
endocrine, and (B) limits a major life activity; (2) any other health
impairment that requires special education or related services; (3) having a
record or history of a disease, disorder, condition, or health impairment that
is known to the employer; (4) being regarded or treated by the employer as
having, or having had, any physical condition that makes achievement of a major
life activity difficult; and (5) being regarded or treated by the employer as
having, or having had, a disease, disorder, condition, cosmetic disfigurement,
or health impairment that has no present disabling effect but may become a
physical disability as described by statute. 
(Gov. Code, § 12926, subd. (b).) 

“A ‘perceived disability’ means being ‘regarded as,’ ‘perceived as’ or
‘treated as’ having a disability.”  (2
CCR § 11065, subd. (d)(5).)  “A
‘perceived potential disability’ includes being regarded, perceived, or treated
by the employer or other covered entity as having, or having had, a physical or
mental disease, disorder, condition or cosmetic disfigurement, anatomical loss,
adverse genetic information or special education disability that has no present
disabling effect, but may become a mental or physical disability or special
education disability.”  (2 CCR
§ 11065, subd. (d)(6).)  
In support of their motion, Defendants submit the transcript of
Plaintiff’s deposition, in which he testified that (1) on September 1, 2018, he
became ill after consuming raw, rotten pork; (2) he began feeling symptoms of
the illness on September 2, 2018; (3) after two weeks of pain that did not
subside, he went to the hospital; and (4) approximately eight days after
visiting physicians and taking his prescribed medication, his stomach pain
“went away altogether” and has not returned. 
(Tu Decl., Ex. 1, Pl. Dep., pp. 32:3-15, 33:24-33:2, 48:3-4, 60:8-13, 83:15-84:1.)

The court notes that this testimony may establish that his illness did
not have residual effects and therefore may be excluded from the scope of
physical disability, which does not include “conditions that are mild, which do
not limit a major life activity, as determined on a case-by-case basis[,]”
i.e., conditions that “have little or no residual effects, such as the common
cold; seasonal or common influenza; minors cuts, sprains, muscle aches,
soreness, bruises, or abrasions; non-migraine headaches, and minor and
non-chronic gastrointestinal disorders.” 
(2 CCR § 11065, subd. (d)(9)(B); Tu Decl., Ex. 1, Pl. Dep., pp.
83:22-84:1 [testifying that Plaintiff’s “pain went away altogether” and did not
“come back to trouble” him].) 
However, as set forth above, a physical disability covered by FEHA
includes “[b]eing regarded or treated by the employer or other entity covered
by this part as having, or having had, either a physical condition that makes
achievement of a major life activity difficult or a disease, disorder, or other
condition or health impairment that has no present disabling effect but may
become a physical disability.  (Gov.
Code, § 12926, subds. (m)(4), (m)(5); Hodges, supra, 91
Cal.App.5th at p. 903 [physical disability requires “that a plaintiff has or
is perceived . . . as having a condition that ‘limits a major life
activity’”] [emphasis added].) 
Defendants have not presented any evidence showing that they did not
perceive Plaintiff as having either (1) a physical condition that makes
achievement of a major life activity difficult, or (2) a disease that did not
have a present disabling effect but that may become a disability.  For example, Defendants did not submit a declaration
stating that they believed that Plaintiff was suffering from food poisoning and
did not believe that his condition may become a disability in the future. 
Thus, the court finds
that Defendants have not met their burden (1) to address each disability
alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint, and (2) to show that Plaintiff cannot
establish the element of a real or perceived disability.
The court therefore denies Defendants’ motion for summary
adjudication as to the first through seventh and ninth causes of action. 
ORDER
            The court denies defendants Pine
Enterprises, LLC and Tony Chang’s motion for summary adjudication. 
The court orders plaintiff Ricardo Flores to give notice of this
ruling.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  October 12, 2023
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court