 Case Number:  22STCV14253    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Admission, Form
Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories, As Well As Compliance with
Requests for Production.
BACKGROUND
YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF METROPOLITAN LOS
ANGELES (“Plaintiff”) brings this case against 6600 SELMA AVE., LLC, JAYESH
KUMAR, and MADHUBEN KUMAR (“Defendants”) for Defendants’ breach of a lease and
guaranty after Defendants stopped paying rent. 

Plaintiff filed a combined motion
to compel Defendants’ further responses to requests for admission, form
interrogatories and special interrogatories, and document production, for
various reasons addressed in nine separate statements. Three days before the
hearing, Defendants filed a late opposition stating that they have provided further
responses.
ANALYSIS
After filing the motions to
compel, the parties held an IDC with the Court. At the IDC held on 3/27/24,
counsel for Defendants agreed to serve further responses to the four sets of
discovery.  Weisberg Decl., ¶ 2. Defendants
served further responses and subsequently served further revised responses and
a revised document production on 4/11/24 (one week before this hearing). Id., ¶¶
9-10, Exs. 10-14. Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ further revised responses
and document production still fail to comply with Defendants’ discovery
obligations. Plaintiff therefore contends that the Court should grant the
motion and order Defendants to serve code-compliant, verified responses, as
well as a complete document production. 
Where respondents served untimely
discovery responses after parties have filed motions to compel responses,
courts have broad discretion as to ruling, including: 1) denying the motion as
moot, in whole or part, where valid responses without objections have resolved
the motion;  2) awarding requested
sanctions; 3) allowing moving party to take the motion off calendar; 4)  considering the motion as voluntarily
narrowed in scope; 5) compelling responses without objection, where no legally
valid responses have been provided, as to some, or all, interrogatories; 6)
treating the motion as one to compel further responses, and ruling accordingly,
with, or without, a separate statement; 7) ordering the parties to meet and
confer;  8)  ordering moving party to file a separate
statement; or, 9) ordering the motion off calendar while requiring the
propounding party to file a motion to compel further responses.  Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., v.
Klugman (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 409.
Here, the Court exercises its
discretion to grant the motion to compel further responses because it agrees
with Plaintiff that Defendants’ revised further responses are inadequate. The
purpose of the IDC process is to avoid costly and
unnecessary discovery motion practice. Counsel for Defendants agreed to
supplement Defendants’ deficient initial responses. The Court reiterated to
defense counsel that such responses must be code-compliant and thorough. The
Court is disappointed that defense counsel instead served further responses
that continue to not directly answer the questions posed, consistent with
Defendants’ obligations under the CCP. Defendants’ failure to comply with its obligations has only served to increase the costs
of this litigation.
The Court grants the motions
to compel. Defendants shall serve separate further, verified responses for each
Defendant as to each set of discovery, i.e., Defendant Selma shall serve a
verified further written response to the RFAs, interrogatories, and document requests
propounded to Defendant Selma, and Defendants Jayesh Kumar and Madhuben Kumar
shall each do the same as to the discovery requests propounded to them. The
further, verified written responses and the document production are due by
5/1/2024.  