  Case Number:  20STCV00967    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  A 
20STCV00967
 Salvardor Garcia et al. v. County of Los Angeles, et al.
Tuesday,
 July 30, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
 PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: CONTEMPT AGAINST THIRD PARTY
 WITNESS, SEDGWICK, FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR
 PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND       
       Plaintiffs, Salvador Garcia, Ana Maria Garcia, and Ana Morales
(“Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Defendants, County of Los Angeles,
Brian Ciscel, and Christian Hernandez (“Defendants”), for injuries ­­­sustained
because of the death of their decedent, Pablo Garcia, who was fatally shot by
Defendants on May 21, 2019.  Plaintiffs
filed their complaint on January 9, 2020, alleging claims for (1) negligence,
(2) assault and battery, (3) violations of Civil Code § 52.1, (4) negligent infliction
of emotional distress, and (5) intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
       On July 29, 2021, the Hon. Thomas Long heard and granted
Plaintiff’s first Pitchess motion on November 17, 2022, for discovery of the
personnel and administrative records of deputies, Ciscel and Hernandez. On
August 12, 2021, Judge Long ordered Defendants to produce certain personnel
records of both deputies within 10 court days, subject to the court’s
protective order of December 1, 2020. The court ordered the transcript sealed.
       On November 17, 2022, the Hon. Michael Shultz granted
Plaintiffs’ Pitchess motion for discovery of Deputy Ciscel’s psychological
evaluations, disability claims related to stress, anxiety, depression, or any
other psychological issues; records of discussions pertaining to psychological
issues that may be affecting his job performance; and any records of actions
taken by the LASD in response to any psychological examination performed on
Deputy Ciscel.
       On January 6, 2023, the Hon. Michael Shultz conducted the in
chambers review of records required to be produced and granted the motion for
disclosure of peace officer personnel records related to Defendant Deputy
Sheriff, Brian Ciscel. Plaintiffs now make this motion for contempt against
third party witness Sedgwick’s failure to produce the worker's compensation
records of Brian Ciscel as ordered by Judge Shultz on January 6, 2023. 
 
 
II.     
ARGUMENTS
       Plaintiffs
argue that they subpoenaed Sedgwick for the production of worker's compensation
records of Brian Ciscel as ordered by the court. Sedgwick did not respond to
the subpoena for over one year, and they did not respond to Plaintiffs’
numerous telephone calls regarding the subpoena.  
       Non-party
witness, Sedgwick, argues that the subpoena served by Plaintiffs was defective
on its face and failed to reach Sedgwick. Plaintiffs served the subpoena on
County of Los Angeles c/o Sedgwick. Plaintiffs did not serve the witness,
Sedgwick. Sedgwick did not have notice of the subpoena until Plaintiffs filed
this motion. An OSC re contempt is improper under these circumstances. 
       In
reply, Plaintiffs argue they served Sedgwick’s agent for service of process,
Trudy Desbiens, who was authorized to accept service at the designated address located
at 2710 Gateway Oak Dr., Suite 150N in Sacramento with the court’s minute
orders and a subpoena for records. Sedgwick did not challenge the subpoena
until Plaintiffs filed this motion, which was served on Nicole Stauss, agent
for service of process located at 2710 Gateway Oaks Drive, Suite 150N in
Sacramento on Jun 21, 2024. Defendant objected to the subpoena, which required
Plaintiffs to again serve the subpoena on Rebecca Vant, Agent for Service at
the same address, which address was provided by the County of Los Angeles and
Deputy Brian Ciscel. 
 
III.   
DISCUSSION
       The
court can compel a witness’ compliance with a subpoena for the production of
documents. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) The court has
already ordered Sedgewick to produce the records. Plaintiffs personally served
the subpoena on Trudy Desbians at the Sacramento address on February 8, 2023.
(Plaintiff’s Ex. D.) Plaintiffs personally served the motion on Sedgwick’s
agent, Nicole Stauss, at the same address on June 21, 2024. 
       Plaintiffs
have served subpoenas on Sedgewick’s authorized process server three times and
have given notice of Judge Long’s order and this court’s order requiring
production of records. Sedgwick’s contention that the subpoena is defective is
without merit. 

       Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED. The
court sets an order to show cause re contempt for August 23,
 2024,  at 8:30 a.m. Absent
compliance with the subpoena for records within five days of this hearing, Sedgwick
is required to submit briefing explaining why they will not comply with
lawfully served subpoenas 10 days before the contempt hearing.  The court will consider imposing monetary and
other sanctions at the co