  Case Number:  21STCV21454    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Continue Trial filed by Defendant John
Fitzgerald Gomillion.
 
Tentative
The motion is denied.
Background
This case arises out of an automobile accident on August
26, 2019 near the intersection of Babcock Avenue and Kittridge Street in Los Angeles.
On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff Dominique Johnston
(“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against John Fitzgerald Gomillion (“Gomillion”),
Uber Technologies, Inc. (“Uber”), and Does 1 through 20 asserting causes of
action for motor vehicle negligence and general negligence.  Uber and Gomillion filed their answers on January
3 and January 11, 2022.
On November 9, 2022, the Court signed an order, based
upon the stipulation of the parties, continuing trial from December 2, 2022 to
April 10, 2023.
On February 24, 2023, the Court signed an order, based
upon the stipulation of the parties, continuing trial to January 2, 2024.
On October 23, 2023, the Court granted Uber’s motion to
continue trial, based largely upon Uber’s argument that Plaintiff had only
recently alleged new injuries and new treatment.  The trial date was continued to April 9,
2024. 
On February 13, 2024, Gomillion filed this motion to
continue trial.  The hearing date was
initially scheduled for March 11, and was advanced, on ex parte application of
Gomillion, to February 28.
Plaintiff filed her opposition on February 21.  
Pursuant to the ex parte order, reply arguments are to be
heard orally.
On February 23, Uber filed a non-opposition and a
purported joinder in the motion.
 
Legal Standard
Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the
court has the power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make
them conform to law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance
should be granted is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue,
Inc. v. Abrams (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide
latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of
continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
Each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits according to California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332(c). The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances of good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(c).)  
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332 sets
forth a list of non-exhaustive factors to be analyzed when determining whether
good cause for a trial continuance is present. A court considers factors such
as:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
As an initial
matter, the Court notes that Uber, in its purported joinder filed on February
23, presents arguments that are either (1) a written reply to Plaintiff’s
opposition or (2) new arguments based on new evidence in support of Gomillion’s
requested relief.  Perhaps both.  In either event, the arguments in the joinder
are improper.  The Court, in advancing
the hearing on Gomillion’s motion, ordered that reply arguments are to be presented
orally.  And new arguments based on new
evidence may not be presented in a reply (or “non-opposition”) only three court
days before the hearing.  Accordingly,
the Court disregards the new arguments and new evidence presented in Uber’s filing
(whether considered a reply or non-opposition or joinder).
On the merits,
Gomillion moves to continue trial on one basis: that “lead trial counsel for Gomillion
substituted in as counsel on January 25, 2024, and will face upcoming discovery
cutoffs and trial-related deadlines without adequate time to investigate, prepare,
and be ready for trial.”  (Notice of
Motion, at p. 2; see also Mem. at 1:19-23, 3:11-18; Latson Decl., ¶¶ 4, 6-7.)
A voluntary substitution
of counsel on the eve of trial is not good cause for a continuance.  There is no evidence in the record that prior
counsel was not able to continue to represent Gomillion due to death,
disability, or other external factors. 
Of course, Gomillion is free to substitute counsel and be represented at
trial by the lawyer of his choosing, but he cannot force a trial continuance through
such a late substitution.  And new counsel
should have considered the trial date, the policy that “the dates assigned for
a trial are firm” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a)), before accepting the
representation. 
Accordingly, the
motion to continue is DENIED.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES Defendant’s motion to continue
trial. 
Moving Party is ORDERED to give notice.