 Case Number:  23STCV04603    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  31  Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July
31, 2024                                                  TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Arami Cheyenne Walker v. Board of Regents, University of California
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV04603
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE SUPPLEMENTAL COMPLAINT 
 
MOTION
TO STRIKE THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT IN ITS ENTIRETY, OR ALTERNATIVELY, STRIKE
PORTIONS OF THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT



 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This case
arises from the alleged unauthorized use of photographic images.  On March 2, 2023, Plaintiff, Arami Cheyenne
Walker,[1]
filed a Complaint against Defendant, The Regents of the University of
California (erroneously sued as Board of Regents, University of California),
alleging causes of action for: (1) Appropriation (Civil Code section 3344); (2)
Breach of Contract; and (3) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.¿ 
 
As alleged, Plaintiff was a student University of
California, Los Angeles (UCLA).  On May
28, 2015, Plaintiff was approached by a photographer at UCLA to take images of
her.  Plaintiff agreed and the
photographer, Elena Zhukova, took a few images and asked for Plaintiff to sign
a release. The release authorized use of the images so long as they were not
defamatory. Years later, on March 20, 2020, Plaintiff learned that UCLA Giving was
using her photographic image as part of a funding campaign in response to Covid-19.
 Plaintiff claims this use of her
likeness was unauthorized and defamatory within the meaning of the release.
 
            Defendant
demurred to all three causes of action in the Complaint.  On September 12, 2023, the court sustained
the demurrer in its entirety with leave to amend.
 
            On September
26, 2023, Plaintiff timely filed the First Amended Complaint (FAC).  
Defendant demurred to the FAC.  On December 15, 2023, the court sustained
Defendant’s demurrer.  The court granted
leave to amend as to Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim.  Leave to amend was denied as to Plaintiff’s appropriation
and negligent infliction of emotional distress claims.
 
            On January
3, 2024, Plaintiff timely filed the Second Amended Complaint (SAC).   The
SAC asserts causes of action for Breach of Contract (Promissory Estoppel), and
an “Appropriation and Invasion of Privacy 2022” claim. Defendant demurred to
the SAC and concurrently filed a motion to strike the “Appropriation and
Invasion of Privacy 2022” claim of the SAC. 
The court overruled the demurrer and granted the motion to strike.  The court further directed Plaintiff to “file
a Third Amended Complaint with the cause of action(s) stricken within twenty
(20) days.”  To the extent that Plaintiff
wished to amend or add a new cause of action, the court instructed Plaintiff to
seek leave of court to amend her pleading.
            
            On April
23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint (TAC) which asserts claims
for Promissory Estoppel and Unjust Enrichment.
            
Before the court are two motions: (1) Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to File a Supplemental Complaint; and (2) Defendant’s Motion to Strike Third
Amended Complaint in its Entirety, or Alternatively, Strike Portions of Third
Amended Complaint.
 
            The motions
are fully briefed.  The court now rules
as follows.
 
II.        MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A SUPPLEMENTAL
COMPLAINT  
 
A.   
Discussion and Legal
Standard 
 
Plaintiff
moves for leave to file a supplemental complaint to add a “Supplemental cause
of action: California Civil Code 3344 ( Misappropriation)” based on Defendant’s
use of Plaintiff’s image in 2022.  (See
Mot., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Plaintiff bases her
request upon Code of Civil Procedure section 464(a).  
 
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 464(a) states, “Plaintiff and defendant,
respectively, may be allowed, on motion, to make a supplemental complaint or
answer, alleging facts material to the case occurring after the former
complaint or answer.”  A supplemental
pleading does not supersede the original complaint but rather “adds new
allegations to be considered in conjunction with the original.” (Weil &
Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group
2011) ¶ 6:795, p. 6–198; see also 5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (5th ed. 2008)
Pleading, § 1246, p. 690.) A new or independent cause of action is not allowed
under section 464.  (See Flood v. Simpson
(1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 644, 647 (Flood).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff is not entitled to leave to file a supplemental complaint for two
reasons.  First, Plaintiff does not
allege any facts material to the case that occurred after the
former complaint or answer.  Rather,
Plaintiff points allegations which appear in each of her pleadings to
date.  (Compare Motion with Complaint,
FAC, and SAC.)
 
Second,
Plaintiff attempts to introduce a new or independent cause of action under
Section 464.  This is expressly
prohibited by case law.  (See Flood supra,
45 Cal.App.3d at p. 647.)
 
B.      Conclusion
 
The motion for leave to file a supplemental
complaint is DENIED.
 
III.       MOTION TO STRIKE
  
A.    Meet and Confer
 
            “Before filing a motion to strike
pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or
by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached
that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).)¿ Defense counsel has complied with the meet and
confer requirement. (See Declaration of Jason Scupine, ¶¶ 5-8.)
 
B.    
Analysis
 
            Defendant seeks an order striking
the TAC in its entirety on the grounds that the TAC exceeds the court’s April
10, 2024 order directing Plaintiff to simply delete her cause of action for
“Appropriation and Invasion of Privacy 2022” in the SAC.  The court agrees.  
 
            On April 10, 2024, the court heard
argument on Defendant’s demurrer and motion to strike Plaintiff’s SAC.  As relevant here, the court adopted its
tentative ruling granting the motion to strike Plaintiff’s “Appropriation and
Invasion of Privacy 2022” claim.  Specifically,
the court stated, “Plaintiff is to file the third amended complaint with the
cause of action(s) stricken within twenty (20) days.”  (Minute Order, 4/10/24.)  Plaintiff was not given leave to file an
amended pleading which adds to or otherwise changes the allegations as set
forth in the SAC.  
 
            Here, Plaintiff filed a TAC which
does not comply with the court’s April 10, 2024 order.  The TAC differs from the SAC in three
ways.  First, Plaintiff now asserts a
stand-alone claim for unjust enrichment. 
(See TAC, p. 8.)  Second, the TAC
includes three additional exhibits.  (See
TAC, Exs. N, O, P.)   Third, Plaintiff
has added, altered, and re-organized the allegations throughout the TAC.  (Compare TAC with SAC.)  None of the foregoing changes were permitted
by the court’s April 10, 2024 order.
 
            Plaintiff offers only one argument
in opposition.  Focusing on the unjust
enrichment claim, Plaintiff contends that the claim has been present throughout
the course of the case.  Further,
Plaintiff points out that California does not recognize a stand-alone cause of action
for unjust enrichment.  In other words,
Plaintiff’s position appears to be that because the court instructed her to
file an amended pleading without adding any new causes of action, the TAC
complies with the court’s order.  
 
            Plaintiff misses the point.  The court directed Plaintiff to file an
amended pleading which omits her “Appropriation and Invasion of Privacy 2022”
claim.  No other changes were permitted.  Further, Plaintiff’s changes to the general
allegations in the TAC also complicates the court’s ability to review the arguments
to strike portions of the TAC. 
Accordingly, the court grants the request to strike the Third Amended
Complaint in its entirety and further, directs Plaintiff to file a pleading conforming
to the court’s April 10, 2024 order as a Fourth Amended Complaint.  
 
III.        DISPOSITIONS
            
1.     
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File
a Supplemental Complaint is Denied.  
 
2.     
Defendant’s Motion to Strike is Granted.  
 
Plaintiff’s Third Amended Complaint, filed on April 23,
2024, is stricken.  Plaintiff is further
directed to file a Fouth Amended Complaint that omits her “Appropriation and
Invasion of Privacy 2022” claim. 
Plaintiff may not add or otherwise alter the allegations as previously
set forth in the Second Amended Complaint.
 
 
Clerk of the court to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   July 31, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


