 Case Number:  22STCV06438    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July
31, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE:  January 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                                Sunset and Vine Apartments, LLC v. Guardian Advisors LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      22STCV06438
 





















 
MOTION
TO QUASH PLAINTIFF’S DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS OF
VOORHEIS & VOORHEIS INC.
      


 
MOVING PARTIES:           Defendants Urbino Construction Inc., AKBH LLC, and Intervenor
Next Insurance, Inc.
 
RESPONDING
PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On February 2, 2022, Plaintiff Sunset and Vine Apartments,
LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Guardian Advisors, LLC, Urbino
Construction, Inc., and AKBH LLC, among others, for damages arising from the
removal of lateral and subjacent support sustained to Plaintiff’s property known
as 5814 La Mirada Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90038.  
 
On May 16, 2024, the court granted Intervenor Next
Insurance, Inc.’s unopposed motion to intervene to defend Guardian Advisors,
LLC, a suspended corporation, in this action.
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiff served deposition
subpoena for production of business records to Voorheis & Voorheis Inc. (“Voorheis”). 
Urbino Construction retained Voorheis as a its expert to aid in the pretrial
process.
 
On June 10, 2024, Urbino Construction, Guardian Advisors,
and AKBH (hereafter, “Defendants”) filed this Motion to Quash Subpoena for
Records of Voorheis & Voorheis.
 
On July 24, 2024, counsel for Defendants filed a declaration
stating that Plaintiff did not oppose the motion.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
            If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands such as unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)¿¿  
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants
seek an order quashing the Subpoena for the principal reason that Plaintiff has
not made a written demand to exchange expert witness information/disclosure as
required to by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034, et seq.  The court agrees.  The mechanism that triggers an exchange of
information for expert trial witnesses is through a timely written demand made
by any party after the initial trial date is set. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.220.) Section 2034.260 governs the specified contents that are required in
the exchange of expert witness information. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.260.) Most
importantly, under Section 2034.210, the demand requires the parties to have a
mutual and simultaneous exchange of expert witness information and a lack of
demand indicates that neither party would be required to comply with statutory
exchange requirements. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.260; see Hirano v. Hirano
(2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1, 6 (Hirano).) 
 
Obtaining pretrial discovery of information concerning each
party’s expert witnesses includes making a written demand for the mutual and
simultaneous exchange of expert witness information on a specified date no
sooner than 20 days after service of the demand or 50 days before the initial
trial date, whichever is closer to the trial date. (Hirano, 158
Cal.App.4th at pp. 5-6.) Only the party who makes a demand for exchange of
expert witness information and the party upon whom the demand is made are
required to comply with the statutory procedures for exchanging expert witness
information.  Thus, where no demand is
made by any party, no party is required to comply with the statutory exchange
requirements.  (Id. at p. 6.)
 
Here, it is undisputed that Urbino Construction retained
Voorheis to assist in the pretrial process. 
(Chang Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.)  It is
further undisputed that Urbino Construction has not yet designated Voorheis as
its expert witness (Chang Decl., ¶ 12), nor has Plaintiff served an expert
witness demand (Chang Decl., ¶ 13). Plaintiff’s Subpoena is therefore premature,
and Urbino Construction may withhold the information sought by the Subpoena
based on attorney-client privilege and work product protections.
 
Given the foregoing, and the lack of opposition, the court
finds that Defendants are entitled to an order quashing the Subpoena to
Voorheis. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
Accordingly, the unopposed Motion To Quash is GRANTED.   
 
Moving parties to give notice.
 
Dated:   July 31, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of the
  Superior Court 




 