  Case Number:  22STCV04087    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July
31, 2024                          TRIAL DATE: 
March 10, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Caiden Caldwell v. Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04087
 

 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOTION
TO CONSOLIDATE

 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            This action arises
from events at the Once Upon A Time in LA music festival (the “Music Festival”).
 The music festival took place at the Banc
of California Stadium on December 18, 2021. Hip hop recording artist Darrell
Caldwell (AKA Drakeo the Ruler) (“Decedent”), DeVante Caldwell, Calvin Webb,
Terrence Hackett, Kevin Gomez, Jorky Peralta, Felton Binns, Jerome Watkins, and
Alrick Cooper III were attacked while backstage at the Music Festival.  Decedent died a result of his injuries.  Three cases (Case Nos. 22STCV04087,
22STCV06905, 22STCV07737) were subsequently filed.
            Before the court are
three motions: (1) Defendants Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., and C3 Presents LLC’s
Demurrer; (2) Defendants Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., and C3 Presents LLC’s
Motion to Strike, which was concurrently filed with the Demurrer; and (3) Defendants
Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., and C3 Presents, LLC’s Motion to Consolidate.  The court addresses each matter in turn. 
II.        DEMURRER
 
a.     
Factual and
Procedural Background
 
On or about
February 2, 2022, Plaintiff Caiden Caldwell, a minor, as Successor-In Interest
to the Estate of Darrell Caldwell p/k/a Drakeo The Ruler, through his guardian
ad litem, filed the instant action (Case No. 22STCV04087).  On August 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (FAC), alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence-Wrongful
Death CCP § 377.60; (2) Premises Liability-Wrongful Death; and (3) Negligent
Hiring/Retention/Supervision Training-Wrongful Death against Defendants Live
Nation Worldwide, Inc., and C3 Presents LLC, among others.
 
The FAC alleges
that Decedent’s lynching and stabbing occurred while Decedent made his way
through the backstage area of the Banc of California enroute to the stage.  Decedent was attacked when a violent mob of
purported members of a Los Angeles based Bloods gang breached the
security.  Plaintiff alleges this breach
was the result of a complete and abject failure of all Defendants to implement
proper safety measures in order to ensure the safety and wellbeing of the
artists whom they invited and hired for their music festival. 
 
On March 12, 2024,
Defendants Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., and C3 Presents LLC filed this demurrer
and a motion to strike.  On May 22, 2024,
Plaintiff filed oppositions. On May 28, 2024, Defendant filed replies.
 
b.     
Legal Standard
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context.  (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144
Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court
“treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests
the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore,
it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved
in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) 
            
“Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
 
c.      
Application
 
1.     
 Request for Judicial Notice 
 
In support
of its demurrer, Defendants request judicial notice of the complaint and first
amended complaint filed in in this matter; the minute orders deeming this case related with Devante
Caldwell, et al v. Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., et al., 22STCV06905
(Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice (DRJN) 1), and Darrylene Corniel,
et al. vs Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., et al., 22STCV077370 (DRJN 2); the minute
order in this matter filed on January 22, 2024 (DRJN 3); and the first amended complaint
in Darrylene Corniel, et al. vs Live Nation Worldwide, Inc., et al.,
22STCV04087, filed on May 18, 2022 (DRJN 4). 
Plaintiff seeks judicial notice of: Application and Order for Appointment
of Guardian Ad Litem – dated August 21, 2023. 
The parties’ requests for judicial notice are GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, §452, subd. (d).)
2.      Meet and Confer
 
The demurrer
is accompanied by the declaration of Aaron Thorburn,
which satisfies the meet and confer requirements.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.)  
 
d.      Analysis
Defendants demur to the FAC,
arguing that: (1) Plaintiff lacks standing to assert wrongful death and survival
claims, and (2) Plaintiff fails to plead a heightened degree of foreseeability.
 
1.     
 Standing

The court first addresses whether
Plaintiff has standing to bring a wrongful death action.  Wrongful death is a statutorily created claim that
comes into being once a person dies and entitles the persons specified by
statute as his heirs—and only those persons—to sue “for the loss of
companionship and for other losses suffered [by those heirs] as a result of
[the] decedent’s death.”  (Quiroz v.
Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1263; Code Civ. Proc., §§
377.60-377.62.)  Standing to sue is limited
to those “persons who, because of their relation to the deceased, are presumed
to be injured by his death.” (Nelson v. County of Los Angeles (2003) 113
Cal.App.4th 783, 789, fn. 6.) 
“[S]tanding among multiple claimants is determined by statutory rank.”  (Scott v. Thompson (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1506, 1511.)  Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 377.60, a cause of action for the death of a person caused by
the wrongful act or neglect of another may be asserted by the decedent’s
personal representative or by persons falling within one of five categories,
including “[t]he decedent’s surviving spouse, domestic partner, children,
and issue of deceased children, or, if there is no surviving issue of the
decedent, the persons . . . who would be entitled to the property of the
decedent by intestate succession.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 377.60, subd. (a), emphasis added.)  A demurrer
may be sustained when a person does not have standing to sue.  (County
of Fresno v. Shelton (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 996, 1009.) 
Defendants argue Plaintiff lacks
standing to pursue a wrongful death claim because Decedent’s mother, Darrylene
Corniel (Corniel), has been appointed as executor of Decedent’s estate.  The court disagrees.  As Plaintiff correctly points out, Corniel has not
brought a wrongful death claim in her capacity as the personal representative
of Decedent’s estate.  (See DRJN 4.)  Corniel has asserted her wrongful death claim
solely in her capacity as an individual.  Therefore, Defendants have not established
that Corniel’s wrongful death claim supersedes Plaintiff’s wrongful death
claim.   Further, Plaintiff alleges (and it is not
disputed), that he is Decedent’s only child. 
(See FAC, ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff has
alleged sufficient facts to establish that he satisfies one of the five
categories of persons delineated under Section 377.60 to assert a wrongful
death claim.  Plaintiff’s wrongful death
claim is not subject to demurrer on this basis.[1]  
Defendants next argue that Plaintiff lacks
standing to pursue a survival claim.  Plaintiff
contends that the FAC does not assert a survival claim.  Although Plaintiff’s statement may indeed be
a judicial admission, the cause of action remains ambiguous because of the
allegations of the FAC.  The FAC alleges
that Plaintiff brings this action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
377.32.  (See FAC, ¶ 68.)  Standing to bring a survival action is
based on section 377.32.  (Hayes v. County of San Diego (9th Cir. 2013)
736 F.3d 1233, 1229.)  Yet, none of the causes
of action are labeled as survival claims. 
The FAC is therefore uncertain.  Accordingly,
the court will sustain the demurrer to the First Cause of Action for
Negligence-Wrongful Death on this ground.
 
2.      Heightened
Foreseeability 
 
Plaintiff brings three causes of action for
negligence (wrongful death), premises liability, and negligent hiring,
retention, supervision, and training.  Defendants argue Plaintiff’s claims all fail because there are no allegations establishing heightened
foreseeability.  As a threshold matter, Defendants
do not provide any authority for the proposition that a plaintiff must
establish heightened foreseeability to state a claim for negligent hiring.  Defendants do not advance any other arguments
regarding the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s negligent hiring claim.  The demurrer to the negligent hiring claim is
therefore OVERRULED.  The court proceeds
to consider Defendants’ challenge to the negligence (wrongful death) and
premises liability claims.
 
i.                   
Applicable Legal Principles 
 
“To establish a cause of action for negligence, the plaintiff
must show that the ‘defendant had a duty to use due care, that he breached that
duty, and that the breach was the proximate or legal cause of the resulting
injury.’ [Citation.] Recovery for negligence depends as a threshold matter on
the existence of a legal duty of care.” (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021)
11 Cal.5th 204, 213 (Brown).) “The existence of a duty is a question of
law for the court.” (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993)
6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.), disapproved on other grounds in Reid
v. Google (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512, 527, fn. 5.)
 
“In general, each person has a duty to act with reasonable
care under the circumstances. [Citations.] However, ‘one owes no duty to
control the conduct of another, nor to warn those endangered by such conduct.’
[Citation.] ‘A person who has not created a peril is not liable in tort merely
for failure to take affirmative action to assist or protect another unless
there is some relationship between them which gives rise to a duty to act.’ ” (Regents
of University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607,
619 (Regents); Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005)
36 Cal.4th 224, 235 (Delgado) [“A defendant may owe an affirmative
duty to protect another from the conduct of third parties if he or she has a
‘special relationship’ with the other person.”].)
 
Courts apply a two-step inquiry to determine “whether a
defendant has a legal duty to take action to protect the plaintiff from
injuries caused by a third party.” (Brown, supra,
11 Cal.5th at p. 209.) “First, the court must determine whether there
exists a special relationship between the parties or some other set of
circumstances giving rise to an affirmative duty to protect. Second, if so, the
court must consult the factors described in Rowland [v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108] to determine whether relevant policy
considerations counsel limiting that duty.”  (Ibid.)
 
The two-step inquiry is based on the premise that “even when
two parties may be in a special relationship, the unforeseeability of the kind
of harm suffered by the plaintiff or other policy factors may counsel against
establishing an affirmative duty for one party to protect another.” (Brown, supra,
11 Cal.5th at p. 219.) “A court might conclude that duty should not be imposed
because, for example, the type of harm the plaintiff suffered was
unforeseeable, or because there was no moral blameworthiness associated with
defendant's conduct, notwithstanding the defendant's special relationship to
the plaintiff. Put differently, even when a special relationship gives rise to
an affirmative duty to protect, a court must still consider whether the policy
considerations set out in Rowland warrant a departure from
that duty in the relevant category of cases.” (Id. at p. 222.)
 
A.  First Step:
Special Relationship
 
            Defendants
do not dispute the FAC adequately alleges the existence of a special
relationship between Defendants and Decedent.  Indeed, “ ‘[t]he relationship between a
possessor of land and an invitee is a special relationship giving rise to a
duty of care.’ [Citations.] ‘The duty of care includes a duty to take
reasonable steps to protect persons on the property from physical harm caused
by the foreseeable conduct of third parties,’ including foreseeable
criminal acts.” (Hanouchian v. Steele (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 99, 107 (Hanouchian);
see Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 235 [“Courts
have found such a special relationship in cases involving the relationship
between business proprietors such as shopping centers, restaurants, and bars,
and their tenants, patrons, or invitees.”]; Ann M., supra,
6 Cal.4th at p. 674 [landlord owes duty to tenants and patrons “to take
reasonable steps to secure common areas against foreseeable criminal acts of
third parties that are likely to occur in the absence of such precautionary
measures.”]; Dix v. Live Nation Entertainment, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
590, 596 [“Because of its special
relationship with festival attendees, an operator of electronic music festivals
like Live Nation owes a duty of reasonable care to festival attendees.”].)  


            “Relationships that have been recognized as
‘special’ share a few common features. Generally, the relationship has an
aspect of dependency in which one party relies to some degree on the other for
protection. The Supreme Court in Regents explained, ‘The
corollary of dependence in a special relationship is control. Whereas one party
is dependent, the other has superior control over the means of protection. ‘[A]
typical setting for the recognition of a special relationship is where “the
plaintiff is particularly vulnerable and dependent upon the defendant who,
correspondingly, has some control over the plaintiff's welfare.” (Dix, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at p. 606.) 
 
            Plaintiff
established the existence of a special relationship.  
 
            B.  Second Step: The Rowland Factors 
 
Defendants argue the Rowland factors “limit that
duty.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 209.  The Rowland factors include:“ ‘[T]he
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant's
conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's
conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the
defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care
with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence
of insurance for the risk involved.’ ” (Ann M., supra, 6
Cal.4th at p. 675, fn. 5, quoting Rowland v. Christian, supra,
69 Cal.2d at p. 113; see Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th
1205, 1213 (Castaneda).) “Foreseeability and the extent of the
burden to the defendant are ordinarily the crucial considerations, but in a
given case one or more of the other Rowland factors may be
determinative of the duty analysis.” (Castaneda, at p. 1213.)
 
            As an
example of the application of the two step analysis, the California Supreme
Court in Brown pointed out that “in our recent decision in Regents, supra, 4 Cal.5th at page 627, 230 Cal.Rptr.3d 415, 413
P.3d 656, we held that the special relationship between a university and its
students creates a “duty to use reasonable care to protect their students from
foreseeable acts of violence in the classroom or during curricular activities.”
We then turned to Rowland to decide whether policy
considerations “justif[ied] excusing or limiting” that duty to protect, and
concluded the answer was no. (Citation.)” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 218.)  Indeed, as the Brown Court stated, “even
when two parties may be in a special relationship, the unforeseeability of the
kind of harm suffered by the plaintiff or other policy factors may counsel
against establishing an affirmative duty for one party to protect the other.” (Id. at p. 219.)  “[A] court might
conclude that duty should not be imposed because, for example, the type of harm
the plaintiff suffered was unforeseeable, or because there was no moral
blameworthiness associated with the defendant's conduct, notwithstanding the
defendant's special relationship to the plaintiff. Put differently, even when a
special relationship gives rise to an affirmative duty to protect, a court must
still consider whether the policy considerations set out in Rowland warrant a departure from that duty in the relevant category of
cases.” (Id. at p. 222.) 
 
Defendants argue this court should limit the
duty because a category of cases – third party criminal conduct – warrant a
high degree of foreseeability of harm before imposing a duty of care.  Case law supports Defendants’ argument.  “[A] high
degree of foreseeability is required in order to find that the scope of a
landlord’s duty of care includes the hiring of security guards. . . . [T]he
requisite degree of foreseeability rarely, if ever, can be proven in the
absence of prior similar incidents of violent crime on the landowner’s
premises.  To hold otherwise would be to impose an unfair burden upon
landlords and, in effect, would force landlords to become the insurers of
public safety, contrary to well established policy in this state.”  (Ann
M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 679, footnote omitted.)  “Heightened
foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of prior similar criminal
incidents (or other indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent
criminal assaults in that location) and does not require a showing of prior nearly
identical criminal incidents.”  (Delgado, supra, 36
Cal.4th at p. 245, italics in original.)  “To establish heightened
foreseeability for third party criminal conduct, our authorities have
consistently required actual knowledge—not constructive, inferential, or
knowledge by association—to impose a burdensome legal duty.” (Hanouchian,
supra, 51 Cal.App.5th at p. 111.)
 
The question is whether Plaintiff alleged facts
in the FAC demonstrating a high degree of foreseeability that harm would come
to Decedent if adequate security measures were not taken.  The court finds such facts are alleged.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendants “were completely
knowledgeable of the potential dangers posed to both their guests and the
performers that they hired based upon numerous past incidents of violence and
death at their hip hop events, the prevalence of gang activity that would be
present, not only because numerous artists they hired were associated with Los
Angeles gangs, but also given the fact that the music festival was being held
in South Central Los Angeles, one of the most dangerous areas in the greater
Los Angeles region.”  (FAC ¶ 4.)  And
with respect to Mr. Caldwell, in particular, Plaintiffs alleged that “Defendants
… were also knowledgeable to the fact that as a result of Mr. Caldwell having
been falsely accused of being involved with the murder of a member of an
Inglewood Bloods gang, he was being targeted by the gang members in order to
exact revenge, based upon this false information.”  (Id.)  “Based upon the very public feud between Mr.
Caldwell and the Bloods gang, Defendant Promoters and DOES 1 through 5 knew or
should have known that Mr. Caldwell’s safety was at risk, and given the fact
that as a result of YG also billed to perform at the Music Festival that
evening, there was a high degree of likelihood that there would be a
significant presence of members of the Bloods gang that could potentially
caused death or great bodily harm to Mr. Caldwell in the event of inadequate
security measures being taken in order to keep him safe.” (FAC ¶ 44.)  “Due
to this heightened foreseeability raised by past incidents and the knowledge of
a heavy gang presence that would descend upon the Music Festival, along with
the very public knowledge that Decedent was subject to a “hit” from a Los
Angeles Bloods gang, Defendants are liable for their gross negligence for
failing to take reasonable security precautions in order to ensure Decedent’s
safety.” (FAC ¶ 71.)  Plaintiffs go on
to detail the basis for Defendants knowledge of the danger posed to Mr. Caldwell
throughout the FAC. (See FAC ¶¶ 37-45.)  Plaintiff alleged more than a general
prospect or a general knowledge of the possibility of violent criminal conduct.
(Hanouchian, supra, 51
Cal.App.5th at p. 111.)  Unlike the
Plaintiff in Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, Plaintiff
here sufficiently alleged that Defendants knew Mr. Caldwell was the target of gang
violence and presented the factual basis for such knowledge.     
 
Consideration of the other Rowland factors weigh
against limiting such a duty of care in this case.  “With respect to the two most crucial
considerations, our Supreme Court has instructed that ‘ “the scope of the duty
is determined in part by balancing the foreseeability of the harm against the
burden of the duty to be imposed. [Citation.] ‘ “[I]n cases where the burden of
preventing future harm is great, a high degree of foreseeability may be
required. [Citation.] On the other hand, in cases where there are strong policy
reasons for preventing the harm, or the harm can be prevented by simple means,
a lesser degree of foreseeability may be required.” ’ ” ’ ” (Hanouchian, supra,
51 Cal.App.5th at p. 108.)  Here,
Defendants were well aware of the potential harm and undertook “the burden” of
hiring security.  Whether Defendants
breached their duty because the security was inadequate is a different
inquiry.  
 
            Applying
a similar analysis to concert goers and drug usage, the Dix Court had
little trouble finding a duty of care, unlimited by the Rowland
factors.  The Dix Court wrote, “Based on its prior experience with producing
similar festivals, Live Nation knew that a “major risk” of conducting an
electronic music festival was that attendees would “consume illegal substances”
and suffer “negative effects,” including “overdose[s].” Recognizing the “high
degree” of foreseeability of illegal drug use and medical emergencies,
Live Nation “retained security and medical vendors and coordinated with local
public agencies to use reasonable measures to implement security and medical
plans for the safety of attendees.” Rather than arguing the burdens were too
high, Live Nation assumed the burdens of detecting unlawful drugs and providing
medical care to attendees. Under these circumstances, because of the special
relationship between Live Nation and Hard Fest attendees, Live Nation owed a
duty of reasonable care to Katie and the other Hard Fest attendees. (See Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 237, 30 Cal.Rptr.3d
145, 113 P.3d 1159 [“foreseeability is a ‘crucial factor’ in determining the
existence and scope of a legal duty”]; Tarasoff v. Regents of
University of California (1976) 17 Cal.3d 425, 434, 131 Cal.Rptr.
14, 551 P.2d 334 [“[t]he most important of these considerations in establishing
duty is foreseeability”].)” (Dix, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at 608 (emphasis
added).)   
 
            The
foreseeability factors (heightened foreseeability and certainty) as well as the
remaining policy factors weigh against limiting Defendants’ duty of care.[2]  
 
e.      
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to
the First Cause of Action is Sustained, with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
III.       MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Defendants seek an
order striking punitive damages, post-death lost earnings claims, and economic
damages in connection with Plaintiff’s First Cause of Action.  
 
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.
(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).) On a motion to strike, the court
may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) 
 
“The grounds for a motion to strike are limited to matters
appearing on the face of the challenged pleading or matters which must or may
be judicially noticed. (§ 437, subd. (a); Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452.).” (Garcia
v. Sterling (1985) 176 Cal.App.3d 17, 20.) 
 
Because the
demurrer has been sustained to the First Cause of Action, Defendants’ motion to
strike is DENIED as moot.
 
IV.       MOTION
TO CONSOLIDATE
 
a.     
Procedural Background
 
On March 30, 2022,
the court found that Case No. 22STCV04087 (“Caiden Action”) and  Case No. 22STCV06905 (“DeVante Action”) were
related within the meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a). 
On April 18, 2022, the court found that the Caiden Case and Case No.
22STCV07737 (“Corniel Action”) were also related.  The Caiden Action is the lead case.
  
On April 17, 2024,
Live Nation Worldwide, Inc. and C3 Presents, LLC  (hereafter,
“Defendants”) filed a motion to consolidate the Caiden Action with the DeVante
and Corniel Actions.  No opposition to
the motion was filed in the Caiden Action. 
The court granted motion on June 26, 2024.  The actions were consolidated for all
purposes.
 
Defendants also
separately filed motions to consolidate in the DeVante Action and the Corniel
Action.  Separate hearing dates were
reserved. At the time the actions were consolidated, the court was not aware
that Plaintiffs Darrylene Corniel and The Estate of Darrell Caldwell had filed
an opposition to the Defendants’ motion to consolidate in the Corniel Action.  Because the court has already consolidated
the actions, the court construes Plaintiffs’ opposition as a motion for
reconsideration of the court’s June 26, 2024 order.  After consideration of Plaintiffs’ arguments,
the court finds there are no grounds to reconsider the order to consolidate.
 
b.     
Legal Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1048 states, in pertinent
part: “When actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending
before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the
matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and
it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid
unnecessary costs or delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).)  The purpose of consolidation is to avoid unnecessary
costs or delay, avoid duplication of procedure, particularly in the proof of
issues common to both actions, and avoid inconsistent results by hearing and
deciding common issues together.  (Estate of Baker (1982) 131
Cal.App.3d 471, 485.)  In deciding whether to grant a motion to
consolidate, the court should weigh whether the common issues predominate over
the individual issues and whether any risks of jury confusion or prejudice to
the parties outweighs the reduction in time and expense that would result from
consolidation.  (Todd-Stenberg v. Shield (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976,
978.)
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.350 provides, “[a] notice
of motion to consolidate must: (A) [l]ist all named parties in each case, the
names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys
of record; (B) [c]ontain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) [b]e filed in
each case sought to be consolidated.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.350(a)(1).)  Rule 3.350 further provides, “[t]he motion to consolidate:
(A) [i]s deemed a single motion for the purposes of determining the appropriate
filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and other supporting papers must be
filed only in the lowest numbered case; (B) [m]ust be served on all attorneys
of record and all nonrepresented parties in all of the cases sought to be
consolidated; and (C) [m]ust have a proof of service filed as part of the
motion.”  (Id., rule 3.350(a)(2).)   
 
Further,
Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g) states, “[c]ases may not be
consolidated unless they are in the same department.  A motion to
consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases,
initially filed in different departments, have been related into a single
department, or if the cases were already assigned to that department.” (Super.
Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 3.3(g).) 
 
c.       Application
 
There is no dispute that Defendants complied with the
procedural requirements outlined in California Rules of Court, rule 3.350(a)(1).  The sole issue is whether the DeVante Action
should be consolidated with the Caiden Action and Corniel Action.  
 
Plaintiffs Darrylene Corniel and The Estate of Darrell
Caldwell (hereafter, “Plaintiffs”) object to the consolidation of the DeVante
Action for the purposes of trial.  As
Plaintiffs’ frame the issue, the DeVante Action does not involve the core
question presented in the Corniel Action and Caiden Action: whether the actions
or omissions of the Defendants proximately caused Decedent’s death.  Additionally, Plaintiffs point out that the
DeVante Action is not a wrongful death case and involves seven individual
plaintiffs each of whom allegedly suffered unspecified non-fatal injuries from
the underlying events.  Given this
background, Plaintiffs argue that consolidating the DeVante Action with the
Corniel and Caiden Actions will prejudice Plaintiffs by confusing the jury and
increasing the likelihood of a mistrial. 
 
In support, Plaintiffs rely on Realty Constr. & Mortg.
Co. v. Superior Court of San Joaquin Cnty. (1913) 165 Cal.543 (Realty
Construction) for the proposition that where separate actions involve
separate factual incidents, the actions cannot be consolidated into one.  However, as Plaintiffs’ summary of that case
demonstrates, Realty Construction is inapposite.  In Realty Construction, multiple
lawsuits (254, to be exact) were filed arising from construction work to be
performed on nine separate streets.  Defendants
moved to consolidate the action, which the trial court denied. Because the work
was to be performed under separate contracts, the High Court upheld the trial
court’s decision not to consolidate the cases because the individual plaintiffs
each pressed separate rights due under their separate contracts.  
 
            Unlike Realty
Construction, none of the plaintiffs in the Caiden, Corniel, or DeVante
Actions press any individual claims arising from contract.  Rather, there is at least one common
underlying event and one common underlying issue: whether the backstage attack
at the Music Festival resulting in injury and death was proximately caused by
Defendants’ failure to provide adequate security measures.  Plaintiffs’ focus on the differences in
injury fails to adequately distinguish the DeVante Action from the Caiden and
Corniel Actions.  In other words, the various
plaintiffs’ injuries may differ, but the cause of those injuries is an
issue common to all the present actions. 
Plaintiffs do not show they would suffer prejudice by consolidation of
the Caiden, DeVante, and Corniel Actions.
 
d.     
Conclusion
Plaintiffs Darrylene Corniel and The Estate of Darrell
Caldwell’s Opposition to the Motion to Consolidate, construed as a Motion for
Reconsideration of the court’s June 26, 2024, order consolidating these
Actions, is DENIED.
 
V.        DISPOSITIONS
            
1.     
The Demurrer to the First Cause of Action in Plaintiff
Caiden Caldwell’s FAC is Sustained, with 20 days leave to amend.  The Demurrer to the Second and Third Causes of
Action in the FAC is Overruled. 


2.     
The Motion to Strike is Denied as Moot.


3.     
The Motion to Consolidate is Granted.  Plaintiffs Darrylene Corniel and the Estate
of Darrell Caldwell’s Opposition to the Motion to Consolidate, construed as a
Motion for Reconsideration, is Denied. 
The Caiden, Devante, and Corniel Actions are consolidated for all
purposes.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   July 31, 2024                         




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 
 
 


