 Case Number:  24SMCV01264    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


April 29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV01264




MOTIONS


Applications for Writ of Possession




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Eastern Funding LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
APPLICATIONS
 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff Eastern Funding LLC (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Defendants Y&S Pine Bluff, LLC (“Y&S”) and
Shahrokh Steve Javidzad aka Shahrokh Javidzad aka Steve Javidzad (“Javidzad”)
(together, “Defendants”) alleging six causes of action for (1) breach of
written agreement; (2) breach of personal guaranty; (3) money lent; (4)
indebtedness; (5) conversion; and (6) claim and delivery stemming from Plaintiff’s
loan to Defendants for the purchase of various business equipment, which Defendants
allegedly failed to repay.
 
Plaintiff now applies for a writ of possession against each Defendant.  Plaintiff’s applications are unopposed.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            “Upon the filing of the complaint or
at any time thereafter, the plaintiff may apply pursuant to this chapter for a
writ of possession by filing a written application for the writ with the court
in which the action is brought.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 512.010, subd. (a).)  
 
The application shall be submitted under oath and
shall include all of the following:
 
(1) A showing of the basis of the plaintiff’s
claim and that the plaintiff is entitled to possession of the property claimed.
If the basis of the plaintiff’s claim is a written instrument, a copy of the
instrument shall be attached.
 
(2) A showing that the property is wrongfully
detained by the defendant, of the manner in which the defendant came into
possession of the property, and, according to the best knowledge, information,
and belief of the plaintiff, of the reason for the detention.
 
(3) A particular description of the property and
a statement of its value.
 
(4) A statement, according to the best knowledge,
information, and belief of the plaintiff, of the location of the property and,
if the property, or some part of it, is within a private place which may have
to be entered to take possession, a showing that there is probable cause to
believe that such property is located there.
 
(5) A statement that the property has not been
taken for a tax, assessment, or fine, pursuant to a statute; or seized under an
execution against the property of the plaintiff; or, if so seized, that it is
by statute exempt from such seizure.
 
(Id.
at subd. (b).)
 
            Prior to the hearing, the defendant
shall be served with (1) a copy of the summons and complaint; (2) the Notice of
Application and Hearing; (3) a copy of the application and any affidavit in
support thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
512.030, subd. (a).)  “If the defendant
has not appeared in the action, and a writ, notice, order, or other paper is
required to be personally served on the defendant under this title, service
shall be made in the same manner as a summons is served[.]”  (Id. at subd. (b).)
 
The “Notice of Application and Hearing” shall
inform the defendant of all of the following:
 
(a) A hearing will be held at a place and at a
time, to be specified in the notice, on plaintiff’s application for a writ of
possession.
 
(b) The writ will be issued if the court finds
that the plaintiff’s claim is probably valid and the other requirements for
issuing the writ are established. The hearing is not for the purpose of
determining whether the claim is actually valid. The determination of the
actual validity of the claim will be made in subsequent proceedings in the
action and will not be affected by the decision at the hearing on the
application for the writ.
 
(c) If the defendant desires to oppose the
issuance of the writ, he shall file with the court either an affidavit
providing evidence sufficient to defeat the plaintiff’s right to issuance of
the writ or an undertaking to stay the delivery of the property in accordance
with Section 515.020.
 
(d) The notice shall contain the following
statement: “If you believe the plaintiff may not be entitled to possession of
the property claimed, you may wish to seek the advice of an attorney. Such
attorney should be consulted promptly so that he may assist you before the time
set for the hearing.”
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 512.040.)
 
            At the hearing, a writ of possession
shall issue if (1) plaintiff establishes the probable validity of plaintiff’s
claim to possession of the property; and (2) the undertaking requirements of Section
515.010 are satisfied.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 512.060.)
 
Unless the court finds the defendant has no interest in the property,
the court shall not issue a writ of possession until the plaintiff has filed an
undertaking with the court in an amount not less than twice the value of the
defendant’s interest in the property. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 515.010.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
            As a threshold matter, Plaintiff has
not provided any proof of service in this case, indicating that the summons and
complaint were served on either Defendant, or that the applications for writ of
possession and supporting papers were served on either Defendant.  Therefore, the Court cannot issue the
requested writs of possession.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 512.030, subd. (b).)        
 
            Substantively, Plaintiff has
proffered the Declaration of Karen Tennant to support the request.  Attached to the Tennant Declaration are (1)
the promissory note, signed by Javidzad on behalf of Y&S and personally
guaranteed by Javidzad, which lists the property Plaintiff seeks as security
for the $99,663 promissory note; (2) the invoice for the property sought; (3)
an equipment shipping authorization form signed by Javidzad, authorizing the
purchase and delivery of the equipment; (4) the financing statement; (5)
Plaintiff’s Notice of Default and Demand for Payment letter dated 10/27/2023,
listing the total amount due as $112,840.35; and (6) Defendants’ default payoff
statement, showing an outstanding defaulted balance of $125,578.71 due as of
February 7, 2024.  
 
            The Tennant Declaration further
indicates that Defendants failed to make the loan payment that was due on April
19, 2023, or any payment thereafter. 
(Tennant Decl. ¶ 12.)  Tennant
further declares, that based on her experience as Vice President of Risk
Management, the estimated auction resale value of the property is approximately
$30,100.  (Tennant Decl. ¶ 35.)
 
            Plaintiff seeks a writ directing the
levying officer to seize the property from the following locations:
 
i. 10435 Santa Monica Boulevard, Los
Angeles, CA 90025; 
ii. 221 E. 12th Street #300, Los Angeles
CA 90015; 
iii. 508 N. Foothill Road, Beverly Hills,
CA 90210; or 
iv. Another address known to Defendants.
 
            The first two addresses (Santa
Monica Blvd. and E. 12th Street) are listed on the promissory note
as Y&S’s principal place of business, and another location where Y&S
conducts business, respectively.  (Ex. 1
to Tennant Decl.)  Moreover, the second
address is apparently the address where the items were shipped to, according to
the invoice (Ex. 2 to Tennant Decl.)  Therefore,
both these addresses appear to be public businesses and the likely locations of
the property.  
 
            However, the Foothill Road address
appears to be a private residence.  In
order to direct the levying officer to seize property from a private place,
Plaintiff must first show probable cause that the property is located
there.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 512.010,
subd. (b)(4); § 512.060, subd. (b).)  But
here, Plaintiff does not specify why it believes the equipment is located at
the Foothill Road address.  
 
            Therefore, the Court cannot issue a
writ directing seizure of the property at the Foothill Road address.  Similarly, the Court cannot issue a writ for
the levying officer to seize property from “another address known to
Defendants,” as this location lacks specificity for the Court to determine
whether it is a private place, or what probable cause Plaintiff has for
believing the property is located there.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies without prejudice Plaintiff’s
Applications for Writ of Possession. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice
of the Court’s orders and file a proof of service of such.
 
 
DATED:  April 29, 2024                                                        ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court