 Case Number:  23AHCV02981    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING
DEFENDANT SALVATORE DI BENEDETTO’S MOTION TO SEVERI.        INTRODUCTION
          On December 26, 2023, Plaintiff E1011
Labs LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Salvatore Di
Benedetto, Kevin Wang, Daniel Hwang, Shenzhen Vizi Technology Co., Ltd and Does
1 through 50. The complaint alleges (1) breach of contract, (2) conversion, (3)
violation of comprehensive computer data access and fraud act, (5) violation of
business & professions code section 17200, and (6) intentional interference
with prospective economic advantage. 
This action involves a breach of contract along with
tort and statutory claims arising from Defendants alleged misappropriation of
Plaintiff’s property and business opportunities.
On October 7, 2024, Defendant Salvatore Di Benedetto
(“Di Benedetto”), appearing in pro per, filed a motion to sever. Plaintiff
opposed the motion on October 29, 2024, and Di Benedetto filed a reply on
October 30, 2024.
 
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision
(b): “The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when
separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a
separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in
a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of
action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the
Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”   
          “Whether there shall be a severance and separate trials on
issues in a single action is a matter within the discretion of the trial court,
whose ruling will not be disturbed on appeal absent a manifest abuse of
discretion.” (Downey Savings & Loan Assn. v. Ohio Casualty Ins. Co.
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1072, 1086.) 
          III.     ANALYSIS
Procedural issues     
 
          The Court notes that Defendant Di Benedetto did not comply
with procedural requirements for service. According to the Proof of Service, Di
Benedetto personally served the motion and utilized electronic service. Under
California law, parties are not permitted to serve documents directly on other
parties (see Caldwell v. Coppola (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 859, 865
[holding that parties may not directly effect service of process on other
parties]). Nonetheless, as Plaintiff has opposed the motion, the Court will
proceed to address the merits.
 
Severance
Defendant
Di Benedetto seeks to sever his case, arguing that his alleged business
interactions with Plaintiff differ substantially from the employment-related
claims against Defendants Kevin Wang and Daniel Hwang. Di Benedetto contends
that his actions were unrelated to the core breach of contract claims involving
Wang and Hwang and that trying the claims jointly would cause prejudice and
confusion (Motion p. 3, Response p.5)¿
Di Benedetto further argues
that he was not involved in the projects central to the claims against Wang and
Hwang, namely the "Vape Joint Venture" and "Screen
Project."  (Motion p.3) He asserts a lack of communication and
contractual obligations between himself and E1011 Labs (Id.).
In
opposition, Plaintiff opposes severance, asserting that Di Benedetto’s conduct
cannot be cleanly separated from Wang’s and Hwang’s actions, as they allegedly
acted in concert to misuse Plaintiff’s proprietary information and resources.
(Opposition p.4) Severing claims, Plaintiff argues, would necessitate two
separate trials involving the same evidence which would undermine judicial
economy. (Opposition pp. 3-4)¿
The
Court, exercising its discretion under Code of Civil Procedure section 1048,
subdivision (b), finds that the overlapping evidence and Plaintiff’s claims of
joint conduct by Defendants could result in two near-identical trials if
severance were granted, thereby undermining judicial efficiency. The Court
therefore concludes that severance is not appropriate. 
For
these reasons, the Court DENIES Defendant Di Benedetto’s motion to sever.
 
IV.     ORDER
          Based on the foregoing, Di Benedetto’s motion to sever is DENIED.
Plaintiff
is to give notice. 
Dated:  November 12, 2024                                                  
                                                                                 
 
 
                                                                                      JARED
D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     