  Case Number:  21STCV38929    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  11 Alvarez (21STCV38929)
 
People of the State of California (22STCV01489)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Bifurcate
 
Date:                           7/19/24
Time:                          10:00
am
Moving Party:           Liberty Property LP (“Liberty”) and
Prologis, Inc., Prologis LP (collectively “Prologis”)
Opposing Party:        Monique Alvarez, et al. (collectively
“Private Plaintiffs”), People of the State of California, County of Los
Angeles, Los Angeles County Flood Control District, and Consolidated Fire
Protection District of Los Angeles County (collectively “Government Plaintiffs”)  
Department:              11
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Liberty and Prologis’s motion to bifurcate is denied without prejudice.
 
BACKGROUND
 
Private Plaintiffs’ action (21STCV38929) and Government Plaintiffs’
action (22STCV01489) arise from a warehouse fire near the Dominguez Channel in
Carson, California.  The fire and efforts
to put it out allegedly caused hazardous materials to enter the Dominguez
Channel, creating a foul odor that made thousands of people sick.
 
Here, Liberty and Prologis, the alleged owners of the warehouse property,
request an order bifurcating two issues for a bench trial in Government
Plaintiffs’ case.
 
LAW
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 598 states that a court “may order certain issues
tried before others ‘when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice or
the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted
thereby.’”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal.
Practice Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2024 Update)
¶ 12:414.)  “This section is generally
relied upon for bifurcation – e.g., to try issues of liability before damages
issues.”  (Ibid.)  “It serves the salutary purpose of avoiding
wasting time and money, and prevents possible prejudice to a defendant where a
jury might look past liability to compensate a plaintiff through sympathy for
his or her damages.”  (Ibid.)
 
Section
1048(b) allows a court, “in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be
conducive to expedition and
economy, [to] order a
separate trial of any cause of action … or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues . . . .” 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1048, subd. (b).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Private Plaintiffs and Government Plaintiffs filed
oppositions.
 
In reply, Liberty and Prologis
insinuate that Private Plaintiffs’ opposition should be rejected because
Liberty and Prologis merely seek bifurcation in Government Plaintiffs’ case.  (See
Reply Re: Private Plaintiffs, pp. 2, 5.) 

 
The Court disagrees.  Liberty and
Prologis filed the bifurcation motion in both actions.  While the notice states that the motion only
applies to Government Plaintiffs’ case (see Notice, p. 2), the motion includes
a request to “extend[]” “the outcome” of the proposed bench trial to Private
Plaintiffs’ action “through preclusion precepts or case management
orders.”  (Motion, p. 4.)  Given the request, the Court will consider
Private Plaintiffs’ opposition.
 
Private Plaintiffs contend the motion should be denied because it is
different than the motion the Court approved. 
They assert that the Court granted leave to file a motion to bifurcate
Private Plaintiffs’ nuisance claims. 
(See Private Plaintiffs’ Opposition, pp. 1, 5.)
 
Liberty and Prologis do not respond. 
(See Reply Re: Private Plaintiffs, pp. 2-5.)
 
The Court disagrees with Private Plaintiffs.  The cited transcript excerpt pertains to a
bifurcation motion for Private Plaintiffs’ case.  (See Private Plaintiffs’ Opposition, p. 1
n.1.)  It does not bear on whether the
Court granted or denied permission in Government Defendants’ case.
 
Turning to the gravamen of the motion, Liberty and Prologis ask the Court
to bifurcate two issues:
 
1. Control Issue:
Did Liberty or Prologis have sufficient control, if any, over the Warehouse
Tenants such that they can be held liable for the actions of the Warehouse
Tenants relative to the fire on the Property? 
 
2. Discharge Issue:
Regardless of control, can Liberty or Prologis be held liable for the discharge
of emergency fire suppression water by the Fire Department?
 
(Motion, p. 11, bolding in
original.)  They claim the motion should
be granted because “the law favors a trial of equitable issues first” (id. at
p. 9; see also Reply Re: Private Plaintiffs, pp. 2-3; Reply Re: Government
Plaintiffs, pp. 7-9), bifurcation would “promote efficiency and economy”
(Motion, p. 10, capitalizing and bolding deleted; see also Reply Re: Government
Plaintiffs, pp. 9-13), and bifurcation would “avoid undue prejudice to
Prologis.”  (Motion, p. 11, capitalizing
and bolding deleted.)
 
Private Plaintiffs contend
bifurcation would impair judicial economy (see Private Plaintiffs’ Opposition,
pp. 6-8), the nuisance claims for compensatory damages cannot be bifurcated
(see id. at p. 9), the “equity first” rule is inapplicable (see ibid.), Liberty
and Prologis fail to cite authority allowing findings against Government
Plaintiffs to have preclusive effect in Private Plaintiffs’ case (see id. at
pp. 9-11), bifurcation would violate Private Plaintiffs’ right to a jury trial
(see id. at pp. 11-13), bifurcation would delay Private Plaintiffs’ case (see
id. at p. 13), Liberty and Prologis would not suffer prejudice if the Court
denies bifurcation (see id. at p. 14), and the motion is premature.  (See id. at p. 15.)
 
Government Plaintiffs assert that
bifurcating the control issue would waste judicial resources (see Government
Plaintiffs’ Opposition, pp. 5-9), and the discharge issue should be decided via
summary adjudication.  (See id. at pp.
9-10.)
 
On balance, the Court agrees with
Private Plaintiffs and Government Plaintiffs. 
The operative complaints include multiple negligence and nuisance
claims.  Apparently, Liberty and Prologis
intend the control and discharge issues to apply to these claims.  One problem with the motion, though, is that
it appears to be based on a mischaracterization of the negligence and nuisance
theories.  Private Plaintiffs and
Government Plaintiffs allege that Liberty and Prologis were required to inspect
and repair the property independent of whether they had control over the
tenants.  (See Private Plaintiffs’
Opposition, p. 1; see also Government Plaintiffs’ Opposition, pp. 5-6.)  At most, control is just an element of the
negligence and private-nuisance causes of action (see, e.g., Resolution
Trust Corp. v. Rossmoor Corp. (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 93, 103-104
[negligence]; see also, e.g., CACI No. 2021 [private nuisance]; Melton v.
Boustred (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 521, 542 [noting that liability
for public nuisance “does not hinge on whether the defendant owns, possesses or
controls the property, nor on whether he is in a position to abate the
nuisance; the critical question is whether the defendant created or assisted in
the creation of the nuisance”]), and it is not necessarily dispositive.  There is a reasonable likelihood that
subsequent trials would be needed to establish the other elements, rendering
bifurcation inefficient.  (See Private
Plaintiffs’ Opposition, pp. 7-8; see also Government Plaintiffs’ Opposition,
pp. 5-6, 9.)
 
Another problem is Liberty and
Prologis’s reliance on the “equity first” rule. 
The rule recognizes that, normally, it is efficient and beneficial to
try equitable claims before legal claims. 
(See Motion, p. 9.)  However,
application of the control and discharge issues is not limited to equitable
claims.  They also apply to negligence, a
legal claim.  (See, e.g., Government
Plaintiffs’ Opposition, pp. 8-9.) 
Moreover, Liberty and Prologis are not asking to try equitable claims
first; they are asking to try a mixed equitable-legal element (at most)/factual
question.  These distinctions – and the
fact that subsequent trials probably would be needed to prove the other
elements – make it unlikely that the normal efficiencies and benefits could be
achieved.
 
A third problem concerns
preclusion.  Liberty and Prologis opine
that control and discharge rulings in Government Plaintiffs’ action could be
preclusive in Private Plaintiffs’ case. 
(See Reply Re: Private Plaintiffs, pp. 3-4.)  Assuming arguendo that their legal analysis
is correct (the issue is unripe at this time, and the Court declines to
prejudge it), bifurcation would be unfair and prejudicial.  Private Plaintiffs’ case and Government
Plaintiffs’ case are complex, related, and pending in the same courtroom before
the same judge.  They are being managed
together, so trying issues that might be binding on Private Plaintiffs without
letting them participate and be heard would harm the interests of justice.  And adding them to the proposed bench trial would
not fix the problem.  Even with their
participation, the non-dispositive nature of the control and discharge issues
and the need for subsequent trials would still result in inefficiencies and
waste. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is denied
without prejudice.  The Court agrees with
Private Plaintiffs that the motion is premature.  (See Private Plaintiffs’ Opposition, p. 15.)  Liberty and Prologis may request leave to
refile it following summary judgment/adjudication. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 