 Case Number:  24STCV02265    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  11 Davis (24STCV02265)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           7/19/24
Time:                          1:45
pm
Moving Party:           BBB-CA, Inc. (“Defendant” or “BBB”)
Opposing Party:        Devon Davis (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11
Judge:                        David S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted as to Plaintiff’s
individual claims.
 
The Court severs the arbitration agreement’s discovery limitations.
 
For now, the Court declines to
strike the class claims.  The Court
intends to either order supplemental briefing or grant Plaintiff’s counsel a
chance to find a new putative class representative.
 
Plaintiff’s representative Private Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) claim
is stayed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
BBB “manufactures heat transfer products.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 12.)  Plaintiff used to work for BBB.  He claims BBB subjected him and other current
and former nonexempt employees to multiple wage-and-hour violations.
 
Here, BBB moves to compel arbitration.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
In
August 2023, Plaintiff applied to work for Defendant.  The application process occurred online and
required Plaintiff to acknowledge receiving multiple documents, including
Defendant’s arbitration agreement.  (See
Elzarad Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  The process also
required Plaintiff to e-sign the arbitration agreement.  (See id. at ¶¶ 7-10.)  It is undisputed that he e-signed it.  (See ibid.; see also Opposition, p. 3; Davis
Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
The
agreement is attached to the declaration of Rebecca Elzarad, the Employee
Relations Manager of Defendant’s parent company, at exhibit 2.  It states:
 
Arbitration
Agreement 
 
Notice to all
Applicants and Employees of Block By Block-California 
 
Individuals who wish
to be considered for employment by Block By Block-California ("the
Company") must read and accept the terms of the following Dispute
Resolution Agreement. If you desire to do so, you may stop the process at this
point and take the time to review these materials further. You must, however,
complete the online Agreement, along with your application, if you wish to
continue the application process and if you wish to be employed by the Company.
All persons who apply for employment with the Company after November 30, 2011,
and those who become employed as a result of such application, are required to
agree to the Dispute Resolution Agreement below. 
 
Dispute
Resolution Agreement 
 
You and the Company
recognize that differences may arise between you that cannot be resolved
without the assistance of an outside party. Both you and the Company agree to
resolve any and all claims, disputes or controversies arising out of or
relating to your application for employment, your employment with the Company,
and/or the termination of your employment exclusively by arbitration to be
administered by a neutral dispute resolution agency agreed upon by the parties
at the time of the dispute. If you and the Company cannot agree, the American
Arbitration Association ("AAA") will administer the arbitration
pursuant to its applicable Rules. Copies of AAA's Rules are available on AAA's
website (www.adr.org). Some, but not all, of the types of claims covered are:
unpaid wages, overtime, or other compensation; discrimination or harassment on
the basis of race, sex, age, national origin, religion, disability or any other
unlawful basis; breach of contract; unlawful retaliation; wrongful discharge;
employment-related tort claims such as defamation; and claims arising under any
statutes or regulations applicable to employees or applicable to the employment
relationship, such as the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Family and
Medical Leave Act, or the Fair Labor Standards Act. Claims not covered are
those claims seeking injunctive or declaratory relief due to allegations of
unfair competition, unfair business practices, the unauthorized disclosure of
trade secrets or confidential information, or the breach of covenants
restricting the business activities of the Company or employees. This Agreement
does not affect or limit Employee's right to file an administrative charge with
a state or federal agency such as the National Labor Relations Board or the
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and it does not cover claims relating
to whistleblowers and/or unlawful retaliation arising under the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act. You and the Company agree that this Agreement shall be enforceable
pursuant to and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Federal
Arbitration Act. 
 
The Arbitrator shall
have the authority to award the same damages and other relief that would have
been available in court pursuant to applicable law. The Arbitrator will have
the authority to limit discovery and other pretrial processes to what is necessary
for a prompt and inexpensive resolution of the dispute. Absent a showing of
substantial need by either party or an inability to pursue or defend certain
claims, the Arbitrator shall limit discovery to 25 interrogatories/document
requests per party and to two depositions per party. It is expected that the
arbitration hearing will be held within 180 days of the appointment of the
Arbitrator. The AAA Rules will govern the allocation of costs between the
parties and the course of the proceedings unless otherwise agreed. The
Arbitrator shall not have the authority to add to, amend, or modify existing
law or to alter the at-will status of the relationship between you and the
Company. Because this Agreement is intended to resolve the particular dispute
as quickly as possible, the Arbitrator shall not have the authority to
consolidate the claims of other employees into a single proceeding, to fashion
a proceeding as a class, collective action, or representative action, or to
award relief to a class or group of employees. The Arbitrator shall have the
authority to consider and rule on dispositive motions such as motions to
dismiss or motions for summary judgment in accordance with the standards and
burdens generally applicable to such motions in federal district court, except
that the Arbitrator may establish appropriate and less formal standards and
procedures for such motions at the Arbitrator's discretion consistent with the
expedited nature of arbitration proceedings. The Arbitrator may issue subpoenas
to compel the attendance of witnesses at the arbitration hearing and to compel
the production of documents during discovery and shall do so upon reasonable
request of either party. The Arbitrator shall have the exclusive authority to
resolve any dispute relating to the interpretation, applicability,
enforceability, or formation of this Agreement, including, but not limited to,
any claim that any part of this Agreement is unenforceable, void, or voidable. 
 
For the purposes of
the scope of the obligation to arbitrate, "Company" shall include
Block By Block-California, and all subsidiary companies, related companies,
trade names, and alleged joint employers, as well as their respective offices,
directors, managers, and employees (current and former). 
 
If any provisions of
AAA's Rules or of this Agreement are determined by the Arbitrator or by any
court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful, invalid, or unenforceable, such
provisions shall be severed or modified so that the Agreement may be enforced
to the greatest extent permissible under the law. All remaining terms and
provisions shall continue in full force and effect. This Agreement may be
modified or terminated by the Company after thirty days written notice to you.
Any modifications or terminations shall be prospective only and shall not apply
to any claims or disputes that are pending in arbitration or that have been
initiated by either party. 
 
SPECIAL NOTE:
This Agreement and the Rules referenced above are important documents that
affect your legal rights. You should familiarize yourself with and understand
them, and, accepting below, you acknowledge that you have had the opportunity
to do so. You may wish to seek legal advice or to consult with private legal
counsel before signing this Agreement. 
 
By acknowledging and
by accepting employment with the Company if it is offered, you agree to be
bound to this Dispute Resolution Agreement, as does the Company. You understand
that, as more fully set forth above, you must arbitrate any and all employment-related
claims against the Company and that you may not file a lawsuit in court in
regard to any claims or disputes covered by this Agreement.
 
(Id. at Ex. 2, emphasis in
original.)
 
Facts
and terms like these normally suffice to demonstrate an agreement to arbitrate,
yet Plaintiff raises an assent challenge. 
He claims he does not recall signing the agreement, he did not review
it, and Defendant did not explain it to him. 
(See Davis Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
The
Court disagrees.  Lack of memory is not a
defense.  Nor is failure to read.  (See, e.g., Ramos v. Westlake Services LLC
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 674, 687 [“[T]he fact that [the plaintiff]
signed a contract in a language he may not have completely understood would not
bar enforcement of the arbitration agreement. 
If [the plaintiff] did not speak or understand English sufficiently to
comprehend the English Contract, he should have had it read or explained to
him.”].)  Moreover, the agreement’s plain
language contradicts Plaintiff’s claim: “I have read and accept the terms of
the Arbitration Agreement.  Yes[.]”  (Elzarad
Decl., Ex. 2.)  Again, it is undisputed
that Plaintiff e-signed it.[1]
 
The
Court finds Defendant’s burden satisfied.
 
Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”)
 
Concerning
the FAA, the agreement’s wording is clear. 
It states that the agreement “shall be enforceable pursuant to
and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the [FAA].”  (Ibid.)
 
Enforcement
 
Plaintiff asserts that the agreement
is unconscionable.  (See Opposition, pp.
2-9.)
 
“[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on oppression
or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or
one-sided results.”  (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “The
prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must
both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) 
“But they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.) 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Ibid.)
 
For procedural
unconscionability, Plaintiff contends the agreement: 
 
* constitutes a contract
of adhesion (see Opposition, pp. 3-4); 
 
* fails to “identify the
arbitrator, the arbitration location, the party covering the costs referring to
the American Arbitration Association (‘AAA’) rules as to costs” (id. at pp.
5-6); and
 
*
“does not attach the arbitration rules[.]” 
(Ibid.) 
 
The
first point is unavailing.  “[A]
predispute arbitration agreement is not invalid merely because it is imposed as
a condition of employment.”  (Lagatree
v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105,
1122–1123.)  Stated differently, “the
mandatory nature of an arbitration agreement does not, by itself, render the
agreement unenforceable.”  (Ibid.; see
also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion contract is involved
does not per se render the arbitration clause unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts are ‘an inevitable
fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer alike.’”], emphasis in
original.)
 
The second point also
fails.  The agreement provides that “[t]he
AAA Rules will govern the allocation of costs between the parties and the
course of the proceedings unless otherwise agreed” and contains a link to the
AAA’s website.  (Elzarad Decl., Ex. 2.) 
Regardless, “[a]n
agreement to arbitrate is enforceable even if
it does not designate the ADR provider and makes no
mention of the rules to govern the arbitration process[.]”  (Knight, supra, at ¶ 8:83, emphasis in
original.)  In that situation, the
parties must “look to” the FAA or California Arbitration Act (“CAA”), whichever
applies, to fill in the gaps regarding “how to select an arbitrator[,]”
“what substantive law applies[,]” “what procedural rules will be
used[,]” and “what, if any, discovery will be permitted.  (Id. at ¶ 8:84, emphasis in original.)  As noted above, the FAA applies here.  The parties remain free to sign a joint stipulation
to utilize AAA, JAMS, or some other arbitration company, but, if they do not
agree, the agreement will be enforced pursuant to the FAA rules.  (See ibid.) 
 
 
The
Court also rejects the third point.  “[F]ailure
to attach a copy of the AAA rules [does] not render the agreement procedurally
unconscionable.”  (Lane v. Francis
Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 691.)  Since Plaintiff is not challenging the AAA
rules themselves, his argument falls short. 
(See also Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th
1237, 1246.)[2]
 
For substantive
unconscionability, Plaintiff claims the agreement “limit[s] discovery to twenty-five
interrogatories/document requests per party and to two depositions per party.”  (Opposition, p. 8.) 
 
The plain language is not
as broad as Plaintiff suggests.  The
agreement states:
 
The
Arbitrator shall have the authority to award the same damages and other relief
that would have been available in court pursuant to applicable law. The
Arbitrator will have the authority to limit discovery and other pretrial
processes to what is necessary for a prompt and inexpensive resolution of the
dispute. Absent a showing of substantial need by either party or an
inability to pursue or defend certain claims, the Arbitrator shall limit
discovery to 25 interrogatories/document requests per party and to two
depositions per party. 
 
(Elzarad
Decl., Ex. 2, emphasis added.)  The
emphasized words give the arbitrator discretion to allow more discovery if
needed.  
 
In addition, the parties retain the option to stipulate
to use the AAA rules or another arbitration provider’s rules that might afford
greater discovery:
 
Both you and the Company agree to
resolve any and all claims, disputes or controversies arising out of or
relating to your application for employment, your employment with the Company,
and/or the termination of your employment exclusively by arbitration to be
administered by a neutral dispute resolution agency agreed upon by the
parties at the time of the dispute. If you and the Company cannot agree,
the [AAA] will administer the arbitration pursuant to its applicable Rules.
 
(Ibid., emphasis added.)
 
Nevertheless, the agreement gives
the Court power to sever “unlawful, invalid, or unenforceable” provisions:
 
If any provisions of AAA's Rules
or of this Agreement are determined by the Arbitrator or by any court of
competent jurisdiction to be unlawful, invalid, or unenforceable, such
provisions shall be severed or modified so that the Agreement may
be enforced to the greatest extent permissible under the law. All remaining
terms and provisions shall continue in full force and effect.
 
(Ibid., emphasis added.)  As a matter of caution, the Court finds that
the discovery limitations should be severed.
 
The rest of the agreement is
enforceable.
 
Class Claims
 
Defendant
contends the class claims should be stricken. 
(See Motion, pp. 19-21.)
 
Plaintiff
does not respond.  (See Opposition, pp.
1-15.)
 
The
Court agrees with Defendant in part.  The
agreement states:
 
Because this Agreement is intended to resolve the particular
dispute as quickly as possible, the Arbitrator shall not have the authority to
consolidate the claims of other employees into a single proceeding, to fashion
a proceeding as a class, collective action, or representative action, or to
award relief to a class or group of employees.
 
* * *
 
You
understand that, as more fully set forth above, you must arbitrate any and all
employment-related claims against the Company and that you may not file a
lawsuit in court in regard to any claims or disputes covered by this Agreement.
 
(Elzarad
Decl., Ex. 2.)  These words bar class and
representative arbitration and waive Plaintiff’s right to bring a lawsuit as to
covered claims.  This bar is enforceable under the
FAA.  (See, e.g., Knight, supra, at ¶
5:49.4c [discussing AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S.
333].)
 
Notably, the words do not bar
class actions per se.  They do not seem
to create a traditional class waiver. 
Instead of striking the class claims now, the Court is inclined to either
order supplemental briefing or grant Plaintiff’s counsel leave to find a new
putative class representative who is not subject to arbitration.  If counsel ends up failing to find a new
representative, the Court could dismiss the class claims at that time.
 
PAGA
 
Defendant
contends the individual PAGA claim should be arbitrated and the representative
PAGA claim should be dismissed or stayed. 
(See Motion, pp. 21-22.)
 
Plaintiff
claims the Court has discretion to deny a stay and to litigate the
representative PAGA claim while the arbitration is pending.  Plaintiff contends the facts support denying
Defendant’s stay request.  (See
Opposition, pp. 11-15.)
 
Prior
to Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 142 S.Ct. 1906 (“Viking
River”), Iskanian controlled. 
“Iskanian’s principal rule prohibits waivers of ‘representative’
PAGA claims in the first sense.”  (Viking
River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916, underlined case name added.)  “That is, it prevents parties from waiving representative
standing to bring PAGA claims in a judicial or arbitral forum.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.)  “But Iskanian also adopted a secondary
rule that invalidates agreements to separately arbitrate or litigate
‘individual PAGA claims for Labor Code violations that an employee suffered,’
on the theory that resolving victim-specific claims in separate arbitrations
does not serve the deterrent purpose of PAGA.” 
(Id. at 1916-1917, underlined case name added; see also, e.g., Knight,
supra, at ¶ 5:49.4m [citing California case law for the proposition that a
“single count under PAGA could not be ‘split into an arbitrable individual
claim and a nonarbitrable representative claim”].) 
 
In
Viking River, the plaintiff “executed an agreement to arbitrate any
dispute arising out of her employment.” 
(Viking River, supra, 142 S.Ct. at 1916.)  “The agreement contained a ‘Class Action Waiver’ providing that in any
arbitral proceeding, the parties could not bring any dispute as a class,
collective, or representative PAGA action.” 
(Ibid.)  “It also contained a
severability clause specifying that if the waiver was found invalid, any class,
collective, representative, or PAGA action would presumptively be litigated in
court.”  (Ibid.)  “But under that severability clause, if any
‘portion’ of the waiver remained valid, it would be ‘enforced in arbitration.’”  (Ibid.)
 
“After
leaving her position” with the defendant, the plaintiff “filed a PAGA action .
. . in California court.”  (Ibid.)  “Her complaint contained a claim that [the
defendant] had failed to provide her with her final wages within 72 hours, as
required by” Labor Code sections 101 and 102. 
(Ibid.)  “But the complaint also
asserted a wide array of other code violations allegedly sustained by other . .
. employees, including violations of provisions concerning the minimum wage,
overtime, meal periods, rest periods, timing of pay, and pay statements.”  (Ibid.) 
The defendant “moved to compel arbitration of [the plaintiff’s]
‘individual’ PAGA claim” – i.e., “the claim that arose from the violation she
suffered — and to dismiss her other PAGA claims.”  (Ibid.) 
“The trial court denied that motion, and the California Court of Appeal
affirmed, holding that categorical waivers of PAGA standing are contrary to
state policy and that PAGA claims cannot be split into arbitrable individual
claims and nonarbitrable ‘representative’ claims.”  (Ibid.)
 
The
Court of Appeal’s ruling “was dictated by . . . Iskanian.”  (Ibid., underlined case name added.)  “Iskanian’s principal prohibition
required the lower courts to treat the representative-action waiver” in Viking
River “as invalid insofar as it was construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA
standing.”  (Id. at 1917, underlined case
name added.)  “The agreement's
severability clause, however, allowed enforcement of any ‘portion’ of the
waiver that remained valid, so the agreement still would have permitted arbitration
of [the plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim even if wholesale enforcement was
impossible.”  (Ibid.)  “But because” Iskanian “prohibits
division of a PAGA action into constituent claims, the state courts refused to
compel arbitration of that claim as well.” 
(Ibid.)
 
The
United States Supreme Court granted review and reversed, holding, eight to one,
that the FAA preempts Iskanian “insofar as it precludes division of PAGA actions into individual and
non-individual claims through an agreement to arbitrate.”  (Id. at 1924.)  The opinion instructs:  
This holding compels reversal in this
case.  The agreement between [the
defendant] and [the plaintiff] purported to waive “representative” PAGA
claims.  Under Iskanian, this
provision was invalid if construed as a wholesale waiver of PAGA claims.  And under our holding, that
aspect of Iskanian is not preempted by the FAA, so the
agreement remains invalid insofar as it is interpreted in that manner.  But the severability clause in the agreement
provides that if the waiver provision is invalid in some respect, any “portion”
of the waiver that remains valid must still be “enforced in arbitration.”  Based on this clause, [the defendant] was
entitled to enforce the agreement insofar as it mandated arbitration of [the
plaintiff’s] individual PAGA claim.  The
lower courts refused to do so based on the rule that PAGA actions cannot be
divided into individual and non-individual claims.  Under our holding,
that rule is preempted, so [the defendant] is entitled to compel arbitration of
[the plaintiff’s] individual claim.
 
(Id. at 1924-1925, underlined case names added.)
 
The opinion continues:
 
The remaining question is what the lower
courts should have done with [the plaintiff’s] non-individual claims.  Under our holding in this case, those claims
may not be dismissed simply because they are “representative.”  Iskanian’s
rule remains valid to that extent.  But
as we see it, PAGA provides no mechanism to enable a court to adjudicate
non-individual PAGA claims once an individual claim has been committed to a
separate proceeding.  Under PAGA's
standing requirement, a plaintiff can maintain non-individual PAGA claims in an
action only by virtue of also maintaining an individual claim in that
action.  [Citation.]  When an employee's own dispute is pared away
from a PAGA action, the employee is no different from a member of the general
public, and PAGA does not allow such persons to maintain suit.  [Citation.] 
As a result, [the plaintiff] lacks statutory standing to continue to
maintain her non-individual claims in court, and the correct course is to
dismiss her remaining claims.
 
(Id. at 1925, underlined case
name added.)
 
Four takeaways stand out:
 
* Iskanian’s prohibition
against waiving representative PAGA claims stands;
 
* Iskanian is preempted to
the extent it bars dividing PAGA claims into individual and representative
claims;
 
* the defendant is allowed to
compel the plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim to arbitration; and
 
* once the plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claim is compelled to arbitration, he or she lacks standing to maintain
the representative PAGA claim. 
 
The High Court’s standing ruling
is nonbinding.  The California Supreme
Court reversed it in Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th
1104.
 
This is a recurring issue in
numerous cases on the Court’s docket.  Considering
Iskanian, Viking River, and Adolph, the Court’s approach
has been to compel individual PAGA claims to arbitration and to stay
representative PAGA claims until the arbitrations finish.  Discretion or not, the Court believes the
same should be done here.[3]
 
 
 
 


