 Case Number:  23STCV34229    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  73 06/28/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
ANIMAL PROTECTION AND RESCUE LEAGUE,
INC., et al. v. GINOR, et al. (20STCV34229)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Bryan Pease
(Pease Law, APC); David Tenenbaum (Law Offices of G. David Tenenbaum); John
Maher (Law Offices of John Maher)
 
Counsel
for Defendants/opposing party:  Michael
Tenenbaum (The Office of Michael Tenenbaum); Thomas Rickeman (Brown Neri Smith
& Khan LLP)
 
PLAINTIFFS’ Motion to COMPEL (filed 03/19/2024)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel is CONTINUED to July 16, 2024. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On September
4, 2020, Plaintiffs Animal Protection and Rescue League, Inc. (“APRL”), and
Dina Kourda (“Kourda”) (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint.  The
operative pleading is the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) which alleges causes
of action for (1) Consumer Legal Remedies Act, (2) unfair business practices,
and (3) declaratory relief against Defendants Michael Ginor, Izzy Yanay, HVFG
LLC, D’Artagnan, Inc., D’Artagnan, LLC, Ariane Daguin, Andy Wertheim, Bella
Bella Gourmet Foods LLC, La Belle Farm, Inc., Herman Lee, French Laundry
Partners, L.P., Thomas Keller, Michael’s Gourmet Pantry, Inc.,  MGP
Specialty Foods, J. Michael Stamm, and Cathy Stamm, Tyler Charman, Brian
Redzikowski, Matthew Spencer, Kettner House LP, SDCM Inc., and Petrossian, Inc. 
 
Plaintiffs
filed the instant lawsuit to enjoin the sale of foie gras, i.e., fattened duck
liver, which is obtained from forced fed duck and geese, and which violates
Health & Safety Code section 25982.  Plaintiffs also seek to enjoin
false and misleading statements made by Defendants regarding the foie
gras.  
 
On March 19,
2024, Plaintiff APRL filed the instant Motion to Compel, arguing: 
·       APRL moves
for an order compelling production of documents and further deposition of HVFG,
LLC vice president Marcus Henley regarding those document, and for HVFG, LLC to
be required to pay the cost of the continued deposition
·       Discovery is
open as to this deposition by agreement of the parties
o   As stated in
the February 13, 2024 Declaration of Michael Tenenbaum, paragraph 8: “the
parties agreed that these party depositions — as well as depositions of
identified representatives of Defendants — would proceed after the cut-off.”
(Declaration of Attorney Bryan Pease (“Pease Decl.”), ¶6, Ex. 5.)
o   discovery is
still open as to this particular deposition, which was noticed prior to the
discovery cutoff and continued by agreement of the parties.
·       The motion is timely
·       Defendants did not serve valid objections to the document request
o   Defendants served an objection to the original deposition notice, but not
to the second amended deposition notice.
·       There is good
cause to require production of documents
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that:
·       APRL Failed
to Meet-and-Confer with Defendants
·       APRL’s Motion
is Time-Barred
o   APRL’s Motion
was Filed more than 60 Days After the Completion of the Record of Mr. Henley’s
Deposition
o   APRL’s Motion
was Filed After the Discovery Motion Cutoff
o   APRL Fails to
Show Good Cause for the Production of Documents
o   HVFG’s
Objections Are Meritorious
o   APRL Should
Be Ordered to Pay Sanctions
In reply, APRL maintains that the Court should grant the instant motion.

 
II.
ANALYSIS
 
A.    
Legal Standard
 
If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.230,
fails to appear for examination, to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
described in the deposition notice, without having served a valid objection
under Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.410, the party giving the notice may move for an
order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production
for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2025.450(a).)
 
B.    
Inadequate Meet and Confer
 
“The
Discovery Act requires that, prior to the initiation of a motion to compel, the
moving party declare that he or she has made a serious attempt to obtain
'an informal resolution of each issue.” (Stewart v. Colonial Western
Agency, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016 (internal quotations and
citations omitted) (emphasis added).) More specifically, “the law
requires that counsel attempt to talk the matter over, compare their views,
consult, and deliberate.” (Townsend v. Superior Ct. (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
1431, 1435.) This rule is designed “to encourage the
parties to work out their differences informally so as to avoid the necessity
for a formal order....” (McElhaney v. Cessna Aircraft Co. (1982)
134 Cal.App.3d 285, 289.) “This, in turn, will lessen the burden on the court
and reduce the unnecessary expenditure of resources by litigants through
promotion of informal, extrajudicial resolution of discovery disputes.” (Townsend
v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1435.) “A determination of
whether an attempt at informal resolution is adequate . . . involves the
exercise of discretion.” (Stewart, supra, (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th at 1016.)

 
On
March 18, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent Defendants’ counsel a letter setting
forth Plaintiff’s position as stated at the deposition and asking if Defendants
would voluntarily produce the documents and Mr. Henley for his continued deposition.
(Pease
Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs’ counsel states he did not
receive a response. (Pease Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiffs
filed the instant motion the next day on March 19, 2024. 
 
Defendants
assert that Plaintiffs did not adequately meet and confer. First Plaintiff APRL
made the hearing reservation for this motion on February 22, 2024, but waited the
day before the motion was filed to attempt to meet and confer. Defendants also
contend that counsel for APRL was informed via an automated “Out of Office”
reply, that one of Defendants’ two primary counsel in this matter was out of
the office traveling the day that APRL sent its email and Defendants were
therefore unable to respond right away. (Tenenbaum Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
Here,
the Court agrees that Plaintiffs’ meet and confer effort was inadequate. Sending
a letter the day before Plaintiffs filed the motion is an insufficient attempt
by the parties to resolve the matter informally and without court
intervention. The Court does not find this was a serious attempt to
resolve the matter informally.  (See Stewart 87 Cal.App.4th at
1016.) It would lessen the burden on the Court and reduce the unnecessary
expenditure of resources by the parties and the Court should the parties here
reach informal resolution to all or part of the discovery in dispute. (See
Townsend 61 Cal.App.4th at 1435.)
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is CONTINUED and the parties are ordered to meet
and confer further.  If the parties are able to fully resolve the
discovery dispute, the Court will take the Motion off calendar.  If the
parties are unable to resolve part or all of the dispute, the Court will hear
the dispute remaining after the parties adequately meet and confer. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel is CONTINUED to July 16, 2024. 