  Case Number:  22STCV04961    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 18, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Rodrigo Del Villar v. Luis Daniel
Chavez, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04961            
 
MOTION
FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Rodrigo Del Villar 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Luis
Daniel Chavez 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
02/09/22: Complaint filed. 
·        
11/16/23: First Amended Complaint filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract, fraud, and elder abuse.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to repay Plaintiff pursuant to the
terms of a loan agreement. 
 
Plaintiff moves
to specially set this action for trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 36(a). 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial
Preference is GRANTED. Trial in this matter is set for Tuesday, May 14, 2024 at
10:00 AM pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36(a). The Court sets a
Final Status Conference for 9:00 AM on May 7, 2024. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves
to specially set this action for trial pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 36(a). 
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 36(a) specifically provides:
 
A party to a civil action who is over
70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall
grant if the court makes both of the following findings:
 
(1) The party has a substantial
interest in the action as a whole.
 
(2) The health of the party is such
that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in
the litigation.
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a) (bold emphasis and underlining
added).) If granted, the Court “shall set the matter for trial not more than
120 days from that date.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(f).) An application under this
section may be supported by an affidavit “signed by the attorney for the party
seeking preference” and may be “based upon information and belief as to the
medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36.5.) Such
an affidavit is not admissible for any purpose other than an application under
section 36(a). (Id.) The motion must be accompanied by a declaration from
the moving party stating that all essential parties have been served with
process or have appeared in the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(c).) 
 
            As an
initial matter, Plaintiff has not included a declaration with the motion
stating that all essential parties have been served with process or have
appeared in the action, as required by subdivision (c) of section 36. However,
the operative pleading describes a series of allegedly wrongful acts
perpetrated by Defendant Luis Daniel Chavez alone. (See FAC ¶¶ 10-16.) The
Court, taking judicial notice of its own case file, observes that Defendant
Chavez has made several filings in this action, including a demurrer to the
original Complaint, and has opposed this motion, thus making general
appearances in the case. Plaintiff’s failure to include the declaration
required by subdivision (c) is therefore harmless error. 
 
            Turning to
the merits, there is no dispute that Plaintiff Rodrigo Del Villar, as the
elderly plaintiff, has a substantial interest in this breach of contract and
elder abuse action. Thus, the only question is whether his health is such that
preference is necessary. 
 
            Plaintiff
declares under penalty of perjury that he has received six surgeries on his
lumbar spine since January 2023. (Declaration of Rodrigo Del Villar ISO Mot. ¶
2.) As of January 2023, Plaintiff cannot walk without the assistance of a
walker, suffers constant pain and numbness in his lower extremities when
standing or sitting and cannot stand for more than two minutes at a time or
walk for more than five minutes at a time. (Id. ¶¶ 2-3.) Plaintiff also
suffers from severe abdominal pain, progressing loss of vision, and kidney
dysfunction. (Id. ¶¶ 5-7.) Plaintiff has attached a translated note from
a physician based in Guadalajara, Mexico attesting to his condition. (See Del
Villar Decl. Exh. 1.) 
 
            Defendant
argues that the included physician’s note is not competent evidence of
Plaintiff’s medical condition because it is hearsay and is not made under oath.
This contention is irrelevant because the note merely sets forth the same
information stated in Plaintiff’s own declaration, which is manifestly not
hearsay and is stated under oath. More critically, Defendant also contends that
Plaintiff has not established that his medical condition necessitates granting
preference to avoid prejudicing his interest in the litigation. The Court
disagrees. Notwithstanding the physician’s note, Plaintiff has testified to his
progressive loss of vision, which, on its face, threatens to hinder his ability
to participate in these proceedings and therefore threatens prejudice to his
interest in this action.” (See Fox v. Superior Court of the City of
San Francisco (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 535.) The Court therefore finds
that Plaintiff has demonstrated that his health is such that preference is
necessary to avoid prejudice to his interest in this litigation. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Trial Preference is GRANTED. Trial in this matter is set
for Tuesday, May 14, 2024 at 10:00 AM pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 36(a). The Court sets a Final Status Conference for 9:00 AM on May 7,
2024. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated: January 18, 2024                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 