 Case Number:  22STCV09612    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



GARY HUERTA,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MICHAEL SIMMS, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV09612




Hearing Date:


December 12, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
TENTATIVE
  RULING RE:  
 
PLAINTIFF’S
  MOTION TO SET VALUATION DATE FOR DECEMBER 31, 2022 




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
 
Background
On March 18, 2022,
Plaintiff Gary Huerta (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants
Michael Simms (“Simms”), Carmen Santillan (“Santillan”), Plant Ranch, Inc.
(“Plant Ranch”), and Cena Kitchen, LLC (“Cena Kitchen”).  
Plaintiff filed the
operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on August 29, 2023, alleging causes
of action for (1) constructive fraud, (2) accounting, (3) conversion, (4)
breach of the operating agreement, (5) breach of fiduciary duty, (6)
declaratory relief, and (7) dissolution. 
On August 24, 2023,
Plant Ranch and Cena Kitchen filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff,
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) breach of
contract (operating agreement), (3) breach of contract (bylaws), and (4)
declaratory relief. 
Plaintiff now moves “for
an order setting the current valuation date as to the buyout of Plaintiff in
his interest in [Cena Kitchen]
for December 31, 2022.” Simms and
Santillan (jointly referred to as the “Defendants” herein) oppose.  
Discussion 
Defendants previously moved “for an
order that: (1) stays this dissolution action in its entirety, including all
discovery and Plaintiff’s pending motion for dissolution; (2) appoints
appraisers in accordance with the terms of the Operating Agreement for purposes
of ascertaining the fair market value of Cena Kitchen; (3) orders a buyout of
Plaintiff’s membership interest in Cena Kitchen in accordance with the terms of
the Cena Kitchen Operating Agreement; and (4) sets a bond at $5,000 pursuant to
¿Corporations Code section 17707.03(c)(2)¿.” (See
November 14, 2022 Order at p. 2:1-7.) Plaintiff opposed. 
The
Court’s November 14, 2022 Order provides, inter alia, as follows:
 
“Defendants’
motion is granted in part. Discovery and further proceedings are stayed as to Plaintiff’s
seventh cause of action for dissolution. For purposes of the appraisal of the
fair market value of the membership interests owned by the moving parties, the
Court orders that Plaintiff shall select one appraiser, Defendant shall
select one appraiser, and those two appraisers shall jointly select a third
appraiser. In addition, Defendants shall post a bond in the amount of $31,500, on or before 11/23/22. The Court sets a status conference on
[1/26/22] [sic], at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50 as to the status of the appraisals.
The parties are ordered to file a joint report regarding the status of the
appraisals five court days prior to the status conference, with a courtesy copy
delivered directly to Department 50.¿Regarding the issue of whether Plaintiff
is entitled to only 50% of the ‘Buy-Out Purchase Price’ per Section 8.05(e) of the Operating Agreement and payment
in accordance with the ‘Buy-Out Terms’ in Section 1.01
of the Operating Agreement, the Court finds that this issue must be tried.”
(November 14, 2022 Order at pp. 9:21-10:7.)[1] 
In the instant motion, Plaintiff asserts that “[h]ere, the trial court
on November 14, 2022 issued an order directing the parties to each select an
appraiser and that each party’s respective appraiser shall jointly select a
third appraiser; Defendants are to post a bond in the amount of $31,500.00 on
or before November 23, 2022; a status conference is set for January 26, 2022;
the parties are to file a joint report regarding the status of the appraisal, 5
days before the status conference; and that the issue of any discount on
Plaintiffs ownership interest must be tried…However, the Court did not state
what date is the date of valuation for appraisal.” (Mot. at pp. 5:23-6:2.) 
But as Plaintiff acknowledges, Corporations
Code section 17707.03, subdivision (c)(5) provides that “[f]or the purposes of this section, the valuation date
shall be the date upon which the action for judicial dissolution was commenced.
However, the court may, upon the hearing of a motion by any party, and for good
cause shown, designate some other date as the valuation date.” (Emphasis added.)
In the instant motion, Plaintiff
asserts that “there is good cause to set the date of valuation for December 31,
2022.” (Mot. at p. 6:8-9.) Plaintiff asserts that “the impacts of COVID,
the nature of the business of Cena Kitchen and accounting processes associated
therewith necessitate an end of year valuation as that would be a more accurate
and fair valuation. As such, the valuation date should be set for December 31,
2022.” (Mot. at p. 6:23-25.) The Court
notes that the instant action was filed on March 18, 2022, but the original
Complaint did not contain any cause of action for dissolution. Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed on May 9, 2022 contains a cause of action
for judicial dissolution of Plant Ranch and Centa Kitchen. (See FAC,
Ninth Cause of Action.) 
In his declaration in support
of the instant motion, Plaintiff states that he is a 1/3 owner and
member of Cena Kitchen. (Huerta Decl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he valuation date for Cena
Kitchen should be December 31, 2022, instead of a date which falls within the
early part of the year for 2022. Cena Kitchen’s business revolves around the
selling of its foods at vegan food festivals, large outdoor concert events like
Coachella, and more. Those events are less frequent in the first quarter.
Events in the second and third quarters of the year draw as many as 100,000
attendees per day for up to three days at a time, who pay in cash and via
credit card for the vegan Mexican food sold by Cena Kitchen.” (Huerta Decl., ¶
7.) Plaintiff states that “during the second
and third quarters of the year, Cena Kitchen typically participates in as many
as four to five different events/locations per weekend in addition to regular
weekly operations where it delivers food or offers food for pickup.” (Ibid.) In addition, Plaintiff states that “a
comparison of Cena Kitchen’s Gross Sales for the year of 2022 shows that Cena
Kitchen earns and reports substantially more income from May through December.”
(Mot. at p. 7:10-11; citing Huerta Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. F.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that “Cena Kitchen’s fiscal calendar is the
calendar year. The actual profits and expenses of the company are not clear
until the end of the year when Defendants receive year-end statements from the
various vendors they use…and are forced to prepare all the necessary documents
to provide to the account for the preparing and filing of taxes. For this
reason, as well, a valuation date at the end of the year and not the beginning
will provide a more accurate and fair valuation of Cena Kitchen.” (Huerta
Decl., ¶ 8.) 
In addition, Plaintiff states that “[f]rom March 2020 - June 2021,
local and federal and mandates restricted public gatherings” and that “[i]n
July of 2021, Cena resumed sales of food at outdoor events, concerts and
catering…” (Huerta Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff asserts that “[b]y Q2 and Q4 of 2022,
Cena once again began to grow business with great success, picking up where it
had left off in March of 2020. The Covid period was an anomaly in the financial
operations of Cena.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff asserts that “an early 2022
valuation is not an accurate reflection of the value of the business given drop
in business suffered by Cena Kitchen arising from the COVID pandemic.” (Mot. at
p. 8:20-22.) 
As discussed above, Plaintiff’s FAC filed on
May 9, 2022 contains a cause of action for
judicial dissolution of Plant Ranch and Centa Kitchen. In the opposition,
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s Motion is fatally flawed
because he has not stated any good cause to alter the May 9, 2022 valuation
date.” (Opp’n at p. 1:17-18.) 
First, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff does not support his argument
with any legal authority justifying a deviation from the statutory default
date.” (Opp’n at p. 4:3-4.) But as discussed, Corporations Code section 17707.03,
subdivision (c)(5) provides that “[f]or
the purposes of this section, the valuation date shall be the date upon which
the action for judicial dissolution was commenced. However, the court may, upon
the hearing of a motion by any party, and for good cause shown, designate some
other date as the valuation date.”
Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff’s
‘seasonality’ argument, i.e., that the valuation date must be deferred to
account for the purported year-end influx of cash, ignores the standard
practice utilized in business valuations of this sort.” (Opp’n at p. 5:1-4.)
Defendants submit the Declaration of Edward Fixen, a Certified Business
Appraiser who has been designated as one of the appraisers in this matter
tasked with valuing Plaintiff’s membership interest in Cena Kitchen. (Fixen
Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Fixen states that “I understand that Plaintiff is requesting
to move the valuation date from May 9, 2022 to December 31, 2022 because he
claims that Cena Kitchen typically makes more money in the latter half of the
year. However, in my professional opinion, this ‘seasonality’ argument ignores
the standard practice utilized in business valuations of this sort.” (Fixen
Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Fixen states that “[a]ppraisers typically do (and should)
utilize a ‘trailing’ 12-month assessment of the business whereby the appraiser
analyzes the 1-year period prior to the assigned valuation date. This is the
method I will be utilizing in assessing the value of Plaintiff’s membership
interest in Cena Kitchen.” (Fixen Decl., ¶ 3.) Mr. Fixen states that “[s]uch an
assessment is intended to capture any seasonality that could otherwise be
overlooked by analysis of a partial year and would capture Plaintiff’s
seasonality argument, such that if it is true that Cena Kitchen historically
has turned a larger profit in the latter portion of the year, then a trailing
assessment (back to May 2021 in this instance) necessarily would capture
relevant data and satisfy Plaintiff’s purported concern.” (Fixen Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff counters that “Defendants’…assertion that a ‘trailing 12-
month assessment’ may be used will not accurately reflect the income of Cena
Kitchen (in light of the manner in which it reports income and the delays from
COVID-19) and thus will not accurately reflect the value of Plaintiff’s
ownership interest.” (Reply at p. 5:6-9.) Indeed, Defendants do not appear to
address Plaintiff’s assertion that “an early 2022 valuation is not an accurate
reflection of the value of the business given [sic] drop in business suffered
by Cena Kitchen arising from the COVID pandemic.” (Mot. at 8:20-22.) Plaintiff asserts
that “[t]he Covid period was an anomaly in the financial operations of Cena.
Defendants are seeking to set the appraisal date within the time when Covid had
the biggest negative impact on business profitability and valuation...” (Huerta
Decl., ¶ 7.) This does not appear to be disputed by Defendants. 
In addition, as set forth above, Mr. Fixen states that “[a]ppraisers
typically do (and should) utilize a ‘trailing’ 12-month assessment of the
business whereby the appraiser analyzes the 1-year period prior to the assigned
valuation date.” (Fixen Decl., ¶ 3) Defendants do not appear to present any
argument as to why such “trailing” 12-month assessment could not be conducted
in connection with an assigned valuation date of December 31, 2022.
In addition, although Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s argument
boils down to the speculative assertion that Cena Kitchen may have done better
in the latter half of 2022,” (Opp’n at p. 5:13-14), Plaintiff’s declaration
attaches, inter alia, a “copy of a comparison of Cena Kitchen LLC’s
monthly gross sales” for 2022. (Huerta Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. F.) This does not
appear to be addressed by Defendants. 
Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has demonstrated good cause for the Court to designate December 31, 2022 as the
valuation date. (Corp. Code, § 17707.03, subd. (c)(5).) 
Conclusion
In light of the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for
an order designating December 31, 2022 as the valuation date is granted. 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this Order.  
 
DATED:  December 12, 2023                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


