  Case Number:  20STCV44397    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


32




HEARING DATE


October 21, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20STCV44397 




MOTIONS


Motion to Continue Trial and Expert Discovery




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Knight Transportation, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
 
Defendant Knight Transportation,
Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to continue the trial, including the expert discovery
deadlines in this matter, which is currently set for November 6, 2024, to April
25, 2025. Plaintiff Alfonso Herrera (“Plaintiff”) and Defendant James A. Iles have
stipulated to the continuance. (Motion, Exh. 1.) No opposition to the Motion was filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            The complaint was filed on November
19, 2020.
 
            Defendant Knight Transportation,
Inc. filed an answer on March 17, 2021.
 
            On May 19, 2021, the Court granted a
stay of civil proceedings as to Defendant James A. Iles and set a status
conference regarding criminal proceedings. (Min. Order 5/19/21.) Defendant’s
motion to lift the stay was granted on Marcy 4, 2022. (Min. Order 3/4/22.)
 
            On March 1, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s ex parte application to continue trial.
 
            On February 15, 2024, the Court
granted the parties’ stipulation to continue trial to October 21, 2024 and
indicated there would be no further continuance absent sufficient good cause.
The basis of the stipulation was that the parties had previously agreed to
mediate but canceled due to plaintiff’s recent surgery on 8/7/23 and ongoing
treatment.
 
            On August 23, 2024, the parties
filed another stipulation on the ground that Defendant’s counsel would be on
maternity leave through the end of the year and Plaintiff continues to
treat.  The Court denied the stipulation
on the basis that the parties did not set forth with specificity sufficient
good cause to justify a continuance to May 5, 2025. Defendant then filed an ex
parte application setting forth the same grounds, which was denied by the
Court. The Court’s order indicated that the parties may submit a new
stipulation and proposed order, setting forth facts to justify a shorter
continuance, or additional facts to justify the length of the continuance
requested. (Min. Order 9/10/24.)
 
            Rather than abide by the Court’s
order, Defendant filed the instant motion setting forth the same grounds.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal Standard
 
 “Continuances are
granted only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a
continuance.”  (In re Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)  A trial court has broad discretion in considering
a request for a trial continuance.  (Pham v. Nguyen (1997) 54
Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 sets forth
factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion to continue
trial. 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the
dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard
the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(a).) 
 
“A party seeking a continuance of the date set for trial,
whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must make the
request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application under
the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting declarations. The
party must make the motion or application as soon as reasonably practical once
the necessity for the continuance is discovered.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b).)
 
“Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may
grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:
 
(1)   The unavailability of an essential lay
or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(2)   The unavailability of a party because
of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;
(3)   The unavailability of trial counsel
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances; 
(4)   The substitution of trial counsel, but
only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in
the interests of justice;
(5)   The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or
(B) The other parties have not had a
reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to
the new party’s involvement in the case;
(6)   A party’s excused inability to obtain
essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite diligent
efforts; or
(7)   A significant, unanticipated change in
the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for trial.” 
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)
 
“In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,
the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to
the determination. These may include:
 
(1)   The proximity of the trial date;
(2)   Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3)   The length of the continuance
requested;
(4)   The availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5)   The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6)   If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)   The court’s calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8)   Whether trial counsel is engaged in
another trial;
(9)   Whether all parties have stipulated to
a continuance;
(10)  Whether the interests of justice are
best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant seeks a continuance of
trial, including expert discovery deadlines, to permit Plaintiff time to
recover from medically necessary surgeries and allow the parties’ medical
experts to offer final opinions upon Plaintiff’s recovery. (Campo Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.) Counsel for Defendant asserts that Plaintiff reasonably
anticipates that his doctors will advise him of his medical condition and
prognosis by about the end of December 2024. (Campo Decl. ¶ 5.) Counsel further
asserts that she will be taking maternity leave for approximately 3.5 months
and will be unable to attend trial until January 1, 2025. (Campos Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
Defendant does not explain why the parties stipulated to
an October 21, 2024 trial date when counsel was not going to be available.
Further, as noted by the Court with regard to the stipulation and the ex parte
application, the parties do not set forth with specificity sufficient good
cause to justify the request to continue to April 25, 2025. The parties’ trial
schedules to not establish sufficient good cause. If counsel are engaged in
trial, this matter will trail. The motion once again repeats arguments made in
the stipulation and ex parte application which the Court previously found were
not sufficient to justify the length of continuance requested.
 
The Court grants in part the motion to continue trial,
but not for the length of time requested, which remains without support.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS in part Defendant’s motion to
continue trial and expert discovery and orders as follows:  
 
The trial date, currently set for
November 6, 2024, is continued to January 30, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in Department
32. 
 
The Final Status Conference,
currently set for October 22, 2024, is continued to January 16, 2025 at 10:00
a.m. in Department 32.  
 
Expert discovery deadlines only
will be associated with the new trial date. Fact discovery will remain closed
unless otherwise stipulated by the parties.
 
There shall be no further request
for continuance.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the
Court’s orders, and file a proof of service of such. 