 Case Number:  22STCV11490    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  21, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV11490




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Maria Reyes Canela-Vela




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on September 30, 2024 by Petitioner Maria Reyes Canela-Vela
(Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant Maria Alejandra Urista Canela, age 5. The Court denies the petition without
prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
On September 18, 2024, the Court granted
Plaintiffs’ application sealing portions of Claimant’s Petition to Approve
Minor’s Compromise.  
 
The medical report in attachment 8 does not show that
Claimant is fully recovered. Petitioner must provide further medical
records/reports, or other evidence in support of Claimant's recovery. 
 
Petitioner
must include attachment 11b3 describing her effect on Claimant’s settlement. 
 
Petitioner must include attachment 11b6 describing reasons
for the apportionment between Claimant and the other plaintiffs. 
 
According to item 12a(4), $5,823.63 in reimbursements are
sought for medical expenses. At the same time, item 12b(1) claims that
$5,823.63 were paid by Petitioner and should be reimbursed to Petitioner. Item
12b(4) shows a $1,203.63 Medi-Cal lien, and item 12b(5) shows a $4,620 medical
lien from provider Premier Forensic Psychology. The value in item 12a(4) should
equal the values listed in 12(b). Therefore, it is unclear what total amount is
sought to be reimbursed from the settlement, and what has already been paid. 
 
Petitioner should include a version of the fee agreement
in English. 
 
Additionally, it is unclear whether Petitioner paid any medical
expenses. Petitioner has marked 14a and 14b, which are contradictory. Item 14b
claims Petitioner paid medical expenses, but no attachment 14 was provided
showing proof of these payments. If instead, the medical, attorney, and other
expenses will be paid after the proceeds are released, Petitioner should mark
item 14a and make no selection in 14b. 
 
It appears counsel is representing other parties other
than Claimant. Petitioner must change the response in item 17e and provide
attachment 17e. 
 
Petitioner should not complete item 21 since Claimant is
not an adult with a disability. 
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), the “other expenses” value
should be written in 8a(2). In item 8a(5), the total allowance should be the sum
of values in item 8a(1), (2), and (3). 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 