 Case Number:  22STCV34888    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DANIEL HUSBAND, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
TARGET CORPORATION, A CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV34888
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER DISCOVERY RESPONSES TO DEPOSITION TESTIMONY AND REQUEST FOR DISCOVERY
  REFEREE 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 30, 2024



 
On November 2, 2022, Plaintiff
Daniel Husband filed this action against Defendant Target Corporation and others.
On
January 8, 2024, Plaintiff took the deposition of witness Nadine Wishart.  (Morgan Decl. ¶ 8.)  According to Plaintiff’s counsel, “defense counsel
improperly made speaking objections and instructed Ms. Wishart not to answer relevant
questions relating to Plaintiff’s claims.” 
(Morgan Decl. ¶ 8.)
On
April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Wishart’s further deposition
testimony and for appointment of a discovery referee.
At
the original May 2, 2024 hearing, the Court ordered supplemental briefing and
continued the hearing.
A.        The Motion Is Timely.
Defendant
argues that the motion is untimely.  (Opposition
at p. 9.)
A
motion to compel further deposition testimony must be made within 60 days of the
completion of the record.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.480, subd. (b).)  The record was complete
on February 26, 2024, making this April 11, 2024 motion timely.  (Morgan Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. F.)
B.        Plaintiff Did Not Meet and Confer.
A
motion to compel further deposition testimony must include a meet and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)  Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to satisfy
the requirement to meet and confer.  (Opposition
at pp. 7-8.)
Plaintiff
never requested, or met and conferred, regarding the need for a discovery referee.  (Al-Chalati-Moeller Decl. ¶ 12.)  Plaintiff also never requested a second day of
deposition and never noticed a further deposition.  (Al-Chalati-Moeller Decl. ¶ 13.)
On
April 12, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel asked defense counsel for a further deposition
and a discovery referee.  (Al-Chalati-Moeller
Decl. ¶ 14 & Ex. G.)  On April 16, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel offered to produce Wishart for three more hours of deposition
if Plaintiff withdrew the motion, but Plaintiff did not respond before Defendant
filed its opposition.  (Al-Chalati-Moeller
Decl. ¶ 15 & Ex. H.)
On
April 22, 2023, Plaintiff responded to Defendant “expressly outlining the need for
a discovery referee in light of Defendant’s conduct.”  (Morgan Reply Decl. ¶ 12 & Ex. J.)  Defendant responded the night before Plaintiff’s
reply brief was due, but Plaintiff’s counsel does not state what that response was.  (Morgan Reply Decl. ¶ 13.)
These
efforts are not “a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
Plaintiff
argues that the meet and confer efforts were sufficient because “Plaintiff, by and
through his counsel, met and conferred extensively on the record on January 8th
as to Defendant’s egregious and improper deposition conduct.”  (Reply at p. 4.)  “A reasonable and good faith attempt at informal
resolution entails something more than bickering with deponent’s counsel at a deposition.  Rather, the law requires that counsel attempt
to talk the matter over, compare their views, consult, and deliberate.”  (Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th
1431, 1439.)
Despite
Plaintiff’s failure to meet and confer before filing this motion, the Court will
address the merits.
C.        A Discovery Referee Is Not Necessary.
Plaintiff
requests that the Court appoint a discovery referee at Defendant’s expense “due
to Defendant and its counsel’s continual misuse and abuse of the discovery process.”  (Motion at pp. 10-11.)  Plaintiff argues that defense counsel coached
and testified for the witness, instructed the witness to not answer, improperly
reframed questions, asked the witness to seek clarification, and obstructed exhibits.  (Motion at pp. 6-10.)  Plaintiff provides excerpts from the deposition.  (Morgan Decl., Ex. E [“Wishart Depo.”].)
Plaintiff
has not shown conduct that is so abusive as to require the appointment of a discovery
referee.  For example, defense counsel objected
to a question as being unintelligible and calling for speculation, and then the
witness answered, “I don’t understand your question.”  (Motion at pp. 8-9; Wishart Depo. at p. 31.)  Plaintiff’s counsel asked, “Is there a word that
you don’t understand in the question?” and defense counsel added, “Counsel, don’t
argue with the witness.  She has stated she
doesn’t understand.  It’s now your job to
clean up your question, please.”  Although
the second defense interjection was unnecessary in light of Plaintiff’s counsel’s
question about the witness’s understanding, it is not abusive.  The objections identified at pages 200 and 201
are for clarity of the question and are not improper coaching of the witness.  (Motion at pp. 1-2; see id. at pp. 6-7.)  Defense counsel correctly objected that some matters
were asked and answered.  (Motion at pp. 7-8;
Wishart Depo. at pp. 227-228.)  With respect
to Deposition Exhibit 12, defense counsel objected because it was unintelligible.  (Wishart Depo. at pp. 256-257.)  Defendant provides a copy of the exhibit, and
the Court agrees that it is unintelligible. 
(Al-Chalati-Moeller Decl., Ex. C.) 
This objection was not obstructive or abusive.
The
request for a discovery referee is denied.
Defense
counsel is cautioned not to instruct witnesses to not answer in the future
unless a privilege claim is being made.
D.        The Court Will Not Compel Further Testimony
At This Time.
After
the objections to Deposition Exhibit 12, Plaintiff’s counsel terminated the deposition
at 5:12 p.m. due to “abusive conduct.”  (Wishart
Depo. at p. 259.)  At that time, over seven
hours of testimony had already been taken. 
(Opposition at p. 7.)  The Court disagrees
that Defendant’s conduct was overly abusive, and Plaintiff voluntarily ended the
deposition.
Plaintiff
never requested a second day of deposition and never noticed a further deposition.  (Al-Chalati-Moeller Decl. ¶ 13.)  Accordingly, there is currently nothing to compel.  Since the original hearing date on this
motion, Plaintiff has refused (five times) Defendant’s offer for three more hours
of deposition, unless Defendant compensated Plaintiff.  (Al-Chalati-Moeller Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 10-14.)
In
reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s April 9, 2024 document production is grounds
for further deposition testimony from Wishart. 
(Reply at pp. 6-7.)  That is outside
the scope of the motion, and Plaintiff did not explain the importance of the document
production in his supplemental briefing. 
Plaintiff has failed to show good cause for further testimony.
E.        Conclusion
The
motion is DENIED.
The
requests for sanctions are DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 30th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 