    SERVICE:      [X]  Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK [X]  Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK  [X]  16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK     OPPOSITION:          None filed as of April 03, 2024                      [   ] Late          [X] None  REPLY:                     None filed as of April 09, 2024                      [   ] Late          [X] None    BACKGROUND   On October 26, 2023, Petitioner  Jamra, Jamra & Hanasab, L.L.P (“Petitioner” or “JJH”) commenced this action  by filing a Verified Petition to Compel Binding Arbitration (the “Petition”)  against Respondent Jeffrey S. Graup (“Respondent”).    The same day the Petition was  filed, on October 26, 2023, the clerk filed a Notice of Hearing on Petition,  informing JJH that the hearing for the Petition was set for February 29, 2024,  and ordering JJH to give notice of that hearing and file proof of service of  that notice.    On February 20, 2024, a  substitution of attorney form was filed indicating that Jerry J. Jen of Jen Law  Firm substituted in as counsel of record for JJH.    As of February 26, 2024, no proof  of service of the Petition or Notice of Hearing had been filed. The Court on  its own motion continued the hearing on the Petition to allow Petitioner to  electronically file proofs of service of its petition and notice of the Court’s  February 29, 2024, Order on Respondent.    No opposition or supporting  documents have been filed.      MOVING PARTY  POSITION   Petitioner moves to compel  Respondent to arbitrate the parties’ fee dispute for legal services JJH  allegedly provided to Respondent. Petitioner asserts that the parties entered  into an agreement whereby JJH agreed to perform (and Respondent agreed to pay  for) legal services for a marriage dissolution case. The retainer agreement  stated that if there was any dispute between the parties regarding JJH’s fees,  the parties shall submit the issue to binding arbitration.    OPPOSITION               No  opposition has been filed.    REPLY               No reply  has been filed.      ANALYSIS   I.          Legal Standard   “A party who  claims that there is a written agreement to arbitrate may petition the superior  court for an order to compel arbitration” pursuant to California Code of Civil  Procedure section 1281.2. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court  (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.) “California law, like federal law, favors  enforcement of valid arbitration agreements.” (Armendariz v. Foundation  Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97.) “On petition of  a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written  agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses  to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the  respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to  arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to  compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for  rescission of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) A party opposing a  petition to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving by a preponderance  of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Banner Entertainment,  Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356.)    “[T]he writing  memorializing an arbitration agreement need not be signed by both parties in  order to be upheld as a binding arbitration agreement.” Serafin v. Balco  Properties Ltd., LLC (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176. “[I]t is not the presence  or absence of a signature which is dispositive; it is the presence or absence  of evidence of an agreement to arbitrate which matters.” (Banner  Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court, supra, 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 361.)    Pursuant to Code  of Civil Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to compel arbitration, the  court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no written agreement  to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds  exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may  render the arbitration unnecessary or create conflicting¿rulings on common  issues.    Where a motion to  compel arbitration is granted, a court “shall, upon motion of a party to such  action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had  in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court  specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.4.)      II.        Discussion  In its prior  order, the Court noted that JJH did not file either a proof of  service of the Petition or a proof of service of the Notice of Hearing on  Petition. (02/29/24 Minute Order.) For that reason, the Court  continued the hearing on the petition to allow Petitioner to properly serve the  Respondent and to electronically file proofs of service of “its petition  and notice of today’s ruling at least (10) court days before the next scheduled  hearing” (Id.)  The Court  notes that since issuing its order, the Petitioner has not filed any supporting  documents consistent with the Court’s February 29th order.              Accordingly,  the Court DENIES Petitioner’s Petition to Compel Binding Arbitration.     II.        Conclusion                           Petitioner Jamra, Jamra &  Hanasab, LLP’s Petition to Compel Binding Arbitration is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.     Moving party is ordered to give notice.  