  Case Number:  23STCV03742    Hearing Date:   January 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



INTERCOMMUNITY ANESTHESIOLOGY SERVICES,
  INC.,
et al. 
 
        
  vs.
 
PIH HEALTH
  WHITTIER HOSPITAL
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV03742  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: January 11, 2024



 
 
IAS’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED, WITH 15 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.     
 
On 2/21/2023, Plaintiff Intercommunity Anesthesiology
Services, Inc. (IAS) and Aidan O’Brien M.D. filed suit against PIH Health
Whittier Hospital (Defendant or PIH), alleging: (1) quantum meruit; (2)
defamation per se; (3) defamation; (4) intentional interference with
contractual relations; (5) intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage; and (6) inducing breach of contract. 
 
            On 4/28/2023, PIH filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against IAS. On 9/21/2023, PIH filed a first amended
cross-complaint (FXC) alleging: (1) declaratory relief; (2) restitution/unjust
enrichment; (3) mistaken receipt; and (4) violation of section 17200. 
 
Now, IAS demurs to the second, third, and fourth causes
of action of the FXC.
 
Discussion

 
            IAS
argues that PIH has not resolved the deficiencies previously identified in the
last round of demurrer.
 
            After
review, while the Court finds that the PIH’s allegations are sufficient at the
pleadings stage to show that the claim is not time-barred, the Court still
finds PIH’s allegations insufficient to state a claim for unjust enrichment,
mistaken receipt, or violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200. 
 
            As
for unjust enrichment, “[u]nder the law of restitution, an individual may be
required to make restitution if he is unjustly enriched at the expense of
another.” (Ghirardo v. Antonioli (1996) 14 Cal.4th 39, 51.) 1. “The fact
that one person benefits another is not, by itself, sufficient to require
restitution. The person receiving the benefit is required to make restitution
only if the circumstances are such that, as between the two individuals, it is
unjust for the person to retain it.” (First Nationwide Sav. v. Perry
(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1657, 1663.) 
 
            Here,
just as in original XC, PIH’s claim is based on payments made to IAS for
services. While PIH now alleges that IAS induced PIH into believing there was
an implied-in-fact contract by demanding payment for services and accepting
payment at the same rate, PIH acknowledges that the contract expired, it was
not renewed in March 2018, and it was aware of both of these facts. Moreover,
as noted by IAS, “PIH has not alleged that it was required or bound to use
IAS’s services or that it only used the services under a mistaken belief that
it had no other choice. As is clear from the FAXC, as soon as PIH decided it
did not want to use IAS’s services, it ‘quickly’ found a replacement group to
contract with at the same rate it paid to IAS.” (Demurrer, 13: 3-6.) Taken
together, PIH’s own allegations indicate that it knew the express contract had
expired, and that it continued, for several years, to pay IAS in exchange for
actually received services. PIH alleges that it was misled “into believing the
parties had an agreement that required PIH to pay IAS for anesthesiology
services to its patients,” but PIH does not allege any facts which could
support this. PIH must allege facts which could how it was led to believe there
was an agreement, when by its own admission the agreement had knowingly
expired. Moreover, given that PIH does not allege fraud, PIH’s unjust
enrichment claim still suffers from the fact that the money provided under the
assumed contract was for actually provided services. As such, it is still
unclear from PIH’s allegations that any benefit was retained unjustly. 
 
            As
for mistaken receipt, “[a]n action for mistaken receipt is a form of common
count “where one person receives the money of another which he has no right,
conscientiously, to retain. . . . The action is in the nature of an equitable
one and is based on the fact that the defendant has money which, in equity and
good conscience, he ought to pay to the plaintiffs. Such an action will lie
where the money is paid under a void agreement, where it is obtained by fraud
or where it was paid by a mistake of fact.” (Stratton v. Hanning (1956)
139 Cal.App.2d 723, 727, citing 17 Cal.Jur., Money Received, §§ 1, 2, 9 and
12.) 
 
Here, as
stated above, PIH does not allege fraud, nor has it alleged facts to show that
the money was mistakenly paid.  Rather,
PIH alleges that the money was knowingly and willingly paid to IAS for services
actually rendered. There is also the issue that IAS changed its position to its
detriment based on receipt of the money. (See Thresher v. Lopez (1921)
52 Cal.App. 219, 220.) As noted by IAS: 
 
If PIH had
not requested services from IAS, services for which PIH would pay IAS directly,
IAS would not have performed any services at all, let alone 24/7 anesthesia
coverage for PIH’s entire hospital. Moreover, had IAS’s individual doctors
performed services at the hospital on their own as some of them did prior to
2013, they would have taken the steps necessary to bill insurance companies
directly. But they cannot do that now, because PIH (or its agent, PacMed) has
accepted the assignment of the right to bill and has already billed the
patients. Thus, if PIH were to get its wish and owe IAS nothing, after the
fact, none of the doctors could actually bill for their services. This is
plainly a detriment to IAS, as well as a change in position in reliance on
PIH’s request for services. If IAS were to be required to return any of the
funds paid to it by PIH, it would never be able to recover the actual market
value of the services it provided.
 
            (Demurrer,
14:25-15:9.) 
 
            As
such, PIH’s allegations are insufficient to state a claim for mistaken receipt.

 
            Finally,
as for the section 17200 claim, the Court necessarily finds this claim to be
insufficiently pled given the conclusions set forth above. 
 
            While
PIH failed to resolve deficiencies previously, the Court finds that a final
round of leave to amend is warranted. This is because it is possible that with
additional facts PIH could show that it was induced to believe that a contract
existed that obligated it to pay for IAS’s services. Allegations that “IAS
acted like there was still an agreement” is insufficient because PIH
acknowledges that the express contract has expired, and the FAXC does not
allege that IAS did anything to “actively induce” PIH into believing a contract
was in place other than requesting and accepting payment for services actually
rendered. There is no allegation that PIH believed it was obligated to pay for
the services or ever believed it had to accept the services at all, only that
PIH believed there was a contract in place. Although PIH argues that it was
induced into paying IAS millions of dollars “that IAS had no right to receive,”
PIH has not alleged facts which could show that IAS had no right to receive
because it itself alleges that IAS rendered the services the payments were
intended for, and the price paid by PIH to IAS was the exact same price that
PIH negotiated for in 2013 and the same price that PIH agreed to pay to a new
group in 2022. Put simply, PIH must allege some facts which could show that it induced
to pay IAS, or induced to believe a contract still existed, beyond the
conclusory assertion that they were.   
 
            Based
on the foregoing, IAS’s demurrer is sustained, with 15 days leave to
amend.    
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 