Here is the summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: BC713530
Plaintiff's Name: [Unknown]
Defendant's Name: City of Los Angeles (COLA)
People-Names: Michael Crane, Jorge De La Torriente, Jason Stoeber, Christopher Alfieri, Gerald Watson, Belal Tamimi, Richard Louie, Keith Tucker
Company-Names: [None]
Places: 4118 Colbath Ave.
Dates: March 18, 2018, 2019
Events: Collapse of concrete wall, sewer repair work, soil compaction testing
Money: [None]
Intentions: To exclude certain evidence and expert testimony from trial
Facts: Evidence Code section 1151, Government Code section 830.5, Evidence Code section 402
Disputes: Exclusion of expert testimony, admissibility of business records
Acts: Plaintiff's experts' testimony, soil compaction testing, sewer repair work
Agreements: [None]
Laws: Evidence Code section 1151, Government Code section 830.5, Evidence Code section 402, Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Statutes: [None]
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant (COLA)
Significant Statements: The Court agrees with Plaintiff that the issue of whether an employee's statement is an admission of the employer does not rely simply on whether the employees are "high-ranking organizational agents," but instead must be determined with reference to principles of agency law.
```

And here is the English text summarizing the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge issued a tentative ruling on three motions in limine filed by the City of Los Angeles (COLA) and the Plaintiff. The first motion, Motion in Limine No. 1, sought to exclude evidence and expert testimony from plaintiff's experts, including soil compaction testing. The judge denied this motion, finding that the testimony was relevant and not speculative. The second motion, Motion in Limine No. 2, sought to exclude evidence of subsequent remedial measures, including a work order to repair a damaged wall. The judge granted this motion, finding that the evidence was barred by Evidence Code section 1151 and Government Code section 830.5. The third motion, Motion in Limine No. 5, sought to exclude expert testimony from Plaintiff's experts, including soil compaction testing. The judge denied this motion, finding that the motion did not provide an adequate basis for exclusion and that the testing was relevant and not speculative.