  Case Number:  BC713530    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  76 Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Motion in Limine No. 1
With this motion, Defendant City of Los Angeles (“COLA”)
seeks an order excluding:
Any evidence, theory of liability, claim of damages,
causation, compaction opinions, compaction testing issues, statements,
documents testified about, or documents generated by any City employee,
including, but not limited to, Michael Crane, Jorge De La Torriente, Jason
Stoeber, Christopher Alfieri, Gerald Watson, Belal Tamimi, and Richard Louie,
as they are not qualified expert witness, nor do they hold a sufficiently high
enough position of authority within the City of Los Angeles in order to bind it
as a party admission. 
In opposition to the motion, Plaintiff argues that the
motion is too vague and overbroad, and misapplies the hearsay rule and its
exceptions.
As an initial matter, the Court agrees with Plaintiff that
the issue of whether an employee’s statement should be treated as an admission
of the employer does not rely simply on whether the employees are “high ranking
organizational agents,” (COLA Mot. in Lim. No. 1 at 3-4), but instead must be
determined with reference to principles of agency law.  As the Court of Appeal has stated:
The authority of a declarant employee to make a statement
“for” an employer “concerning the subject matter of the statement” can be
implied, as well as express. (See Jefferson, Benchbook § 3.4, p. 181.) For this
reason the question of an employee's authorization to make a given statement
can present a tricky problem for a trial court, because the determination
necessarily depends on the particular facts and circumstances of each case
viewed in the light of the substantive law of agency, as distinct from evidence.
(O’Mary v. Mitsubishi Elecs. America, Inc. (1997) 59
Cal.App.4th 563, 570.)  This
determination “requires an examination of the employee’s usual and customary
authority, the nature of the statement in relation to that authority, and the
particular relevance or purpose of the statement.”  (Id.)
The instant motion describes the current or former job
titles of the witnesses at issue, but does not describe the scope of their
usual and customary job responsibilities or authority, or analyze how any of
the statements attributed to them relate to the performance of their
duties.  As such, there is no basis for
the Court to make a prospective, categorical finding that these employees’
statements are not party admissions of COLA. 
While Plaintiff will have to establish foundation at the time of trial,
this is not a basis for an in limine exclusion.  Indeed, to the extent that the deposition
transcripts attached to the motion are representative of the testimony that
might be offered at trial, it seems likely that Plaintiff will be able to lay
foundation for the testimony, especially to the extent that the testimony consists
of on-site observations and a narration of tasks performed.
With regard to COLA’s contention that Plaintiff seeks
improper expert testimony from the witnesses, it appears that none of the
witnesses were identified as experts by Plaintiff.  This by itself precludes the examination of
the witnesses as experts.  Thus, to the
extent that Plaintiff seeks to elicit any opinion testimony from the witnesses,
such opinion testimony would be subject to the limitations of Evidence Code
800, in that the testimony would have to be based on matters perceived by the
witness, and the opinions would have to be helpful to a clear understanding of
their testimony.[1]  While this restriction would likely preclude
the witnesses from offering opinions or conclusions on things such as the
ultimate issue of causation, opinions that help to clarify their observations
or to explain their actions may well be permissible under Evidence Code section
800.  However, the range of potential
testimony is too broad to assess on the instant motion.
The City of Los Angeles’ motion in limine no. 1 is DENIED
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Motion in Limine No. 2
With this motion, COLA seeks an order precluding the
admission of evidence of subsequent remedial measures.  Specifically, the motion seeks to exclude
evidence of and relating to a March 18, 2018 work order, No. SWC04335, which
states in part, “Contractor is directed to re-compact the soil and repair the
wall” at 4118 Colbath Ave., which the City ordered more than 13 months after
the collapse of the concrete wall at issue in the case.  COLA contends that the admission of evidence
concerning the work order is barred by Evidence Code section 1151 (the general
limitation on evidence of subsequent remedial measures) and Government Code
section 830.5(b) (which bars evidence that action was taken after an injury on
public property as proof that the public property was in a dangerous condition
at the time of the injury).   
Plaintiff contends that the documents attached to COLA’s
motion are admissible as business records, that no work that could be described
as “remedial measures” was completed, and that to the extent any of the
evidence might fall within the scope of the subsequent remedial measures bar,
the evidence is nevertheless admissible for other purposes, such as control of
the location by COLA, and COLA’s notice or knowledge of damage, which may be
relevant to causation.  Plaintiff argues
that the evidence is probative of COLA’s duty to repair the damaged wall.
In reply, COLA contends that the issue of control of the
premises is not disputed, and that the potential prejudice from admission of
the disputed evidence would significantly outweigh the probative value.  COLA also contends that Plaintiff’s argument that
no repair work was done, so no subsequent remedial measure took place, is
nonsensical, because the generation of the disputed work order and associated
tasks is itself a remedial measure.
The Court agrees with COLA. 
Regardless of whether the documents that Plaintiff describes as business
records would be admissible under a hearsay exception, hearsay is only one
hurdle.[2]  The public policy exclusions of Evidence Code
section 1151 and Government Code section 830.5 require separate
consideration.  To the extent that the
COLA concedes control of the easement, there is no need for evidence to prove
control.  The fact that no repair work ultimately
took place does not mean that the preparations or plans (including work orders)
to conduct such work are not subsequent remedial measures, or that no “action”
within the meaning of Government Code section 830.5 took place. 
The City of Los Angeles’ motion in limine no. 2 is GRANTED
Defendant City of Los Angeles’ Motion in Limine No. 5
With motion in limine number 5, COLA seeks an order excluding
Plaintiff’s experts from testifying based on soil compaction testing by Keith
Tucker that was performed in 2019—four years after the completion of sewer
repair work.  According to COLA, the
testing was conducted at an inappropriate location relative to the sewer
repair, is too remote in time to be relevant or to provide an adequate
foundation for other expert testimony.
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that the motion is
procedurally defective (i.e., that it is a disguised motion for summary
judgment, with insufficient prefiling meet and confer), impermissibly
overbroad, and that to the extent COLA seeks an Evidence Code section 402
hearing, the motion gives an insufficient basis for setting a hearing.  Plaintiffs contend that they and their
experts complied with all obligations regarding expert discovery.
The Court has a gatekeeper function to ensure that speculative
or irrelevant expert opinion is kept out of trial proceedings.  (Evid. C. § 402(b); Sargon Enters. v.
University of S. Cal. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 770.)  However, a court is not required to exercise
this responsibility in the absence of a valid objection by a party.  (In re Powell (1988) 45 Cal.3d 894, 905-06.)
As discussed in Sargon:
[u]nder Evidence Code sections 801, subdivision (b), and 802,
the trial court acts as a gatekeeper to exclude expert opinion testimony that
is (1) based on matter of a type on which an expert may not reasonably rely,
(2) based on reasons unsupported by the material on which the expert relies, or
3) speculative.  Other provisions of law,
including decisional law, may also provide reasons for excluding expert opinion
testimony.
But courts must also be cautious in excluding expert
testimony. The trial court's gatekeeping role does not involve choosing between
competing expert opinions. The high court warned that the gatekeeper's focus
“must be solely on principles and methodology, not on the conclusions that they
generate.” (Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., supra,
509 U.S. at p. 595, 113 S.Ct. 2786.)
(Sargon, supra, 55 Cal.4th at 771-72.)  
COLA’s motion does not describe an adequate basis for either
exclusion of the challenged expert testimony, or even for the setting of a Sargon
hearing.  COLA does not provide any
declaration of its own expert setting forth a basis for the Court to conclude
(or even to suspect) that the soil compaction testing by Tucker is material on
which experts in the field would not reasonably rely, that opinions drawn from
the testing are not supported by the test data, or that the results of the
testing would be speculative.  Nor does
COLA present the Court with any basis in case law, scientific literature, or
some other relevant source material that would support a Sargon
challenge.  The sole support for the
motion is a declaration of counsel, which is not sufficient under these circumstances.
The City of Los Angeles’ motion in limine no. 2 is DENIED.
 


