  Case Number:  23PSCV00561    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  G Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s
Demurrer to Satish Mahajan’s First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Respondent: Cross-Complainants Humble Retailers, Inc. and
Satish Mahajan
 
Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s
Demurrer to Humble Retailers, Inc.’s First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Respondent: Cross-Complainants Humble Retailers, Inc. and
Satish Mahajan
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s
Demurrer to Satish Mahajan’s First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED
with twenty (20) days leave to amend.
 
Cross-Defendants Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal’s
Demurrer to Humble Retailers, Inc.’s First Amended Cross-Complaint is
SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a contractual fraud action. In early 2022,
Defendants Humble Retailers, Inc. (Humble Retailers), Satish Mahajan, Deepak
Gosain, Narayan Singh, Mennu Mahajan, and Nikki Sachdeva sought to sell their
liquor store in Azusa to Plaintiffs Rajesh Thakkar and Nidhi Mittal. After
Defendants allegedly promised Thakkar and Mittal a turnkey business and failed
to disclose the material risks, Thakkar and Mittal signed a business purchase
contract on August 30, 2022, and agreed to purchase the liquor store for $375,000.
They then made a $55,000 down payment prior to the opening of escrow.
 
Subsequently, when Thakkar and Mittal inspected the liquor
store, they found twenty-two different issues that they communicated to
Defendants including a defective walk-in cooler, a defective air conditioning
system, defective exhaust and ventilation systems, an inadequate electrical
load, fire safety violations, food safety violations, dilapidated building
conditions, obscured security cameras, and pest infestations. Thakkar and
Mittal allege Defendants also failed to transfer the liquor store’s ABC license,
commercial lease, or business title. While Thakkar and Mittal did not take
possession of the business, Defendants allegedly refused to return their down
payments.
 
On February 27, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a complaint
against Defendants and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
fraud in the inducement, (2) conversion, (3) intentional misrepresentation, (4)
negligent misrepresentation, and (5) breach of contract. On July 19, 2023, the
Court sustained a demurrer to the Complaint by Humble Retailers with leave to
amend. The Court also struck a demurrer by Mennu Mahajan and overruled a
demurrer by Satish Mahajan.
 
On August 8, 2023, Thakkar and Mittal filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On November 28, 2023, the Court overruled demurrers by Mennu Mahajan, Satish
Mahajan, and Humble Retailers.
 
On December 18, 2023, Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan
filed a cross-complaint against Thakkar, Mittal, and Roes 1-25, alleging (1)
breach of contract, (2) conversion, (3) specific performance, and (4)
declaratory relief. On March 21, 2024, the Court sustained a demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint by Thakkar and Mittal with leave to amend.
 
On April 11, 2024, Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan
filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) against the same cross-defendants
alleging the same causes of action.
 
On May 14, 2024, Thakkar and Mittal filed the present
demurrers. On June 11, 2024, the Court continued a hearing on the demurrers for
parties to further meet and confer. Subsequently, Thakkar and Mittal’s counsel
attempted to telephonically meet and confer with Humble Retailers and Satish
Mahajan’s counsel but was unable to do so.
 
A hearing on the present demurrers and a case management
conference is set for July 17, 2024.
 
ANALYSIS

Thakkar and Mittal demur to Satish Mahajan’s
second cause of action for conversion and the entire FACC as to Humble
Retailers. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS their demurrers in
their entirety with leave to amend.
 
Legal Standard

A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept
all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent
on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d
902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
 
Breach of Contract (First Cause of
Action)
 
Thakkar and Mittal argue Humble Retailers’ first
cause of action for breach of contract fails to plead sufficient facts to state
a claim. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
To state a cause of action for breach of contract, a
plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach,
and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v.
Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is
based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out
verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must
be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman &
Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff
may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise
language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)¿“[T]he vital elements of a cause of action
based on contract are mutual assent (usually accomplished through the medium of
an offer and acceptance) and consideration.” (Division of Labor Law
Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 268,
275.)
 
Discussion
 
In previously sustaining Thakkar and Mittal’s
demurrer to this cause of action, the court found the FACC failed to allege any
facts establishing Humble Retailers was a party to the purchase agreement at
issue. (3/21/2024 Ruling, p. 2-3.) In demurring to the FACC, Thakkar and Mittal
argue the same defects exist. (Humble Demurrer, p. 8:25-9:5.) 
 
The FACC attempts to cure this deficiency by
adding Humble Retailers’ name to the list of sellers alleged in the FACC.
(FACC, ¶ 7.) But this allegation is insufficient as it contradicts the purchase
agreement which only lists Satish Mahajan and Gosain as sellers. (FACC, Ex.1; see
Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[T]o
the extent the factual allegations conflict with the content of the exhibits to
the complaint, we rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and
treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the
exhibits.”].) Because the FACC’s conclusory allegation that Humble Retailers was
a party the agreement lacks any supporting facts and is contradicted by the purchase
agreement, the FACC still fails to establish Humble Retailers’ standing to sue
for breach of a purchase agreement it was not a party to.
 
Accordingly, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to
this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
Conversion (Second Cause of Action)
 
Thakkar and Mittal contend Humble Retailers
and Satish Mahajan’s second cause of action for conversion fails to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Conversion is the wrongful
exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion
claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession of the
property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights; and (3) damages.” (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.) “Conversion is an intentional tort.” (Multani v.
Knight (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 837, 853.) “Because the act [of conversion]
must be knowingly done, ‘neither negligence, active or passive, nor a breach of
contract, even though it result in injury to, or loss of, specific property,
constitutes a conversion.’” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991)
235 Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.) “[C]ases recognizing claims for the conversion of
money ‘typically involve those who have misappropriated, commingled, or
misapplied specific funds held for the benefit of others.’” (Voris v.
Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152, quoting PCO, Inc. v. Christensen,
Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 384, 396.)
 
Discussion
 
In previously sustaining Thakkar and Mittal’s
demurrer to this cause of action, the court found Humble Retailers and Satish
Mahajan failed to allege how they had a property interest in the Azusa market’s
profits while Thakkar and Mittal were in possession of the market. (3/21/2024
Ruling, p. 3.) In demurring to the FACC, Thakkar and Mittal contend the same
defects exist. (Mahajan Demurrer, p. 8:11-22; Humble Demurrer, p. 10:26-11:6.) 
 
The FACC adds the allegation that Thakkar and
Mittal assumed control of the market before the close of escrow for ten days
and were not the rightful owners because escrow had not closed. (FACC, ¶ 20.) But
even so, the FACC fails to establish how Humble Retailers and Satish Mahajan
are entitled to Thakkar and Mittal’s profits. The FACC does not allege Thakkar
and Mittal operated the Azusa market without Humble Retailers and Satish
Mahajan’s permission. Nor does it allege facts establishing how Humble
Retailers and Satish Mahajan were legally entitled to the profits of the Azusa
market before the close of escrow. Instead, the purchase agreement establishes Satish
Mahajan was entitled to the costs of inventory at the time of closing and not
the additional profits from the sale of such inventory. (FACC, ¶ 8, Ex. 1.)
 
Accordingly, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to
this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
Specific Performance (Third Cause of Action)
 
Thakkar and Mittal maintain Humble Retailers’ third cause
of action for specific performance fails to plead sufficient facts to state a
claim because the FACC fails to adequately allege a cause of action for breach
of contract. Thus, for the same reasons noted above with regards to the first
cause of action, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
Declaratory Relief (Fourth Cause of Action)
 
Thakkar and Mittal argue Humble Retailers’ fourth cause of
action for declaratory relief fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim
because the FACC fails to establish the existence of an actual controversy. The
court agrees.
 
Legal Standard
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to
demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject
of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable
questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase
Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and
brackets omitted.) “The courts do not issue advisory opinions about the rights
and duties of the parties under particular agreements, if no actual,
justiciable controversy has yet developed.” (Otay Land Co. v. Royal
Indemnity Co. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 556, 563.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, the FACC alleges there is an actual
controversy arising between Satish Mahajan, Humble Retailers, Thakkar, and
Mittal regarding their obligations pursuant to the purchase agreement for the
Azusa market. (FACC, ¶ 28-29.) But, there does not appear to be any actual
controversy with regard to Humble Retailers as they have failed to state a
cause of action for breach of contract or conversion.
 
Accordingly, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrer to this cause of
action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, Thakkar and Mittal’s demurrers to FACC are SUSTAINED with twenty
(20) days’ leave to amend.