 Case Number:  22PSCV00018    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Leslie Roberts’s Application for Default
Judgment
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Leslie Roberts’s Application for Default
Judgment is DENIED without prejudice.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract and fraud action. On June 21, 2021, Plaintiff Leslie
Roberts entered into an agreement with DB West Construction, Inc. (DB West) and
Daniel Baughman (collectively, Defendants) in which Defendants agreed to
perform construction and renovation work on Roberts’s residence in Covina.
Roberts alleges various defects, life safety issues, and code violations
because of Defendants’ work, resulting in Roberts having to hire a different
contractor and incur damages in excess of $64,000.
On
January 10, 2022, Roberts filed a complaint against Defendants and Does 1-20,
alleging the following: (1) breach of contract, (2) negligent construction, (3)
intentional misrepresentation, (4) negligence supervision of construction, and
(5) negligence. On May 19, Roberts filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against the same defendants, only alleging (1) breach of contract and (2)
intentional misrepresentation. On October 12, Roberts filed a Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On
April 10, 2023, the court struck Defendants’ answer after they failed to appear
and secure counsel.
On July
25, 2023, default was entered against Baughman. On August 1, default was
entered against DB West. On August 24, Roberts submitted an application for
default that the court denied on October 12.
On
January 22, 2024, Roberts submitted a new proposed judgment for a
yet-to-be-filed default judgment application. On February 1, the court advised Roberts’s
counsel that counsel must submit a complete default judgment packet. On
February 2, Roberts submitted another proposed judgment, statement of case, and
declarations.
An
OSC Re: Default/Default Judgment is set for March 7, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Code
of Civil Procedure section 585 permits entry of a default judgment after a
party has filed to timely respond or appear.  A party seeking judgment on
the default by the court must file a Request for Court Judgment, and: (1) a
brief summary of the case; (2) declarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested; (3) interest computations as necessary; (4)
a memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) a proposed form of judgment; (6) a
dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application
for separate judgment under CCP § 579, supported by a showing of grounds for
each judgment; (7) exhibits as necessary; and (8) a request for attorneys’ fees
if allowed by statute or by the agreement of the parties.  (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1800.)
ANALYSIS
In this
case, while Roberts has submitted a proposed judgment, statement of case, and
declarations, Roberts failed to file the mandatory CIV-100 form for the new
default judgment application. Accordingly, Roberts’s request for default
judgment is DENIED as incomplete.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Roberts’s application for default judgment is DENIED without prejudice.Roberts is ordered to file a
new and complete default judgment application that includes (1) a completed
CIV-100 form, (2) a new proposed judgment, and (3) declarations in support of
Roberts’s application. Any other previous filings counsel made must be
resubmitted with this application to be considered.