 Case Number:  21STCV27586    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  B HEARING DATE:    Tues.,
Nov. 5, 2024                            JUDGE /DEPT:        Moskowitz/Dept.
B
CASE NAME:           Carlos Rolando Rodriguez vs Tyler
Bruce Mason
CASE NUMBER:     21STCV27586                                    
 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE
 
MOVING PARTY:   Cross-Defendant
Jeff Leal
RESP. PARTY:         None
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL DATE
(CRC Rule 3.1332)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant Jeff Leal’s Motion to Continue Trial Date
is GRANTED.
 
The Court
continues the trial date to ______________ in Department B at the VAN NUYS
COURTHOUSE EAST.  Motion and
discovery cut-off dates are to follow the new trial date.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
On July 27, 2021, Plaintiff Carlos Rolando Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”)
filed an action against Defendants Tyler Bruce Mason (“Mason”) and Does 1 to 50
alleging three causes of action: (1) negligence; (2) negligence per se; and (3)
statutory liability. This action arises from an August 2, 2019, motor vehicle
accident, during which Plaintiff alleges that Mason drove in a negligent
manner, therefore causing the accident and injury to Plaintiff.
 
On January 24, 2023, Mason filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendant Jeff Leal (“Cross-Defendant”) for indemnity,
declaratory relief, and apportionment of fault. Mason alleges that
Cross-Defendant 
 
On June 5, 2024, the case was reassigned to the Honorable
Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys Courthouse East, effective June 24,
2024.
 
On October 1, 2024, Cross-Defendant filed the instant
Motion to Continue Trial.
 
II.                
Legal Standard
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each
request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. (Ibid.)
Good cause includes the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness,
party, or trial counsel; “the substitution of trial counsel, but only where
there is an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the
interests of justice;” the addition of a new party; a party’s excused inability
to obtain evidence; or a significant, unanticipated change in the case. (Ibid.)
 
Furthermore, the Court may look to the following factors in
determining whether a trial continuance is warranted:
 
(1) The proximity of the trial
date;
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;
(4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;
(5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;
(6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials;
(8) Whether trial counsel is
engaged in another trial;
(9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;
(10) Whether the interests of
justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by
imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11) Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
 
(CRC Rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)
 
III.             
Discussion
 
Cross-Defendant moves for an order continuing the trial
date from November 25, 2024, to May 26, 2025, or any other date thereafter.
 
Cross-Defendant represents that additional time is needed
to complete essential discovery, including: (1) taking Plaintiff’s deposition;
(2) compelling Plaintiff to provide verified, substantive responses to
Cross-Defendant’s written discovery requests; and (3) if necessary after
completing Plaintiff’s deposition and reviewing Plaintiff’s substantive,
verified discovery responses, conducting an independent medical examination of
Plaintiff. (Motion p. 2:6-11.) Cross-Defendant also requests additional time to
seek dismissal of this matter. (Ibid.)
 
Cross-Defendant represents that
Plaintiff has remained unresponsive to their counsel and all other parties in
this matter since March 2023. (Motion p. 2:17.) Plaintiff’s counsel was
relieved on March 7, 2024. (Ibid. at 2:22.) Cross-Defendant has
diligently attempted to obtain discovery and Plaintiff’s deposition, yet
Plaintiff continuously fails to respond or appear. (Englet ¶ 4.) The discovery
cut-off date in this matter was October 25, 2024. Furthermore, Cross-Defendant
seeks terminating sanctions based on Plaintiff’s complete failure to cooperate,
to be ruled on by the Court shortly. (Ibid. at ¶ 7.)
 
The Court considers the circumstances of the instant case
and the arguments presented in the Motion. Although the trial date has been
continued on three previous occasions, due to the unavailability of Plaintiff,
the proximity of the trial date, lack of opposition, and Cross-Defendant's
intention to seek terminating sanctions, the Court finds that there is good
cause to continue the trial.
 
For this reason, Cross-Defendant’s Motion to Continue
Trial Date is GRANTED.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons,
 
Cross-Defendant Jeff Leal’s Motion to Continue Trial Date
is GRANTED.
 
The Court
continues the trial date to _____________, at _________ in Department B at the
VAN NUYS COURTHOUSE EAST.  Motion
and discovery cut-off dates are to follow the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice. 