  Case Number:  23STCV17242    Hearing Date:   January 31, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Peter Raspudic,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV17242




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Buxbaum & Chakmak, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: January 31, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendants Buxbaum & Chakmak and Buxbaum Chakmak & Wynder PC
Responding Party: Plaintiff Peter Raspudic
 
T/R:     DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER IS OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANTS TO FILE AND SERVE ANSWERS TO
THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING.
 
DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 23, 2023, Plaintiff Peter
Raspudic filed the operative first amended complaint against Defendants Charles Lyon Zetterberg, Buxbaum & Chakmak and Buxbaum Chakmak
& Wynder PC, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of contract; (2)
negligent misrepresentation; (3) intentional misrepresentation; and (4) fraud.
Plaintiff alleges Defendants failed to respond to discovery and oppose
discovery motions in an underlying trust & estate action, resulting in
evidentiary sanctions against Plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges he was unable to
present evidence in his defense, forcing him to take a low settlement in
mediation. Plaintiff also alleges Defendants failed to disclose potential
conflicts.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Statute of
Limitations
 
A demurrer lies where the dates alleged
in the complaint show “clearly and affirmatively” that the action is barred by
a statute of limitations.  It is not
enough that the complaint shows that the action may be barred.  (Geneva Towers Ltd. Partnership v. City of
San Francisco (2003) 29 Cal.4th 769, 781.) 
The statute of limitations begins to run when the cause of action
“accrues.”  (CCP § 312.) A cause of
action “accrues” when, under the substantive law, the wrongful act is done or
the wrongful result occurs, and the consequent liability arises.  (Norgart v. Upjohn Co. (1999) 21
Cal.4th 383, 397.)  That is, a cause of
action accrues “upon the occurrence of the last element essential to the cause
of action.”  (Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Ass’n v. City of La Habra (2001) 25 Cal.4th 809, 815.)  
 
Defendants demur to the first cause of
action for breach of contract and the second cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation on the ground that they are barred by the one-year statute of
limitations for attorney malpractice actions. (CCP § 340.6.) Plaintiff alleges
Defendants were relieved as counsel in the underlying action on November 21,
2021. Defendants assert this began the clock for a legal malpractice action,
making the last day to file suit November 21, 2022. Plaintiff filed this action
on July 24, 2023.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the claims are not barred because the underlying action was not settled until
November 30, 2022. Plaintiff asserts that he did not suffer damages until the
settlement and the action did not accrue until that date. In reply, Defendants
argue the claim accrued no later than June 23, 2022 when Plaintiff’s new
counsel in the underlying action moved to set aside the earlier
discovery/sanction motions. 
 
As stated, a cause of action accrues
“upon the occurrence of the last element essential to the cause of action.” (Howard
Jarvis Taxpayers Ass’n v. City of La Habra (2001) 25 Cal.4th 809, 815.) Plaintiff
alleges that damages accrued on November 30, 2022. This is sufficient to
establish for purposes of demurrer that the FAC is not clearly and affirmatively
barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
The demurrer to the first and second
causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
B. Fraud
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v.
Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) In California, fraud, including
negligent misrepresentation, must be pled with specificity. (Small v. Fritz
Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity demands
that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
 
Defendants demur to the fraud causes of
action on the ground that Plaintiff has failed to allege any intentional
misrepresentation. Plaintiff alleges in detail that Defendants concealed
deadlines, discovery obligations, sanctions, and conflicts of interest. This is
sufficient to allege intentional misrepresentation and/or concealment. 
 
Defendants also assert that Defendant Buxbaum Chakmak & Wynder, who Plaintiff alleges is the
successor-in-interest to Defendant Buxbaum & Chakmak, cannot be held liable
for fraud because they are distinct entities. Plaintiff alleges the two firms
merged and alleges they are only distinct entities to escape liability for
malpractice. This is sufficient on demurrer to permit claims against Buxbaum
Chakmak & Wynder.
 
The demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is OVERRULED.
 
C. Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike the claim for punitive damages on the ground
that Plaintiff has failed to allege fraud, malice, or oppression. As discussed,
Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged fraud. 
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 