  Case Number:  22STCV25416    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Nancy
Bailey, by and through her Guardian ad Litem David Hester v. Inland Valley
Partners, LLC dba Inland Valley Care and Rehabilitation Center, et al. 
Defendant
Inland Valley Partners, LLC dba Inland Valley Care and Rehabilitation Center’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the First Cause of Action. The
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action without leave to
amend. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Causes of Action with leave
to amend. Plaintiff must file and serve the amended complaint within 30 days of
the Court’s order. 
            The Court DENIES the motion to
strike. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND
This is an elder abuse case. On August 5, 2022, plaintiff Nancy
Bailey, by and through her Guardian ad Litem David Hester (Plaintiff) filed
this action against defendants Inland Valley Partners, LLC dba Inland Valley
Care and Rehabilitation Center (Inland Valley), Elizabeth Casey, Floyd Rhoades,
Phillip Chase, Ted Weiner, and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for
dependent adult abuse & neglect, negligence, and violations of residents [sic]
rights. 
On December 12, 2023, Defendant Inland Valley filed a demurrer and
motion to strike. On December 29, 2023, Plaintiff opposed the motions. On January
5, 2024, Inland Valley replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Demurrer
            A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency
of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form
or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., §
422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of
the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)  
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].)  
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
PRELIMINARY
ISSUES
            “Each ground of demurrer must be in a separate
paragraph and must state whether it applies to the entire complaint,
cross-complaint, or answer, or to specified causes of action or defenses.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1320, subd. (a); A. Demurrers, Cal. Prac. Guide
Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 7(I)-A [“If several grounds are stated conjunctively
in the same paragraph (e.g., ‘the complaint is uncertain and fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action’), the demurrer violates CRC
3.1320(a).]) The Court notes that Defendant’s demurrer combines
each ground for demurrer to the First and Third Causes of Action into one
paragraph, which violates Rule 3.1320, subdivision (a) of the California Rules
of Court. (Notice, 2:8-11, 2:17-20.) The Court will still consider the
demurrer, but admonishes Defendant to comply with the requirements of the
California Rules of Court going forward. 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and confer before
bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds
Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer insufficient, as there is no evidence Defendant
met and conferred telephonically or in person. (Le Melle Decl., ¶ 4.)
Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule the demurrer for failure to adequately
meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court
admonishes Defendant to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure going forward. 
First Cause of Action – Dependent Adult Abuse & Neglect
The elements of a cause of action for elder abuse and neglect are
determined by the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act
(EADACPA). (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15600 et seq.)
The EADACPA defines “neglect” as “[t]he negligent failure of any person having the care or
custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that degree of care that a
reasonable person in a like position would exercise.” (Welf. & Inst.
Code § 15610.57.) Neglect under the EADACPA “refers not to the substandard
performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure of those
responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or
dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their
custodial obligations. Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not
of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide
medical care.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 89,
quotation marks and citation omitted.) 
Several factors “must be present for conduct to constitute neglect within
the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced remedies
available under the Act. The plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by
clear and convincing evidence) facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had
responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder or dependent adult,
such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions
that made the elder or dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own
basic needs; and (3) denied or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the
elder or dependent adult's basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was
substantially certain to befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff
alleges oppression, fraud or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high
probability of such injury (if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). The
plaintiff must also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing
evidence) that the neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer
physical harm, pain or mental suffering. Finally, the facts constituting the
neglect and establishing the causal link between the neglect and the injury
must be pleaded with particularity, in accordance with the pleading rules
governing statutory claims.” (Carter v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-407, quotation marks and citations omitted.) 
Defendant
demurs to the First Cause of Action for dependent adult abuse and neglect on
the grounds that it fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action
and is uncertain. More specifically, Defendant contends the complaint fails to
allege facts that satisfy the heightened pleading requirements for an elder
abuse claim, such as the Defendant’s conduct in the particular circumstances
that demonstrate Defendant engaged in any wrongdoing, citing Carter, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th 396. Defendant then contends the complaint fails to allege
sufficient facts demonstrating Defendant engaging in intentional wrongdoing,
and that it fails to allege facts showing involvement by an officer, director,
or managing agent of Defendant. 
In
opposition, Plaintiff contends the complaint alleges sufficient facts to state
a cause of action for dependent adult abuse and neglect. More specifically,
Plaintiff contends the complaint alleges that Defendant had care and custody of
Plaintiff, Plaintiff was over the age of 65 during the relevant period in
question, Defendant failed to use the appropriate degree of care, Plaintiff was
harmed, and Defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
harm. (Compl., ¶¶ 2, 37-41, 57, 59, 63.) Plaintiff then contends the complaint
alleges sufficient facts to establish evidence of malice, oppression, fraud,
and recklessness, citing the case of Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th
23. Plaintiff further contends the allegations of the complaint support
corporate liability, citing the case of Marron v. Superior Court (2003)
108 Cal.App.4th 1049. 
The Court agrees with Plaintiff that the complaint alleges
sufficient facts with the requisite particularity to satisfy the basic
requirements of an elder abuse claim. (See Carter, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at p. 410.) The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was over 65 years
old, and that Defendant had responsibility to care for Plaintiff by providing
services such as turning, repositioning, transferring in and out of bed,
toileting, dressing, grooming and maintaining personal hygiene, ensuring
adequate nutrition and hydration, and managing medications. (Compl., ¶¶ 2,
30-34.) The complaint alleges Defendant knew Plaintiff was bedridden and
required assistance with mobility and the other items listed above. (Id.,
¶ 33.) The complaint further alleges that Defendant denied or withheld goods or
services, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to befall
Plaintiff or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury,
by failing to provide Plaintiff with adequate moving, repositioning, or applying
splint devices to prevent contractures, as evidenced by Plaintiff developing
sores and contractures while in Defendant’s care. (Id., ¶¶ 44-46, 50, 68.) 
The Court finds Defendant’s attempt to
liken this case to the facts in Carter to be unpersuasive and factually distinguishable. In Carter, the decedent had experienced three
separate hospitalizations with the defendant hospital. (Carter, supra, 198
Cal.App.4th at p. 407.) The decedent developed pneumonia, sepsis, and pressure
ulcers while staying at a different care facility between the first and second
hospitalizations. (Id. at pp. 407-408.) The Court of Appeal found that
although there were some allegations the decedent had developed other ulcers
during the second hospitalization, there were no allegations as to how the
hospital caused the decedent’s ulcers or any other injury. (Id. at p.
408.) The Court of Appeal further found that hospital’s alleged failures during
the third hospitalization may amount to professional negligence, but not
neglect for purposes of elder abuse, as the defendant hospital had provided
medical care to the decedent. (Id.) 
Here, Defendant is the only care facility involved in this action,
whereas many of the decedent’s injuries at issue in Carter arose at a
different care facility before the decedent was admitted to the defendant
hospital. (Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at pp. 409-410.) The Court of
Appeal explicitly held the defendant hospital could not be liable for injuries
that arose at the other care facility. (Id.) Moreover, this action only
involves the provision of medical care, whereas the defendant hospital in Carter
was involved with the undertaking of medical services for the decedent. (Id.
at p. 408; see Sababin, supra, 144 Cal.App.4th at p. 89.) 
As for the issue of egregious abuse, or malice, fraud, oppression,
and recklessness, the California Supreme Court in Delaney v. Baker (1999)
20 Cal.4th 23 stated that, “’[r]ecklessness’ refers to a subjective state of
culpability greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a
‘deliberate disregard’ of the ‘high degree of probability’ that an injury will
occur. (Id. at p. 31.) In Delaney, the decedent died after four
months at the defendant care facility, where it had been found that the
decedent developed extreme bedsores due to the defendant care facility leaving
the decedent unattended for extended periods of time. (Id. at p. 27.)
Although not necessarily as extreme as the circumstances in Delaney, the
Court notes that the complaint sufficiently alleges Defendant withheld goods or
services based on conscious disregard, i.e., recklessness, of the high
probability of injury by failing to provide Plaintiff with adequate moving,
repositioning, or applying splint devices to prevent contractures, as evidenced
by Plaintiff developing sores and contractures while in Defendant’s care. (Id., ¶¶ 44-46, 50, 68.) 
The Court further finds
the complaint adequately alleges facts demonstrating corporate ratification of
the underlying conduct. Section 15657, subdivision (c) of the Welfare and
Institutions Code provides that, “The standards set forth in
subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code regarding the imposition of
punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts of an employee shall be
satisfied before any damages or attorney's fees permitted under this section
may be imposed against an employer.” (Welf. & Inst. Code § 15657, subd.
(c).) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b) provides that: 
An
employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.

(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (b).) 
Plaintiff alleges that “the FACILITY, through its
managing agents and the MANAGEMENT Defendants, made a conscious choice to
understaff the FACILITY, in both quantity and quality of nursing personnel. The
decisions to understaff was made at the corporate level by INLAND VALLEY and
the MANAGEMENT Defendants in order to increase the profitability of the
FACILITY, in conscious disregard of patient care needs. INLAND VALLEY and the
MANAGEMENT Defendants, together, conceived of and implemented plans to increase
business profits at the expense of patients like Ms. Bailey. Integral to this
plan was the practice and pattern of INLAND VALLEY and the MANAGEMENT
Defendants staffing the FACILITY with an insufficient number of care personnel,
many of whom were not properly trained nor qualified to care for the patients
whose lives were entrusted to them. The understaffing and lack of training was
designed to reduce labor costs and to increase profits, and resulted in high
staff turnover and the physical abuse and neglect of many residents of the
facilities and most specifically, Ms. Bailey. Their corporate policies to not
maintain sufficient staffing as required by law was developed and implemented
with the conscious disregard for the likelihood of physical harm and injury to
those who it is in the business to protect, including Ms. Bailey, who did in
fact suffer as a direct consequence of INLAND VALLEY’s and the MANAGEMENT
Defendants’ proprietary interests, which they placed above that of Ms. Bailey
and other residents/patients.” (Compl., ¶ 71.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “Defendants had a duty
to direct the nurses and staff yet did not make any changes at the FACILITY,
even with knowledge of substandard care, failures to assess, monitor and
respond to changes in resident condition, inadequate custodial care, inadequate
hygiene, and inadequate safety measures at the facilities. The managing agents
of the FACILITY knew or should have known of the lack of proper custodial care
to its patients, as well as its understaffing, poor training, and the failure
to implement care plans based on internal reporting and also the oversight,
monitoring and reporting of the Department of Public Health. Any and all
findings of the Department of Public Health regarding care failures at the
FACILITY were reported up the corporate chain of INLAND VALLEY and to the
MANAGING Defendants. Despite each Defendants’ conscious knowledge of these conditions,
the managing agents of each Defendant did not take appropriate and adequate steps
to prevent and correct them, and they did not inform Ms. Bailey or her family
of what they knew about these dangerous conditions.” (Compl.,  ¶ 78.) The Court finds these allegations
sufficient to allege corporate ratification. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES
the demurrer to the First Cause of Action. 
Second Cause of Action – Negligence
To plead a cause of action for professional
negligence, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach
of that duty; (3) a proximate
causal connection
between the negligent conduct
and the resulting injury;
and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's negligence.” (Powell v. Kleinman (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 112, 122,
internal citations omitted.) 
“In an action for injury or death against a health
care provider based upon such person's alleged professional negligence, the
time for the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of
injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of
reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs first.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5.) A demurrer based on the statute of limitations only
lies where the dates are shown on the face of the complaint. (Union Carbide
Corp. v. Superior Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 15, 25.) 
Defendant demurs to the Second Cause of Action on the
grounds that it is time-barred. Defendant contends it is time-barred because
Plaintiff was discharged from the facility in June 2021, and that Plaintiff’s
claim expired by June 2022. But Plaintiff did not file this action until August
5, 2022. In opposition, Plaintiff contends the rule of delayed discovery
applies because Defendant failed to report the development of Plaintiff’s upper
and lower extremity contractures and pressure sore, and fraudulently concealed
the severity of Plaintiff’s condition from her responsible party, citing
paragraph 76 of the complaint. (See Compl., ¶ 76.) The Court finds Defendant’s
arguments persuasive. 
The complaint alleges that Defendant discharged Plaintiff from its
care in June 2021, by which point Plaintiff had contracted sores and
contractures. (Compl., ¶ 34.) Plaintiff’s opposition does not mention this date
at all or otherwise dispute Defendant’s contention here, which the Court
construes as a tacit admission that Defendant’s argument is meritorious. (Holden
v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C.
Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) Plaintiff’s argument regarding
delayed discovery has no bearing on this issue because even if Defendant failed
to report the development of Plaintiff’s injuries to Plaintiff’s responsible
party, the complaint alleges that this failure to report occurred while
Defendant was caring for Plaintiff and before Plaintiff was discharged in June
2021. (See Compl., ¶¶ 34, 76.) Either way, that is more than one year between
the discharge and the filing of the complaint, and is therefore time-barred. 
Therefore,
the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the second cause of action without leave to
amend. 
Third Cause of Action – Violations of Residents [sic] Rights   
A current or former resident or patient, or the legal representative, personal
representative, or successor in interest of a current or former resident or
patient, of a skilled nursing facility, as defined in subdivision (c) of
Section 1250,
or intermediate care facility, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 1250,
may bring a civil action against the licensee of a facility who violates any
rights of the resident or patient as set forth in Section 72527 or 73523 of Title 22 of the California Code of Regulations,
or any other right provided for by federal or state law or regulation. 
(Health & Safety Code § 1430,
subd. (b)(1).) 
Statutory causes of action generally must be pleaded
with particularity. (Lopez v. Southern Cal. Rapid Transit Dist. (1985)
40 Cal.3d 780, 795.) 
            Defendant demurs to the Third Cause of Action on the
grounds that it fails to state a cause of action and is uncertain. Defendant
contends the Third Cause of Action is a statutory cause of action and must be
pleaded with particularity, but Plaintiff instead merely references regulations
in a boilerplate fashion and alleges in a conclusory manner that Defendant
violated the statute. Defendant also contends the Third Cause of Action is
uncertain because it lacks specific allegations describing how Defendant caused
Plaintiff’s health problems during her residency at Defendant’s facility. In
opposition, Plaintiff contends all of its preceding allegations in the
complaint are sufficient to state a cause of action for violation of Health and
Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b).) The Court agrees with Defendant. 
            Health and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b) is a
statute, and therefore a cause of action based thereon must be alleged with
particularity. (Lopez, supra, 40 Cal.3d at p. 795.) The complaint simply
lists a number of rights under various code regulations without specifying how
the underlying allegations stated earlier in the complaint also constitute
violations of those rights. (See Compl., ¶¶ 97-98.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer with leave
to amend as to the Third Cause of Action. 
LEGAL STANDARD – Motion to Strike
            “Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) 
DISCUSSION
Meet and Confer
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and confer
telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s efforts to meet and
confer insufficient, as there is no evidence Defendant met and conferred
telephonically or in person. (Le Melle Decl., ¶ 4.) Nevertheless, the Court may not
overrule the demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court admonishes Defendant to comply with
the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. 
Analysis
Based on the Court overruling the demurrer to the First Cause of
Action, the Court DENIES the motion to strike Plaintiff’s requests for general
damages, statutory damages, attorney’s fees and costs, exemplary damages, and
costs of suit set forth in the Prayer for Relief, p. 41, ¶¶ 1-7. 
Defendant also seeks to strike the entire paragraph 50 of the complaint which alleges that in May 2021, the facility was found by the
California Department of Public Health (CDPH) to have violated a number of regulations.
(See Compl., ¶ 50.) Defendant argues that Health and Safety Code Section
1280(f) precludes CDPH records  from
being used in any legal action. The Court, however, disagrees. Under Health and
Safety Code section 1280, subdivision (f), plans of correction are not to be
used in any legal action as an admission by a party opponent. They also are
subject to exclusion as remedial measures under Evidence Code section 1151. Such
Sections do not prohibit allegations that Defendant violated regulations. Nor
do any of the cases cited by Defendant. Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
motion to strike paragraph 50 of the complaint. 
CONCLUSION
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the First Cause of Action. The
Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action without leave to
amend. The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Causes of Action with leave
to amend. Plaintiff must file and serve the amended complaint within 30 days of
the Court’s order. 
            The Court DENIES the motion to
strike. 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.