 Case Number:  24PSCV00137    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE  NAME:  Manuel  Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated November 9, 2022 v.  Shmuel Y. Mahgerefteh, et al.  Order  to Show Cause re Preliminary Injunction  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for preliminary injunction.  The Court will hear further argument from the parties at the hearing on the  amount required for the bond.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a real property loan dispute. On January 12, 2024, plaintiff  Manuel Fernandez, trustee of the Pena Family Revocable Trust dated November 9,  2022 (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Shmuel Y. Mahgerefteh,  Law Offices of Richard G. Witkin APC (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1  through, alleging causes of action for declaratory relief, unfair and unlawful  business practice, injunctive relief, cancellation of instruments, rescission  based on unconscionability, and accounting.  On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application for  temporary restraining order re pending sale of real property at noticed  foreclosure sale and order to show cause re preliminary injunction. On January  17, 2024, the Court granted the temporary restraining order and set a hearing  for an order to show cause re preliminary injunction for February 7, 2024. On January  24, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition. On January 31, 2024, Plaintiff replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD             (a) An injunction may be granted in the following cases: (1) When it appears by the complaint that the plaintiff  is entitled to the relief demanded, and the relief, or any part thereof,  consists in restraining the commission or continuance of the act complained of,  either for a limited period or perpetually. (2) When it appears by the complaint or affidavits that  the commission or continuance of some act during the litigation would produce  waste, or great or irreparable injury, to a party to the action. (3) When it appears, during the litigation, that a party  to the action is doing, or threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or  suffering to be done, some act in violation of the rights of another party to  the action respecting the subject of the action, and tending to render the  judgment ineffectual. (4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate  relief. (5) Where it would be extremely difficult to ascertain  the amount of compensation which would afford adequate relief. (6) Where the restraint is necessary to prevent a  multiplicity of judicial proceedings. (7) Where the obligation arises from a trust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 526, subd.  (a).)              “A superior court must evaluate two interrelated factors  when ruling on a request for a preliminary injunction: (1) the likelihood that  the plaintiff will prevail on the merits at trial and (2) the interim harm that  the plaintiff would be likely to sustain if the injunction were denied as  compared to the harm the defendant would be likely to suffer if the preliminary  injunction were issued.” (Smith v. Adventist Health  Sys./W. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 729, 749.)  OBJECTIONS             The  Court OVERRULES each of Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections.  DISCUSSION Plaintiff  seeks a preliminary injunction to enjoin Defendants from proceeding with a  foreclosure sale of the real property that is the subject of this action, which  is located at 505 Lidford Avenue, La Puente, CA 91744 (the Property). Plaintiff  contends he has a likelihood of prevailing on the merits and that Plaintiff  will suffer irreparable harm.  Likelihood  of Prevailing on the Merits – Unconscionability “[P]rocedural  and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for a court to exercise  its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of  unconscionability.” (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,  Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) The courts invoke a sliding scale which  disregards the regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation,  that creates the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or  unreasonableness of the substantive terms themselves, i.e., the more  substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural  unconscionability is required to conclude that the term is unenforceable, and  vice versa. (Id. at p. 114.)  “Procedural  unconscionability focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.  [Citations.] Oppression arises from an inequality of bargaining power which  results in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice … Surprise  involves the extent to which the terms of the bargain are hidden in a prolix  printed form drafted by a party in a superior bargaining position. [Citations.]”  (Roman v. Superior Court (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) “Substantive  unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the agreement and evaluates  whether they create overly harsh or one-sided results [citations], that is,  whether contractual provisions reallocate risks in an objectively unreasonable  or unexpected manner. [Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 1469-1470.)  Plaintiff  contends he has a likelihood of prevailing on the merits based on the grounds  that the loan agreement and deed of trust encumbering the Property are  unconscionable. More specifically, Plaintiff contends the loan agreement was  presented to him on a take-it-or-leave-it basis as evidence of procedural  unconscionability. (Fernandez Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff further contends that  certain provisions of the loan agreement are unconscionable, including but not  necessarily limited to:  ·          a 10% late charge if payment is  not received within 10 days, citing the cases of Garrett v. Coast & S.  Fed. Sav. & Loan Ass’n (1973) 9 Cal.3d 731 and Ridgley v. Topa  Thrift & Loan Ass’n (1998) 17 Cal.4th 970; ·          a default interest of 5% in  addition to the regular 10.99% interest rate; ·          a penalty for prepayments made  within six months of executing the loan equal to six months’ advance interest  on the amount prepaid; ·          the lender reserving the right to keep monthly payments consistent  with what is showing as the regular monthly payment of $3,480.17 if any portion  of the principal is paid before the maturity date; ·          if Plaintiff uses a personal check to pay off any amount of the  principal over $50,000, an additional ten days of interest may be charged; and ·          the negotiated interest rate being  5% in addition to the regular interest rate.              Plaintiff further  contends he will prevail on his unfair competition law claims, citing Orcilla  v. Big Sur, Inc. (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 982, and that there is a dispute as  to what amounts, if any, Plaintiff owes. Plaintiff also argues that tender is  not required here where he is challenging the validity of the underlying debt  or when the parties dispute the amount owed.              In opposition, Defendants  contend Plaintiff fails to establish a probability of prevailing on the merits  of his claim. Defendants contend Plaintiff fails to present any factual  allegations, law, or evidence to suggest that the interest rate of 10.99% is so  one-sided as to shock the conscience, and that few courts have ever declared  contracts unconscionable, citing the case of De La Torre v. CashCall, Inc. (2018)  5 Cal.5th 966. Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s reliance on Orcilla is  misplaced, as whether Plaintiff can bring a claim for unfair business practices  based on unconscionability has no bearing on Plaintiff’s likelihood of  prevailing on the merits there.              Defendants contend  Plaintiff has failed to show the default interest provision warrants an  injunction because, among other things, Defendants did not charge default  interest. (Myers Decl., ¶ 13.) Defendants also argue the default provision at  issue has language that limits it to the extent permitted by law, and there is  also a severability clause. (Myers Decl., Ex. A.)              Defendants also  contend Plaintiff has failed to show the late charge provision warrants an  injunction, and argues that the cases of Garrett and Ridgley are  inapplicable. Defendants contend the penalties in Garrett were assessed  against the unpaid principal balance of the loan obligation, which is  purportedly not the case here, as the late penalties were applied only against  the delinquent payments and not the entire balance.  As for Ridgley,  Defendants contend it does not support Plaintiff’s position either because the  issue in that case was whether the disputed provision should be viewed as  prepayment charge or a penalty for delinquency in a monthly interest payment.  Defendants contend that is not an issue here because Plaintiff did not timely  make his loan payments, much less pay them early. Defendants  also argue that Plaintiff’s focus on the prepayment penalty is a non-issue  because Plaintiff did not prepay the loan, plus there is a severability clause  if it is for some reason found to be unconscionable.                        Defendants further contend that  Plaintiff has failed to meet his burden to show that he was not in default.  Defendants argue Plaintiff did not provide evidence that he has been making  monthly payments as he claims. Defendants contend that the evidence shows  Plaintiff only tendered three monthly payments and is more than six months in  arrears. (Myers Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.) Defendants argue the default amount was  accurate when recorded in the Notice of Default on July 18, 2023. (Myers Decl.,  ¶¶ 9-10; Witkin Decl., ¶¶ 7-8.)              The Court agrees with Defendants  that some of the cases Plaintiff cited are not necessarily dispositive, such as  Orcilla, which merely upheld an unfair competition law claim against a  bank for enforcing an allegedly unconscionable agreement. (Orcilla, supra, 244  Cal.App.4th at p. 1013.) The fact that such a claim may be alleged in this case  does not necessarily mean Plaintiff is likely to prevail on it. As for Garrett,  the Court agrees that its holding was derived from late charges improperly  based on the unpaid principal rather than the late payments themselves. (Garrett,  supra, 9 Cal.3d at pp. 734-735.) The Court further agrees that the focus of  Ridgley was the characterization of a provision in a loan agreement as a  prepayment charge versus a penalty for delinquency in a monthly interest  payment. (Ridgley, supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 976.)              However, the Court finds these  distinctions do not change the result here. The Court notes that Defendants did  not address a number of Plaintiff’s arguments in the moving papers, such as the  loan agreement having been presented on a take-it-or-leave-it basis. (Fernandez  Decl., ¶ 4.) The Court construes Defendants’ failure to respond to this issue  as a tacit admission that the argument is meritorious. (Holden  v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C.  Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.  Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.) Also, the loan is a preprinted form  agreement, which is further evidence of procedural unconscionability. (Fernandez  Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 1; see Ali v. Daylight Transport, LLC (2020) 59  Cal.App.5th 462, 474.) Given there does not appear to be any dispute as to the  issue of procedural unconscionability, Plaintiff’s burden of proving  substantive unconscionability is correspondingly lessened. (Armendariz  v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24  Cal.4th 83, 102.)              The Court also  finds Defendants’ arguments that it did not enforce some problematic provisions  of the loan agreement, such as default interest or prepayment charges, to be  unavailing. Defendants cite no legal authority to support the contention that  not enforcing an unconscionable contract provision avoids a finding of  unconscionability. Moreover, just because it is not common for courts to find  contracts unconscionable does not necessarily mean that the loan agreement at  issue in this case cannot be found unconscionable. (See De La Torre v.  CashCall, Inc. (2018) 5 Cal.5th 966, 1021).  Furthermore, beyond  the issue of unconscionability, the Court finds that there is a dispute as to  the amounts owed. Plaintiff stated in his declaration that he was making his  monthly payments. (Fernandez Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants acknowledged three of those  payments in their declaration. (Myers Decl., Ex. D.) Plaintiff also provided  photocopies of checks he claims were mailed to the lender during other months  purportedly at issue. (Fernandez Reply Decl., Ex. 1.) Based on this evidence, Plaintiff  has shown that there is a reasonable likelihood of prevailing on the merits as to his claim that Defendants incorrectly calculated the amount owed and that the  amount plaintiff owes Defendants is different than the amount claimed in the  notice of default and election to sell.  Irreparable  Harm Plaintiff  also contends that irreparable harm will occur if the Court does not issue this  preliminary injunction because it is Plaintiff’s house. (Fernandez Decl., ¶  10.) Plaintiff contends the loss of his house is a much greater harm to him  than the harm that may befall Defendants if the sale is enjoined, wherein they  would at most suffer monetary harm. Defendants did not respond to this issue in  their opposition.  The Court agrees with Plaintiff. The Court has weighed the  potential injury to Plaintiff were the foreclosure to occur with the potential  harm to Defendants if the injunction is granted. "It is fundamental to  this state's laws that real property is unique and not replaceable by money or  other real property." (See C. Robert Mattress & Associates v. CIDCO  (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 55, 63.) The loss of Plaintiff’s house would be a greater  harm to him than the Defendants’ delayed recovery of money. Additionally, the  Court construes Defendants’ lack of argument here as a tacit admission that  Plaintiff’s argument is meritorious. (See Holden,  supra, 43 Cal.App.5th at p. 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the  Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,  ¶ 9:105.10.)  Based on the  foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for preliminary injunction.  CONCLUSION The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for preliminary injunction.  The Court will hear further argument from the parties at the hearing on the  amount required for the bond.              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice  of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.