 Case Number:  24STCV01671    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



LIANA KABAYAN, an individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
COSMETIC REJUVENATION MEDICAL CENTER, INC., a California corporation;
  ZAVANT AESTHETICS WEST HOLLYWOOD, a California corporation; E.Z. MANAGEMENT
  INC., a California corporation; ZARA HARUTYUNYAN, an individual; SIRAK
  DARBINIAN, an individual; and DOES 1 through 20, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV01671
 Hearing Date:   November
  8, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Demurrer and
  Motion to Strike [RES ID # 0578]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Liana Kabayan (Kabayan) sues
Defendants Cosmetic Rejuvenation Medical Center, Zavant Aesthetics West
Hollywood, E.Z. Management Inc., Zara Harutyunyan, Sirak Darbinian, and Does 1
through 20, pursuant to a July 8, 2024, First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging
causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Termination and Retaliation in Violation of
Public Policy; (2) Discrimination Based on Protected Status; (3) Sexual
Harassment – Hostile Working Environment; (4) Failure to Take Reasonable Steps
to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment and/or Retaliation; (5) Retaliation in
Violation of Whistleblowing Act; (6) Unpaid Overtime Pay; (7) Failure to
Provide Meal Breaks; (8) Failure to Provide Rest Periods; (9) Failure to
Provide Accurate Itemized Statements [Cal. Labor Code § 226 subd. (a)]; (10) Failure
to Provide Accurate Itemized Statements [Cal. Labor Code § 226.3]; (11) Failure
to Reimburse Expenses; (12) Untimely Payment of Wages; (13) Unlawful
Withholding of Wages; (14) Waiting Time Penalties; (15) California Private
Attorney General Act [Cal. Labor Code § 226.3]; (16) Negligence; (17) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (18) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention;
(19) Failure to Provide Employment Records; and (20) Unfair Business Practices.

The claims arise from the following
allegations. Kabayan was employed as a Patient Coordinator by Defendant Cosmetic
Rejuvenation Medical Center on October 17, 2022. Kabayan alleges that
throughout her employment, she was not timely paid and did not receive proper
meal and rest breaks. Kabayan asserts that her boss Zara Harutyunyan
(Harutyunyan) made negative comments about Kabayan’s appearance and race. Kabayan
also alleges that the Defendants took unnecessary risks with patients and when
Kabayan and other employees confronted Harutyunyan about this, Harutyunyan
dismissed their concerns. In September 2023, Kabayan asserts that she sent a
letter to human resources at Cosmetic Rejuvenation Medical Center complaining
of Harutyunyan’s hostile treatment towards her and that she was terminated a
few days later. 
B. Motion Before the Court
On August 2, 2024, Defendants
demurred to the FAC’s second, third, fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, eleventh, seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth causes of action. The
Defendants also subsequently filed a motion to strike.
On October 28, 2024, Kabayan
opposed the demurrer. 
On November 1, 2024, the Defendants
replied. 
The Defendants demurrer and motion
to strike are now before the Court. 
 
II. Demurrer
A.   
Meet and Confer Requirement 
The Defendants have satisfied the
meet and confer requirement pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41
subdivision (a)(3)(A). (Malkhasyan Decl. ¶¶ 8-11.)  
B.   
Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (h), the Court may take judicial notice of “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” The court however may not take judicial notice of the
truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only judicially
noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made such that the
truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not judicially
noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz &
McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.) 

Per Defendants’ request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the United States Postal Service (USPS) search results
for Kabayan’s PAGA Notice Letter’s tracking information (RJN, Exs. 1-3.) 
The Court takes judicial notice to
the extent of the documents’ existence. 
C.   
Legal Standard 
1. Sufficiency
A demurrer for sufficiency tests
whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747; see Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)
To sufficiently allege a cause of
action, a complaint must allege all the ultimate facts—that is, the facts
needed to establish each element of the cause of action pleaded. (Committee
on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197,
212, superseded by statute as stated in Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan
Assn. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) “[E]ach evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)
In testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-67.) Courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v.
City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216,
1228, disapproved on other grounds, Jones v. Lodge at Torrey Pines
Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158, 1162.) A demurrer, however, “does not
admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A demurrer may only be used to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The face of the complaint includes
exhibits attached to the complaint. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) If facts appearing in the exhibits contradict those
alleged, the facts in the exhibits take precedence. (Holland v. Morse Diesel
Intern., Inc. (2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1447, superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in White v. Cridlebaugh (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th
506, 521.)
2. Uncertainty
A demurrer to a pleading lies where
the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc. §
430.10, subd. (f).)
“A demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616, disapproved
on other grounds in Quelimane Co. v. Stewart Title Guar. Co. (1998) 19
Cal.4th 26, 46 [holding claims for unfair business practices need not be pled
specifically, impliedly disapproving Khoury].) As a result, a special
demurrer for uncertainty is not intended to reach failure to incorporate
sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed only at uncertainty existing
in the allegations already made. (People v. Taliaferro (1957) 149
Cal.App.2d 822, 825, disapproved on other grounds in Jefferson v. J.E.
French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 719-720 [statute of limitations
question].)
Where a complaint is sufficient to
state a cause of action and to apprise defendant of the issues it is to meet,
it is not properly subject to a special demurrer for uncertainty. (See ibid.;
see also Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643.)
D.   
Analysis 
1.    
Second Cause of Action, Discrimination Based on
Protected Status 
To establish a prima facie case of discrimination,
a plaintiff must allege that (1) he or she was a member of a protected class,
(2) that he or she was qualified for and performing competently in the position
she held, (3) he or she suffered an adverse employment action, and (4) conduct
by the employer suggesting that it is more likely than not that the adverse
employment action was due to a discriminatory motive. (Guz v. Bechtel
National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) It is sufficient to show that
one of the employer’s motives was to discriminate, even if the employer had
other lawful motives in causing the adverse employment action. (University
of Texas Southwestern Medical Center v. Nassar (2013) 570 U.S. 338,
343.) 
The FAC alleges that Kabayan is a
member of a protected class based on her gender, and that Cosmetic Rejuvenation
Medical Center terminated her employment on September 15, 2023. (Compl. ¶¶ 21
[“as a woman”], 26 [termination].) The FAC alleges that Kabayan, “as a woman,
was constantly given negative comments on her appearance from ZARA. PLAINTIFF
was called ugly and was told she should wear a mask while at work because her
lips were ugly. ZARA also told other employees that ‘I don’t like Liana’s hair.
It looks trashy, looks like a wig.’ There were other discriminative and
harassing comments from ZARA towards PLAINTIFF such as ‘you are not fit for my
standard’ ‘you are costing my business.’” (Compl. ¶ 21.) 
For many years, courts have
accepted that sex discrimination can be shown by evidence that stereotypes
about how women should act or appear have affected the employee. (Price
Waterhouse v. Hopkins (1989) 490 U.S. 228, 250-251 (superseded by statute on
other grounds as stated in Stender v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1992) 780 F.Supp.
1302, 1305); Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.A4th 1028, 1044
[an appearance standard that imposes more stringent appearance requirements on
employees of one sex than on employees of the other sex can constitute unlawful
sex discrimination under the FEHA].) 
Plaintiff’s allegations suffice to state
a claim for sex discrimination.  Thus,
the demurrer to the second cause of action is OVERRULED.  
2.    
Third Cause of Action, Sexual Harassment – Hostile
Working Environment
To establish harassment under FEHA, a
plaintiff must show: (1) plaintiff belongs to a protected group; (2) plaintiff
was subject to harassment; (3) the harassment complained of was based on the
plaintiff’s membership in the protected group; (4) the harassment complained of
was sufficiently pervasive so as to alter the conditions of employment and
create an abusive working environment; and (5) respondeat superior. (Jones
v. Dep’t of Corrections & Rehabilitation, supra, 152 Cal.App.4th at p.
1377.) 
As discussed above, Kabayan
has sufficiently alleged that the offensive comments were based on Kabayan’s
gender. 
Thus, the demurrer to the third
cause of action is OVERRULED.  
3.    
Fourth Cause of Action, Failure to Take Reasonable
Steps to Prevent Discrimination and Harassment
Government Code section 12940(k)
provides that it is an unlawful employment practice “[f]or an employer, labor
organization, employment agency, apprenticeship training program, or any
training program leading to employment, to fail to take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent discrimination and harassment from occurring.” (Gov. Code,
§ 12940, subd. (k).) To establish this claim, a plaintiff must establish the
defendant’s legal duty of care, breach of duty, legal causation, and damages to
the plaintiff. (See Trujillo v. North County Transit District (1998) 63
Cal.App.4th 280, 286-287.) 
Because the second and third causes
of action for discrimination and harassment are sufficiently pled, as discussed
above, the fourth cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination and
harassment is also sufficient at this stage.
Thus, the demurrer to the fourth
cause of action is OVERRULED.
4.    
Fifth Cause of Action, Retaliation in Violation of
Whistleblowing Act
“[I]n order to establish a prima
facie case of retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she
engaged in a ‘protected activity,’ (2) the employer subjected the employee to
an adverse employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the
protected activity and the employer’s action.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042 [internal citations omitted].) “A plaintiff … need
only prove that a retaliatory animus was at least a substantial or motivating
factor in the adverse employment decision” to prevail on her claim. (George
v. California Unemployment Ins. Appeals Bd. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1475,
1492.) 
The FAC alleges that Harutyunyan
“would use expired Kybella and other medicated production on patients without
informing the patient. ZARA even admitted to PLAINTIFF and others that it may
be risky. However, in 2023 when PLAINTIFF and several medical assistants
conformed ZARA about the practice and told her it was not a good idea, she
responded, ‘I don’t care nothing will happen.’” (Compl. ¶ 24.) The FAC further
alleges that “[s]hortly thereafter [Kabayan] was fired. (Compl. ¶ 65.) 
The Defendants argue that Kabayan
has failed to establish a causal link between Kabayan and other employees
confronting Harutyunyan about use of expired product and Kabayan’s termination.
(Demurrer, p. 14.) Although the link is tenuous, Kabayan does allege that she
was terminated shortly after she and other employees told Harutyunyan it was
not a good idea to use the expired products. Harutyunyan will have to establish
that this comment was a substantial or motivating factor in terminating her
employment in order to prevail on the claim, but the standard for demurrer is
merely whether she has alleged facts to establish each element of the cause of
action, which she has done so here. 
Thus, the demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is OVERRULED.  
5.    
Seventh Cause of Action, Failure to Provide Meal
Breaks
Labor Code, section 512 subdivision
(a) states: “An employer shall not employ an employee for a work period of more
than five hours per day without providing the employee with a meal period of
not less than 30 minutes, except that if the total work period per day of the
employee is no more than six hours, the meal period may be waived by mutual
consent of both the employer and employee. An employer shall not employ an
employee for a work period of more than 10 hours per day without providing the
employee with a second meal period of not less than 30 minutes, except that if
the total hours worked is no more than 12 hours, the second meal period may be
waived by mutual consent of the employer and the employee only if the first
meal period was not waived.”   
The FAC alleges: “[s]cheduled for
work from 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, [Kabayan] would have to
work overtime till 6 p.m. when the doctor wasn’t in the office. While she was
on her meal breaks, she had to be on call in case she was needed. And
typically, [Kabayan] was not given any rest breaks.” (Compl. ¶ 19) The FAC
further alleges that Kabayan “was at times not given meal breaks and at other
times meal breaks which were not compliant with labor laws.” (Compl. ¶ 82.) 
Kabayan has alleged, however cursorily,
that she was not provided with meal breaks.  At the demurrer stage, the allegations in the
seventh cause of action are sufficient. 
Thus, the demurrer to the seventh
cause of action is OVERRULED.  
6.    
Eighth Cause of Action, Failure to Provide Rest
Periods
Labor Code section 226.7(b) states:
“An employer shall not require an employee to work during a meal or rest or
recovery period mandated pursuant to an applicable statute, or applicable
regulation, standard, or order of the Industrial Welfare Commission, the
Occupational Safety and Health Standards Board, or the Division of Occupational
Safety and Health.”
The FAC alleges that throughout
Kabayan’s employment, the Defendants “typically did not provide [Kabayan] with
rest breaks and/or compliant breaks for every four hours of work.” (Compl. ¶
88.) At the demurrer stage, this is sufficient to allege a cause of action for
failure to provide rest periods. 
Thus, the demurrer to the eighth
cause of action is OVERRULED.  
7.    
Ninth Cause of Action, Failure to Provide Accurate
Itemized Statements [Labor Code § 226 subd. (a)]
Labor Code section 226 states that
an employer, semimonthly or at the time of each payment of wages, shall furnish
to their employee an accurate itemized statement in writing showing: “(1) gross
wages earned, (2) total hours worked by the employee, except as provided in subdivision
(j), (3) the number of piece-rate units earned and any applicable piece rate if
the employee is paid on a piece-rate basis, (4) all deductions, provided that
all deductions made on written orders of the employee may be aggregated and
shown as one item, (5) net wages earned, (6) the inclusive dates of the period
for which the employee is paid, (7) the name of the employee and only the last
four digits of their social security number or an employee identification
number other than a social security number, (8) the name and address of the
legal entity that is the employer …, and (9) all applicable hourly rates in
effect during the pay period and the corresponding number of hours worked at
each hourly rate by the employee ….”  (Lab. Code, § 226 subd. (a).) 
An employee is deemed to suffer injury if the employer fails to provide a wage
statement or fails to provide accurate and complete information under
subsection (a). (Lab. Code, § 226 subd. (e).)   
The FAC alleges that the Defendants
“failed to provide [Kabayan] with complete and accurate wage statements,
willfully or intentionally” and further that the Defendants “also failed to
account for accurate withholdings, hours, wage rates, overtime, meal and rest
premiums, and sick leaves, among other things.” The Defendants assert that Kabayan
has not shown that there were any inaccuracies within her wage statements and
that if Kabayan’s claims are predicated on failure to pay overtime pay or for
meal and rest periods, then Kabayan’s recovery comes from the violated wage and
hour law, not wage statement penalties. (Demurrer, p. 17:3-9; See also Maldonado
v. Epsilon Plastics, Inc., (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1308, 1337 [“the absence
of . accurate wages earned will be remedied by the violated wage and hour law
itself…”].) 
However, Kabayan need only assert
that she was not provided with accurate wage statements, which she has. The
decision in Maldonado, supra, pertained to judgment issued after a bench
trial, not a demurrer. (Maldonado, supra, 22 Cal.App.5th 1308) 
Thus, the demurrer to the ninth
cause of action is OVERRULED.  
8.    
Tenth Cause of Action, Failure to Provide Accurate
Itemized Statements [Labor Code § 226.3]
Labor Code section 226.3 provides
for civil penalties for violations of citations issued by the Labor
Commissioner. (Lab. Code. § 226.3) It is not a basis for a stand-alone cause of
action by an employee against an employer for failure to provide itemized
statements. 
Thus, the demurrer to the tenth
cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
9.    
Eleventh Cause of Action, Failure to Reimburse
Expenses
Labor Code section 2802 subdivision
(a) states: “An employer shall indemnify his or her employee for all necessary
expenditures or losses incurred by the employee in direct consequence of the
discharge of his or her duties, or of his or her obedience to the directions of
the employer, even though
unlawful, unless the employee, at the time of obeying the directions, believed
them to be unlawful.”
In the FAC, Kabayan alleges that she
“was asked to buy scrub pants and shoes out-of-pocket following [Defendants] requirements,
however, she was never reimbursed for the expenses.” (FAC, ¶ 20.) 
Kabayan does not allege that she
sought reimbursement for these items and was denied. Regardless, California law
has held that while a uniform is a reimbursable expense under Labor Code
section 2802, required clothing is not. (See, e.g, Townley v. BJ's
Restaurants, Inc., (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 179, 185 [finding that basic,
nonuniform wardrobe items that are generally usable within the occupation do not
qualify as ‘necessary expenditures’ under Labor Code section 2802].)
Thus, the demurrer to the eleventh
cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
10.  Seventeenth
Cause of Action, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
There is no independent tort of negligent infliction of
emotional distress. (Delfino v. Agilent Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 790, 818.) 
“[The] negligent causing of emotional distress is not an
independent tort but the tort of negligence ….” (Marllene F. v. Affiliated
Psychiatric Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 588.) 
Kabayan
asserts that recovery for negligent infliction of
emotional distress has been permitted in direct victim cases. (Opp. pp. 7:19-8:3.)
However, this is not a direct victim case. 
Thus, the demurrer to the
seventeenth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
11.  Eighteenth
Cause of Action, Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
“California case law recognizes the
theory that an employer can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring,
supervising, or retaining an unfit employee.” (Doe v. Capital Cities
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) “Negligence liability will be imposed on an
employer if it ‘knew or should have known that hiring the employee created a
particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.’” (Phillips
v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)
In the demurrer, the Defendants
argue that Kabayan does not identify what risk or hazard the “Defendants knew
or should have known would materialize by hiring and retaining” Harutyunyan.
(Demurrer p. 18:23-24.) The FAC states that Harutyunyan is the Director of
Defendants, that Harutyunyan “became unfit and incompetent to supervise,” and
that the Defendants knew or should have known that Harutyunyan “became unfit
and incompetent to supervise” and that she “created a particular risk to
others.” (FAC, ¶¶ 134-136.) 
The FAC fails to plead in what way Harutyunyan
became unfit to supervise. Further, it is unclear who Kabayan alleges is
responsible for negligently hiring, supervising, or retaining Harutyunyan considering
Harutyunyan is the Director of the Defendants.  
Thus, the demurrer to the
eighteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
12.  Nineteenth
Cause of Action, Failure to Provide Employment Records
Labor Code section 226 subdivision (b)
provides that employers required by this code to keep the information required
by Section 226 subdivision (a), “shall afford current and former employees the
right to inspect or receive a copy of records pertaining to their employment,
upon reasonable request to the employer…” (Lab. Code § 226 subd. (b).) 
Labor Code section 226 subdivision (c)
provides as follows: “An employer who receives a written or oral request to
inspect or receive a copy of records pursuant to subdivision (b) pertaining to
a current or former employee shall comply with the request as soon as
practicable, but no later than 21 calendar days from the date of the request…
Impossibility of performance, not caused by or a result of a violation of law,
shall be an affirmative defense for an employer in any action alleging a
violation of this subdivision…” (Lab. Code § 226 subd. (c).)
Labor Code section 1198.5 provides
that “The employer shall make the contents of those personnel records available
for inspection to the current or former employee, or his or her representative,
at reasonable intervals and at reasonable times, but not later than 30 calendar
days from the date the employer receives a written request, unless the current
or former employee, or his or her representative, and the employer agree in
writing to a date beyond 30 calendar days to inspect the records, and the
agreed-upon date does not exceed 35 calendar days from the employer’s receipt
of the written request.” (Lab. Code § 1198.5.)
The Defendants assert that they never
received Kabayan’s December 14, 2023 request for her personnel file and wage
statements. To support this assertion, the Defendants present evidence that the
requests were never delivered to their office. (RJN, Exs. 1-3 [tracking
information from the USPS website showing that the letters were not delivered.])
 Additionally, the Defendants assert that
they provided Kabayan’s counsel with her personnel file along with all wage
related documents on April 9, 2024. (Demurrer, p. 19; Malkhasyan Decl. ¶ 6, Ex.
2.) Kabayan contends that the Defendants rejected service of the December 2023 letters
but does not otherwise argue that she has not since received the requested information.
(Opp. p. 8:19-27.) 
Thus, the demurrer to the
nineteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is
OVERRULED as to the second, third, fourth, fifth, seventh, eighth and ninth
causes of action and SUSTAINED as to the tenth, eleventh, seventeenth,
eighteenth, and nineteenth causes of action. Leave to amend is only granted as
to the 18th and 19th causes of action. 
 
III. Motion to Strike 
A.   
Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
In analyzing a motion to strike,
California courts “accept as true the well-pleaded allegations” in the
challenged pleadings, as well as “well-pleaded allegations admitted in” the
responsive “answer.” (Atwell Island Water Dist. v. Atwell Island Water
District (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 624, 628 (Atwell); Clauson v.
Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 [California courts “read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)
B.   
Discussion 
The Defendants move to strike certain
portions of the FAC relating to punitive damages on the grounds that the FAC
does not include any factual assertions establishing malice, oppression, or
fraud on behalf of the Defendants or any support for Kabayan’s punitive damages
claims. (Mot. to Strike, pp. 4:10-5:24.) 
As the Court has overruled the
demurrer to the second, third, and fifth causes of action,  the Court will DENY the motion to strike as to
paragraph 37, 45 and 54 in the FAC and prayer for relief, request 9. 
Thus, the motion to strike is
DENIED. 
 
IV. Conclusion
Defendants' Demurrer is OVERRULED as
to the Fifth, Seventh, Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action and SUSTAINED as to the
Second, Third, Fourth, Tenth, Eleventh, Seventeenth, Eighteenth, and Nineteenth
Causes of Action. Leave to amend is granted only as to the 18th and 19th causes
of action.
 
Plaintiff shall file an Amended
Complaint within 14 days.
 
Defendants' Motion to Strike is
DENIED.   