 Case Number:  23STCV11576    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendant
A. Julia Gomez’s Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint
            Defendant
A. Julia Gomez, trustee of the A. Julia Gomez Family Trust, Dated January 8,
2003, moves to strike plaintiff Oscar Alberto Servellon Torres’s allegations
related to punitive damages.  Courts may strike such allegations where the
facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice, oppression or fraud
necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)            
Plaintiff alleges
sufficient facts to constitute malice or oppression.  “ ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by
the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.”  (Civ. Code,
§ 3294(c)(1).)  “ ‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(2).)  
The complaint
alleges repeated cockroach infestations, among other habitability problems, at
the apartment plaintiff leased from defendant. 
(¶¶ 15-17, 19-29.)  The complaint
specifically alleges that in 2020, “[t]he Housing Department issued” two
“Notices and Orders to Comply” at the property, but “multiple violations were
not abated within 35 days of these notices.” 
(¶ 15.)  It further alleges the
Health Department cited defendant for violations at the property on nine dates
from 2016 to 2022.  (¶ 16.)  Plaintiff alleges, “Defendants were ordered
to address the infestation of cockroaches in the Subject Property on August 18,
2023, September 14, 2018, January 29, 2019, July 19, 2022 and August 5, 2022,
before the inception of Plaintiff’s tenancy and thereafter.  The infestation continues unabated.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges
that due to the infestation, “he had to seek medical treatment” because “a
cockroach enter[ed] his ear.”  (¶
20.)  “The cockroaches nest inside
Plaintiff’s electrical appliances and contaminate his food supplies.  They crawl onto Plaintiff’s body when he is
asleep, deposit their excrement throughout the Subject Property and Plaintiff’s
unit and cause rashes, skin eruptions, and other ailments to Plaintiff.”  (¶ 22.)
Plaintiff alleges defendant
knew about the infestation but did not fix it. 
He alleges he made “persistent complaints about the infestations.”  (¶ 23.) 
He alleges he “notified the Defendants and their agents about the
habitability violations.”  (¶ 24.)  “In spite of numerous Notices and Orders to
Comply from government entities, Defendants have failed to correct the cited
deficiencies throughout the Subject Property.” 
(¶ 25.)  He further alleges
defendant “refused to take corrective and/or curative measures in spite of
actual knowledge of the substandard conditions.”  (¶ 26.) 

The complaint alleges,
“Defendants had actual knowledge of the infestations occurring within
Plaintiff’s unit and in the entire Subject Property, given the cited
infestations and orders to abate the infestations going back to 2018, years
before Plaintiff’s tenancy, but failed to notify Plaintiff of the infestation,
and rented Plaintiff the premises in an infested state despite actual notice of
its condition.”  (¶ 27.)  Finally, it alleges, “Defendants knew that
the Subject Property was not fit for human occupation, but made the conscious
decision to subject Plaintiff to the substandard and illegal living conditions therein
solely for monetary gain.”  (¶ 29.)  
Defendant argues
these allegations do not rise to the level of “despicable” conduct.  “[A]bsent an intent to injure the plaintiff,
‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the
plaintiffs’ interests.  The additional
component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)  “Used in its
ordinary sense, the adjective ‘despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to
circumstances that are ‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ ”  (Ibid.)  
At the pleading
stage, allegations that defendants knew of and failed to remediate unsafe
conditions over a period of several years suffices to constitute despicable
conduct done in conscious disregard of plaintiff’s right to habitable housing
and of plaintiff’s safety.  The court
cannot rule that, as a matter of law, such conduct is not despicable,
malicious, or oppressive.  A reasonable
trier of fact could reach that conclusion.
Defendant also
argues plaintiff’s allegations about citations predating his tenancy cannot
support punitive damages.  As plaintiff
argues, these allegations support a conclusion that defendant’s purported
conduct was despicable because she knew about uninhabitable conditions for years.  That she allegedly knew the property was not
habitable even before renting it to plaintiff bolsters the claim for punitive
damages.  
Finally, defendant
argues punitive damages are not available for plaintiff’s first cause of action
for violation of Civil Code section 1942.4 or his fourth cause of action for
violation of Business & Professions Code section 17200.  But defendant only moves to strike portions
of the complaint included in the general factual allegations (¶¶ 13, 27, 29)
and in the prayer for relief (prayer, ¶ 7). 
The allegations regarding punitive damages are not tethered to any
causes of action that do not permit recovery of punitive damages.
Defendant A. Julia Gomez, trustee of the A.
Julia Gomez Family Trust, Dated January 8, 2003’s motion to strike portions of
plaintiff’s complaint is denied.  Defendant
is ordered to answer within 20 days.