 Case Number:  20STCV18692    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  52 Order
to Show Cause Why the Individual Defendants May Be Liable for the Sixth Cause
of Action
            On January 19, 2023, the court
issued the following order:
After summary
adjudication, only one cause of action—the sixth cause of action for disability
discrimination by Jesus Lopez—remains against the seven individual defendants: Randy Hoover, Patti Cheselske, Jon Nelson, Chris Wiley, Terence Johnson, Teresa
Livesay, and Mario Guerrero.
Though defendants did not move for summary judgment or adjudication on
this basis, the court finds it appropriate to set an order to show cause
regarding whether the individuals can be liable for this cause of action.  “[I]ndividuals who do not themselves qualify
as employers may not be sued under the FEHA for alleged discriminatory
acts.”  (Reno v. Baird (1998) 18
Cal.4th 640, 663.)  “[O]nly employers—and
not individual supervisory employees—are at risk of liability for
discrimination.”  (Janken, supra,
46 Cal.App.4th at p. 80.)  Unless
plaintiffs can establish grounds for holding the individual defendants liable
for discrimination, proceeding to trial against them would greatly undermine
judicial economy.
            In response, defendants persuasively
argue plaintiffs have not and cannot state a disability discrimination cause of
action against the seven individual defendants.
            In their untimely response,
plaintiffs do not dispute defendants’ argument. 
Indeed, plaintiffs do not even attempt to show how the seven individual
defendants could be liable for disability discrimination.  By failing to respond to the substance of the
court’s order to show cause (OSC), plaintiffs appear to tacitly concede that their
cause of action against the individual defendants is wholly without merit and
always has been.  Yet despite being
advised by the court of an apparent fatal flaw in their sixth cause of action, plaintiffs
decline, without explanation, to dismiss the individual defendants.  
            Plaintiffs do, however, make a valid
procedural point.  The proper remedy for
plaintiffs’ ostensibly frivolous and bad faith cause of action is for defendants
to file a motion for summary judgment or some other dispositive motion.  The court thus will not dismiss defendants Hoover,
Cheselske, Nelson, Wiley, Johnson, Livesay, and Guerrero at this time.
            The court reminds plaintiffs’
counsel that bringing or maintaining a claim that is not “warranted by existing
law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the extension, modification, or reversal
of existing law or the establishment of new law,” is sanctionable conduct.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (b)(2).)  The court also notes that Government Code
section 12965, subdivision (c)(6) provides: 
“In civil actions brought under this section, the court, in its
discretion, may award to the prevailing party, including the department,
reasonable attorney's fees and costs, including expert witness fees, except
that, notwithstanding Section 998 of the Code of Civil Procedure, a prevailing
defendant shall not be awarded fees and costs unless the court finds the action
was frivolous, unreasonable, or groundless when brought, or the plaintiff
continued to litigate after it clearly became so.”
The court
hereby discharges the OSC why the individual defendants may be liable
for the sixth cause of action.