 Case Number:  21STCV22319    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  52 Defendants
Barsala, Inc. and Ronald Pescador’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in the
Alternative for Summary Adjudication
Defendants
Barsala, Inc. and Ronald Pescador move for summary judgment or in the
alternative, summary adjudication of each cause of action alleged by plaintiffs
Hector Jr. Beltani and Breeana Linn Odell.
Legal
Standard
Summary judgment
should be granted where no triable issues of fact exist and the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
(CCP § 437c(c); Villa v. McFerren
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.)  Courts
use a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings;
(2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and
(3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a
triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  Courts consider
the evidence “in the light most favorable to the opposing party.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  
Summary
of Allegations
            Plaintiffs’ complaint alleges six
causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) premises liability, (3) negligent
security, (4) trespass to chattel, (5) conversion, and (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  All
six causes of action arise from the same allegations.  Plaintiff leased a short-term vacation rental
unit from Barsala, Inc.  (Comp., ¶¶
4-5.)  On February 13, 2020, plaintiffs
arrived at unit 1511 of the property known as Museum Tower Apartments located
at 235 South Olive Street in Los Angeles. 
(¶¶ 5-6.)  Plaintiffs left the
unit and returned at about 2:20 a.m. to find their personal property was
missing.  (¶¶ 6-8.)  Plaintiffs allege that after notifying
defendants of the burglary, “in response the Defendants sent them a written
rental agreement for their review and execution.”  (¶ 7.) 
“At or around 2:30 AM, Plaintiff executed Barsala’s rental agreement and
notified Defendant Barsala’s security what had happened.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs allege the “stolen property” was
worth “roughly $33,000.”  (¶ 8.)
Limitation
on Liability
            Defendants meet their burden of
showing plaintiffs cannot succeed on any cause of action.  Defendants present evidence that plaintiff
Hector Jr. Beltani agreed to a “privacy policy and guest agreement” regarding
his stay at Museum Tower Apartments. 
(Copley Decl., ¶¶ 4-6, 9-11, Exs. 1-3.) 
That agreement includes the following:
Limitation of
liability [¶]  The Company is not
responsible for any personal effects of The Guest that may disappear from the
suite.  The Company maintains insurance
on the structure and those items belonging to The Company.  The Guest is responsible for insurance on all
of guest’s personal items. The Guest will be fully responsible for all damage
to the suite or contents during their stay… .  The Guest agrees to indemnify The Company and
hold it harmless from any injury or damage resulting to The Guest, their
invites, or other persons, their personal property, the suite, its contents, or
the property, occurring in the suite itself or in any common areas… .  
(Copley
Decl., Ex. 1, pp. 3-4.)       
            This entire action arises from plaintiffs’
personal property that “disappear[ed] from the suite.”  Plaintiff Beltani expressly agreed that
defendants were not responsible for “personal effects … that may disappear from
the suite” and that he was “responsible for insurance on all of [his] personal
items.”  Beltani also agreed to indemnify
defendants and hold them harmless from any injury or damage to his or his
invitees’ personal property—which requires him to indemnify defendants from all
claims by fellow plaintiff Breeana Linn Odell. 
Plaintiffs
do not meet their burden of showing a triable issue of material fact.  Plaintiffs present evidence that Beltani executed
the guest agreement between 3:45 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on February 14, 2020.  Plaintiff argues this agreement therefore was
not in force at the time of the alleged burglary.  It makes no difference that plaintiff signed
the agreement after his stay began and after the burglary.
Contracts
can apply retroactively.  (See, e.g., Coon
v. Nicola (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 1225, 1234 [enforcing retroactive agreement
to arbitrate disputes over prior services].) 
Generally, someone may agree to exculpate another person from future liability
(see Cregg v. Ministor
Ventures (1983)
148 Cal.App.3d 1107, 1111 [a party to a contract may “ ‘agree[] to shoulder a risk which the law
would otherwise have placed upon the other party’ ”]) or to release another
person from liability for past events (see General Motors Corp. v. Superior Court (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 435, 439).  That
Beltani signed the agreement after the burglary supports this defense because
the law imposes greater limits on contracts exculpating liability for future
torts than on contracts releasing liability for past torts.  (See SI 59 LLC v. Variel Warner Ventures, LLC (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 146, 153.)
Here,
the privacy policy and guest agreement provides, “You understand this is not
your arrival/departure information but rules and regulations governing your
accommodation.”  (Copley Decl., Ex. 1, p.
1.)  Beltani thus agreed that the contract’s
provision limiting liability governs his accommodation at Museum Tower
Apartments.  That his accommodation began
before he accepted this agreement does not render the agreement ineffective.
Plaintiffs’
opposition argues the contract was “deceptive and unfair.”  (Opp., p. 6.) 
Plaintiffs cite no authority and no evidence of anything that would make
the contract unenforceable.   
Intentional
Torts
            Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action
for trespass to chattel, fifth cause of action for conversion, and sixth cause
of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fail for an
independent reason.  These causes of
action are intentional torts.  Conversion
requires “that the defendant have intentionally done the act depriving the
plaintiff of his or her rightful possession.” 
(Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1158.)  “The
gravamen of the tort is the defendant’s hostile act of dominion or control over
a specific chattel.”  (PCO, Inc. v.
Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395.)  Similarly, a
claim for “trespass to chattels ‘lies where an intentional interference with
the possession of personal property has proximately caused injury.’ ”  (Intel Corp. v. Hamidi (2003) 30
Cal.4th 1342, 1350–1351.)  And
intentional infliction of emotional distress requires “extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050.)   
Plaintiffs’
complaint makes only conclusory allegations that defendants did anything
“intentionally.”  (Comp., ¶¶ 24, 31.)  The gravamen of the action is that defendants
“fail[ed] to provide a safe unit for the Plaintiffs to utilize and store their
Personal Property” (¶ 12) or failed to “safeguard[] the keys” to the unit, or
otherwise made it “accessible to third parties without precautions or safety
guards in place” (¶ 16).  
The
undisputed evidence shows defendants did not intentionally interfere with
plaintiffs’ property or otherwise intentionally harm plaintiffs.  It is undisputed that Ronald Pescador was the
person acting on behalf of Barsala, Inc. at Museum Towers Apartments.  Pescador states, “I was responsible for
overseeing the rental of residential units managed by Barsala at six (6)
different buildings in the Los Angeles area, including the Museum Towers
Apartments building.”  It is undisputed
that Pescador was not present at the building during plaintiffs’ stay there.  (Id., ¶¶ 9, 12; UMF No. 14.)  He could not have taken or interfered with
plaintiffs’ belongings without being at the property.  
These
intentional torts require that defendants personally interfered with or took
plaintiffs’ belongings.  Failing to
protect plaintiffs’ belongings is not enough.  At most, plaintiffs’ allegations and the
undisputed evidence show that defendants did not protect plaintiffs’
belongings.
Code
of Civil Procedure Section 437c(h)
Plaintiffs’
opposition also seeks to continue the hearing on this motion “to finalize and
review ongoing discovery.”  (Opp., p.
7.)  Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (h) provides, “If it appears from the affidavits submitted in
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both,
that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons
stated, be presented, the court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to
permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other
order as may be just.”  
Plaintiffs
do not present a sufficient affidavit showing that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist.  Plaintiffs rely on
the declaration of counsel Thomas G. Gennaro, which does not identify any
potential discovery to be done.  He
states, “Defendants filed this Motion and produced documents never produced
before.  Furthermore, Defendants produced
almost 170 pages of material documents right before the deposition of Defendant
Barsala’s PMQ.”  (Gennaro Decl., ¶¶
4-5.)  That does not show that any “facts
essential to justify opposition may exist” as required under Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(h).  Moreover,
Gennaro continues, “Upon review of those documents and deposition of Defendant
Ronald Pescador, I discovered the following,” followed by a description of the
evidence.  (Gennaro Decl., ¶¶ 6-17.)  Rather than explaining what evidence plaintiffs
need but do not have, he presents the evidence he uses to oppose this
motion.  Plaintiffs do not show good
cause to continue the hearing on this motion. 
Disposition
            Defendants Barsala, Inc. and Ronald
Pescador’s motion for summary judgment is granted.  Defendants shall submit a proposed judgment
for the court’s signature forthwith.