  Case Number:  23VECV01917    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  W HARGES FAMILY PARTNERSHIP, LP, et al. v. CHARTWELL
ESCROW, INC.
 
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
 
Date of Hearing:        April
4, 2024                                      Trial
Date:       None
set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV01917
 
Moving Party:            Law
Offices of Mark S. Glazer, APC, Counsel for Lorelei Harges, Trust of the Harges
Community Property Trust and Harges Family Partnership, LP
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
This is a
breach of fiduciary duty action. Plaintiffs Harges Family Partnership, LP and Lorelei Harges,
Trustee of the Harges Community Property Trust allege Plaintiffs entered into multiple
agreements to sell seven pieces of real property to several buyers. Chartwell
agreed to act as the escrow company for the transactions. Plaintiffs allege per
Section C of the Addendum, the escrow holder, Chartwell, was supposed to
release the deposits to the plaintiffs one business day after their receipt.
However, Plaintiffs allege Chartwell never released any of the deposits to the
plaintiffs and instead, Chartwell returned the deposits to the buyers.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: GRANT
 
Counsel contends there has been an
irreparable breakdown of the working relationship between counsel and client
which has made it unreasonably difficult to continue representing the client. Counsel
states several months ago, client expressed an intent to substitute in new
counsel, but has yet to do so. 
 
Counsel has complied with the
requirements of CRC Rule 3.1362 by filing forms MC-051 and MC-052 and lodging
with the court a copy of the proposed order on form MC-053. Counsel confirmed Holm’s
last known mailing by physical viewing of office.  
 
Trial is not yet set. The next hearing
is a Case Management Conference for April 4, 2024.   
 
For Harges Family Partnership, LP, a legal
entity cannot represent itself. Counsel is to warn Harges Family Partnership,
LP that it can only appear through counsel because it is a partnership. 