 Case Number:  23TRCV01269    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                        Wednesday, May 8, 2024  
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 11  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Ana
Alicia Linares, et al. v. Eduardo Jesus Bonilla, et al.  
23TRCV01269

Ana Alicia Linares, et al.’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal       

 
TENTATIVE RULING
      
            Ana Alicia Linares, et al.’s Motion
to Set Aside Dismissal is granted.
 
            Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on April 24, 2023. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs and Defendant were involved in a motor
vehicle accident.  
 
            Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
 
CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. The
court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's affidavit of
fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs
to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
Plaintiffs move for an order granting relief from the
entry of dismissal. The motion is brought pursuant to CCP § 473 et seq. on the
grounds that the dismissal was entered due to the mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and/or neglect of Plaintiffs’ counsel.  Plaintiffs have set forth facts to support a
showing that the dismissal was entered due to the mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and/or neglect of Plaintiffs’ counsel. Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to
appear for the case management conference due to counsel’s calendaring mistake.
(Decl., Igor Fradkin, ¶¶ 3-8.)  
 
The motion must be granted pursuant to the mandatory
provision of CCP § 473(b). The dismissal is hereby set aside. 
 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.