  Case Number:  21TRCV00443    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                             Thursday, May 9, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Marcia
Pyin-Shan Chiang v. Joseph Yeh, et al.    
21TRCV00443
1.     
Jayi Chiang, et
al.’s Demurrer to Second Amended Cross-Complaint
2.     
Marcia Pyin
Chiang, et al.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Cross-Complaint 
3.     
Yokohama Group,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents,
Set One
4.     
Yokohama Group,
Inc.’s Motion to Compel the Depositions of Cross-Defendants Jayi Chiang, Jailin
Chiang, and the Person Most Knowledgeable from Cross-Defendant 95 Kitchen Inc.
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Jayi Chiang, Jailin Chiang, and 95 Kitchen Inc.’s Demurrer
to Second Amended Cross-Complaint is sustained without leave to amend, in part,
and overruled, in part. 
 
Marcia Pyin-Shan Chiang, Jayi Chiang, Jailin Chiang,
and 95 Kitchen Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Second Amended Cross-Complaint
is granted without leave to amend.  
 
Yokohama Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One is denied.
 
Yokohama Group, Inc.’s Motion to Compel the
Depositions of Cross-Defendants Jayi Chiang, Jailin Chiang, and the Person Most
Knowledgeable from Cross-Defendant 95 Kitchen, Inc. is denied.
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint was filed on June 16, 2021. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff entered into a contract with Defendants.
Defendants agreed to build Plaintiff a restaurant in exchange for Plaintiff
paying $80,000 and entering into a 10-year lease to rent the property.
Plaintiff performed the contract, but Defendants did not build the restaurant.
Plaintiff also contends that Defendants induced Plaintiff to enter into a
promissory note.  
 
On October 20, 2021, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Joseph
Yeh, IDJ Enterprise, Inc., and Grandtower Group, Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint
against Plaintiff for (1) breach of written contract, (2) breach of oral
contract, (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and (4)
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
 
Cross-Complainants filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint on June 29, 2023. Cross-Complainant identified the real party
in interest as Yokohama Group, Inc. in place of Grandtower Group, Inc., removed
Joseph Yeh as a Cross-Complainant, added Cross-Defendants 95 Kitchen, Inc.,
Jailin Chiang, and Jayi Chiang, added alter ego allegations, and amended
certain allegations and demands for damages.  The FACC stated the following causes of
action: (1) Breach of Written Contract - Lease; (2) Breach of Oral Contract;
(3) Breach of Written Contract - Promissory Note; (4) Breach of the Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (5) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing. 
 
After the sustaining of a demurrer, Cross-Complainant
filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint alleging the same five causes of action.
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Cross-Defendants set forth meet and
confer declarations in sufficient compliance with CCP § 430.41 and CCP § 435.5.
(Decls., Alexander G. Boone, ¶¶ 2-3.) 
 
            Demurrer

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.) "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.” Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Cross-Defendants
demur to the first, fourth, and fifth causes for failure to state sufficient
facts to state a cause of action.  CCP § 430.10(e).
 
First, the Court
addresses the alter ego allegations. “In
California, two conditions must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be
invoked.  First, there must be such a
unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner
that the separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not
in reality exist.  Second, there must be
an inequitable result if the acts in question are treated as those of the
corporation alone.”  Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523,
538.
            Among the factors to be considered
in applying the alter ego doctrine are commingling of funds and other assets of
the two entities, the holding out by one entity that it is liable for the debts
of the other, identical equitable ownership in the two entities, use of the
same offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell or conduit for the
affairs of the other.  See, Id. at 538-539.  Other factors include inadequate
capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of
corporate records, and identical directors and officers.  See,
Id. at 539.  No one characteristic
governs.  The courts must look at the
totality of the circumstances to determine whether the doctrine should be
applied.  See, Id.
            Certain
allegations regarding alter ego liability are made on information and belief.
“[P]laintiff may allege on information and belief any matters that are not
within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe
that the allegations are true and thus a pleading made on information and
belief is insufficient if it merely assert[s] the facts so alleged without
alleging such information that lead[s] [the plaintiff] to believe that the
allegations are true.”  Gomes v.
Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159
(internal citations and quotations are omitted; emphasis in original.) 
            As
to the allegations made on “information and belief,” as to Jayi Chiang and Jailin
Chiang, Cross-Complainants have again failed to allege sufficient facts that
would support the contention that the belief is true.  Again, as noted above, Cross-Complainants
simply provided a recitation of some of the essential elements of alter ego
liability with no underlying facts as to these individuals other than those
conclusions made “on information and belief.”
            As
to 95 Kitchen, Inn. perhaps now certain additional facts may have been alleged
that could have, for pleading purposes only, supported an inference that 95
Kitchen and the contracting party Marcia Pyin-Shan Chiang might be deemed alter
egos of each other. (SACC, ¶¶ 10-18.)  However,
Cross-Complainants are unable to plead alter ego liability to attempt to impose
liability against 95 Kitchen due to the unavailability of the reverse piercing
doctrine.
            “California
has rejected “reverse-piercing” actions that hold an alter ego corporation
liable for the actions of its shareholders.” U.S. v. Kim (9th Cir. 2015)
806 F.3d 1161, 1168. “[A]lthough the corporate veil may be pierced to hold a
shareholder liable for the debts or conduct of an alter ego corporation, a
third party generally cannot pierce it to reach corporate assets to satisfy
claims against a shareholder.” Phillips, Spallas & Angstadt, LLP v.
Fotouhi (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1132, 1144. 
            “We
agree with the sound reasoning and analysis of the cases rejecting outside
reverse piercing of the corporate veil.” Postal Instant Press, Inc. v. Kaswa
Corp. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519. “The reasoning of those cases is
unpersuasive and flawed. Traditional alter ego doctrine and reverse piercing,
while having similar goals, advance those goals by addressing very different
concerns. When a judgment debtor is a corporation, the judgment creditor cannot
reach the assets of the individual shareholders due to limitations on liability
imposed by corporate law. Traditional piercing of the corporate veil is
justified as an equitable remedy when the shareholders have abused the
corporate form to evade individual liability, circumvent a statute, or accomplish
a wrongful purpose. [¶] The same abuse of the corporate form does not exist
when the judgment debtor is the shareholder. In that situation, the corporate
form is not being used to evade a shareholder's personal liability, because the
shareholder did not incur the debt through the corporate guise and misuse that
guise to escape personal liability for the debt. The judgment creditor can
enforce the judgment against the shareholder's assets, including shares in the
corporation. Upon acquiring the shares, the judgment creditor will have
whatever rights the shareholder had in the corporation.” Id. at 1522
(internal citations and quotations omitted).
First Cause of
Action for Breach of Written Contract - Lease
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to
the first cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
Cross-Complainants fail to state facts sufficient to state a cause of action. 
“The elements of a
cause of action for breach of contract are: (1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's
performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the
resulting damages to plaintiff.” Coles v.
Glaser (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 384, 391(internal quotations omitted). “[T]he
complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or
implied by conduct. [...] If the action is based on an alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166
Cal.App.3d 452, 458–59.
 
Cross-Complainants
attach a copy of the written lease and state that the lease was executed by
Grandtower Group, Inc. and Marcia Pyin-Shan Chiang. (SACC, ¶¶ 16, 30-31, Exhibit
1.)  Cross-Defendants argue that they are
not parties to the lease agreement.  As
to the attempt to insert these parties under an alter ego theory of liability,
the attempt fails for the reasons noted above. 
 
As to Cross-Defendant
95 Kitchen, Cross-Complainants acknowledge that the purported assignment made
by Cross-Defendant Marcia Chiang was a verbal assignment. (Opposition, pages
2-3.) 
Civ. Code, § 1624(a)(3) states:
“The following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note or memorandum
thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or by the
party's agent: (3) An agreement for the leasing for a longer period than one
year, or for the sale of real property, or of an interest therein; such an
agreement, if made by an agent of the party sought to be charged, is invalid,
unless the authority of the agent is in writing, subscribed by the party sought
to be charged.” 
“An estate in real property,
other than an estate at will or for a term not exceeding one year, can be
transferred only by operation of law, or by an instrument in writing,
subscribed by the party disposing of the same, or by his agent thereunto
authorized by writing.” Civ. Code, § 1091. “Such a lease must be in
writing [...] and the assignment of such a lease must be by an instrument in
writing, subscribed by the party disposing of the same, unless such assignment
be by operation of law.” Maron v. Howard (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 473, 485.
 Here, Cross-Complainant has failed to
allege sufficient facts to state that the assignment from Marcia Chiang to 95
Kitchen was in writing to satisfy the statute of frauds.
Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. 
Fourth Cause of Action for
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is overruled. Cross-Complainants state sufficient to
state a cause of action. This cause of action corresponds to the second cause
of action for Breach of Oral Contract.
            “Every
contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing
that no party to the contract will do anything that would deprive another party
of the benefits of the contract. The implied covenant protects the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties based on their mutual promises. The
scope of conduct prohibited by the implied covenant depends on the purposes and
express terms of the contract. Although breach of the implied covenant often is
pleaded as a separate count, a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a
breach of contract.” Digerati Holdings,
LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885
(internal citations omitted). A breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing does not give rise to a cause of action separate from a cause of action
for breach of the contract containing the covenant. Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 327 (stating that “where breach of an actual term is alleged, a
separate implied covenant claim, based on the same breach, is superfluous.”)
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a
mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract
cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim
is actually stated.” Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.
            With
the SACC, Cross-Complainants have now alleged sufficient facts demonstrating
Cross-Defendants’ actions in attempting to deprive Cross-Complainants of the
benefit of the agreement that go beyond mere allegations of breach of the
agreement. (SACC, ¶¶ 49-54.)  The Court
notes that Cross-Complainants have yet again made a reference to “tort,” even
though tort recovery would not be available to Cross-Complainant under a tort
theory because this theory is only generally available in the context of a
breach of the covenant with respect to an insurance policy.  (SACC, ¶ 52.)  However, this stray irrelevant allegation does
not make the entirety of the cause of action subject to demurrer.
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
            Fifth
Cause of Action for Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer to
the fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  This cause of action corresponds to the third
cause of action for Breach of Promissory Note alleged only against Marcia
Chiang.
            “Every
contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing
that no party to the contract will do anything that would deprive another party
of the benefits of the contract. The implied covenant protects the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties based on their mutual promises. The
scope of conduct prohibited by the implied covenant depends on the purposes and
express terms of the contract. Although breach of the implied covenant often is
pleaded as a separate count, a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a
breach of contract.” Digerati Holdings,
LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885
(internal citations omitted). A breach of the covenant of good faith and fair
dealing does not give rise to a cause of action separate from a cause of action
for breach of the contract containing the covenant. Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 317, 327 (stating that “where breach of an actual term is alleged, a
separate implied covenant claim, based on the same breach, is superfluous.”)
“If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a
mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts,
simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract
cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim
is actually stated.” Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit,
Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395.
            Any
attempt to allege a cause of action for Breach of the Covenant as to the
demurring Defendants on an alter ego liability theory fails for the reasons
already noted above. 
            The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.
            Motion
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
Cross-Defendants move to strike the
following:
“1. ¶ 42: “… as well as attorneys’ fees
and costs.” 
2. ¶ 48: “… as well as attorneys’ fees and
costs.” 
3. ¶ 56: “As a further direct and
proximate cause of the conduct of CHIANG, 95 KITCHEN, JAILIN, and JAYI, IDJ has
been obligated to expend and incur liability for costs of suit, attorneys’ fees
and related expenses in an amount not yet fully ascertained, but which will be
submitted at the time of trial.” 
4. ¶ 65: “As a further direct and
proximate cause of the conduct of CHIANG, IDJ has been obligated to expend and
incur liability for costs of suit, attorneys’ fees and related expenses in an
amount not yet fully ascertained, but which will be submitted at the time of
trial.””
 
The motion to strike is granted without
leave to amend. Cross-Complainants failed to allege a statutory or contractual
basis that would support a request for attorneys’ fees under any of the causes
of action. Cross-Complainants failed to file any written opposition to this
motion.   
 
Thus, the motion to strike is granted
without leave to amend.
 
Cross-Defendants are ordered to file an
Answer within 10 days of this date.
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One
 
A party responding to an inspection demand
shall respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party believes the
responding party responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
“Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of
the verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before
any specific later date to which the demanding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a
further response to the demand.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)    
 
Meet and Confer
 
Cross-Complainant Yokohama Group Inc. set
forth a meet and confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP §
2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Caixing
Ma, ¶¶ 4-5.)
 
Motion to Compel 
 
Cross-Complainant Yokohama Group Inc.
moves to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents Nos. 1-7.

 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020 states:
“(a) Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery
proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery
heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of
the action.
(b) Except as provided in Section
2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to
reopen discovery proceedings.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.030 states:
“Any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings pertaining to a witness identified
under Chapter 18 (commencing with Section 2034.010) on or before the 15th day,
and to have motions concerning that discovery heard on or before the 10th day,
before the date initially set for the trial of the action.”
 
Pursuant to CCP
§ 2024.020(a), the deadline to complete discovery proceedings is 30 days before
the initial trial date and the deadline for motion hearings on non-expert
discovery motions is fifteen days before the initial trial date. 
 
The original
trial date was April 11, 2023. However, the pertinent trial date in this case,
for purposes of the discovery cutoff date, was October 25, 2023. The parties stipulated that the discovery cutoff and all other motion and deadline dates would track
with the October 25, 2023 trial date. (Stipulation to Continue Trial, Filed 3/23/2023.)
Thus, discovery was cut off on September 25, 2023. Upon the action being
reassigned, the trial date was vacated and ultimately reset for June 11, 2024.
However, discovery remained cut off and to reopen discovery it was incumbent
upon moving party to file a motion to reopen discovery. 
 
“In the context
of an action that has not yet proceeded to trial or otherwise resulted in a
dispositive judgment, the phrase “date initially set for the trial of the
action” Code Civ. Proc., § 2024, subd. (a)) is unambiguous. In such instance,
it plainly refers to the first date set for trial of the action. Thus,
the statute expressly states that continuance or postponement of that date will
not operate to reopen discovery.” Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 250 (emphasis in original). 
 
Thus, the motion to compel further
responses to requests for production of documents, set one, is denied.
 
Motion to Compel the Depositions
 
The party noticing the deposition may move for an order compelling
appearance at the deposition and production of documents, pursuant to the
deposition notice, from the party deponent who fails to appear or produce
materials requested in the deposition notice, and who has not served a valid
objection under § 2025.410(a).  CCP §
2025.450(a).  
 
“The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and
produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described
in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”  CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Cross-Complainant set forth a meet and confer declaration in
substantial compliance with CCP § 2025.450(b)(2). (Decl., Caixing Ma, ¶¶ 10-11.)

 
Motion to Compel
 
Cross-Complainant moves for an order compelling “Cross-Defendants Jayi
Chiang, Jailin Chiang, and person most knowledgeable from Cross-Defendant 95
Kitchen Inc. (collectively “Deponents”) (1) to attend their depositions, (2)
produce documents responsive to Moving Parties’ attached Requests for Production
of Documents, and (3) to award monetary sanctions against Deponents and their
counsel in the amount of $1,985.00 for reimbursement of Moving Parties’
attorneys’ fees and costs in having to make this motion.” (Notice of Motion,
page 2, lines 5-10. The motion is made on the grounds that “[d]eponents have
delayed, refused, and continues to refuse, to produce themselves for their
depositions noticed by Moving Parties.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines
12-13). 
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020 states:
“(a) Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter of right to complete discovery
proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery
heard on or before the 15th day, before the date initially set for the trial of
the action.
(b) Except as provided in Section
2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial date does not operate to
reopen discovery proceedings.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.030 states:
“Any party shall be entitled as a matter
of right to complete discovery proceedings pertaining to a witness identified
under Chapter 18 (commencing with Section 2034.010) on or before the 15th day,
and to have motions concerning that discovery heard on or before the 10th day,
before the date initially set for the trial of the action.”
 
Pursuant to CCP
§ 2024.020(a), the deadline to complete discovery proceedings  is 30 days before the initial trial date and
the deadline for motion hearings on non-expert discovery motions is fifteen
days before the initial trial date. 
 
The original
trial date was April 11, 2023. However, the pertinent trial date in this case,
for purposes of the discovery cutoff date, was October 25, 2023. The parties stipulated that the discovery cutoff and all other motion and deadline dates would track
with the October 25, 2023 trial date. (Stipulation to Continue Trial, Filed
3/23/2023.) Thus, discovery was cut off on September 25, 2023. Upon the action
being reassigned, the trial date was vacated and ultimately reset for June 11,
2024. However, discovery remained cut off and to reopen discovery it was
incumbent upon moving party to file a motion to reopen discovery. 
 
“In the context
of an action that has not yet proceeded to trial or otherwise resulted in a
dispositive judgment, the phrase “date initially set for the trial of the
action” Code Civ. Proc., § 2024, subd. (a)) is unambiguous. In such instance,
it plainly refers to the first date set for trial of the action. Thus,
the statute expressly states that continuance or postponement of that date will
not operate to reopen discovery.” Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 250 (emphasis in original). 
 
Thus, the motion to compel depositions and
for sanctions is denied.  
 
Cross-Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this ruling.