  Case Number:  22STCV33871    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Defendant A Caring Touch Board And Care III LLC to Set Aside Entry of
Default and Permit Filing of Answer to First Amended Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND
ERNESTO GALVEZ (“Plaintiff”) filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) against A CARING TOUCH BOARD AND CARE III (“Defendant”), alleging that Defendant
constructively terminated Plaintiff’s employment as caregiver, due to Plaintiff
not being permitted to take meal or rest breaks, not being paid overtime, and
being harassed based on sexual orientation.
The Court entered default against Defendant in 11/2023
and Plaintiff failed to seek default judgment. The Court then set an OSC re
dismissal for failure to prosecute default judgment set for 6/17/24. Defendant has
also moved to vacate default entry on 6/17/24, because the parties were in
settlement negotiations when Plaintiff obtained it.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
Generally, courts have allowed settlement as a
satisfactory excuse for delay in filing documents, if negotiations occurred
during the whole relevant time span, and there were mutual efforts inducing a
party reasonably to believe they were working towards a probable settlement, as
distinguished from the unilateral hope of settlement.  E.g., San Bernardino City Unif. Sch. Dist.
v. Superior Court (1987) 190 Cal. App. 3d 233, 239.  
 
ANALYSIS
Defendant has demonstrated that the parties were
engaged in settlement discussions and that it delayed filing an answer up until
the time when Plaintiff unexpectedly requested default entry.
The Court finds that it is a cognizable excuse for the
delayed answer, and so allows relief from default entry. At the same time, the
Court is prepared to dismiss the case entirely based on its OSC due to
Plaintiff’s failure to even seek default judgment. 
 
CONCLUSION
The Court grants the unopposed motion, as prayed. The
Court will inquire of defense counsel at the hearing as to whether Defendant
still seeks the relief sought in the motion given that the Court will otherwise
dismiss the entire case with prejudice. 