 Case Number:  22STCV32356    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 6/25/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV32356 LANI MILLER vs
JOANNA DEFIRMIAN et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Judith Defirmian
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS GRANTED
 
Background
On October 3, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present complaint. Plaintiff alleges that on July 9, 2022,
Defendant Defirmian held a party for Defendant Davis, Defirmian’s daughter, in
the common area of her condominium complex. Alcohol was served at the party,
and Defendant Davis attacked Plaintiff while Plaintiff was filming the party
for alleged violations of HOA policies. The only cause of action against
Defendant Defirmian is for premises liability. Defendant now moves the Court
for summary judgment, arguing that she was not aware of any prior similar
incidents involving Defendant Davis and that the alleged attack at issue was
not foreseeable.
Preliminary issues
The Court agrees with
Plaintiff’s contention that Defendant’s separate statement should have included
more details and been broken down further. As it stands, the allegations in the
separate statement read more like legal conclusions than material facts.
However, Defendant’s counsel presents facts supporting the motion for summary
judgment in his declaration and cites evidence for each fact. (See Sheedy
Decl.) Furthermore, the pertinent evidence submitted consists only of the
depositions of Defirmian and Schulick, making it not too laborious to identify
the supporting evidence. The Court will hear the motion on its merits.
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s requests for judicial notice. Defendant’s objection No. 1-5,
and 10 are overruled. The Parties did not make any other objections to evidence
that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).) 
Legal Standard 
In reviewing a motion
for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
        “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code
Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party
fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied.
(See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving
party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion
by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
        To
meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a
defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed
evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for
the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The
defendant “must
also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to
support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant …
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may
not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
        The
court must “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the evidence in favor of
that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz
v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only
when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a
matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further,
“the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor
may the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
Foreseeability
While the occupier of
land has a general duty to exercise ordinary care for the safety of persons who
come upon the property, he is not an insurer of their safety (Taylor v.
Centennial Bowl, Inc. (1966) 65 Cal.2d 114, 121.) "Where ... it
is the conduct of a third party on the premises which directly causes the
injury, liability may attach only where the possessor of the premises has
reasonable cause to anticipate such conduct and the probability of resulting
injury, and fails to take affirmative steps to control the wrongful conduct.” (Rogers
v. Jones (1976) 56 Cal.App.3d 346, 351.) Foreseeability should be assessed
in light of the totality of the circumstances, including such factors as the
nature, condition, and location of the premises. (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza
Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 666 670.) It is based on whether
something is reasonably likely to occur, and that a reasonably thoughtful
person would guide his or her conduct by it. (Bigbee v. Pacific Tel. &
Tel. Co. (1983) 34 Cal. 3d 49, 57.) Defendant is tested by what he/she knows,
not what the defendant could have or should have learned. (Margaret W. v.
Kelley R. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 141, 158.) 
Initial burden
Defendant has met her
initial burden. Defendant Defirmian testified that she held birthday parties
for her daughter, Defendant Davis, almost every year for more than twenty years
without issue. (Def’s Ex. B, Defirmian Depo.16:23-17:1, 82:15-16.) Mr. Schick,
former president of the HOA for the condo, testified that he was not aware of
not did he witness any altercations involving Defendant Davis prior to the
subject incident. (Def’s Ex. C, Schick Depo. 88:4-89:6.) Defendant Defirmian
testified that prior to 2022, she was not aware of her daughter having any
problems with residents at the complex. She was not aware of incidents of her
daughter chasing other residents, yelling at other residents, or any harassment
or threats involving Davis and other residents prior to the incident.
(Defirmian Depo. 65:21-67:7.) Defirmian is also not aware of any issues her
daughter has with alcohol and that her personality does not change when she
drinks alcohol. (Defirmian Depo. 71:18-74:7.) Defendant has met her burden.
Triable issue of fact
In raising a triable
issue of fact, Plaintiff introduced the declaration of Sheri Magid, Defirmian’s
neighbor, who stated that this was not the first incident involving Davis and
altercations with other residents. Davis previously had altercations with Magid
and another neighbor, Periman, where Davis swore and threatened the neighbors,
resulting in a police report being filed. (Plf’s Ex.H.)
Davis herself testified
that she had three prior arguments with other residents in the complex. (Davis
Depo., p. 45:21-46:2, Plf’s Ex. L.) However, Davis only informed her mother of
one altercation with another resident, which related to an incident where a
neighbor came to Defirmian’s garage and videotaped the workers remodeling the
house while cussing at them and screaming about permits. Davis asked the
neighbor to leave. (Davis Depo., p. 50:11-51:15.)
Plaintiff then
presented evidence that Defirmian was aware of Davis’ angry dispositions. Mark
Strong, Defendant Davis’ stepfather, declared that Davis told him and Defirmian
that she is a crack cocaine user. (Strong Decl.¶4, Ex. K.) Strong also declared
that in Defirmian’s presence, Davis acted erratically, having fits of anger,
and was easily provoked. (Strong Decl. ¶6.) 
As for Davis’ alcohol
consumption during the incident, Plaintiff Davis testified that she had one sip
of wine and nothing else. She only drank tea and coffee prior to that. (Davis
Depo., p. 75:1-17, 76:3-10.) Plaintiff’s evidence does not show whether
drinking affected Davis’s personality or aggression or if Plaintiff drank more
alcohol. Although Plaintiff introduced evidence that Defendant might have used
cocaine, no evidence was presented regarding any issues related to alcohol.
Plaintiff presented
evidence disputing the frequency of birthday parties hosted in the common area
(Strong Decl., ¶8: (Defendant did not throw birthday parties every year)).
However, there is no dispute that prior birthday parties were held, and no
evidence was presented indicating any issues such as altercations, fights, or
arguments at those parties.
Discussion
Plaintiff’s evidence shows
that Defendant Defirmian knew of one prior incident where Davis told a neighbor
to leave. No evidence was presented showing that Defirmian was aware of Davis
shouting, swearing, or fighting with the resident beyond asking the neighbor to
leave for that one event. “Foreseeability is tested by what the defendant
knows, not what the defendant could have or should have learned.” (Margaret
W. v. Kelley R. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 141, 158.) Beyond this one incident,
Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that Defirmian was aware of any other
altercation between Davis and other residents.
Second, Plaintiff
presented evidence showing that Defirmian was aware her daughter used crack
cocaine and had a "hot head" personality and was prone to anger.
However, the connection between being prone to anger and assaulting a resident
at the condo’s common areas during her birthday party is tenuous and not
reasonably foreseeable. As the court in Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc.
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 671-72, held, knowing there is a general potential
for rowdy or troublesome conduct by bar patrons does not make the category of
aggressive parking lot assaults reasonably foreseeable. The present case
involves similar categories.
Moreover, although
Plaintiff disputes whether a birthday party was held every year, she does not
dispute that prior parties were held at the same location without incident. 
Finally, Plaintiff’s
contention that Defendant had alcohol at the common area in violation of HOA
policies is immaterial to the assault at issue, as Davis only had one sip of
red wine prior to the incident, and Plaintiff did not present evidence to counter
Defendant’s claim that Davis does not have any issue with alcohol or that her
personality changes with alcohol.
Simply, this case
involves a mother holding a birthday party for her daughter at the common area
of her condo complex. Plaintiff failed to present evidence of Defirmian’s prior
knowledge of Davis’s heated or violent altercations with neighbors or prior
incidents or problems related to Defendant's birthday parties hosted at the
common area. There is also a lack of any specific connection to the incident in
question, except a general awareness of Davis’s hotheadedness, cocaine usage,
and easy to anger personality. The Court does not find that Davis’ potential
for anger or outbursts made the assault reasonably foreseeable. Thus, summary
judgment is granted. Since summary judgment is granted to the only cause of
action against Defendant Defirmian for premise liability, summary judgment is
also granted for punitive damages.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 