  Case Number:  21STCV40558    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 6/26/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 21STCV40558 ASHLEY OELSEN vs
KATHERINE UNVERFERTH, M.D. et al.
Moving Parties: Defendants Ronald
Reagan UCLA Medical Center (Regents), Nataly Petrovic (Cohen), and Dr.
Katherine Unverferth
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling:
 
NATALY PETROVIC’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿IS GRANTED
 
DR. KATHERINE UNVERFERTH’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT IS GRANTED
 
REGENTS’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION IS DENIED
 
 
 
Background
On November 3, 2021, Plaintiff filed the present case against
several defendants, including Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center (hereinafter
referred to as “Regents”), Nataly Petrovic (Cohen), and Dr. Katherine
Unverferth, for medical malpractice and false imprisonment. All defendants have
since been dismissed from the case except for Regents, Nataly Petrovic (Cohen),
and Dr. Katherine Unverferth. Plaintiff alleges in the Complaint that her
mental health conditions related to her pregnancy were treated by Dr.
Unverferth and Ms. Cohen from July 10, 2020, to July 29, 2020, but she was
discharged from their care afterwards.
On August 11, 2020, Plaintiff visited the emergency department
at UCLA Medical Center, where she was evaluated by psychiatric resident Dr.
Erika Hsu under the consultation of attending psychiatrist Dr. Katherine
Marder. Dr. Hsu allegedly placed Plaintiff on a 72-hour hold (a “5150 hold”) without
probable cause, during which Plaintiff claims she was strapped to a hospital
bed and restrained from seeking help.
Defendants Regents, Nataly Petrovic (Cohen) (hereinafter
referred to singularly as “Defendant Cohen”) and Dr. Unverferth (collectively
referred to as “Defendants”) filed motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication.  Defendants argue their
conduct did not fall below the applicable standard of care.  Defendant Cohen and Dr. Unverferth both also
argue that they were not involved in the 5150 hold decision and that, in any
event, their care of Plaintiff had ended at the time of the hold.  Regents also claims immunity under the
Welfare & Institutions Code.
Judicial Notice
Plaintiff’s request to take judicial notice of Title 22, California
Code of Regulations § 71545 taken from Barclay's Official California Code of
Regulations is granted. Evidence Code §452(b)
Legal Standard 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
  
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving
party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over,
and the motion must be denied. (See Id.; see also Consumer
Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving party does carry its burden, the non-moving
party will still defeat the motion by presenting evidence of a triable issue of
material fact. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
849-50.) 
  
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the
absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero
v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at
p. 855.) 
  
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
  
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what
inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from
the evidence. While viewing
the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary
function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues. [Citation.] Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v.
Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true. [Citation.] Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s
evaluation of credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p.
840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department
of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864
[“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not
weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the
opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)
Immunity under Welfare & Institutions Code
Welfare & Institutions Code section 52781 is a provision under
the Lanterman-Petris-Short Act (section 5000 et seq.) (the “LPS Act”), which
the Legislature enacted in 1967 “to govern the involuntary commitment of
mentally disordered persons.” (Julian v. Mission Community Hospital (2017)
11 Cal.App.5th 360, 374.) “One of the purposes of the Act is to provide ‘prompt
evaluation and treatment of persons with mental health disorders or impaired by
chronic alcoholism . . . To achieve this purpose, a number of [the] Act['s]
provisions allow a person to be removed from the general population in order to
be civilly committed based on a probable cause determination made by a mental
health or law enforcement professional, and then to challenge the civil
commitment within a reasonable time afterwards.” (Id. at 374-75.) “Section
5150 . . . allows law enforcement officers and various medical professionals to
bring an individual to an appropriate facility for assessment, evaluation, and
treatment for up to 72 hours where there is ‘probable cause to believe that the
person is, as a result of mental disorder, a danger to others, or to himself or
herself, or gravely disabled.” (Id. at 375.) “Section 5278 provides
immunity to individuals who exercise this authority in accordance with the law.
This immunity ‘allows individuals authorized to detain a person for 72-hour
treatment and evaluation to make that decision without fear of exposure to
criminal or civil liability.” (Id. at 376; see Cruze v. National
Psychiatric Services, Inc. (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 48, 56 (section 5278
applies to individuals and entities).)
“The immunity under section 5278 is not
absolute. In enacting the statute, the Legislature ‘intended to provide
immunity for claims based on conduct that is expressly authorized by the [Act]
but would otherwise constitute a civil or criminal wrong.’ [Citation.] Thus,
‘the scope of section 5278 immunity extends to claims based on facts that are
inherent in an involuntary detention pursuant to section 5150. If there is
probable cause for the detention, the statute therefore provides immunity for
the decision to detain as well as for the detention and its inherent
attributes, including the fact that the patient must necessarily be evaluated
and treated without consent. These are all inherent aspects of the statutory
scheme and thus cannot provide the basis for a civil suit.’ [Citation.] The
‘protected conduct,’ however, ‘is confined to the exercise of statutory
authority to detain, evaluate and treat against the patient's wishes, and does
not extend to the manner in which evaluation and treatment are carried out.’
[Citation.] Thus, immunity under section 5278 does not extend to ‘negligent
acts, intentional torts, or criminal wrongs committed during the course of the
detention, evaluation, or treatment.” (Julian, supra, 11
Cal.App.5th at 393.)
A probable cause determination is required
before determining whether the immunity under section 5278 applies. (Heater
v. Southwood Psychiatric Center (1996) 42 Cal. App.4th 1068, 1071,
1081-1058 (affirming trial court dismissal of the plaintiff’s complaint based
on findings following evidentiary hearing under Evidence Code section 402 that
defendants had probable cause for detention and thus were immune under section
5278 and immunity extended to all causes of action for false imprisonment,
assault and battery, and medical malpractice).)
Discussion
1.  Defendant Cohen 
Evidence provided by Defendant Cohen showed that she was not involved in
the decision to place Plaintiff on the 72-hour hold or in Plaintiff's treatment
during the hold. Defendant Cohen's interaction with Plaintiff was limited in
scope and time, such as evaluating Plaintiff to determine her eligibility for
the Intensive Outpatient Program (IOP) at UCLA. (Chueh Decl. ¶ 10.) Further, expert
testimony opined that the medical care that Defendant Cohen provided to
Plaintiff did not fall below the applicable standard of care. (Chueh ¶ 13.)
Plaintiff did not provide any countervailing evidence showing Defendant
Cohen’s involvement in the decision to place Plaintiff on hold or in
Plaintiff’s treatment during the hold. Therefore, no triable issue of fact was
raised regarding Plaintiff’s false imprisonment cause of action against Defendant
Cohen.
        Moreover,
Dr. Bassanelli, Plaintiff’s expert, did not opine that Defendant Cohen’s
conduct fell below the standard of care. His opinion is limited to whether
there was probable cause for the 72- hour hold (Bassanelli Decl. ¶ 17) and
whether Dr. Hsu and Dr. Marder’s conduct fell below the standard of care.
(Decl. ¶ 18.) Thus, Defendant Nataly Cohen’s motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
Dr. Unverferth
Dr. Unverferth filed a
separate motion for summary judgment against Plaintiff. Dr. Unverferth
demonstrated that she did not make the decision to place Plaintiff on a 72-hour
hold nor was she involved in Plaintiff’s treatment during the hold.
Additionally, Dr. Unverferth introduced expert opinion that her conduct met the
applicable standard of care (Chueh ¶ 21). Dr. Unverferth has met her initial
burden.
Plaintiff’s separate
statement omitted the portion relating to false imprisonment, and page 4 of the
separate statement is missing. Plaintiff also did not provide counter expert
testimony regarding whether Dr. Unverferth’s conduct fell below the applicable
standard of care. In a medical malpractice case, expert testimony is usually
required. (Flowers v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8
Cal. 4th 992, 1001). The expert testimony cited by Plaintiff in the opposition
pertains only to the probable cause for the hold and the conduct of Dr. Hsu and
Dr. Marder (Bassanelli Decl. ¶ 17-18).
Plaintiff’s additional
undisputed material facts in the separate statement and the evidence presented
do not show that Dr. Unverferth recommended or directed Dr. Hsu to place
Plaintiff on a 72-hour hold. At the time of the incident, Plaintiff was no longer
under Dr. Unverferth’s care. Plaintiff’s evidence showed only that Dr. Hsu
consulted with Dr. Unverferth, and Dr. Unverferth provided Dr. Hsu with her
findings regarding Plaintiff's condition while under her care. The evidence
does not indicate that Defendant Unverferth directed or recommended Dr. Hsu to
place Plaintiff on a 72-hour hold. Plaintiff’s own expert stated, “Unverferth
was clear in her deposition that she did not expect Resident Hsu to rely on her
input in determining whether there was probable cause to issue a 5150.”
(Bassanelli Decl. ¶ 8). Furthermore, Plaintiff has not provided any legal
arguments showing that providing prior patient findings to another doctor could
result in liability for false imprisonment or medical malpractice.
Plaintiff also contends
that Dr. Unverferth provided false information but failed to specify what
information provided by Defendant was false. This argument is also not raised
in the opposition, which appears to be a duplicate of the opposition to Regents'
MSJ. However, Dr. Unverferth’s MSJ differs from Regents’ MSJ because Dr. Unverferth
did not admit Plaintiff for the psychiatric hold. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s
evidence does not support the contention that Dr. Unverferth provided false
information. Although there is testimony from Dr. Unverferth indicating she
requested certain information be removed from Plaintiff’s 8/11/20 consultation
notes (Unverferth Depo 91:25-94:10), this does not substantiate the claim that
she provided false information. Additionally, Plaintiff failed to provide
expert testimony on whether other aspects of Dr. Unverferth’s treatment fell
below the standard of care. Thus, Dr. Unverferth’s motion for summary judgment
as to both medical malpractice and false imprisonment is GRANTED.
UCLA Medical Center (Regents)
Regents essentially
makes three arguments in support of its motion for summary judgment: 1) Regents'
decision to place Plaintiff on hold is entitled to immunity under Welfare and
Institutions Code section 5278; 2) the medical care rendered by Regents
complied with the applicable standard of care; 3) Regents’ restraint or
confinement of Plaintiff was with lawful privilege pursuant to Welfare and
Institutions Code.
Based on the evidence presented, including the expert opinion of Dr.
Chueh, Regents has met its initial burden in demonstrating probable cause for
Plaintiff’s hold. However, establishing probable cause is merely the initial
step in asserting immunity under section 5278. “The statute provides immunity
for the decision to detain as well as for the detention and its inherent
attributes, including the fact that the patient must necessarily be evaluated
and treated without consent. These are all inherent aspects of the statutory
scheme and thus cannot provide the basis for a civil suit. However, the
immunity does not extend to other negligent acts, intentional torts, or
criminal wrongs committed during the course of the detention, evaluation, or
treatment.” (Jacobs v. Grossmont Hospital, (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 69,
78-79.)
The complaint alleges that Plaintiff was strapped to a hospital bed in
an office/lounge setting, restrained in such a manner that she could not move
or call for help, while Defendant’s personnel walked by, observing her
inappropriately. (Complaint ¶23). Regents appears to have overlooked these
allegations in its moving papers and separate statement and has failed to
demonstrate that such treatment did not occur, is inherent to the detention, or
that such actions were not negligent or intentional torts committed during the
course of detention. Thus, Defendant Regents has failed to meet its initial
burden in asserting immunity under section 5278 of the Welfare and Institutions
Code.
Furthermore, Regents' three arguments that Regents is immune under
section 5278, the medical care rendered by Regents complied with the applicable
standard of care, and Regents restrained Plaintiff with lawful privilege all
depend on whether there was probable cause for the hold. The parties presented
expert declarations that reached differing conclusions on the issues of
probable cause and medical malpractice. (Compare Chueh ¶ 13 and
Bassanelli Decl. ¶ 17-18). Plaintiff’s expert opined that there was no probable
cause for the hold (Bassanelli Decl. ¶ 17) and that Dr. Hsu and Dr. Marder,
both employees of Regents, engaged in conduct that fell below the standard of
care (Bassanelli Decl. ¶ 18). Defendants did not file a reply or raise any
evidentiary objections. Thus, Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact as
to Regents’ medical malpractice claim and false imprisonment claim and Regent’s
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.