  Case Number:  23PSCV02093    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  G Order to Show Cause Re: Preliminary Injunction Respondent: Defendants Cynthia  Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED Foundation, SVG Training Foundation, Inc., and San  Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc. TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Hacienda La Puente Unified School District’s  Application for Preliminary Injunction is DENIED without prejudice. BACKGROUND This is an action arising  from alleged misappropriation of non-profit funds. Defendant HLP ED Foundation  (HLP ED) was a non-profit public benefit corporation initially founded in  August 2008. Its alleged purpose was to provide scholarships for the students  of Hacienda La Puente Unified School District (HLPUSD) and fund special  projects that enhanced students’ academic and co-curricular activities. Since  HLP ED’s founding, Defendant Cynthia Parulan-Colfer served as a director. In  2016 and 2018, Parulan-Colfer and another HLP ED board member allegedly used  HLP ED’s funds to provide scholarships for Parulan-Colfer’s children outside  the normal scholarship review process. In 2019, HLP ED’s funds were allegedly  used for Parulan-Colfer’s retirement party. And in July 2020, HLP ED’s funds  were allegedly used to pay Parulan-Colfer’s husband’s law firm for legal  services. In September 2020, HLP ED was  dissolved and Parulan-Colfer allegedly transferred its remaining funds to other  non-profits founded by Parulan-Colfer including Defendants SVG Training  Foundation, Inc. (SVG Training Foundation) and San Gabriel Career Foundation,  Inc. (San Gabriel Career Foundation). As a result, at least one of HLP ED’s  scholarship recipients was unable to cash a scholarship check. On July 12, 2023, Anthony  Duarte and HLPUSD filed a complaint against Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED, SVG  Training Foundation, San Gabriel Career Foundation, and Does 1-50, alleging the  following causes of action: (1) breach of fiduciary obligations and duties, (2)  breach of contract, (3) breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing,  (4) fraud, (5) conversion, (6) breach of charitable trust, (7) money had and  received, (8) unfair business practices, (9) intentional interference with  prospective economic advantage, (10) declaratory relief, and (11) accounting. On October 3, 2023, Duarte  and HLPUSD filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants  alleging the same causes of action with an additional twelfth cause of action  for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duties.¿On January 24, 2024, the court  sustained demurrers to the FAC by HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, San Gabriel  Career Foundation, and Parulan-Colfer in part with leave to amend. On March 22, 2024, Duarte and  HLPUSD filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same defendants  alleging the same causes of action with an additional thirteenth cause of  action for aiding and abetting breach of charitable trust and a fourteenth cause  of action for negligence. They also named Rob Bonta, the Attorney General of  the State California, as an indispensable party. On July 17, 2024, Duarte and  HLPUSD dismissed Bonta from the present action. On July 30, 2024, the court  sustained Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, and San Gabriel  Career Foundation’s demurrer to the SAC without leave to amend and granted  their motions to strike in part. On October 3, 2024, HLPUSD  filed an ex parte application for a temporary restraining order and preliminary  injunction. On October 4, 2024, the court denied HLPUSD’s application for a  temporary restraining order and set a hearing for HLPUSD’s requested  preliminary injunction. An OSC Re: Preliminary  Injunction is set for October 31, 2024, with a case management  conference/status of discovery set for December 2, 2024. ANALYSIS HLPUSD  seeks a preliminary injunction to enjoin SVG Training Foundation and San  Gabriel Career Foundation (collectively, the Entity Defendants) from spending,  disposing, depleting, dissipating, pledging to creditors, encumbering, and  otherwise hypothecating in any manner their bank accounts and other assets in  their possession, custody or control, including all gains, profits and  advantages derived therefrom; destroying financial records in their possession,  custody, or control; and using the described funds and assets to pay their  attorney fees related to this action, during the pendency of this action. For  the reasons set forth below, the court DENIES HLPUSD’s request. Legal Standard “[A]  court will deny a preliminary injunction unless there is a reasonable  probability that the plaintiff will be successful on the merits, but the  granting of a preliminary injunction does not amount to an adjudication of the  merits.” (Beehan v. Lido Isle Community Assn. (1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 858,  866.) “The function of a preliminary injunction is the preservation of the  status quo until a final determination of the merits.” (Ibid.) In  evaluating a party’s request for a preliminary injunction, courts consider “(1)  how likely it is that the moving party will prevail on the merits, and (2) the  relative harm the parties will suffer in the interim due to the issuance or  nonissuance of the injunction.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Services,  Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.) “[T]he greater the . . .  showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.”  (Ibid, quoting Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668,  678.) The balancing of harm between the parties also “involves consideration of  such things as the inadequacy of other remedies, the degree of irreparable  harm, and the necessity of preserving the status quo.” (Husain v. McDonald’s  Corp. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 860, 867, quoting Abrams v. St. John’s  Hospital & health Center (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 628, 636.) The burden of  proof is on the plaintiff as the moving party “to show all elements necessary  to support issuance of a preliminary injunction.” (O’Connell v. Superior  Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.) Discussion As  an initial matter, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants argue HLPUSD failed  to serve the application for a preliminary injunction on them by October 8,  2024, as ordered by the court. (Opp., p. 4:10-22.) But the court’s own minute  order does not reflect this requirement. It states HLPUSD shall “serve the OSC  Re: Preliminary Injunction on the Entity Defendants no later  than October 8, 2024, in a manner compliant with California Rules of Court  3.1150, subdivision  (a).” (10/04/24 Minute Order, p. 2.) The court only ordered service of the OSC,  not the supporting papers which had already been previously served on the  Entity Defendants when the initial ex parte application was filed.  Therefore, the court will address HLPUSD’s  request for a preliminary injunction on its merits. HLPUSD  first argues it is likely to prevail on the merits of its claims because it has  evidence the Entity Defendants have been using the funds transferred from HLP  ED to pay their own attorney fees as well as Parulan-Colfer’s attorney fees.  (Ex Parte App., p. 8:9-9:6.) The court finds that this alone does not, however,  establish the likelihood of HLPUSD’s claims for fraud, common counts, unfair  business practices, intentional interference with prospective economic  advantage, and declaratory relief. While this evidence may establish HLPUSD’s  damages in the present action, a cause of action for fraud also requires HLPUSD  to establish that Parulan-Colfer knowingly made misrepresentations with the  intent to induce HLPUSD’s reliance and that HLPUSD was damaged by justifiably  relying on those representations. (See Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12  Cal.4th 631, 638.) HLPUSD’s argument on this issue fails to address any of  these other elements. While  HLPUSD’s reply provides more analysis, it still fails to persuade the court  with proper grounds demonstrating a likelihood of prevailing on the merits. In  generally pointing to all of its evidence and papers on file with the court  without any specific citations, HLPUSD alleges it can show (1) that monies were  donated to HLP ED for HLPUSD’s benefit, (2) that monies were transferred from  HLP ED to the Entity Defendants at its dissolution without any attempt to  ensure the monies were distributed in a manner constituted with HLP ED’s  purpose, and (3) that Parulan-Colfer failed to provide bank records to the  Registry of Charitable Trusts or notify HLPUSD of the transfer. (Reply, p.  5:5-6.) HLPUSD  argues these facts illustrate Parulan-Colfer misrepresented facts to HLPUSD. (Reply,  p. 5:5-6.) Noticeably absent from this discussion, however, is any mention of  facts establishing that Parulan-Colfer made representations or promises with  the requisite “knowledge of falsity” and “intent to defraud” HLPUSD. (Ibid.)  And to the extent HLPUSD suggests Parulan-Colfer concealed facts from HLPUSD, HLPUSD  fails to establish how Parulan-Colfer owed a duty of disclosure to HLPUSD. (Kaldenbach  v. Mutual of Omaha Life Ins. Co. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 830, 850.) Because  HLPUSD failed to carry its initial burden of establishing its likelihood of  success on the merits of its specific claims alleged in the Second Amended Complaint,  the court finds HLPUSD is not entitled to a preliminary injunction. Accordingly,  the court DENIES HLPUSD’s application. CONCLUSION Based on the above analysis, HLPUSD’s  application for a preliminary injunction is DENIED without prejudice.