 Case Number:  22STCV10032    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  73 10/09/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MALZAHN v. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTHCARE
SERVICES, A PUBLIC ENTITY (22STCV10032)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party:  Charles Ray (Ray
& Seyb LLP)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Rhea Mariano (Deputy
Attorney General)
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE
ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION (filed on 07/12/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
March 23, 2022, Plaintiff Han Malzahn filed this action against Defendant
Department of Health Care Services.
 
On
October 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting
the following causes of action:
1.     
Retaliation
in violation of Public Policy
2.     
Retaliation
in violation of the FEHA
3.     
Disability
Discrimination
4.     
Failure
to Prevent
5.     
Hostile
Work Environment
6.     
Failure
to Engage in the Interactive Process
7.     
Failure
to Accommodate
 
On
February 26, 2024, Plaintiff voluntarily dismissed her first cause of action
for Retaliation in Violation of Public Policy.
 
Plaintiff
alleges she was hired in or around 2007 to work in Defendant’s investigations
branch office in Los Angeles. Plaintiff further alleges this dispute arises out
of Plaintiff’s employment wherein she complained about mistreatment and
resulting medical conditions that were not addressed which resulted in her
constructive discharge. 
 

On July 12, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment or alternatively, summary adjudication, arguing:
·      
Defendant moves for summary judgment or
adjudication of the following issues:
·      
Issue No. 1: For all of Plaintiff’s causes
of action, the undisputed material facts establish that alleged unlawful
conduct that occurred before March 27, 2019, is barred for Plaintiff’s failure
to timely exhaust her administrative remedies.
·      
Issue No. 2: Plaintiff’s ninth cause of
action for failure to provide reasonable accommodation for a disability fails
as a matter of law because the DHCS provided Plaintiff with reasonable
accommodation that enabled her to perform the essential functions of her job.
·      
Issue No. 3: Plaintiff’s eighth cause of
action for failure to engage in the interactive process fails as a matter of
law because the DHCS engaged in the interactive process in good faith to
determine to determine whether it would be possible to implement effective
reasonable accommodations.
·      
Issue No. 4: Plaintiff’s third cause of
action for disability discrimination fails as a matter of law because the
undisputed facts establish that Plaintiff was not subjected to an adverse
employment action because of a qualified disability, and even if she was, DHCS
had non-discriminatory, nonpretextual reasons for its actions.
·      
Issue No. 5: Plaintiff’s second cause of
action for retaliation fails as a matter of law because the undisputed facts
establish that Plaintiff was not subjected to an adverse employment action
because she engaged in a protected activity, and even if she was, DHCS had
non-retaliatory, nonpretextual reasons for its actions.
·      
Issue No. 6: Plaintiff’s seventh cause of
action of action for hostile work environment based on disability, fails as a
matter of law because the undisputed facts establish that Plaintiff was not subjected
to severe or pervasive harassment.
·      
Issue No. 7: Plaintiff’s fourth cause of
action of action for failure to prevent discrimination and harassment fails as
a matter of law because the undisputed facts establish that there was no
actionable discrimination or retaliation.
·      
Issue No. 8: Plaintiff’s entire claim must
fail since she was awarded $350,000.00, by and through an order approving
compromise and release award, in her workers’ compensation claim for the same
injuries and same incidents alleged herein and is therefore barred from
re-litigation due to the rule against double recovery.
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claims are not
time barred and there are
genuine issues of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s causes of action. 
 
Defendant filed a reply maintaining there is no triable issue as to any material fact and Defendant is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law against Plaintiff’s causes of action.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.      Legal
Standard 
 
A party may
move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or
that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Cal. Civ. Proc.
Code § 437c(a).)   “Summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
In determining if the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact, the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the
papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained by
the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except
summary judgment shall not be granted by the court based on inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or evidence
that raise a triable issue as to any material fact.”  (Id., § 437c,
subd. (c).) 
 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment must show “that one or more elements of the cause
of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to
the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also,
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o).) 
 
“The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.  The defendant may also
present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following
extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.  But…
the defendant must indeed present evidence."  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 855 [italics in
original].)   “In other words, all that the defendant need do is to
show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of
action--for example, that the plaintiff cannot prove element¿X.”  (Id.,
at 853.) The court in Aguilar distilled summary judgment to “a
single proposition:  If a party moving for summary judgment in any action
. . . would prevail at trial without submission of any issue of material fact
to a trier of fact for determination, then he should prevail on summary
judgment.  In such a case . . . the ‘court should grant’ the motion ‘and
“avoid a . . . trial’ rendered ‘useless’ by nonsuit or directed verdict or
similar device.  (Id. at 855.) 
 
As noted in Aguilar,
“the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.)  Thus, courts
usually follow a three-step analysis: “First, we identify the issues framed by
the pleadings . . . . [¶] Secondly, we determine whether the moving party’s
showing has established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a
judgment in movant’s favor. . . . [¶] When a . . . motion prima facie justifies
a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the opposition
demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Ojavan
Investors, Inc. v. Cal. Coastal Comm. (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 373, 385
[citation and footnote omitted].) 
  
Opposing
parties must present substantial evidence in order to avoid summary
judgment.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
163.)  “In some instances…, ‘evidence may be so lacking in probative value
that it fails to raise any triable issue.’”  (Whitmire v.
Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1083-1084.)  “A
complete failure of proof concerning an essential element of the nonmoving
party's case necessarily renders all other facts immaterial.”  (Hunter
v. Pacific Mechanical Corp (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1286, disapproved on
other grounds by Aguilar, supra, at 865; accord Saelzler v. Advanced
Group 400 (2001) 25 Cal.4th 763, 780 [“‘If the plaintiff is unable to meet
her burden of proof regarding an essential element of her case, all other facts
are rendered immaterial.’”].) 
 
Courts
“construe the moving party's affidavits strictly, construe the opponent's
affidavits liberally, and resolve doubts about the¿propriety¿of granting the
motion in favor of the party opposing it.’” (Unilab Corp.v. Angeles-IPA
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 622, 636; internal citation omitted.) 
“The court focuses on issue finding; it does not resolve issues of fact. The
court seeks to find contradictions in the evidence, or inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, which raise a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Johnson v. United Cerebral Palsy, etc. (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 740, 754; internal citation omitted.)   
"[S]ummary judgment cannot be granted when the facts are susceptible [of]
more than one reasonable inference...” (Rosas v. BASF Corp.¿(2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1378, 1392.) 
 
B.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
The Court rules on Defendant’s objections to Plaintiff’s evidence in
support of her opposition as follows:
 
Malzahn Declaration 
·      
No. 1: Overruled.
·      
No. 2: Sustained (Lack of Foundation).
·      
Nos. 3-16: Overruled.
·      
No. 17: Sustained (Hearsay).
·      
No. 18: Overruled.
·      
No. 19: Sustained (Lack of Foundation).
·      
Nos. 20-50: Overruled.
·      
No. 51: Sustained (Legal Conclusion).
·      
Nos. 52-53: Overruled.
·      
No. 54: Sustained (Lack of Foundation).
·      
Nos. 55-64: Overruled.
·      
No. 65: Sustained (Hearsay).
·      
Nos. 66-69: Overruled.
·      
No. 70: Sustained (Hearsay).
·      
Nos. 71-76: Overruled.
·      
Nos. 77-79: Sustained (Lack of Foundation, Contradicts prior
testimony).
·      
Nos. 80-103: Overruled.
 
The Court declines to strike Plaintiff’s additional material disputed
facts.
C.      Allegations
in in the FAC
 
The FAC alleges
the following:
 
Plaintiff was
hired in or around 2007 to work in Defendant’s investigations branch office in
Los Angeles. In January 2013, Plaintiff’s coworker Jason Grumet began to harass
Plaintiff, specifically by posing as Plaintiff in two separate incidents (“2013
Incidents”). On one occasion, Mr. Grumet created an email account posing as
Plaintiff filing complaints to supervisors. On the second occasion, Mr. Grumet
allegedly posted flyers in which he pretended to be Plaintiff looking for a
lost item. As a result of these incidents, Defendant transferred Mr. Grumet to
another office. Plaintiff requested that she and Mr. Grumet remain separated
(“Separation Order”). Plaintiff began to develop the following conditions from
2013 during her employment that were an issue up to an including her
resignation: Anxiety, Depression, High blood pressure, Panic attacks, Insomnia,
Dizziness, and severe headaches/migraines. From 2013 to 2018, Plaintiff’s medical conditions persisted,
mostly in part to the fact the Mr. Grumet was still employed, still on emails
and a proper separation had not in fact occurred. Ultimately, Defendant’s unwillingness to separate Grumet from her
on a consistent basis as an accommodation of her medical condition, which
medical condition was caused by Grumet’s harassment of her, led to intolerable working conditions and Plaintiff’s constructive
termination in August 2021.
 
D.     Statute of
Limitations
 
Defendant first
argues that since Plaintiff failed to exhaust her administrative remedies, the
majority of her claims are time-barred.
 
Before filing
an employment discrimination lawsuit under the Fair Employment and Housing Act,
a plaintiff must exhaust their administrative remedies before the Department of
Fair Employment and Housing (now known as the Civil Rights Department). (Gov.
Code §§ 12960(b), (d); 12965(b); see Rojo v. Kliger (1990) 52 Cal.3d 65,
88.) This requirement is jurisdictional. (Miller v. United Airlines, Inc.
(1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 878, 889-90.) To bring a lawsuit against a party under
FEHA, the defendants must have been named in the caption or body of the charge
filed before CRD. (See, e.g., Medix Ambulance Service, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 109 116-18.)¿¿At the conclusion of the
administrative process, which may or may not include an investigation or
administrative remedies, CRD generally issues the employee a right-to-sue
notice. (Id.) 
 
“To exhaust
his or her administrative remedies as to a particular act made unlawful by the
Fair Employment and Housing Act, the claimant must specify that act in the
administrative complaint, even if the complaint does specify other cognizable
wrongful acts.” (Martin v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1718, 1724.) The administrative exhaustion requirement is satisfied
if FEHA claims in a judicial complaint are “like and reasonably related to”
those in the DFEH complaint or “likely to be uncovered in the course of a DFEH
investigation.” (Wills v. Superior Court (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 143,
154; Okoli v. Lockheed Technical Operations Co. (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th
1607, 1617.) A plaintiff exhausts his administrative remedies by identifying a
defendant, even if not by name, as the alleged perpetrator of discrimination in
a DFEH complaint. (Clark v. Superior Court (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 289,
304.) It is sufficient that the complaint contain general terms describing the
alleged discriminatory parties and the alleged discriminatory acts. (Nazir
v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 267.) Administrative
charges are to be construed liberally. (Id.) 
 
“While
resolution of the statute of limitations issue is normally a question of fact,
where the uncontradicted facts established through discovery are susceptible of
only one legitimate inference, summary judgment is proper.”¿(Jolly v. Eli
Lilly & Co. (1988) 44 Cal.3d 1103, 1112.)¿ 
 
The current
Government Code §12960 provides that a DFEH complaint alleging FEHA violations
“shall not be filed after the expiration of three years from the date upon
which the unlawful practice or refusal to cooperate occurred.” (Gov. Code, §
12960(e).) In 2019, the Legislature amended Government Code §12960 with
Assembly Bill No. 9, and the amended statute came into effect on January 1,
2020. Under the former Government Code section 12960 (in effect from January 1,
2018 to December 31, 2019), a DFEH complaint alleging FEHA violations had to be
filed “one year from the date upon which the alleged unlawful practice or
refusal to cooperate occurred,” subject to a certain exceptions. The
legislative digest and section 3 of the bill indicate the “act shall not be
interpreted to revive lapsed claims.” (2019 Cal. Legis. Serv. Ch. 709 (A.B.
9).)¿
 
Here,
Plaintiff filed her second DFEH complaint on March 27, 2020, alleging that DHCS
failed to accommodate her disability allegedly caused by Mr. Grumet and DHCS,
and related claims of discrimination, retaliation and harassment.
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to timely exhaust her administrative remedies for
alleged unlawful acts that occurred more than one year from the dates she filed
her DFEH complaint, i.e., acts before March 27, 2019. Thus, each incident prior
March 27, 2019 is time-barred.
 
However, AB 9
was enacted on January 1, 2020. AB 9 extended live claims right to sue cut-offs
from one year to three. Therefore, any FEHA claim from an event occurring in
2019 is subject to a three-year statute of limitations to secure a right to
sue. “As long as the former limitations period has not expired, an enlarged
limitations period ordinarily applies and is said to apply prospectively to
govern cases that are pending when, or instituted after, the enactment took
effect. This is true even though the underlying conduct that is the subject of
the litigation occurred prior to the new enactment.” (Quarry v. Doe I
(2012) 53 Cal. 4th 945, 956.) Therefore, the Court does not find that
Plaintiff’s claims regarding events occurring in 2019 are barred. 
 
Regarding
Plaintiff’s claims regarding events occurring before 2019, the parties dispute
as to whether the continuing violations doctrine tolls Plaintiff’s claims. 
 
The
continuing violations doctrine is a tolling exception to the one-year statute
of limitations for filing a complaint with the DFEH.¿(Dominguez v.
Washington Mutual Bank (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th at 720-721 [“Dominguez”].)¿Under
the continuing violations doctrine, “a FEHA complaint is timely if
discriminatory practices occurring outside the limitations period continued
into that period.” (Id. at p.721.)¿“A continuing violation exists
if:¿(1) the conduct occurring within the limitations period is similar in
kind to the conduct that falls outside the period; (2) the conduct was reasonably
frequent; and (3) it had not yet acquired a degree of permanence.”¿
(Ibid. [emphasis added].) A continuing violation may be established by
demonstrating a company-wide policy or practice or a series of related acts
against a single individual. (Morgan v. Regents of University of Cal. (2000)
88 Cal.App.4th 52, 64.)  
 
“Similar in
kind” under the continuing violations doctrine does not mean that the “same”
conduct that occurred outside the limitations period must have also occurred
within the limitations period.¿ (Dominguez at p. at 724.)¿ Instead, the
question is whether the “conduct within the limitations period may be viewed as
part of a continuing violation because there is evidence that the former
was related to the latter.”¿ (Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
“Permanent”
in this context means that the conduct has stopped, the plaintiff has resigned,
or the defendant’s statements and actions would make it clear to a reasonable
employee that any further efforts to resolve the issue internally would be
futile. (CACI 2508) 
 
“[W]hen
defendant has asserted the statute of limitation defense, the plaintiff has the
burden of proof to show his or her claims are timely under the continuing
violation doctrine.” (Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 241
Cal.App.4th 1390, 1402.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff fails to show the continuing violations doctrine applies to conduct
outside the limitations period. As discussed above, Plaintiff’s claims
regarding events occurring in 2019 are not barred pursuant to AB 9. However, in
Plaintiff’s opposition she only references the February 14, 2019 conference and
write up in May 15, 2019 as the “trigger for her well documented stress and
anxiety in relation to the 2013 Grumet incident.” (Oppos., p. 13.) Besides
these two events, Plaintiff does not establish there were similar in kind
violations occurring as part of a continuing violation prior to 2019. For
example, in her opposition, Plaintiff does not clearly set forth a series of
related acts taken against her over the years prior to 2019. Since Plaintiff
fails to carry her burden here, the Court finds that the continuing violations
doctrine does not apply. 
 
Accordingly, only
Plaintiff’s claims regarding events occurring in 2019 are not barred.
 
E.      Seventh Cause
of Action: Failure to Accommodate
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication as to the seventh cause
of action for failure to accommodate.
 
“The essential elements of a failure
to accommodate claim are: 1) the plaintiff has a disability covered by the
FEHA; 2) the plaintiff is a qualified individual (i.e., he or she can perform
the essential functions of the position); and 3) the employer failed to
reasonably accommodate the plaintiff’s disability. (Jensen v. Wells Fargo
Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 256.)¿ “[T]he employer cannot prevail on
summary judgment on a claim of failure to reasonably accommodate unless it
establishes through undisputed facts that ‘1) reasonable accommodation was
offered and refused, 2) there simply was no vacant position within the
employer’s organization for which the disabled employee was qualified and which
disabled employee was capable of performing with or without accommodation, or
(3) the employer did everything in its power to find a reasonable
accommodation, but the informal interactive process broke down because the
employee failed to engage in discussions in good faith.’ [Citation.]” (King
v. United Parcel Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 442.)¿
 
According to
the FAC, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to make reasonable
accommodation for Plaintiff’s known disabilities which were disclosed in 2013
and failed to make adequate job changes to accommodate which culminated in
Plaintiff’s resignation from her employment. (FAC, ¶ 117.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s failure to accommodate cause of action fails because Defendant did provide Plaintiff
with a reasonable accommodation. As discussed
above, only claims regarding events occurring in 2019 are not barred. Defendants
assert that the only reasonable accommodation Plaintiff requested was a
Separation Order. The only event in 2019 in which Plaintiff alleged that
Defendant failed to accommodate her was during the February 2019 Medi-Cal
Training conference that both Plaintiff and Mr. Grumet attended. One of
Plaintiff’s supervisors, Guillermo Reyes, stated that in a meeting with Plaintiff,
they agreed that the Department would attempt to keep Plaintiff and Mr. Grumet separate
at the conference, including by keeping them in separate Defensive Tactics
classes. (Reyes Decl. ¶ 22.) On or about February 14, 2019, at the Medi-Cal
Academy, Plaintiff was in a large conference room/hotel ballroom, shortly
before the start of the all-staff training for approximately 80 people.
Plaintiff was sitting at a table (with seating for 10-12 people) when she saw
Grumet and his friends sit at another table behind her. (Ibid.) On February 14, 2019, Grumet did not say anything to Plaintiff
when he sat at a table near Plaintiff’s table. (Malzahn Depo. vol. I,
142:21-143:7, 146:9-11; Reyes Decl. ¶ 25.) When Plaintiff asked a supervisor to
remove Mr. Grumet, the supervisor suggested Plaintiff sit at the supervisor’s
table instead. (Ibid.) Reyes believed that was a reasonable suggestion. (Reyes
Decl. ¶ 25.)  Thus, Defendant asserts
that during the conference, it provided Plaintiff a reasonable accommodation by
attempting to keep Plaintiff and Mr. Grumet separate. Further, Defendant contends
that where an accommodation is not necessary to permit a disabled employee to
perform the essential functions of their job, then no reasonable accommodation
is mandated. (Scotch v. Art Institute of California (2009) 173
Cal.App.4th 986, 1012.) Reyes states that Department gave Plaintiff the option
not to attend the Medi-Cal Academy because Mr. Grumet was likely to be there.
(Reyes Decl., ¶ 19.)
Here, the
Court finds Defendant carries its burden. Thus, Defendant has shown that
Plaintiff cannot establish elements of her claim. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff.
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant did not accommodate
Plaintiff in her request to be consistently separated from Grumet. However,
Plaintiff does not set forth how Defendant failed to accommodate her at the
February 2019 Medi-Cal Training conference, as Defendants had provided evidence
that they scheduled Plaintiff and Mr. Grumet to attend different trainings, and
attempted to move Plaintiff from Mr. Grumet’s vicinity at the all-staff
training.  
 
Further, the Court notes that FEHA does not require Defendant to
only choose Plaintiff’s specific accommodation. “FEHA does not obligate an
employer to choose the best accommodation or the specific accommodation a
disabled employee or applicant seeks. [Citation.] It requires only that the
accommodation chosen be ‘reasonable.’” (Raine v. City of Burbank (2006)
135 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222 [citing Gov. Code § 12940, subds. (a) & (m)].)
“The employer or other covered entity shall consider the preference of the applicant
or employee to be accommodated, but has the right to select and implement an
accommodation that is effective for both the employee and the employer or other
covered entity.” (2 CCR § 11068, subd. (e).) Similarly, during the interactive
process, “The employer or other covered entity shall consider the preference of
the applicant or employee to be accommodated, but has the right to implement an
accommodation that is effective in allowing the applicant or employee to
perform the essential functions of the job.” (2 CCR § 11069, subd.
(c)(8).) While a "reasonable accommodation" is undefined by
statute, courts have defined it to mean "a modification or adjustment to
the workplace that enables the employee to perform the essential
functions" of her job. (Nadaf-Rahrov v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 952, 986.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find Plaintiff has met her burden. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
summary adjudication as to the seventh cause of action.
 
F.       Sixth Cause
of Action: Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication as to the sixth cause
of action for failure to engage in the interactive process.
 
FEHA requires
employers to timely engage in good faith interactive process with a disabled
employee to determine effective reasonable accommodations in response to a
request for reasonable accommodation. (Cal. Govt. Code, § 12940, subd. (n).)
"To prevail on a claim under section 12940, subdivision (n) for failure to
engage in the interactive process, an employee must identify a reasonable
accommodation that would have been available at the time the interactive
process should have occurred." (Scotch v. Art Institute of California
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 986, 1018- 1019.) "[I]f the [interactive] process
fails, responsibility for the failure rests with the party who failed to
participate in good faith. While a claim of failure to accommodate is
independent of a cause of action for failure to engage in an interactive
dialogue, each necessarily implicates the other." (Gelfo v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 34, 54 [internal citations omitted].)
"FEHA requires an informal process with the employee to identify
reasonable accommodations, not necessarily ritualized discussions."
(Nealy, supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p. 379.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s Failure to Enter Into the Interactive Process
cause of action is premised on the same conduct as her Failure to Accommodate
cause of action. As discussed above, the Court found Plaintiff did not carry
her burden of establishing a triable issue of material fact as to her Failure
to Accommodate cause of action. An
employee who has been reasonably accommodated cannot maintain a claim for
failure to engage in the interactive process. (Soldinger v. Northwest
Airlines, Inc. (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th 345, 370.) Therefore, , Plaintiff also
failed to carry her burden and establish a triable issue of material fact as to
this cause of action. 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS
summary adjudication as to the sixth cause of action. 
 
G.     Third Cause
of Action: Disability Discrimination
 
Defendant
moves for summary adjudication as to the third cause of action on the ground
that
Plaintiff is unable to establish a
prima facie claim for discrimination under the FEHA.
 
A plaintiff alleging discrimination must allege “that (1) he was a member
of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position he sought or was
performing competently in the position he held, (3) he suffered an adverse
employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial of an available
job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory motive.” (Guz
v. Bechtel National Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) To satisfy its
initial summary judgment burden, moving party employer must either undermine an
element of plaintiff's prima facie case by affirmatively negating it or showing
plaintiff cannot prove it, or provide a legitimate nondiscriminatory reason for
the adverse employment action. (McGrory v. Applied Signal Tech., Inc.¿(2013)
212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1523.) 
 
In the context of disability discrimination claims, the
Courts of Appeal boil these prima facie elements down from four to three: “that
the plaintiff (1) suffered from a disability or was regarded as suffering from
a disability, (2) could perform the essential duties of a job with or without
reasonable accommodations, and (3) was subjected to an adverse employment
action because of the disability or perceived disability.” (Glynn v.
Superior Court (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 47, 53 fn.1.)¿¿ 
 
A
physical or medical disability constitutes a disability under FEHA when that
physical or mental disability requires “a limitation upon a major life
activity.” (Gov. Code. § 129261.1(c).) The limitation need not be a substantial
one as required under the Federal Americans with Disabilities act of 1990. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s claim of disability discrimination
fails because she was not subjected to any adverse action. “Adverse employment action” must be
substantial and detrimental, and can include refusal to promote, transfer of
job duties, and reducing employee’s authority if the terms and conditions of
employment are materially affected. (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1060-1061.) 
 
First, as discussed above Plaintiff has not established that Defendant
failed to accommodate her. Nevertheless, as Defendant asserts, a failure to
accommodate an employee’s disability does not qualify as an adverse action
underlying a discrimination or retaliation claim. (Doe v. Department of
Corrections & Rehabilitation (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 721, 735–36.)
 
In Plaintiff’s FAC, she alleges she was constructively terminated due to
Defendant’s failure to accommodate her. Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
allegations could not amount to the high standard of intolerable conduct
required to support an allegation of constructive termination. An employee
claiming constructive discharge must prove “that the employer either
intentionally created or knowingly permitted working conditions that were so
intolerable or aggravated at the time … that a reasonable employer would
realize that a reasonable person in the employee’s position would be compelled to
resign.” (Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1251.)
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has not established that Defendant failed
to accommodate her. Thus, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff cannot plead any
facts supporting a claim of constructive discharge, e.g., a loss or reduction
in job classification, position, salary, benefits or work hours. The Court
finds that Defendant has carried its burden. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that her constructive termination was due
to Defendant’s failure to accommodate her. However, since the Court has found
Plaintiff has failed to establish that Defendant failed to accommodate her,
Plaintiff fails to carry her burden on this cause of action. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS
summary adjudication as to the third cause of action. 
 
H.     Second Cause
of Action: Retaliation
 
Defendant moves for summary
adjudication as to the second cause of action for retaliation.
 
To show
retaliation under the FEHA, a plaintiff must show the following elements: (1)
plaintiff engaged in protected activity, (2) adverse employment action, (3)
retaliatory intent, and (4) a causal link between the protected activity and
the adverse employment action. (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)
 
Plaintiff’s retaliation claim is premised on the same conduct as the
disability discrimination claim. As discussed above, Plaintiff cannot establish
that Defendant subjected her to an adverse employment action. Therefore, the Court
incorporates by reference its prior discussion of these same arguments with
respect to the disability discrimination claim and, for the same reasons, finds
summary adjudication of the second claim for retaliation appropriate. 
 
As such, summary adjudication as to the second cause of action in the Complaint
for retaliation is GRANTED. 
 
I.       
Fifth Cause of Action: Hostile Work Environment
 
Defendant moves
for summary judgment as to the fifth cause of action on the ground that
Plaintiff
is unable to establish a prima facie claim for harassment. 
 
To establish a prima facie case for¿harassment, a plaintiff must show
that (1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was subjected to
unwelcome¿harassment; (3) the¿harassment¿was based on¿a protected
characteristic; and (4) the¿harassment¿unreasonably interfered with his work
performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.
(Thompson v. City of Monrovia¿(2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)¿¿“The
law prohibiting harassment is violated when the workplace is permeated with
discriminatory intimidation, ridicule and insult that is sufficiently severe or
pervasive to alter the¿conditions of the victim’s employment and create an
abusive working environment.” (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc.¿(2009) 178
Cal.App.4th 243, 263 [internal quotations¿and brackets¿omitted].)
 
A single incident of harassment may be enough to constitute a hostile
work environment if it “unreasonably interfered with the plaintiff’s work
performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (b).)¿ The court shall use the
totality of the circumstances to determine whether there exists a hostile work
environment.¿ (Gov. Code, § 12923, subd. (c).)¿ Where the evidence establishes
that Plaintiff did not endure conduct "so severe and pervasive as to alter
the conditions of his employment," summary judgement is appropriate. (McCoy
v. Pacific Maritime Association (2013) 216 Cal. App. 4th 283, 294.)
 
Defendant argues that there is no evidence that anyone subjected
Plaintiff to harassment. While Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that she was
harassed in that she was not accommodated or provided a reasonable interactive
process, the Court does not find that this constitutes harassing conduct.  Moreover, as discussed above, the Court finds
that Defendant established that Plaintiff was provided a reasonable
accommodation and interactive process. 
The Court finds that Defendant has carried its initial burden as to this
cause of action. 
 
Besides pointing to Defendant’s failure to accommodate, Plaintiff does
not identify specific harassing conduct by Defendant. Thus, Plaintiff fails to create a triable issue of material fact
regarding her fifth cause of action. 
 
In sum, the Court finds that Defendant has met its burden to show
Defendant did not engage in harassing conduct. Plaintiff failed to meet her
burden of raising triable issues of material fact. As such, summary
adjudication for the fifth cause of action in the FAC for hostile work
environment is GRANTED.
 
J.       
Fourth Cause of Action: Failure to Prevent Discrimination
 
Defendant moves
for summary judgment as to the fourth cause of action for Failure to Prevent
Discrimination.
 
Where
there has been no discrimination or retaliation, the employer cannot be liable
for failure to prevent these from occurring. (Trujillo v. North County
Transit Dist. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 280, 289.) Here, Plaintiff has not
established discrimination or retaliation.
 
Therefore,
summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action is GRANTED.
 
K.      Whether the
Compromise and Release bars Plaintiff’s Claims
 
As discussed
above, the Court has granted summary judgment on each of Plaintiff’s claims.
Thus, Defendant’s argument regarding whether the Compromise and Release bars
Plaintiff’s claims is moot. The Court does not discuss the merits of
Defendant’s argument. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
 