 Case Number:  23STCV13321    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2024    Dept:  73 10/09/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ALATORRE-ESTEVEZ v. GENERAL MOTORS,
LLC (23STCV13321)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Nancy Zhang (Consumer
Law Experts, PC)
Counsel for Defendants/opposing
party:  Mary Arens McBride (Erskine Law
Group, PC)
 
MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL DEPOSITION
OF DEFENDANT’S PERSON(S) MOST QUALIFIED (filed 09/03/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s Person
Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED. 
BACKGROUND
 
On June 9, 2023, Plaintiff Veronica
Alatorre-Estevez filed this action against Defendant General Motors LLC for
violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warrant Act. 
 
Plaintiffs allege this action arises out of the warranty
obligations of Defendant in connection with a 2020 GMC Sierra vehicle purchased
by Plaintiffs and for which Defendant issued a written warranty. (Complaint, ¶¶ 10-15.)

 
On September
3, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for an Order to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s
Person(s) Most Knowledgeable
(“PMK”) to sit for deposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff’s Amended Notice of Deposition of the Person(s) Most
Qualified for Defendant General Motors LLC and Demand to Produce Documents at
Deposition seeks testimony relating to: (1) information regarding Plaintiff’s
vehicle and individual request to Defendant for a repurchase and Defendant’s
subsequent denial of that request; (2) Defendant's internal investigation and
analysis of the powertrain system in 2020 GMC Sierra vehicles, which will
establish that Defendant previously knew of the Engine Defect and Transmission
Defect but nevertheless improperly refused to repurchase the Plaintiff’s
vehicle, and (3) Defendant’s general warranty and vehicle repurchase policies,
procedures, and practices.
·      
The information sought is indisputably relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims
o  
On February 16, 2024, the Court granted, in part, Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, which ordered further responses and documents to requests
that sought similar internal information as was requested within these
Categories. Thus, the Court has already impliedly ruled that Plaintiff is
entitled to this information.
·      
Defendant has ignored each and every one of Plaintiff’s attempts
to meet and confer to obtain dates for its witness’ availability for deposition
on these categories to proceed.
·      
Defendant continues to improperly and baselessly refuse to produce
a witness.
·      
 
 
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·       GM agreed
(and remains willing) to produce a witness to testify about repairs made to
Plaintiff’s vehicle, recalls and technical service bulletins, warranties,
communications, the Owner’s Manual, and the reasons that GM did not repurchase
Plaintiff’s vehicle.
·       Although GM
has agreed to produce its PMQ on these topics, Plaintiff has refused to proceed
and, in so doing, failed to meet and confer in good faith as required by CCP
Sections 2025.450 and 2025.480. Plaintiff’s bad faith discovery tactics and her
overbroad, irrelevant requests should cause this Court to deny her baseless
motion in its entirety.
·       Plaintiff
failed to submit a separate statement accompanying Plaintiff’s Motion, in
violation of Cal. R. Court, Rule 3.1345
·       Plaintiff
Seeks Testimony on Categories for Which GM Has Already Agreed to Produce a
Witness.
·       Plaintiff’s
Requests Impermissibly Seek Production of Trade Secret Material.
 
Plaintiff filed a reply maintaining the Court should grant her
motion.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard
 
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.) A party desiring to take an oral deposition shall give a notice in
writing which states the specification of reasonably particularly of any
materials to be produced by the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd.
(a)(4).) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party to
attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a
deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for
which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(a).)  
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having
served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, … or to produce for
inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice, the party giving
the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document … described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)   
 
A
motion brought to compel a deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition … by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
 
B.     Meet and
Confer 
 
Plaintiff has lodged her counsel, Joseph Liu’s,
declaration in support of her motion. Mr. Liu’s declaration shows that he made
multiple good faith attempts to resolve the deposition issue prior to filing
this motion. Despite those efforts, Defendants have failed to meet and confer
with Plaintiff regarding the proposed subjects for examination or given
Plaintiff a date to schedule the deposition. Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiff
has satisfied the meet and confer requirements of Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450, subdivision (d)(2).
 
C.     Request for
an Order Compelling Defendant to Appear at Deposition
 
Plaintiff has presented evidence that she made
multiple efforts to schedule the deposition of Defendant’s PMK. On August 9 2024, Plaintiff e-served
the Amended Deposition Notice on Defendant. (Liu Decl., ¶¶ 16 and 17, Exs. 4
and 5.) After Defendant served its responses and objections to the Amended
Deposition Notice, on August 15, 2024, Plaintiff sent a meet and confer e-mail
requesting alternative dates to reschedule Defendant’s PMK deposition. (Liu
Decl., ¶ 19, Ex. 7.) The e-mail requested Defendant respond by August 21, 2024.
(Id.) Having received no response, on August 22, 2024, Plaintiff
sent a follow up e-mail requesting Defendant propose some dates that fall
before the Discovery Cut-Off for Plaintiff’s consideration by no later than
August 30, 2024. (Liu Decl., ¶ 20, Ex. 8.) Plaintiff contends that Defendant
has provided no further response. (Liu Decl., ¶¶ 16-21.)
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has established good
cause to compel the requested testimony. The requested information is relevant
and probative. The Court also notes that Defendant asserts Plaintiff failed to
file a separate statement with her motion. However, a separate statement is not required
when no response has been provided to the request for discovery. (California
Rules of Court 3.1345(b).)
 
Accordingly, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request
for an order compelling the Defendant’s PMK to attend and testify at
deposition. 
 
CONCLUSION 

Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel
Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Knowledgeable is GRANTED. 