  Case Number:  22STCV24736    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Petition of Petitioner Joanna Simental for Expedited Approval of Compromise of
Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with
a Disability [regarding Claimant Yecemery Simental]. Petition of Petitioner Joanna
Simental for Expedited Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition
of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability [regarding
Claimant Keily Ceja]. Petition of Petitioner Juan Antonio
Salvador Espino for Expedited Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
[regarding Claimant Johnny Salvador]. Petition of Petitioner Juan Antonio
Salvador Espino for Expedited Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or
Disposition of Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability
[regarding Claimant Aleah Salvador].
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs,
who were tenants of an apartment at 4923 Wall St., Los Angeles, filed suit
against the apartment building owner and manager Mehrdad Enayati, as Trustee of
the M E and H M Trust (“Defendant”) for alleged habitability issues. Plaintiffs
consist of two parents and their four minor children.
The poor
conditions at the apartment reportedly included (1) cockroach infestation, (2)
bedbug infestation, (3) rodents infestation, (4) termite infestation, (5) water
leaks and plumbing issues, (6) cracks and crevices throughout the units, (7)
deteriorating cabinetry, (8) missing or defective smoke or carbon monoxide
detector, (9) door frame damage, (10) damaged flooring/tile, (11) plumbing work
done without a permit or inspection approval, (12) unapproved construction, (13)
defective or non-functioning water heater leaving tenants without water, (14)
under floor support unstable or deteriorated, (15) unapproved water heater
pressure relief valve, (16) unsecured walkway, (17) defective or non-operatable
emergency security bars, (18) peeling paint throughout the unit (bathtub,
living room, kitchen, and bedrooms), (19) broken or missing electrical switch
plates, (20) missing or torn window screens, and (21) damaged front door
locking latch. Complaint, ¶ 19.
Petitioners, who are the parent Plaintiffs and the guardian
ad litems of the four minor children, filed petitions requesting Court approval
of settlements of four minor claimants who, as Defendant’s tenants, allegedly suffered
from uninhabitable conditions leading to bedbug bites and emotional distress.
LEGAL STANDARD
Courts must decide whether to approve a compromise by
determining if petitioners, such as guardians, are acting in the best interests
of minors. E.g., Code Civ. Proc., § 372, subdiv. (a); Scruton v. Korean Air
Lines Co. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1596, 1603-1607. “[T]he protective role the
court generally assumes in cases involving minors, [is] a role to assure that
whatever is done is in the minor's best interests….  [I]ts primary concern is whether the
compromise is sufficient to provide for the minor's injuries, care and
treatment.”  Goldberg v. Superior
Court (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1382. Judicial discretion in approving
petitions for minors’ compromises, and ordering distributions, and local court
policies, must be applied in the best interests of minors, in a case-by-case
method, tailored to the circumstances.  Christensen
v. Superior Court (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 139, 142-144.
A petition for court approval of a compromise under
Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must comply with California Rules of Court
rules 7.950, 7.951, and 7.952. See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384(a). Some of
the Probate Code and the Code of Civil Procedure apply to compromises as to
minors’ claims. See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.950. In large part, the Local
Rules incorporate by reference the California Rules of Court and statutory
provisions. See Super. Ct. LA County, Local Rules, rule 4.115 et seq.
A payment of attorneys’ fees on the minor’s behalf
must be approved as being reasonable by the court. Niles v. City of San
Rafael (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 230, 244. “The trial court itself must develop
and resolve any counterarguments on behalf of the minor, lest the attorney
receive an excessive award of fees.” Gonzalez v. Chen (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 881, 887.
 
ANALYSIS
In advocating settlement approvals, both Petitioners represent
that they made a careful and diligent inquiry and investigation into the facts
and circumstances, the responsibility, and the claimants’ injuries.
Here, the Court finds that the Petitioners are acting
in the best interests of minors in proposing to obtain approval for the
settlement and minors’ compromises.
The Court finds that the proposed settlement amounts of
$7,000.00 each, have been typical among the many like cases seen in this court,
as to minors who lived in uninhabitable conditions, fully recovered, and
required no medical treatment.
Further, attorneys’ fees in the sum of $2,100.00 per claimant,
pursuant to a written attorney-client agreement, equals 30 percent of the
settlement amount, and would leave a balance of $4,900.00 to be deposited in a
financial institution account for withdrawal with court approval. Those sums
are also standard and reasonable as to like settlements.
As for the claimants’ potential recovery, the Court has
analyzed the supportive merits of Plaintiffs’ allegations, in ruling on a
demurrer on 11/10/22.
CONCLUSION
Therefore, all four petitions are granted as prayed. The
Court will sign and file proposed orders lodged by the petitioners.