  Case Number:  23VECV03021    Hearing Date:   July 19, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




KASOWER
  PROPERTIES, LLC,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
BORIS
  DOBRIN,
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03021              107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:       
MOTION
  TO QUASH



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE
DECISION:]
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant, the Testing Company LLC’s Motion to Quash Summons and Service of
the First Amended Complaint, is DENIED. 
 
Defendant is ordered to file a responsive pleading to the FAC within 30
days of the Court’s Order. 
 
FACTUAL BACKGROUND
 
This is a breach of contract case. Plaintiff Kasower Properties, LLC filed
this action against Defendants Boris Dobrin (“Dobrin”), The Testing Company,
LLC and Does 1-10, inclusive, asserting one cause of action for breach of
contract. 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges the following, among
other things.
 
On November 11, 2022, Plaintiff entered into a commercial lease agreement
(the “Lease”) with The Testing Company, LLC (“TTC”) whereby TTC agreed to lease
Plaintiff’s property at 26010 Mureau Road, Calabasas, CA 91302 (the “Premises”)
at the rate of $65,000 per month. (FAC, ¶ 10.) 
 
Along with the Lease, Defendant Dobrin executed a guarantee of the Lease
(“Guaranty”), guaranteeing payment of all rents and other sums payable by TTC under
the Lease. (FAC, ¶ 11; Exhibit B – a copy of the Lease and Guaranty.) Although
the Lease was amended on February 15 and November 23, 2023, the amendments did
not alter the terms of the Guaranty. (FAC, ¶ 12; Exhibits C and D – copies of
the amendments.) 
 
Plaintiff performed all of the conditions and covenants required under the
Guaranty except to the extent such performance was excused or prevented. (FAC,
¶ 27.) 
 
On June 26, 2023, Plaintiff served Dobrin with a 3 Day Notice to Pay Rent,
notifying Defendant and TTC that $113,737 remained due under the Lease. (FAC, ¶
14.) Plaintiff has not received the past-due rent, and TTC remains in
possession of the Premises. (FAC, ¶ 15.) 
 
TTC has breached its contractual obligation under the Guaranty by failing
to pay the amounts owed to Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 29.)
 
PROCEDURAL
BACKGROUND
 
On July 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed its Complaint. 
 
On August 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Application for Right to Attach
Order and Order for Issuance of Writ of Attachment (the “First Writ
Application”). 
 
On September 18, 2023, the Court denied Dobrin’s claim for a homestead
exemption, and granted the First Writ Application. (September 18 Order, p. 8.)
However, instead of granting Plaintiff’s request for an attachment of $524,032
against the Kingston Court Property, the Court only allowed an attachment of
$113,737, representing the amount of rent TTC had defaulted at that time.
(September 18 Order, p. 4 [the second full paragraph].) 
 
On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second Application for Right to
Attach Order, Writ of Attachment, and for a Temporary Protective Order against Dobrin
(the “Second Writ Application”). 
 
On February 8, 2024, the Court denied the Application without prejudice. 
 
On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to amend and file a
first amended complaint and continuance of the trial date. On May 13, 2024, the
Court granted both motions and gave leave for Plaintiff leave to file its first
amended Complaint. 
 
On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative FAC against Defendants. 
 
On June 24, 2024, Defendant TTC filed the instant motion to quash service
of summons. Plaintiff filed in opposition on July 08, 2024. TTC filed its reply
on July 12, 2024.
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court rules on the Testing Co. LLC’s request for Judicial Notice as
follows.
 

Nos.
     1-5 are GRANTED under Evidence Code §452(c) as the Documents are official
     acts of the California and Wyoming Secretary of States. 

 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“A defendant who takes the position that the
service of summons as made upon him did not bring him within the jurisdiction
of the court, may serve and file a notice of motion to quash the service.” (Coulston
v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 866, 868.) “The effect of such notice is to
place upon the plaintiff the burden of proving the facts that did give the
court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” Ibid.
“A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within
any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a
notice of motion . . . [t]o quash service of summons on the ground of lack of
jurisdiction of the court over him or her.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd.
(a)(1).) Personal service is accomplished when a copy of the summons and
complaint is delivered to the person to be served. (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10.)
 
“[T]he filing of a proof of service creates a
rebuttable presumption that . . . service was proper.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co. (1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441.) “[A] registered process
server’s declaration establishes a presumption affecting the burden of
producing evidence of the facts stated in the declaration.” (American
Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.) “[A]
registered process server’s declaration of service establishes a presumption
that the facts stated in the declaration are true.” (Rodriguez v. Cho
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 742, 750.) A court is “not required to accept . . .
self-serving evidence contradicting the process server’s declaration.” (Id.
at p. 751.)  
 
“In lieu of personal delivery of a copy of the
summons and complaint to the person to be served . . . a summons may be served
by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint during usual office hours in his
or her office or, if no physical address is known, at his or her usual mailing
address, other than a United States Postal Service post office box, with the
person who is apparently in charge thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of
the summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to
be served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (a).)
“If a copy of the summons and complaint cannot
with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served .
. . a summons may be served by leaving a copy of  the summons and complaint at the person’s
dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual business, or usual mailing address
other than a United States Postal Service post office box, in the presence of a
competent member of the household or a person apparently in charge of his or
her office, place of business, or usual mailing address other than a United
States Postal Service post office box, at least 18 years of age, who shall be
informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the
summons and complaint by first-class mail, postage prepaid to the person to be
served at the place where a copy of the summons and complaint were left.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
TTC. moves to quash the summons and service of
the FAC, arguing that service is improper as Plaintiff used Testing Co.’s
Wyoming name, “The Testing Company, LLC,” instead of its California name, “The
Testing Co. LLC,” when it served TTC’s California agent of process, who was
only familiar with the California name. (Mot. pp. 4-5.) TTC claims the
discrepancy creates uncertainty for its service agent to properly forward
documents to its Wyoming service of process agent, raising concerns about
receiving proper notice of the action. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts that its service on TTC substantially
complied with CCP § 416.10(a). Plaintiff points out that TTC acknowledges it
received actual notice of the summons and First Amended Complaint, although it
has not disclosed how it received this notice. Plaintiff further provides the
declaration of its counsel, who states that before attempting service, he
inquired whether defense counsel would accept service on behalf of “The Testing
Company”, as it had done previously; however, no response was received. (Gizer
Decl. ¶ 2; Exh. B.) 
 
In reply, TTC argues that Plaintiff lacks evidence that the Defendant
received actual knowledge through service on BusinessRocket, Inc., and instead
speculates.
 
The Court finds service to be proper in this case. First, the Court notes
that generally there is a presumption of valid service when presented with a
proof of service from a registered process server. “Evidence Code section 647
provides that a registered process server’s declaration of service establishes
a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence of the facts stated in
the declaration. [Citation.]” (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara
(2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code § 647.) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure § 416.10(a) provides that summons may be served on
a person designated as the agent for service of process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 416.10, subd. (a).) Here,
the proof of service filed on May 29, 2024, indicates that the registered
process server served copied of the summons and FAC to Isiah Z., a person
authorized to accept service for BusinessRocket, Inc. BusinessRocket is
identified as the Agent for Service for process for TTC. TTC primarily relies
on several judicially noticed documents to support its contention that service
needed to have been made to “The Testing Co. LLC” rather than “The Testing
Company, LLC.” However, TTC presents no admissible evidence, such as a
declaration from BusinessRocket, Inc., indicating that such confusion is a
valid concern and thus has resulted in them not serving TTC with summons and the
FAC. Moreover, TTC does not dispute that BusinessRocket, Inc. is their agent
for service of process. Thus, based on the foregoing, the Court finds service
in this case to be proper. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant, the Testing Company LLC’s Motion to Quash Summons and Service of
the First Amended Complaint, is DENIED. 
 
Defendant is ordered to file a responsive pleading to the FAC within 30
days of the Court’s Order. 
 
 
Dated:  July 19, 2024                                                                          _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court