  Case Number:  19SMCV00056    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Marasco, et
al., v. 1753 9th Street LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00056
MOTION:                  Motion
to Interplead Disputed Settlement Funds and Deem Invalid Certain Attorneys’
Liens
HEARING DATE:   5/1/2024

 
Analysis
 
Plaintiffs Antonio Marasco, Theresa
Marasco, Holly Burns and Simon Valenzuela move for an order interpleading
certain settlement funds with the Court. Plaintiffs explain that Zhana
Azizzadeh and Arpa Rostami from the Metis Law Group and Attorney Whitney
Ackerman purport to have a lien on the settlement funds. Essentially,
Plaintiffs seek a declaration as to the validity and enforceability of their
former attorneys’ liens and entitlement to the settlement proceeds from this
action. Plaintiffs, however, do not establish that the Court has jurisdiction
to adjudicate their former attorneys’ contract or equitable claims in this matter.
 
Generally, courts recognize two
types of attorneys’ liens to secure expenses and fees: (1) general retaining
(possessory) liens on the client’s papers and personal property within the
attorney’s possession; and (2) specific charging (non-possessory) liens or
equitable rights to satisfy the attorney expenses and fees out of the judgment
recovered. (1 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (4th ed. 1996) Attorney’s Lien, at 248.) A
lien in favor of an attorney upon the proceeds of a prospective judgment in
favor of his client for legal services rendered, i.e., an attorney's
contractual or charging lien, is equitable in nature. (Brienza v. Tepper
(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1839, 1847; see Saltarelli & Steponovich v.
Douglas (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1, 3 [filing of a notice of lien by the
attorney is not necessary to protect their security interest].) Critically, a
contractual lien for attorney fees must be enforced in an independent action
by the attorney against the client. (Curtis v. Estate of Fagan (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 270, 278.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ former attorneys are
not parties to this action and lack any right to intervene in this action. There
has been no service of process on the attorneys. Plaintiffs have not asserted
any declaratory relief action against their former attorneys. Thus, any order
or judgment in this matter determining the validity of the former attorneys’ fees
would be in excess of jurisdiction and void.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.