  Case Number:  21STCV16180    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May
6, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE:  January 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Carlos
Chavez v. Schlumberger Technology Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV16180
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, 
OR
IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Schlumberger Technology Corporation and Timothy
Ramey
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Carlos Chavez
 
 
I.          FACTUAL
AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
Carlos Chavez (“Chavez”) was employed
by Schlumberger Technology Corporation (“Schlumberger”).  In the early 2000s, Chavez was diagnosed with
diabetes.  Years later, as a result of
that condition, Chavez developed ulcers and gangrene in his right foot.  Chavez informed Schlumberger of his condition
and thereafter went on CFRA leave from October 2018 to May 2019.  Upon his return to work in or about May 2019,
Chavez was allowed to work in an office. 
His job title and duties changed but his salary remained the same.  Chavez
complained to Human Resources about the change in his job position, which was
eventually restored.  As alleged by
Chavez, his complaint upset Chavez’s supervisor, Timothy Ramey (“Ramey”), who
responded by mocking Chavez during shift change team meetings.  
 
In March 2020, Chavez developed an
ulcer on his left foot.  In April/May
2020, Chavez informed Ramey that his doctor directed him to take time off.  Ramey replied, “you can’t take a doctor’s
notice because if you do, you’re going to get terminated” or words to that
effect.  
 
In June 2020, Chavez was laid off.  Chavez was told the purported reason for his
layoff was cost-saving measures related to COVID-19.  Chavez argues the purported reason for his
termination was contrived, and the real reason he was terminated was because of
his physical disabilities, his need to take medical leave due to his physical
disabilities, and his need for future leave(s) of absence due to his physical
disabilities.   
 
On April 29, 2021, Chavez (“Chavez”
or “Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Schlumberger and Ramey (collectively,
“Defendants”), alleging causes of action for (1) Interference with Right to
Medical Leave under the California Family Rights Act, (2) Retaliation for Taking
Medical Leave under the California Family Rights Act, (3) Retaliation for Taking
Medical Leave, (4) Discrimination, (5) Failure to Accommodate, (6) Failure to
Engage in the Interactive Process, (7) Harassment, (8) Failure to Prevent
Harassment, Discrimination, and Retaliation, and (9) Wrongful Discharge in
Violation of Public Policy.  The Seventh Cause of Action for Harassment
is the only cause of action asserted against Ramey.  
 
On September 1, 2023, Defendants
filed this motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication.   
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition.[1]  
 
On March 13, 2024, Defendants
replied and objected to Plaintiff’s evidence in support of the opposition.  Defendants also filed a request to supplement
the record. 
 
On March 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an objection to Defendants’ request to supplement.  Alternatively, Plaintiff requested an
opportunity to respond to Defendants’ new evidence. 
 
The motion was heard on March 27,
2024.  The court granted Plaintiff’s
request to respond.  The court continued
the hearing on Defendant’s motion to May 6, 2024. 
 
On April 17, 2024, Plaintiff timely
filed his sur-reply.  
 
On May 2, 2024, Defendants
responded to Plaintiff’s evidence and filed its own sur-reply separate
statement.  Plaintiff filed objections to
and a motion to strike Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s separate statement.

 
The court now issues its order.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            When reviewing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)
identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving
party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the
opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual
issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.)¿ A motion for summary judgment must
be granted “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c).)  
 
            “[T]he initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”¿ (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (Scalf).)¿ A
defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of persuasion that there
is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant need not
conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar, 25
Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ 
 
            To meet this burden of showing a
cause of action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point
out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
884, 891 (Gaggero).)¿ The defendant “must also produce evidence that the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
855.)¿ 
 
            “Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿A plaintiff opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by
showing one or more triable issues of material fact exist as to the challenged
element. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.)¿ 
 
            The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037 (Yanowitz); Aguilar, 25 Cal.4th at
pp. 844-45.)¿ “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider
what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw
from the evidence.¿ While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must
bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to
determine issues.¿ [Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in
conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants
conclusively negated a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or
demonstrated that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial?”  (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853, 860, internal citation omitted.) Further, “the
trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to
determine whose version is more likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿
[Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 (Weiss)
[“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not
weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the
opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)¿¿
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
A.     Defendants’ Objections
      
Defendants submitted eleven (11)
objections to Chavez’s evidence.  The
court declines to rule on these objections because they are not relevant to the
disposition of this motion.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
 
            Defendants
submitted twenty-six (26) objections to Chavez’s evidence submitted in support
of the sur-reply.  The court declines to
rule on these objections because they are not relevant to the disposition of
this motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
 
B.    
Plaintiff’s
Objections
 
            Plaintiff
objected to Defendants’ request to supplement. 
Given that the court continued the motion to allow Plaintiff to respond
the Defendants’ additional evidence, this objection is MOOT. 
 
            Plaintiff
also objected to Defendants’ filing of a sur-reply separate statement and moved
to strike the filing.  Because the court
did not consider Defendants’ sur-reply separate statement (nor were Defendants
given leave to file a sur-reply separate statement) in ruling on this motion,
the court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s objection and motion to strike.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Relevant
Timeline
 
            The court
constructs the following timeline from Plaintiff’s Additional Facts (PAF).
 
1991:                           Chavez is hired by
Schlumberger.  (PAF 1.)
2014:                           Chavez is promoted to Shop
Supervisor.  (PAF 2.)
2018-2019:                  Chavez takes a seven-month medical
leave of absence for surgery necessitated by his diabetes. (PAF 12.)
May 2019:                   Chavez returns to work with
limitations against standing. The limitation lasts two weeks.  (PAF 16.)
 
March 2020:                Chavez begins using a cane at work
because of leg issues.  Ramey notices 
Chavez is limping
and using the cane.  (PAF 29, 30.)
 
March 2020:                Ramey tells Li about Chavez’s leg
condition.  (PAF 32.)
 
April 28, 2020:            Chavez’s
doctor issues an off-work note.  (PAF
34.)
  
April or May
2020:     Chavez shows the note to Ramey.  Ramey refuses to accept it and tells Chavez, “If
you take any more disability time off, you will be laid off because
Schlumberger is laying off people.”  (PAF
35.)  Chavez does not show the note to
anyone else.  (PAF 36.)
 
May 2020:                   Ramey resigns.  Brandon Reed becomes Chavez’s
supervisor.  As part of the transition,
Ramey tells Reed about Chavez’s possible need for medical leave.  (PAF 44, 45.)
 
May 2020:                   Chavez receives additional
off-work notes from his doctor but does not show them to anyone.  (PAF 36, Plaintiff’s Evidence, Ex. 60.)
 
May 19, 2020              Chavez’s doctor issued notes
excusing him from work from May 19, 2020 to June 30, 2020 (Roberts Decl., Ex.
6)
                                    
June 2020:                   Chavez tells Reed about his medical
condition.  (PAF 46.)
 
June 19, 2020:             Chavez
tells Reed he has to go home because he is in so much         pain.  Chavez also asks that if he could start working
half-days from     home:  Reed replies,
“yeah, we’ll see.”  (PAF 58.)
 
June 23, 2020:             Chavez’s employment is terminated.  (PAF 58.)
 
            Analysis           
 
The Complaint alleges nine causes
of action.  Defendants seek summary
judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication of each cause of action.  The Court addresses them in turn.
 
1.     
First Cause
of Action for Interference with Right to Medical Leave Under the CFRA (Gov.
Code § 12945.2(t))
 
“A [California Family Rights Act
(“CFRA”)] interference claim consists of the following elements: (1) the
employee’s entitlement to CFRA leave rights; and (2) the employer’s
interference with or denial of those rights.”  (Choochagi v. Barracuda
Networks, Inc. (2020) 60 Cal.App.5th 444, 454; Bachelder v. America West
Airlines, Inc. (9th Cir. 2001) 259 F.3d 1112, 1125 [“The regulation
promulgated by the Department of Labor, 29 C.F.R. 825.220(c) plainly prohibits
the use of FMLA-protected leave as a negative factor in an employment decision.
In order to prevail on her claim, . . . [plaintiff] need only prove by a
preponderance of the evidence that her taking of FMLA-protected leave
constituted a negative factor in the decision to terminate her. She can prove
this claim, as one might any ordinary statutory claim, by using either direct or
circumstantial evidence, or both.”].)  An
interference claim under the CFRA does not invoke the burden shifting analysis
of the McDonnell Douglas test.  (Faust
v. California Portland Cement Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 864, 879 (Faust).)
 
Chavez’s interference claim is based
upon Ramey’s “implied threat” that if Chavez took  “any more disability time off, you will be
laid off because Schlumberger is laying off people.”   (Complaint,
¶¶ 15-16.)  As a result, Chavez did not
submit his request for leave and continued to work against his doctor’s
recommendation.    
 
Defendants argue the interference
claim fails because Chavez was granted all leaves of absences he
requested.  In support, Defendants submit
evidence to show (1) Chavez took medical leave for eight months beginning in
October 2018 (Defendants’ Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) 1.5) and (2) Chavez’s
doctor issued notes excusing him from work from May 19, 2020 to June 30, 2020 (Roberts
Decl., Ex. 6).  Chavez ultimately did not
submit a request for medical leave in April 2020.  Defendants meet their initial burden.
 
The burden shifts.  Chavez does not dispute that he took a leave
of absence from October 2018 to May 2019. 
Chavez contends that although his doctor issued notes excusing Chavez
from work due to disability, Chavez did not actually take time off work for
fear he would be terminated.  (Plaintiff’s Appendix of Evidence, Chavez
Depo., Ex. B, pp. 51:25-65:8, 113:13-16, 157:4-160:24, 181:12-182:16.)  Chavez demonstrates that Schlumberger (via
Ramey’s implied threat) interfered with Chavez’s request for medical leave by dissuading
Chavez from submitting his doctor’s note and requesting leave.  Chavez meets his burden to show there are
triable issues regarding his interference claim.
 
In reply, Defendants pivot and
submit two new arguments.  First, they argue
Chavez exhausted his entitlement to CFRA leave within a 12-month period.  Second, Defendants contend there is no
evidence to show Plaintiff’s foot infection qualified him for CFRA leave.  
 
Each argument fails.  First, Defendants’ “exhaustion of CFRA leave”
argument is undeveloped.  Government Code
section 12945.2 provides, in relevant part, “It shall be an unlawful employment
practice for any employer … to refuse to grant a request by any employee with
more than 12 months of service with the employer, and who has at least 1,250
hours of service with the employer during the previous 12-month period or who
meets the requirements of subdivision (r), to take up to a total of 12
workweeks in any 12-month period for family care and medical leave.  (Gov. Code, § 12945.2, subd. (a).)  Leave provided for pursuant to this section
may be taken in one or more periods. The 12-month period during which 12
workweeks of leave may be taken under this section shall run concurrently with
the 12-month period under the FMLA, and shall commence the date leave taken
under the FMLA commences.  (Gov. Code §
12945.2, subd. (o).)  California Code of
Regulations section 11090 provides, in part, “If the leave is common to both
CFRA and FMLA, this 12-month period will run concurrently with the 12-month
period under FMLA. An employer may choose any of the methods (the calendar
year, any fixed 12-month “leave year,” the 12-month period measured forward
from the date any employee's first CFRA leave begins, or a “rolling” 12-month
period measured backward from the date an employee uses any CFRA leave) allowed
in the FMLA regulations that became effective March 8, 2013, 29 C.F.R. Part
825, section 825.200, subdivision (b), for determining the 12-month period in
which the 12 weeks of CFRA leave entitlement occurs.  (Cal. Code Regs. tit. 2, § 11090, subd.
(b).)  
 
Here, Defendants do not submit any
evidence to show which method it employs in calculating CFRA or FMLA
leave.  Indeed, if Defendants calculate
leave according to the calendar year or a fixed 12-month “leave year”, Chavez,
if he had ultimately taken leave in April 2020, would not have exceeded his
CFRA leave allowance. 
 
Second, Defendants argument that Plaintiff’s
foot infection does not qualify for CFRA leave fails because Defendants do not
present any evidence in support of that proposition.  Merely pointing out Plaintiff’s lack of
evidence is insufficient.  To meet the burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” ¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854, italics in original.)¿ It is insufficient for the
defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿ (Gaggero,
supra, 108 Cal.App.4th at p. 891.)¿ The defendant “must also produce
evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting evidence can be in the form of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories,
and matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿ 
 
            The motion
for summary adjudication of the First Cause of Action is DENIED.
            
2.     
Second Cause
of Action for Retaliation for Taking Medical Leave Under the CFRA (Gov. Code § 12945.2(t))
 
Discussion of the Second Cause of
Action is complicated by the parties disagreement over the basis for Chavez’s
retaliation claim.  Defendants argue the
claim is based on Ramey’s mockery of Plaintiff’s job title change and
Plaintiff’s termination for taking CFRA medical leave.  (Def. Motion at pgs 7-9.)  Plaintiff contends the claim is based on Chavez’s
alleged demotion following his return from CFRA medical leave.  (Plaintiff’s Opp. at pgs 8-9.) 
 
The court turns to the Complaint.
“The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit
the scope of the issues: the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings. [Citation.]”  (FPI Dev., Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 380.)  Evidence
offered on an¿unpleaded¿claim, theory, or defense is irrelevant because it is
outside the scope of the pleadings.”¿¿(California Bank & Trust v. Lawlor¿(2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 625, 637, fn. 3.)  In Laabs v. City of Victorville
(2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1256 (Laabs), the appellate court stated
that “… new factual issues presented in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment should be considered if the controlling pleading construed broadly,
encompasses them.  In making this determination, courts look to whether
new factual issues present different theories of recovery or rest on a
fundamentally different factual basis.”  
Here, a review of the Complaint
demonstrates that the Second Cause of Action is predicated on Chavez’s termination
for taking medical leave due to his physical disabilities, and due to his
exercise of his rights under the CFRA. (Complaint, ¶ 44.)  Having “delimited” the scope of the issues,
the court revisits the parties’ arguments.
 
The CFRA “is intended to give
employees an opportunity to take leave from work for certain personal or family
medical reasons without jeopardizing job security.” (Soria v. Univision
Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570, 600 (Soria) (cleaned
up); accord, Moore v. Regents of University of California (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 216, 233 (Moore).)  The CFRA provides that a
qualified employee of an employer with 50 or more employees may take up to 12
weeks of family care and medical leave in any 12-month period.  (Gov.
Code, § 12945.2, subd. (a).)  The act prohibits an employer from taking
any adverse employment action against an individual because of his or her exercise
of the right to family care and medical leave.  (Id., subd. (l)(1);
Bareno v. San Diego Community College Dist. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 546,
560; Soria, at pp. 600-601.) 
 
            CFRA retaliation claims are subject
to the McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 (McDonnell Douglas)
burden-shifting analysis. (Bareno v. San Diego Community
College Dist. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 546,
560 (Bareno) (cleaned up).)  In
order to establish a prima facie case for retaliation as required by the first
prong of the McDonnell Douglas burden-shifting analysis, an employee must show: (1) he or
she engaged in a ‘protected activity[ ]’ [such as taking leave for a
CFRA-protected purpose,] (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer's action.  If the
employee successfully establishes these elements and thereby shows a prima facie
case exists, the burden shifts to the employer to provide evidence that there
was a legitimate, nonretaliatory reason for the adverse employment action.  If the employer satisfies this prong by
producing evidence demonstrating the existence of a legitimate reason for the
adverse employment action, the presumption of retaliation drops out of the
picture, [citation], and the burden shifts back to the employee to provide
substantial responsive evidence’ that the employer's proffered reasons were
untrue or pretextual.”  (Bareno, supra,
7 Cal.App.5th 546, 560 (cleaned up).) 
 
In the context of a motion for
summary judgment, “an employer may satisfy its initial burden of proving a
cause of action has no merit by showing either that one or more elements of the
prima facie case ‘is lacking, or that the adverse employment action was based
on legitimate nondiscriminatory factors.’ [Citations.]” (Husman v. Toyota
Motor Credit Corp. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1168, 1181-1182.) If the employer
shows it had a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action, the
plaintiff “‘may establish pretext “either directly by persuading the court that
a discriminatory reason more likely motivated the employer or indirectly by
showing that the employer’s proffered explanation is unworthy of credence.”’” (Morgan
v. Regents of University of California (2000) 88 Cal.App.4th 52, 68-69.)
“In responding to the employer’s showing of a legitimate reason for the
complained-of action, the plaintiff cannot ‘simply show the employer’s decision
was wrong, mistaken, or unwise. Rather, the employee must demonstrate such
weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies, incoherencies, or contradictions
in the employer’s proffered legitimate reasons for its action that a reasonable
factfinder could rationally find them ‘unworthy of credence,’ and hence infer
that the employer did not act for the [asserted] non-discriminatory reasons.” (McRae
v. Department of Corrections & Rehabilitation (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th
377, 389-390 (cleaned up).) “[A]n employer is entitled to summary judgment if,
considering the employer’s innocent explanation for its actions, the evidence
as a whole is insufficient to permit a rational inference that the employer’s
actual motive was discriminatory.” (Guz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p.
361.)  
 
Prima Facie Case        
 
To establish a prima facie case of
retaliation, a plaintiff must show that: (1) plaintiff engaged in protected
activity; (2) the employer subjected the plaintiff to an adverse employment
action; and (3) the protected activity and the employer’s action were causally
connected. (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p. 1042.)   
 
Focusing on whether Chavez was
terminated for exercising CFRA rights, there are two time periods at issue:
2018-2019 (when Chavez took a seven-month medical leave), and April/May 2020
(when Chavez told Ramey about needing to take time off and possibly needing
surgery).  Viewed independently, there is
no casual connection between the 2018-2019 CFRA leave and the 2020,
termination.  Viewed cumulatively, however,
the court reaches a different conclusion.[2] 
 
Added to the 2018-2019 leave are following
additional April -June 2020 facts: 
·        
in April 2020, Ramey told Chavez not
to submit his request for medical leave because if he did, he would be terminated.  As a result, Chavez did not submit a
particular request for leave;
·        
In May 2020, Chavez did submit other
requests for medical leave, which were granted; 
·        
Ramey informed Reed that Chavez
might require additional medical leave;
·        
Ramey told Li that he would not consider
Chavez for separation in a RIF and that he believed that Chavez eventually
would recover to the point where he could take over his previous duties; 
·        
On
June 19, 2020, Chavez tells Reed he has to go home
because he is in so much pain.  Chavez
also asks that if he could start working half-days from home. Reed replied,
“yeah, we’ll see.”; 
·        
June 23, 2020, Chavez is terminated.

 
Here, it is undisputed that
Plaintiff told Ramey of the possible need to take medical leave.  Ramey, in turn, told Reed in May of
2020.  Reed played a role in deciding to
terminate Plaintiff’s employment in June of 2020.  (See Declaration of Brandon Reed, ¶¶
4-5.)  
 
Under CFRA, “[t]erminating an
employee when it anticipates an otherwise eligible employee will be asking for
a CFRA-qualifying leave in the future” constitutes an interference, restraint,
or denial of the exercise of rights provided by CFRA.  (Cal. Code Regs. tit. 2 § 11094, subd. (a)(3).)  “CFRA's prohibition against “interference”
prohibits an employer from discriminating or retaliating against an employee or
prospective employee for having exercised or attempted to exercise CFRA rights[.]”  (Cal. Code Regs. tit. 2 § 11094, subd. (b).)
 
                With respect to notice, “California Code of Regulations,
title 2, section 11091, subdivision (a)(1) describes the notice requirements of
a reasonable request for CFRA leave in relevant part as follows: “[A]n employee
shall provide at least verbal notice sufficient to make the employer aware that
the employee needs CFRA leave, and the anticipated timing and duration of the
leave. The employee need not expressly
assert rights under CFRA or FMLA, or even mention CFRA or FMLA, to meet the
notice requirement; however, the employee
must state the reason the leave is needed, such as, for example, the expected
birth of a child or for medical treatment. The
mere mention of ‘vacation,’ other paid time off, or resignation does not render
the notice insufficient, provided the
underlying reason for the request is CFRA-qualifying, and the employee
communicates that reason to the employer. The employer should inquire further
of the employee if necessary to determine whether the employee is requesting
CFRA leave and to obtain necessary information concerning the leave (i.e.,
commencement date, expected duration, and other permissible information).”
(Italics added.) Thus, an employer bears a burden, under CFRA, to inquire
further if an employee presents the employer with a CFRA-qualifying reason for
requesting leave.”  (Moore v. Regents of University of California (2016) 248
Cal.App.4th 216, 249 (Moore).) 
 
Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff
presents a prima facie case that (1) he engaged in a
protected activity; (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer's action.  The
burden shifts to the Defendants.  Defendants
challenged Plaintiff’s prima facie case by attacking the first element –
engaging in protected activity.  Chavez
both engaged in protected activity (2018-2019; May 2020); raised the issue with
Ramey who told him not to submit his request for fear of being terminated; and
requested leave on June 19, 2020.    
 
Defendants Legitimate,
Nondiscriminatory Reason
 
Defendants argue the reduction in
force precipitated by COVID was the reason for Plaintiff’s termination.  The burden shifts to Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff’s Response.  
 
Given the close proximity between Plaintiff’s
termination and Reed becoming aware of Plaintiff’s possible need for additional
medical leave, the court finds there are triable issues of material fact regarding
pretext.  As the appellate court stated
in Moore, “the timing of the events leading up to Moore’s termination
could suggest that something other than simple restructuring was at play.”  (Moore, supra, at p. 860.)  Indeed, “[p]retext may … be inferred from the
timing of the company’s termination decision, by the identity of the person
making the decision, and by the terminated employee’s job performance before
termination.” (Flait v. North American Watch Corp. (1992) 3 Cal.App.4th
467, 479.)  Plaintiff provided statements
from Ramey that suggested Chavez should not be considered as part of the RIF.  And Ramey told Plaintiff that if he took leave
(which he did in May), he would be terminated (which he was in June).  No doubt, Reed perceived Chavez as having ongoing
disability issues and was aware Chavez might require additional medical leave.[3]     
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the Second Cause of Action is DENIED.
                                                                                        
3.     
Third Cause
of Action for Retaliation for Taking Medical Leave (Gov. Code § 12940(h))
 
The Third Cause of Action is based
on Plaintiff’s termination for taking disability leave from October 2018 to May
2019 and between February 2020 and May 2020. 
(Complaint, ¶ 48.)  
 
FEHA retaliation
claims are subject to the McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411
U.S. 792 (McDonnell Douglas) burden-shifting analysis.  (Yanowitz v. L’oreal USA, Inc (2005)
36 Cal.4th 1028, 1042.)  As with the
Second Cause of Action, the Court begins by considering whether Plaintiff
states a prima facie case for retaliation.
 
To establish a prima facie case of
retaliation, a plaintiff must show that: (1) plaintiff engaged in protected
activity; (2) the employer subjected the plaintiff to an adverse employment
action; and (3) the protected activity and the employer’s action were causally
connected. (Yanowitz, supra, 36 Cal.4th at p.
1042.)   
 
A confluence of factors complicates
the ruling on Defendants’ challenge to the Third Cause of Action.  First, Defendants appear to be under the
impression that Ramey’s mockery of Chavez forms the principal basis for the
retaliation claim.  The Complaint, however,
indicates otherwise.  The Complaint
states the FEHA retaliation claim is predicated on Defendant’s termination of
Plaintiff for engaging in protected activity under the FEHA for taking leave
for his physical disability in 2019 and between February and May 2020.  (Complaint ¶ 48.)
 
            As
discussed above, Plaintiff states a prima facie case.  Defendants challenge Plaintiff’s prima facie
case under the FEHA. Notably, the FEHA includes the following language: (2) For an employer or other entity covered by this part to, in
addition to the employee protections provided pursuant to subdivision (h),
retaliate or otherwise discriminate against a person for requesting
accommodation under this subdivision, regardless of whether the request was
granted.” (§ 12940, subd. (m).)(emphasis
added.)  Plaintiff’s challenge
fails.  
            For the same reasons stated above, Plaintiff
raises triable issues of fact with respect to Defendant’s pretext.            
The motion for summary adjudication
of the Third Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
4.     
Fourth Cause
of Action for Discrimination (Gov. Code § 12940(a))
 
Plaintiff alleges that Schlumberger
discriminated against him because of his physical disability.  (Complaint,
¶ 52.) 
 
            FEHA discrimination claims are subject to the McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792 (McDonnell Douglas)
burden-shifting analysis.  (Sandell
v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 297) 
 
                In the context of disability discrimination, the plaintiff
initially has the burden to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. The
plaintiff can meet this burden by presenting evidence that demonstrates, even
circumstantially or by inference, that he or she (1) suffered from a
disability, or was regarded as suffering from a disability; (2) could perform
the essential duties of the job with or without reasonable accommodations, and
(3) was subjected to an adverse employment action because of the disability or
perceived disability. To establish a prima facie case, a plaintiff must show actions
taken by the employer from which one can infer, if such actions remain
unexplained, that it is more likely than not that such actions were based on a
[prohibited] discriminatory criterion.... The prima facie burden is light; the
evidence necessary to sustain the burden is minimal. (Sandell v. Taylor-Listug, Inc. (2010)
188 Cal.App.4th 297, 310 (cleaned up).) 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
does not establish a prima facie case of disability discrimination. 
Specifically, Plaintiff does not establish that he could perform the essential
duties of his job.  Chavez testified that
after he returned from his 2018/2019 medical leave, he “couldn’t do the job
that I used to do.  I couldn’t go to the
shop anymore.  Build, supervise at – at
the same time … Or I could supervise, but I couldn’t build equipment, test, and
go on the floor like I used to do before, before my disability.”  (Chavez Depo., at p. 126:13-26.)  Plaintiff argues he was well-qualified for
the position and cites the same testimony for the proposition he could still
supervise.  However, Chavez’s admissions
that he was not capable of building and testing equipment and “go[ing] on the
floor like [he] used to do before [his] disability” stand unrebutted.  Indeed, Plaintiff states in his Separate
Statement, “Ramey testified that Chavez had an extensive skill set and that
Chavez would have been his pick to continue leading the shop over Castellanos
if he was physically capable of doing so, and that his skillset would be very
valuable to retain, but only if he was physically able to perform all
those skills, which was not the case when Ramey resigned.”  (PAF 57, emphasis added.)  
 
While the Defendant may be correct that
Chavez could not perform the functions of his job at that time, Defendant fails
to address the contention that Plaintiff could do so with a reasonable accommodation.  A reasonable accommodation includes time off
work.  (Moore, supra, 248 Cal.
App.4th at p. 243.)  And in
this case, time off work to have surgery. 
Ramey specifically told Li that he believed Chavez eventually would
recover to the point where he could take over his previous duties.  Plaintiff establishes a prima facie
case.  
 
As discussed above with respect to
the Second Cause of Action, Plaintiff raises triable issues of material fact.  
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the Fourth Cause of Action is DENIED.     
 
5.     
Fifth Cause
of Action for Failure to Accommodate (Gov. Code § 12940(m))
 
            “Two
principles underlie a cause of action for failure to provide a reasonable
accommodation.  First, the employee must
request an accommodation.  Second, the
parties must engage in an interactive process regarding the requested
accommodation and, if the process fails, responsibility for the failure rests
with the party who failed to participate in good faith.  While a claim of failure to accommodate is
independent of a cause of action for failure to engage in an interactive
dialogue, each necessarily implicates the other.” (Moore v. Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 242.)
 
            “A
term of leave from work can be a reasonable accommodation under FEHA, and,
therefore, a request for leave can be considered to be a request for
accommodation under FEHA.”  (Moore v.
Regents of University of California (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216,
243.)(internal citations omitted.)   
 
            Defendant
argues the Fifth Cause of Action fails because Defendant considered Plaintiff’s
accommodation requests and accommodated him. 
In support, Defendants point to Chavez’s testimony where he admits that
Defendants permitted Plaintiff to work from home from time-to-time in 2020.  (Chavez Depo., p. 58:17-59.)  The burden shifts. 
 
            Plaintiff
points to contrary evidence.  Chavez told
Ramey that he needed to take medical leave and Ramey told him not to submit the
request or he would be terminated.  Being
told by a supervisor not to submit a request for accommodation cannot be used by
the employer as a basis to argue the request for accommodation was not
made.  Similarly, Chavez requested time
off in June and Reed, told him, “we’ll see.” 
Shortly thereafter, Chavez  was
terminated.  Instead of accommodating
Plaintiff, he was terminated.  The court
finds Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of material fact whether Defendants
failed to reasonably accommodate Plaintiff. 

 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the Fifth Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
6.     
Sixth Cause
of Action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process (Gov. Code § 12940(n))
 
FEHA requires employers to engage
in a good faith interactive process to determine effective reasonable
accommodations, if any, “in response to a request for reasonable accommodation
by an employee . . . with a known physical or mental disability . . . .” 
(Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); Raine v. City of Burbank (2006) 135
Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222.)  To establish a claim for failure to engage in
the interactive process, a plaintiff must show: (1) defendant was an employer;
(2) plaintiff was defendant’s employee; (3) plaintiff was disabled; (4)
plaintiff requested reasonable accommodation; (5) plaintiff was willing to
participate in a timely good faith interactive process with plaintiff to
determine whether a reasonable accommodation could be made; (6) defendant
failed to participate in this process; (7) plaintiff was harmed; and (8)
defendant’s failure to engage in a good-faith interactive process was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 2546.)¿
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the Sixth Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
7.     
Seventh
Cause of Action for Harassment (Gov. Code § 12940(j))
 
The Seventh Cause of Action is
asserted against Schlumberger and Ramey. 
Chavez’s harassment claim is based on Ramey repeatedly mocking Chavez in
front of subordinates during team meetings, Ramey telling Chavez that if he
takes any more disability time, Schlumberger would lay Chavez off, and Ramey
telling Chavez that he should get a scooter so he could do his work
faster.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 12, 15, 17.)  Chavez alleges that the foregoing constitutes
harassment on account of his physical disability and race.  (Complaint, ¶ 66.)
 
The FEHA states: “It is an unlawful
employment practice. . . .[f]or an employer, labor organization, employment
agency, apprenticeship training program or any training program leading to
employment, any other person, because of race, religious creed, color, national
origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition,
genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender
expression, age, sexual orientation, or military veteran status, to harass an
employee, an applicant, an unpaid intern or volunteer, or person providing
services pursuant to a contract.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (j)(1).)  “To constitute harassment, the conduct must be
so objectively severe or pervasive as to create a hostile or abusive working
environment.  Factors to consider in this
context include the frequency of the conduct, its severity, whether it is
physically threatening or humiliating, and whether it unreasonably interferes
with the employee's work performance. (Doe v. Dep’t of Corr. & Rehab.
(2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 721, 736.)  Harassment
must be of a repeated, routine, or generalized nature when the harassing
conduct is not severe.  (See Lyle v.
Warner Bros. Television Productions (2006) 38 Cal.4th 264, 283.) Harassment
that is occasional, isolated or sporadic is insufficient. (Id.) 
 
Defendants argue this claim fails
because Ramey’s mocking did not concern Chavez’s disability, the comments were
not severe or pervasive, and did not interfere with Chavez’s work performance.  Here, it is undisputed Ramey teased Chavez
about mispronouncing customer names, wearing “girl’s glasses” and/or drinking
“girl tea” on over 15 occasions.  (PAF
66.)  On their face, the comments are not
related to Chavez’s disability or race.  Moreover,
there is no evidence these comments interfered with Chavez’s work
performance.  As to Ramey’s “implied
threat” that Chavez would get fired if he took any more time off and Ramey’s
scooter comment, Defendants argue, generally, that these comments are isolated
and not severe or pervasive enough to constitute disability harassment.  Defendants meet their initial burden.
 
The burden shifts.  Chavez argues that the “girl’s glasses” and
“girly tea” comments are actionable harassment under the FEHA because he
believed they were precipitated by Chavez’s complaint to Human Resources
regarding his alleged demotion.  Chavez
further argues that fifteen instances is severe and pervasive.  The court disagrees.  First, as framed by the Complaint, Ramey’s
comments, and not Chavez’s complaint to Human Resources about his alleged
demotion, forms the basis for the Seventh Cause of Action.  (Complaint, ¶ 66.)  Plaintiff cannot assert an unpleaded theory of
liability to oppose a motion for summary judgment.  (California Bank & Trust, supra,
222 Cal.App.4th at p. 637, fn. 3.)  The same applies to Ramey’s teasing of
Chavez’s mispronunciation of customer names. 
Second, the comments (girl’s glasses, girl tea, mispronunciation,
complaint to Human Resources) are not actionable because they are not tied to Chavez’s
physical disability or race.  
 
In essence, this claim boils down
to Ramey’s comments about using a scooter and warning Plaintiff not to take
more time off.  Of the two comments, only
Ramey’s scooter reference can be considered harassment.  This is because Ramey’s warning not to take
more time off is simply that—a warning. 
The warning may have had the effect of prompting Plaintiff not to take
off work, but on its face, there is nothing in the remark that can be objectively
construed as abusing Plaintiff for being disabled, or physically threatening or
humiliating.
 
This leaves the scooter reference.  Plaintiff, however, does not demonstrate how this
one comment is severe enough to constitute harassment.  Harassment must be of a repeated, routine, or
generalized nature when the harassing conduct is not severe.  (See Lyle, supra, 38 Cal.4th at
p. 283.)  Harassment that is occasional,
isolated or sporadic is insufficient. (Id.)  The FEHA is not a
civility code.  (Id. at p.
295.)  The scooter reference is not abusive.
 And one comment alone does not rise to
the level of pervasive.  Further,
Plaintiff does not show how the scooter reference altered the terms of his
employment.  At most, Ramey’s scooter
reference is isolated conduct.  This is
insufficient to sustain a claim for harassment.
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the Seventh Cause of Action is GRANTED.
 
8.     
Eighth Cause
of Action for Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination and Retaliation (Gov.
Code § 12940(k))
 
A cause of action for failure to
prevent discrimination or retaliation requires the following elements: (1)
plaintiff was an employee of defendant; (2) plaintiff was subjected to
discrimination/retaliation in the course of employment; (3) defendant failed to
take all reasonable steps to prevent the discrimination/retaliation; (4)
plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s failure to take all reasonable steps
to prevent discrimination/retaliation was a substantial factor in causing
plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No. 2527; Jumaane v. City of Los Angeles
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 1390, 1410.)¿ “The employer’s duty to prevent
discrimination and retaliation is affirmative and mandatory.”  (Northrop
Grumman Corp. v. Workers’ Comp. Appeals Bd. (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 1021,
1035.)    
 
            This cause
of action is intertwined with Plaintiff’s retaliation claims.  Given the court’s ruling regarding those
claims (Second, and Third Causes of Action), the court finds there are triable
issues regarding Plaintiff’s claim for failure to prevent retaliation.
 
            The motion
for summary adjudication of the Eighth Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
9.     
Ninth Cause
of Action for Wrongful Discharge in Violation of Public Policy
 
A cause of action for wrongful
termination in violation of public policy requires the following elements: (1)
plaintiff was employed by defendant; (2) defendant discharged plaintiff; (3)
violation of public policy was a substantial motivating reason for plaintiff’s
discharge; and (4) the discharge caused plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI No.
2430.)¿ “As a matter of law, only an employer can be liable for the tort of
wrongful discharge in violation of public policy.” ¿(Khajavi v. Feather
River Anesthesia Med. Grp. (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 32, 53.) ¿  
 
The parties summarily address the Ninth
Cause of Action.  Defendants argue that
because this claim is based entirely on violations of the CFRA and FEHA, Chavez’s
wrongful discharge claim should likewise fail.  Because the court has found there are triable
issues regarding Plaintiff’s CFRA and FEHA claims, summary adjudication of the wrongful
discharge claim is not proper. 
             
            The motion
for summary adjudication of the Ninth Cause of Action is DENIED.
 
V.        CONCLUSION

 
            The motion
for summary judgment is denied.
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the First, Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, and Ninth Causes of
Action is DENIED.
 
The motion for summary adjudication
of the Seventh Causes of Action is GRANTED. 
            
            Moving
party to give notice.
 
 
 
Dated:   May 6, 2024                          




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court
 
 
 
 
 


 




 


