  Case Number:  22CHLC10272    Hearing Date:   January 5, 2024    Dept:  F51  JANUARY 4,  2024    MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE  CROSS-COMPLAINT  Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 22CHLC10272      Motion  Filed: 8/29/23   MOVING  PARTY: Defendant  Peter Bures, in pro per (“Defendant”) RESPONDING  PARTY: Plaintiff  Citibank, N.A. (“Plaintiff”) NOTICE:  OK   RELIEF  REQUESTED: An order granting Defendant  leave to file a cross-complaint against Plaintiff.   TENTATIVE  RULING: The motion  is off-calendar without prejudice.   BACKGROUND   On 8/29/23, Defendant filed the instant motion. On  12/21/23, Plaintiff filed its opposition. No reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   “A party  shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the complaint  or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as the answer  to the complaint or cross-complaint. … A party shall obtain leave of court to  file any cross-complaint…” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10.) If the proposed cross-complaint is  permissive, leave of court may be granted “in the interest of justice” at any  time during the course of the action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.50, subd. (c).) On  the other hand, if the proposed cross-complaint is compulsory, then leave must  be granted so long as the defendant is acting in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §  426.50.)   Here, it is  unclear to the Court whether Defendant’s proposed cross-claims are permissive  or compulsory, as Defendant has failed to indicate so in his moving papers.  Moreover, Defendant has failed to attach a copy of the proposed cross-complaint  to the instant motion. Therefore, the Court finds that Defendant has failed to  provide it with sufficient information to rule on the instant motion.   Additionally,  the Defendant has again failed to comply with the Court rules on formatting.  For example, “line numbers must be placed at the left margin and separated from  the text by a vertical column of space at least 1/5 inch wide or a single or  double vertical line. Each line number must be aligned with a line of type, or  the line numbers must be evenly spaced vertically on the page. Line numbers  must be consecutively numbered, beginning with the number 1 on each page. There  must be at least three line numbers for every vertical inch on the page.” (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 2.108(4).)”   Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant has not met the preliminary  procedural requirements to bring the instant motion. Accordingly, the motion is  placed off-calendar.   CONCLUSION   The motion  is off-calendar without prejudice.