  Case Number:  21STCV33331    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
ISAI
  EDGAR CASTELLANOS, et al.;
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
POTOMAC
  GARDENS LLC;
 
                              Defendant.
 
 


Case No.:  21STCV33331
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  09/09/21
Trial
  Date:  06/10/24
 
 



 
Hearing date:              February 29, 2024
Moving
Party:             Plaintiffs Isai Edgar
Castellanos; Denise Babonoyaba; Jayleen Denise Castellanos, a minor by and
through her Guardian ad Litem, Denise Babonyaba; Alazay Jazleen Castellanos, a
minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Denise Babonyaba; Janey Lexine
Castellanos, a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Denise Babonyaba; Isai
Edgar Castellanos Jr., a minor by and through her Guardian ad Litem, Denise Babonyaba
Responding
Party:      Defendant Potomac Gardens LLC
 
(1)  
Motion to Compel the
Deposition of Defendant’s Agent, Sharishi Kobayashi
 
(2)  
Motion to Compel
the Deposition of the Person Most Knowledgeable of TDI Properties, Inc.
 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Sharishi
Kobayashi’s
deposition.
Sharishi Kobayashi’s deposition shall take place
per proper notice.
The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions against Defendant
and its counsel of record in the reduced amount $1,660 for the motion to compel Sharishi Kobayashi’s
deposition. The court orders Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly and
severally, to pay $1,660
Plaintiffs, through their counsel of record, within 20
days of the date of this motion.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of TDI Properties, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable.
The deposition
of TDI Properties, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable
shall take place per proper notice.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record
in the reduced amount of $1,640 for the
motion to compel the deposition of TDI
Properties, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable. The court orders Defendant
and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, to pay $1,640 Plaintiffs, through their counsel
of record, within 20 days of the date of this motion.
 
Background
            This is a habitability case. Plaintiffs Isai
Edgar Castellanos; Denise Babonoyaba; Jayleen Denise Castellanos, a minor by
and through her guardian ad litem, Denise Babonyaba; Alazay Jazleen Castellanos,
a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Denise Babonyaba; Janey Lexine
Castellanos, a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Denise Babonyaba; Isai
Edgar Castellanos Jr., a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Denise Babonyaba
filed this action on September 9, 2021 against defendant Potomac Gardens LLC.
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Habitability; (2) Breach of Statutory Warranty of Habitability; (3) Breach of
the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (4) Negligence; (5) Violation of Civ. Code §
1942.4; and (6) Private Nuisance.
            The Complaint alleges the following:
Defendant Potomac Gardens LLC is the owner and manager of an apartment building
located at 3868 Potomac Ave. Los Angeles, CA 90008. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs resided
in Unit 9 of this apartment building. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Defendant failed to correct
substandard conditions on the subject property, including garbage disposal deficiencies;
electrical and plumbing deficiencies; lack of hot water, water leaks, and water
damaged ceilings; floors and walls containing mold and mildew; rodent, insect,
and pest infestations; security and safety deficiencies; storage deficiencies;
refuse disposal
deficiencies;
and loss of use of the premises for various periods of times from May 2017 to
the present. (Id. at ¶¶ 8-9.)
            On August 25, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
(1) a motion to compel the deposition of Defendant s agent, Sharishi Kobayashi;
and (2) a motion to compel the deposition of TDI Properties, Inc.’s Person Most
Knowledgeable. Defendant filed an omnibus opposition
on January 29, 2024. Plaintiffs replied on January 29, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
CCP § 2025.450(a) states: “If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
The motion must be accompanied by a
declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt to informally
resolve each issue presented or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the requested documents or things, the motion must be
accompanied by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the
deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(2).)
Discussion
Merits of the Motions
Plaintiffs move to compel the depositions of (1) defendant Potomac Gardens
LLC’s agent, Sharishi
Kobayashi; and (2) TDI Properties, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable. Plaintiffs
contend they served Notices of Deposition, Defendant did not object to said
depositions, and Plaintiffs followed up on multiple occasions regarding new
dates but Defendant never responded.
Defendant contends Plaintiffs unilaterally noticed these depositions.
Defendant argues they provided alternative dates, but Plaintiff refused to
accept them..
The court finds Plaintiffs sufficiently show these motions should be
granted. Plaintiffs’ counsel show they property noticed these depositions on
July 24, 2023. (Diaz Decl. re Kobayashi and PMK (collectively, “Diaz Decls.”),
¶ 2, Exh. A.) On August 11, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel called Defendant’s
counsel, who assured Plaintiff’s counsel that they would provide the
availability of their clients. (Id. at ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs’ counsel emailed
Defendant’s counsel on August 12, 2023 and August 18, 2023 to confirm the
depositions of Kobayashi and TDI Properties, Inc.’s PMK, respectively. (Id.
at ¶ 4.) Plaintiffs’ counsel received no response, so the depositions continued
as noticed and the deponents failed to appear. (Id., Exh. B.)
Defendant contends they offered to provide alternative dates for the
depositions multiple times, but Plaintiffs refused. However, the emails provided
by Defendant do not appear to show Defendant actually ever gave any specific
dates for the depositions. (See Harwell Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exhs. A-B.) Defendant’s
counsel attests that she “offered to provide dates.” (Id. at ¶ 2.) The
court finds that simply offering to provide dates, without actually providing
any when Defendant had plenty of opportunities to do so, will not sustain Defendant’s
burden and does not justify avoiding depositions. The court notes even the fact
that a deposition was unilaterally noticed is not a legally recognized ground
to object and avoid the deposition. It is the responding party’s burden to
provide alternative dates for a deposition, which Defendant failed to do so in
these matters.
The court therefore rules as follows:
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Sharishi
Kobayashi’s
deposition. Sharishi Kobayashi’s
deposition shall take place on the date, time, and location set forth above.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of TDI Properties, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable. The deposition of TDI
Properties, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable shall take place on the date,
time, and location set forth above.
 
Requests for Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiffs request $2,785 and $2,765 for
the Kobayashi motion and the TDI
Properties, Inc.’s PMK motion, respectively, as monetary sanctions against
Defendant and its counsel of record. Plaintiffs’ counsel’s hourly rate is $750.
(Diaz Decls., ¶ 6.) Plaintiffs request to recover three hours per motion and the
court reporter fees ($535 for Kobayashi and $515 for TDI Properties, Inc.’s PMK).
The court finds Plaintiffs’ counsel’s
hourly rate is reasonable, but the number of hours Plaintiffs seek is
unreasonable. These are relatively uncomplicated motions that do not justify
the amounts Plaintiffs seek. However, the court recognizes the substantial
delay and costs Defendant created in failing to cooperate in discovery without
sufficient justification. Plaintiffs seek to recover two hours for preparing the
motion and one hour for reviewing opposition, preparing a reply, and attending
hearing. (Diaz Decls., ¶ 6.) The court finds reducing Plaintiffs’ recoverable
time to one hour for the work on the motion and 0.5 hours for attending hearing
is reasonable. The court finds Plaintiffs’ requests for the court reporter fees
are reasonable since the deponents’ failure to attend the depositions forced
Plaintiffs to incur these costs. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ total reduced
recoverable amounts in attorney’s fees and costs are (1) $1,660 for the Kobayashi motion ([(1 hour + 0.5 hours) x $750] +
$535); and (2) $1,640 for the TDI Properties, Inc.’s PMK motion ([(1 hour + 0.5
hours) x $750] + $515)
The court therefore rules as follows:
The court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions against Defendant and its
counsel of record in the reduced amount $1,660 for the motion to compel Sharishi Kobayashi’s
deposition. The court orders Defendant and its counsel of record, jointly and
severally, to pay $1,660
Plaintiffs, through their counsel of record, within 20
days of the date of this motion.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of record
in the reduced amount of $1,640 for the
motion to compel the deposition of TDI
Properties, Inc.’s Person Most Knowledgeable. The court orders Defendant
and its counsel of record, jointly and severally, to pay $1,640 Plaintiffs, through their counsel
of record, within 20 days of the date of this motion.
 
It is so ordered.
 
Dated:
February 29, 2024
 
_______________________
ROLF M. TREU
Judge of the
Superior Court