 Case Number:  22STCV06991    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  February 25, 2022, Plaintiff Denise Fuentes (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants State of California, City of Los Angeles (“City”), Freddie  Preciado (“Preciado”), Joseph Davila (“Davila”), and Does 1-100 for statutory  liability/dangerous condition of public property under Government Code section  835, negligence, and negligence per se.  On  June 30, 2022, the Court granted Preciado’s motion to strike the negligence and  negligence per se claims against him with leave to amend.  On  July 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants State  of California, the City, Preciado, Davila, and   Does 1-100 for dangerous condition  pf public property under Government Code section 835.  On  July 27, 2022, Preciado filed an answer to the first amended complaint.  On  April 12, 2023, the City filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Davila, Preciado, State of California, and Roes 1-10 for  indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  On May 16, 2023, Preciado filed an answer to the City’s  cross-complaint.  On  April 28, 2023, The People of The State of California,  acting by and through the Department of Transportation, erroneously named as  State of California (“State”) filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.   On May 16, 2023, Preciado filed a cross-complaint  against Cross-Defendants City and Moes 1-10 for implied indemnity, equitable  indemnity, contribution, apportionment, and declaratory relief.  On June 15, 2023, the City filed an answer to  Preciado’s cross-complaint.  On  March 27, 2024, the State filed a motion to continue the trial and all  trial-related dates to be heard on April 25, 2024.  The City filed a joinder in the motion. On  April 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April 17, 2024, the State  filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for June 11, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  The  State asks the Court to continue the trial to February 25, 2025 and to continue discovery and all trial-related dates.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion or to limit the continuance to 90 days.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Motion to continue trial  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides:  “(a) Trial dates are firm  “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the  dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard  the date set for trial as certain.  “(b) Motion or application  “A party seeking a continuance of the date set for  trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must  make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte  application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting  declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as  reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.  “(c) Grounds for continuance  “Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each  request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may  grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the  continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:  “(1)  The  unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,  or other excusable circumstances;  “(2)  The  unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(3)  The  unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(4)  The  substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing  that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  “(5)  The  addition of a new party if:  “(A)  The new  party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for  trial; or  “(B)  The other  parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;  “(6)  A party's  excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material  evidence despite diligent efforts; or  “(7)  A  significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of  which the case is not ready for trial.  “(d) Other factors to be considered  “In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,  the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to  the determination. These may include:  “(1)  The  proximity of the trial date;  “(2)  Whether  there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to  any party;  “(3)  The length  of the continuance requested;  “(4)  The  availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the  motion or application for a continuance;  “(5)  The  prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;  “(6)  If the  case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status  and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  “(7)  The  court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending  trials;  “(8)  Whether  trial counsel is engaged in another trial;  “(9)  Whether  all parties have stipulated to a continuance;  “(10)  Whether  the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the  matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  “(11)  Any other  fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or  application.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1332.)  B.       Request  to continue or reopen discovery  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides:  “(a) Except  as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter  of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to  have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the  date initially set for the trial of the action.  “(b) Except  as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial  date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides:  “(a) On  motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery  proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the  initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.  “(b) In  exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take  into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but  not limited to, the following:  “(1) The  necessity and the reasons for the discovery.  “(2) The  diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the  hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not  completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.  “(3) Any  likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will  prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere  with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.  “(4) The  length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date  presently set, for the trial of the action.  “(c) The  court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or  opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one  subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.)  DISCUSSION  The  State asks the Court to continue the trial because it did not have notice of  the complaint until April 18, 2023, 14 months after Plaintiff filed it.  In addition, the State asserts that when the  case became at issue, the first available hearing date for a motion for summary  judgment was November 26, 2024, which is after the current trial date.  On December  22, 2022, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing personal service of the  summons, complaint, statement of damages, and other documents on the State on December  20, 2022.  The State does not challenge the validity of the December 22, 2022 personal service or explain why the personal service did not provide notice of the complaint.  The State simply asserts that it  did not receive notice of the complaint until April 18, 2023, when the State  received a letter from Plaintiff’s counsel about the case.  (See Ahmed Dec. ¶ 2; exh. A.)  The  State also argues that the Court should continue the trial because the Court may not refuse to hear a timely motion for  summary judgment.  (See Sentry Ins.  Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529 [“A trial court may  not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the time limits of  [Code of Civil Procedure] section 437c”].)   Here, however, the State has not filed a summary judgment motion but has  only reserved a hearing for a motion.  The  deadline to file a timely motion for summary judgment has already passed.  In addition, the  State contends that it requires a continuance to complete discovery.  Based on the need to complete discovery and  the upcoming May 26, 2024 mediation, the Court finds good cause to continue the  trial for 90 days or to the next available date on the Court’s calendar, with  discovery and related dates to be based on the new trial date.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS in part the motion to continue trial and related dates filed by  Defendant The People of The State of California, acting by and through the  Department of Transportation, erroneously named as State of California.  The Court continues  the trial for 90 days or to the next available date on the Court’s calendar, at  8:30 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. The Court will  provide the dates for the trial and final status conference at the April 25,  2024 hearing.  Discovery and related  dates will be based on the new trial date.  In all other respects the Court DENIES the motion.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.