 Case Number:  22STCV11531    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  28 Having reviewed the moving and opposition papers, the Court rules as follows.BACKGROUND On
April 5, 2022, Plaintiff Samuel Rojas (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants C&C North America, Inc. (“C&C”), Nolan Transportation Group,
LLC (“Nolan”), Emmet Isaacs, Cosentino Los Angeles (“Cosentino”), and Does 1-50
for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
May 10, 2022, the Court dismissed Nolan without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request.  On November 18, 2022, Plaintiff
amended the complaint to include Nolan as Doe 1. 
On
January 11, 2023, C&C filed an answer. 
On
March 10, 2023, the Court granted Nolan’s motion to quash service of the
summons and complaint on Nolan. 
On
June 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
C&C, Nolan, Emmitt Isaacks, Cosentino, and Does 1-50 for general negligence
and premises liability. 
On
June 30, 2023, Nolan filed an answer to the first amended complaint.  On July 10, 2023, C&C filed an
answer.  On August 28, 2023, Defendant
Emmet Isaacs filed an answer.  On April
11, 2024, the Court dismissed Defendant Emmet Isaacs without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff amended the first amended complaint to include
Defendant Jose Tapia as Doe 1.  On March
5, 2024, Plaintiff amended the first amended complaint to include Defendant
Jose Tapia Perez as Doe 2.  On April 8,
2024, the Court dismissed Defendant Jose Tapia (Doe 1) without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request.  On April 17, 2024,
the Court dismissed Defendant Jose Tapia Perez (Doe 2) without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
April 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a second amended
complaint to add a prayer for punitive damages against C&C, to be heard on
April 25, 2024.  On April 10, 2024,
C&C filed an opposition. 
On April
11, 2024, C&C filed a stipulation signed by counsel for C&C, Plaintiff,
and Nolan stating in part: 
“1. On July 1, 2021, Defendant JOSE TAPIA PEREZ was in
the course and scope of his employment with Defendant C&C NORTH AMERICA,
INC. at the time of the accident that is the subject of this lawsuit. 
“2. JOSE TAPIA PEREZ was acting within the scope of
his employment with Defendant C&C NORTH AMERICA, INC. when plaintiff Samuel
Rojas was harmed on July 1, 2021. 
“3. At the time of plaintiff Samuel Rojas’s harm, on
July 1, 2021, JOSE TAPIA PEREZ’S conduct was reasonably related to the kinds of
tasks that he was employed by Defendant C&C NORTH AMERICA, INC. to perform. 
“4. If a jury finds Defendant JOSE TAPIA PEREZ
negligent for causing Plaintiff SAMUEL ROJAS’s injuries, then Defendant C&C
NORTH AMERICA stipulates it is jointly and severally liable for all
compensatory damages attributed to Defendant JOSE TAPIA PEREZ awarded to
Plaintiff. 
“5. Defendants C&C NORTH AMERICA and JOSE TAPIA
PEREZ do not admit to liability and instead expressly reserve, their right to
contest all elements of Plaintiff’s causes of actions along with the nature and
extent of Plaintiff’s injuries and damages that were caused by the accident
that is the subject of this lawsuit. . . .” 
Trial
is currently set for September 19, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
asks the Court for leave to file a second amended complaint to add a prayer for
punitive damages against C&C. 
C&C
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The first amended complaint 
On
or about July 1, 2021, Plaintiff was at 10015 Foothills Blvd, Roseville, CA
95747, a business owned or managed by C&C and Cosentino. Defendant Emmitt
Isaacks was the manager on duty. 
Plaintiff was moving granite slabs for the benefit and at the direction
of Defendants.  Defendants removed the
crane straps from the granite slab. The crane straps should not have been
removed until Plaintiff had strapped the granite slab with the truck straps.
The two a-frame horses should have been bolted or screwed into the floor of the
trailer by Defendants but they were not. 
Nolan had a duty to train Plaintiff but did not train him.  As the result of Defendants’ actions,
Plaintiff was injured. 
B.   Plaintiff’s motion to file a second amended complaint 
Plaintiff
asks for leave to file a second amended complaint to allege a punitive damage
claim against C&C.  Plaintiff argues
that he recently learned in discovery that C&C’s employee Defendant Jose
Tapia Perez knew he was putting Plaintiff in danger. Based on this new
information, Plaintiff wishes to assert a punitive damage claim against
C&C. 
The
Court grants the request.  Plaintiff
filed the motion approximately two months after learning the new
information.  The amendment will not prejudice
C&C, which has ample time to serve discovery concerning the punitive damage
issue.  C&C’s disagreement with
Plaintiff’s interpretation of the deposition testimony on which Plaintiff relies is
not a ground for denying the motion. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff Samuel Rojas’s motion for leave to file a second amended
complaint. 
Plaintiff Samuel Rojas is ordered to file and serve
the second amended complaint within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.