 Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
7-2-24 c/f 6-3-24 (a/f 12-4-24 via 4-3-24 stipulation)
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: Not Set
 
QUASH SERVICE
 
MOVING
PARTY: Specially Appearing Defendant, Cosentino Group, S.A.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs, Wendy Viridiana Solano-Castro, individually, as successor in
interest of Jose Raul Garcia-Leon, and as guardian ad litem of Rebecca Nicole
Garcia and Joseph Ryan Garcia, and Brian Ulises Garcia.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Motion
to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridiana Solano-Castro, et al. (“Plaintiffs”) alleges the wrongful death of
Raul Garcia-Leon caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs
contend working with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis
and death of Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff  filed a 582-paragraph
complaint for negligence, strict liability – warning defect, strict liability –
design defect, fraudulent concealment, and breach of implied warranties. The
complaint names a multitude of parties comprised of suppliers, sellers, etc.
The case was deemed non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to Department 68
on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of MS International, Inc. to
the fourth cause of action with 20 days leave to amend. On November 2, 2023,
Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory relief
and apportionment. On December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a
cross-complaint indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
RULING: Granted.
 
Specially
appearing defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. moves to quash service of the summons
and complaint on grounds of improper service, or alternatively lack of general
or specific jurisdiction. 
 
On
December 8, 2023, the court issued a 12-page order denying the motion insofar
as it argues improper service of Cosentino Group, S.A.’s Executive Vice
President Eduardo Cosentino in Vancouver, Canada. The court specifically limited
the denial to the invalid service argument, and deferred consideration of the
minimum contacts challenge to a future hearing date. The court postponed
consideration in order to allow Cosentino Group, S.A. to take up a writ of
mandate, and concurrent request by Plaintiff to conduct discovery into
jurisdictional facts. The Court of Appeal denied the writ on March 20, 2024.
The parties subsequently agreed to a deposition of a person most knowledgeable
regarding jurisdictional issues on April 30, 2024, and reset the hearing date
to June 3, 2024. 
 
The California Supreme Court denied certiorari. The deposition
of the PMK for Cosentino Group, S.A. regarding jurisdictional issues took place on May 6, 2024. 
 
On
June 3, 2024, the court continued the hearing to July 2, 2024 to allow Plaintiff
to review the deposition transcript and draft a supplemental opposition for a full
briefing on the
general
and specific jurisdiction arguments.
 
On
June 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their supplemental opposition. Cosentino Group,
S.A. filed their supplemental reply on June 25, 2024. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“When a defendant moves to quash service
of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise
of jurisdiction. (Citation.) Once facts showing minimum contacts with
the forum state are established, however, it becomes the defendant's burden to
demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.
(Citation.) When there is conflicting evidence, the trial court's factual
determinations are not disturbed on appeal if supported by substantial
evidence. (Citation.) When no conflict in the evidence exists, however,
the question of jurisdiction is purely one of law and the reviewing
court engages in an independent review of the record.” (Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th
434, 449; Shisler v. Sanfer Sports Cars,
Inc. (2006) 146 Cal.App.4th 1254, 1258-59.)
 
“A California court may exercise judicial jurisdiction over
nonresidents on any basis not inconsistent with the United States Constitution
or the California Constitution. (Citations.) The general rule is that the forum
state may not exercise jurisdiction over a nonresident unless his relationship
to the state is such as to make the exercise of such jurisdiction reasonable.
If a nonresident defendant's activities may be described as ‘extensive or
wide-ranging’ (Citation) or ‘substantial ... continuous and systematic’
(Citation), there is a constitutionally sufficient relationship to warrant
jurisdiction for all causes of action asserted against him. In such
circumstances, it is not necessary that the specific cause of action alleged be
connected with the defendant’s business relationship to the forum.
 
“If, however, the defendant's activities in the forum are
not so pervasive as to justify the exercise of general jurisdiction over him,
then jurisdiction depends upon the quality and nature of his activity in
the forum in relation to the particular cause of action. In such a situation,
the cause of action must arise out of an act done or transaction consummated in
the forum, or defendant must perform some other act by which he purposefully
avails himself of the privilege of conducting activities in the forum, thereby
invoking the benefits and protections of its laws. Thus, as the relationship of
the defendant with the state seeking to exercise jurisdiction over him grows
more tenuous, the scope of jurisdiction also retracts, and fairness is assured
by limiting the circumstances under which the plaintiff can compel him to
appear and defend. The crucial inquiry concerns the character of
defendant's activity in the forum, whether the cause of action arises out of or
has a substantial connection with that activity, and upon the balancing of the
convenience of the parties and the interests of the state in assuming
jurisdiction. (Citations.)” (Cornelison
v. Chaney (1976) 16 Cal.3d 143, 147–148.)
 
“Personal jurisdiction may be either general or
specific. A nonresident defendant may be subject to the general jurisdiction of
the forum if his or her contacts in the forum state are ‘substantial ...
continuous and systematic.’ (Citations.) …
 
“If the nonresident defendant does not have substantial and
systematic contacts in the forum sufficient to establish
general jurisdiction, he or she still may be subject to the specific
jurisdiction of the forum, if the defendant has purposefully availed himself or
herself of forum benefits (Citation), and the ‘controversy is related to
or “arises out of” a defendant's contacts with the forum.’ (Citations.) …
 
“The United States Supreme Court has described the forum
contacts necessary to establish specific jurisdiction as involving variously
a nonresident who has ‘purposefully directed’ his or her activities at forum
residents (Citation), or who has ‘purposefully derived benefit’ from forum
activities (Citation), or ‘“purposefully avail[ed himself or herself] of
the privilege of conducting activities within the forum State, thus invoking
the benefits and protections of its laws.”’ (Citation). The court also has
referred to the requisite forum contact as involving a nonresident defendant
who ‘“deliberately” has engaged in significant activities with a State
[citation] or has created ‘continuing obligations' between himself and residents
of the forum [citation]’ (Citation), concluding that in such cases the
defendant ‘manifestly has availed himself of the privilege of conducting
business [in the forum], and because his activities are shielded by “the
benefits and protections” of the forum's laws it is presumptively not
unreasonable to require him to submit to the burdens of litigation in that
forum as well.’ (Citation.)” 
 
(Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th at pp. 445–446; Muckle v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 218, 227.)
 
ANALYSIS
 
General Jurisdiction
 
General jurisdiction exists only in the defendant’s state of
incorporation or principal place of business. (Goodyear Dunlop Tires Operations, S.A. v.
Brown (2011) 131 S.Ct. 2846,
2856-2857; Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014)
134 S.Ct. 746, 749-750; BNSF Ry. Co. v.
Tyrrell (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1549, 1558.) The court noted that “in an ‘exceptional case,’ a corporate defendant's
operations in another forum ‘may be so substantial and of such a nature as to
render the corporation at home in that State.’” (BNSF Ry. Co. v. Tyrrell, supra,
137 S.Ct. at p. 1558 (citing Daimler AG
v. Bauman, supra, 134 S.Ct. at p. 761 (footnote 19).)
 
Cosentino
Group, S.A. represents it operates as a Spanish corporation, with no business
presence in the state of California. Cosentino Group, S.A. denies any
continuous or systematic contacts in California. (Declaration of Jorge Cuervo
Vela in support of the Motion (“Vela Decl.”), ¶ 4.) Plaintiff does not oppose this.
The court finds no basis of general jurisdiction against moving defendant.
 
Specific Jurisdiction
 
“In order for a
court to exercise specific jurisdiction over a claim, there must be an
‘affiliation between the forum and the underlying controversy, principally,
[an] activity or an occurrence that takes place in the forum State.’ [citation]
When there is no such connection, specific jurisdiction is lacking regardless
of the extent of a defendant's unconnected activities in the State. [citation
(‘[E]ven regularly occurring sales of a product in a State do not justify the
exercise of jurisdiction over a claim unrelated to those sales’)].)” (Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., supra, at 1781.)
 
Plaintiffs contend that Cosentino Group, S.A.
licensed the use of its trademark to C&C, its U.S. subsidiary, thereby
creating a market for the product in the U.S., especially in California.
Plaintiffs submit the deposition transcript of Jose Cuervo Vela, Global
Director of the Legal Department at Cosentino Group, S.A. (Declaration of
Raphael Metzger, Supplemental Opposition (“Metzger Decl.”), ¶ 4; Exh. A
[“Cuervo Dep.”]); a screenshot of an entry in the Electronic Search System of
the United States Patent and Trademark Office for a trademark registered
by “Consentino. S.A.U.” and owned by “Consentino Global, S.L.U.” (Id., ¶ 5; Exh. B); and a screenshot of webpage from a “Consentino
website” which contains a photograph of a building in Los Angeles bearing the
“Consentino” and “Silestone” wordmarks (Id., ¶ 6; Exh. C). The main heading
of the webpage reads “Welcome to Consentino City Los Angeles”. (Ibid.)
Based on the foregoing evidence, Plaintiffs argue that Consentino Group, S.A.
is in the chain of distribution of Consentino products in California, and,
through its ownership, use, and licensing of the trademarks, caused the
Plaintiff’s silicosis. 
 
Moving defendant challenges Plaintiffs’ claim that moving
defendant is the owner of the Consentino trademark. Moving defendant contends
that it changed its name to Cosentino, S.A. on July 23, 2023. Therefore, any
references to “Consentino, S.A.” in filings and documents prior to that date
are not references to moving defendant Consentino Group, S.A. n/k/a Cosentino,
S.A. This is supported by Cuervo’s deposition testimony. (Cuervo Dep., 39:7–15,
44:18–45:3, 46:22–23, 47:7–11, 58:13–59:22, 60:12–62:18, 77:5–82:3, 79:5–10; 100:7–13.)
Cuervo also consistently denied that moving defendant licensed any trademark to
C&C. (Cuervo Dep., 44:18–22, 82:5–15.)
 
Moving defendant also challenges Plaintiffs’ contention that
licensing a trademark establishes personal jurisdiction. Moving defendant argues
that, even if the court were to find that it is the owner of the trademarks at
issue, and that it did license them to a U.S. subsidiary, it does not follow
that the court can exercise personal jurisdiction over it. Indeed, the only
legal authority that Plaintiffs cited in their supplemental opposition is
inapposite. As moving defendant pointed out, Kasel v. Remington Arms Company
(1972) 24 Cal.App.3d 711 is a choice of law case in which the defendant made a
general appearance and raised no objection to the jurisdiction of the court. (Kasel
at 721.)
 
Lastly,
moving defendant challenges any reliance on the company relationship with
C&C. “[F]or the purposes of jurisdiction, the analysis begins with ‘the
firm proposition that neither ownership nor control of a subsidiary corporation
by a foreign parent corporation, without more, subjects the parent to the
jurisdiction of the state where the subsidiary does business.’” (BBA
Aviation PLC v. Superior Court (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th at p. 430, quoting Sonora
Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 523, 540.) A
subsidiary’s contact will only be imputed to a parent company if the parent
company’s “control” over the subsidiary is “pervasive and continual”. (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
224.) Cosentino Group, S.A. admits to a subsidiary relationship with C&C,
but states: “Cosentino Group and C&C are separate and independent corporate
entities. Cosentino Group does not manage or control the day-to-day operations
of C&C. C&C keeps its own separate bank accounts and business records,
and C&C pays and manages its own employees.” (Cuervo Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Plaintiff
cannot establish a basis for this court’s exercise of jurisdiction over Cosentino
Group, S.A. 
 
The court therefore GRANTS the motion to quash.


Moving party to give notice to all parties