 Case Number:  23STCV08819    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  26 Superior Court of California 
County of Los Angeles 
 



 
KASRA SHAYAN aka
  SINA MASOUMI, 
  
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
AHMADREZA
  RASTEGARRAZI, et al., 
  
Defendants. 


 
 Case
  No.:  23STCV08819
  
 Hearing
  Date:  April 15, 2024
  
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PLAINTIFF”S MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANTS AHMADREZA RASETGARRAZI, MEHRE
  IRAN TODAY’S PMK, and optima FINANCIAL VENTURE’s PMK DEPOSITIONS; REQUEST FOR
  SANCTIONS
 



 
Background 
            This is an action for
contractual fraud.  On April 20, 2023,
Kasra Shayan aka Sina Masoumi (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Complaint
against Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi (“Rastegarrazi”), Mehre Iran Today (“Mehre”),
Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi, Dani Gonzalez, and Optima Financial Ventures Inc.
(“Optima”), asserting four causes of action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Fraud; (3) Misrepresentation; (4) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (5) Unjust
Enrichment.  
            On November 29, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel depositions of Defendants
Rastegarrazi, Mehre’s person most knowledgeable (“PMK), and Optima’s PMK. 
            No opposition has been
filed as of April 11, 2024.   
 
Legal Standard 
“Any party may obtain
discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of any person,
including any party to the action.  The person deposed may be a natural
person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership,
an association, or a governmental agency.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.010.) 
Code of Civil Procedure §¿2025.450(a)
provides:¿“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . .
. , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to
appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for¿inspection any
document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document . . . described in the deposition
notice.”
Code of Civil Procedure §¿2025.450(b) provides:¿“A motion under
subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:¿ 
 
1.    
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.¿ 
 
2.    
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and
produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described
in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure §¿2025.450(c) provides, “(1) If a motion under
subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction . . . in
favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the
party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿ 
Under Code of Civil Procedure § 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a
monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery
process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable
expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that
conduct. . . .¿If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this
title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the¿sanction unjust.”¿¿Failing to
respond¿or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the
discovery process.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010(d).)¿ 
 
Discussion 
            On or about August 9,
2023, Plaintiff served Defendant Rastegarrazi with a Notice of Deposition for
September 28, 2023.  (Declaration of
Fahim Farivar (“Farivar Decl.”), ¶ 8; Ex. “A.”)  
On or about August 9, 2023, Plaintiff’s
Counsel met and conferred with Defendants’ former Counsel to request that if
the noticed deposition date of September 28, 2023, was not amenable then
Defendant’s Counsel was to immediately provide dates for Defendant’s
deposition.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 9; Ex.
“B.”)
On or about September 6, 2023, Defendants’
Counsel sent a Substitution of Attorney, in essence having Defendant in propria
persona and Optima and Mehre as unrepresented. 
(Farivar Decl., ¶ 10; Ex. “C.”)
On or about September 12, 2023, Plaintiff
served Defendants Mehre and Optima’s PMK with Notices of Deposition for October
2 and 5, 2023, respectively.  (Farivar
Decl., ¶ 11; Ex. “D,” “E.”) 
On or about September 12, 2023,
Plaintiff’s Counsel emailed Defendant Rastegarrazi to request that if the
deposition dates for Mehre and Optima’s PMK were not agreeable to provide dates
of availability in October.  Plaintiff’s
Counsel did not receive any dates for availability.  (Farivar Decl., ¶12; Ex. “F.”)  Defendants’ previous Counsel continued to be
copied on the correspondences between Plaintiff’s Counsel and Defendant
Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi.  On or about
September 11, 2023, Plaintiff’s Counsel emailed Defendants’ previous Counsel to
ensure that there was no improper communication between Plaintiff and any
Defendants in this matter.  Plaintiff’s
Counsel inquired as to the involvement of Defendants’ previous Counsel as well
as the reasoning as to why she remained copied on the email communication, but
Plaintiff’s Counsel did not receive a meaningful response.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. “G.”) 
On or about September 12, 2023, Defendant
Rastegarrazi emailed Plaintiff’s Counsel stating that he was not permitted to
participate in any deposition on behalf of himself noting that he could not
appear for a deposition as he has a pending criminal case.  Defendant Rastegarrazi further elaborated
that he would not participate in any deposition until the criminal case was
concluded.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 14; Ex.
“H.”)  On or about September 12, 2023,
Plaintiff’s Counsel responded to Defendant Ahmadreza Rastegarrazi to inquire
about whether Defendant was pleading his fifth amendment right.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 15; Ex. “I.”) On or about
September 13, 2023, Defendant Rastegarrazi reiterated that he could not appear
for a deposition until his criminal case was complete.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 16; Ex. “J.”)
On or about September 19, 2023, Defendant
Rastegarrazi objected, without merit, to the depositions of Mehre Optima’s
Person Most Knowledgeable by further stating that Defendant Rastegarrazi was
scheduled to commence a criminal trial on September 27, 2023, and that he would
not be attending his deposition on September 28, 2023.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 17; Ex. K.”)
On or about November 2, 2023, and November
7, 2023, Plaintiff received Substitution of Attorney forms for all Defendants
with new counsel of record being Mr. Behrouz Shafie (“Mr. Shafie”) for all
Defendants.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 18; Ex.
“L.”)  On or about November 17, 2023,
Plaintiff sent, yet another courtesy email to Mr. Shafie, requesting Deposition
dates for each of the Defendants, in a good faith attempt to avoid filing this Motion.  To date, Plaintiff has not received a
response.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 19; Ex.
“M.”)
Plaintiff has presented evidence showing
that it attempted to meet and confer about the three depositions.  Further, despite the numerous attempts by
Plaintiff’s counsel to reschedule the dates for each deposition and accommodate
Defendants, the depositions were never rescheduled as Plaintiff’s counsel never
received dates of availability.  Because
Defendants have failed to proceed with their depositions and because Defendants
have failed to file an opposition, the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion.  
Plaintiff requests sanctions in the amount
of $4,500.00 (10 hours at hourly rate of $450.00).  Plaintiff’s counsel declares that his
customary rate is $590.00, consistent with his published rate.  Additionally, the rate for his associates
ranges from $350.00 to $400.00 per hour, based on their respective published
rates.  Collectively, the blended rate
amounts conservatively to no less than $450.00 per hour.  Counsel also declares his office spent
approximately one (1) hour attempting to meet and confer and approximately five
(5) hours preparing this Motion and the accompanying pleadings and
declaration(s).  Counsel anticipate
spending three (3) hours on a reply brief for this motion and anticipate
spending an additional one (1) hour preparing and appearing for this motion
hearing.  (Farivar Decl., ¶ 20.)  The Court grants the request for sanctions in
the reduced amount of $3,150.00 (7 hours at hourly rate of $450.00) as this
motion is unopposed and no reply brief was filed.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Based on the forgoing, Plaintiff’s motion
to compel depositions of Defendants Rastegarrazi, Mehre’s PMK, and Optima’s PMK
are GRANTED.  
Defendants Rastegarrazi, Mehre’s PMK,
and Optima’s PMK are ordered to appear for deposition, within twenty (20) days
of notice of this order at a date and time noticed by Plaintiff, unless
otherwise agreed to. 
Defendants and Defendants’ Counsel,
Mr. Behrouz Shafie, are jointly and severally liable and ordered to pay
monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,150.00 to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within thirty (30) days of notice
of this order.   
Moving Parties are ordered to provide
notice of this order and file proof of service of such. 
 
 
DATED:          April 15, 2024                                                                                                                                        
 
___________________________ 
Yolanda Orozco
Judge of the Superior Court 
 