 Case Number:  BC697315    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



AZUKA EGUN, dba BAS ASSOCIATES CONSTRUCTION,
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
DIANE ADOMIAN et al., 
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No:  BC 697315
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  February 29, 2024
 Calendar
  Number:  4



 
           Plaintiff and Cross-defendant Azuka Egun (“Egun”)
makes a motion to vacate the Default and Default Judgment entered against Egun Plaintiff.  The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion.
 
          The title of
Egun’s motion does not clearly describe the scope of relief Egun seeks.  As described more specifically in the
briefing of the motion, Egun in fact seeks to set aside: (a) the Court’s
September 24, 2021 dismissal without prejudice of Egun’s claim; and (b) the
judgment following a November 21, 2022 trial on the cross-claim against Egun at
which Egun failed to appear.
 
          The Court
briefly summarizes the procedural facts. 
Egun originally filed the complaint more than six years ago, on March 9,
2018.  The Court dismissed Egun’s
complaint without prejudice on or about September 24, 2021.  The Court did so for failure of Egun to
comply with the Court’s order to arbitrate and failure to prosecute.  
 
While Egun’s motion characterizes what occurred on December
9, 2022 as an order striking the answer to the cross claim, it was actually an
order after a November 21, 2022 court trial on the cross-claim against Egun—a
trial at which Egun did not appear.  The
Court conducted the trial and issued a detailed order which became the basis
for a judgment.
 
Egun filed this motion past the six-month time limit set by
California Code of Civil Procedure section 473. 
Egun agrees that any claim under that statute is barred.  He therefore asks the Court to exercise its
inherent discretion to set aside the former rulings, including the decisions
made at a court trial which Egun did not attend.  The Court declines to do so on the facts of
the case.
 
The information submitted by Egun is insufficient for the
Court to conclude that the extensive proceedings spanning many years—on a case
filed over six years ago—should be undone at this late date.  Egun states that he was not aware of the
court rulings and avers generally that he “continued to communicate with my
attorney” and that the attorney “assured me that everything was going well and
that I should not worry about anything.” 
(Egun Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.)  These are
generalized assertions that do not explain the passage of time, what Egun did
to follow up on this case, or what Egun believed was happening in the case over
the course of many years.  To the extent
that Egun’s attorney did not properly communicate with Egun, Egun might have a
claim against the attorney or his estate. 
But on the facts of this case, there is an insufficient basis to set
aside the prior rulings and restart the case. 
For this reason, the Court denies the motion.
 
          