  Case Number:  22STCV25917    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



JIN WOO PARK,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
KEITH K. KIM; JOHN P. YASUDA; HERB FOX; JOSEPH WALSH; AND THE
  STATE BAR OF CALIFORNIA,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          22STCV25917
 Hearing Date:   1/17/24
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Plaintiff Jin Woo
  Park’s Motion to Request to Approve the Email Serving [sic]



 
Background
Pleadings
On August 9, 2022, Plaintiff Jin
Woo Park—in pro per incarcerated individual—sued Defendants Keith K. Kim, Esq.,
John P. Yasuda Esq., Herb Fox Esq., Joseph Walsh Esq. (collectively, counsel),
and the State Bar of California pursuant to a Complaint alleging a single claim
of Professional Negligence [Legal Malpractice].
The claims arose from allegations
that counsel provided inadequate legal assistance to Plaintiff Jin Woo
Park—among other things, concealment of evidence from Plaintiff—in criminal
proceedings against Plaintiff for torture, corporal injury to spouse, and false
imprisonment, which resulted in a conviction of torture against Park, and a
stay of the latter charges “under section 654.”
Due to issues relating to service
and other matters, Plaintiff Park has needed to file his operative pleading
several times, with the most recent being a November 1, 2023 Third Amended
Complaint (TAC) based on the same general allegations as the Complaint.
Motion Before the Court
On September 26, 2023, Plaintiff
Park filed a motion to approve email service of the pleadings on Defendant
Keith K. Kim.
Plaintiff’s motion failed to attach
proof of service.
On November 29, 2023, Plaintiff’s
motion came before the Court, unopposed. Defendant Kim failed to appear,
individually or through counsel. The Court continued the hearing on Plaintiff’s
motion to January 17, 2024 to give Plaintiff an opportunity to serve his motion
on Defendant Kim via email. Plaintiff confirmed he had the email addresses of
counsel who had appeared at the hearing, which did not include any counsel for
Defendant Kim.
On December 14, 2023, Plaintiff
electronically filed a proof of service for service of the TAC, summons, motion
to approve email service, the November 29, 2023 order, and other documents on
Defendant Kim, sent via email on November 10, 2023. (The other Defendants were
also emailed a copy of the summons and TAC on November 10, 2023, with proofs of
service following on December 14, 2023.)
Kim failed to oppose Plaintiff’s
motion despite electronic service. More generally, Defendant Kim has failed to
appear in this action in any fashion and has made no filings with the Court. 
Plaintiff’s motion is now before
the Court.
 
Motion to Approve Email Service
Legal
Standard
Service
of summons is generally effected via personal service, substituted service
including first-class mailing, mail service with acknowledgment of receipt, and
publication, among others methods. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 415.10-415.95.)
“Electronic
service” means service of a document, on a party or other person, by either
electronic transmission or electronic notification. Electronic service may be
performed directly by a party or other person, by an agent of a party or other
person, including the party or other person's attorney, or through an
electronic filing service provider. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1010.6, subd. (a); see
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.250, subd. (b).)
The
Court may statutorily order electronic service on parties represented by
counsel who have appeared in the action or on parties who have appeared in the
action and may be served via mail, express mail, overnight delivery, or
facsimile transmission. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subds. (b)(1)-(2).)
Moreover,
the recipient may agree to accept service electronically or local court rules may
authorize or require electronic service. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.253, subds.
(b), (c).)
The
rules governing electronic service and filing “must be construed to authorize
and permit filing and service by electronic means to the extent feasible.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.250, subd. (a).)
However,
the Los Angeles Superior Court’s Civil Division Rules and Appendices do not contain
rules governing or authorizing the electronic service of a summons and
complaint.
Order
Approving Email Service: DENIED.
Plaintiff
Park moves for an order authorizing the electronic service of summons and
complaint (the TAC) on Defendant Kim at kkint90@gmail.com, the email address
Defendant Kim has allegedly used to communicate with clients and registered
with the California State Bar. Plaintiff Park relies on unpublished District
Court decisions and argues that Defendant Kim is the “main defendant of
plaintiff’s lawsuit because Kim hired other defendant lawyers and controlled
plaintiff’s entire criminal proceedings.” Plaintiff adds that the Los Angeles
County Sheriff’s Department has attempted to serve Kim at his office and found
the office closed and that “Kim has deliberately closed his law office to avoid
to be served [sic] a summons.” (Mot., pp. 1-3, Exs. A [documents re: Sheriff’s
attempt at service], B [service of FAC on Defendant Kim via email], C [letter
from Defendant Kim to Plaintiff Park confirming email address], D [printout of
Defendant Kim’s State Bar profile, confirming email address].)
Defendant
Kim has failed to oppose this motion or in any way participate in these
proceedings.
The
Court finds that electronic service of the summons and complaint is not
permissible.
Here,
service of process of summons and complaint is controlled by the Code of Civil
Procedure. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 415.10-415.95.) Electronic service is not
part of the statutory scheme. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 415.10-415.95.)
Plaintiff
Kim cites various unpublished District Court decisions in support of electronic
service of the summons and complaint. First, the Court notes that while “‘[California
courts] are bound by decisions of the United States Supreme Court interpreting
the federal Constitution [citations], [they] are not bound by the decisions of
the lower federal courts even on federal questions,” [though] “they are
persuasive and entitled to great weight.’” (People v. Leal (Jul. 25,
2023) 93 Cal.App.540 1143, 1157, fn 1, citing People v. Bradley (1969) 1
Cal.3d 80, 86.) Second, the cases cited by Plaintiff interpret New York service
of process laws, which differ from those of the State of California.
Neither
has Defendant Kim appeared in this action, for which reason the Court cannot
order mandatory electronic service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subds.
(b)(1)-(2).)
The
record also fails to reflect any filings showing that Defendant Kim consented
to service via email.
As
stated above, the Los Angeles Superior Court local rules do not provide for
electronic service of summons and complaint. 
The
Court adds that though Code of Civil Procedure section 413.30 establishes the
procedure for service where “no provision is made in [that] chapter or other
law” and some unpublished District Court decisions have cited section 413.30 in
accepting electronic service (see, e.g., Beqa Lagoon Support Services v.
Hasselman (S.D. Cal 2020) 2020 WL 6271032, *1-2 [permitting service of
summons by email]), the Code contains provisions for service of a summons and
complaint, for which reason section 413.30 is not applicable—non-binding nature
of the District Court decisions aside. (Searles v. Archangel (2021) 60
Cal.App.5th 43, 52-55 [where statute specifically requires personal service,
alternative methods of service under Code Civ. Proc., § 413.30 not available].)
Plaintiff’s
motion is thus DENIED.
 

Conclusion
Plaintiff Jin Woo Park’s Motion to Request to Approve the Email Serving is
DENIED.