  Case Number:  22NWCV00772    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  C MARTINEZ v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.
CASE NO.:  22NWCV00772
HEARING:  December 3,
2024 @ 10:30 a.m.
 
#9
TENTATIVE ORDER
 
Plaintiff’s Motion
for Summary Adjudication to the sixth and seventh affirmative defenses is
GRANTED.
 
Plaintiff to give
notice. 
 
This is a lemon law action. On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff
Andrea Martinez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”) regarding her 2019 Honda Pilot, (“Subject
Vehicle”) purchased on March 19, 2019. The Complaint alleges Defendant sold the
Subject Vehicle knowing there was a transmission defect. The Complaint alleges
three causes of action: (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of express
warranty, (2) Violation of Song-Beverly Act – breach of implied warranty, and
(3) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
Plaintiff now moves for summary adjudication as to
Defendant’s sixth and seventh affirmative defenses (“Motion”). Defendant’s
sixth affirmative defense states that Defendant has a third-party dispute
resolution process, and that Plaintiff made no effort to use such process.
Defendant’s seventh affirmative defense states that Defendant possesses a
“qualified” third party dispute resolution process, barring Plaintiff from recovering
“any civil penalty.”
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court overrules Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to
Declaration of Alexander Alarcon ¶ 3, Exhibits A, B, and C.
 
Legal Standard
 
Civil Code of Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f)(1)
states that “[a] party may move for summary adjudication as to. . .one or more
affirmative defenses. . if the party contends. . .that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action. . .A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of [an affirmative
defense].” 


“The plaintiff bears the initial burden to show there is no
triable issue of material fact as to the defense and that he or she is entitled
to judgment on the defense as a matter of law. In so doing, the plaintiff must
negate an essential element of the defense, or establish the defendant does not
possess and cannot reasonably obtain evidence needed to support the defense.” (See's
Candy Shops, Inc. v. Superior Court (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 889, 900.) If
the Plaintiff fails to make the requisite showing, it is unnecessary to examine
the Defendant’s evidence and the motion must be denied. (Ibid.) Yet if
the Plaintiff makes the requisite showing, the burden shifts to Defendant to
establish the existence of a dispute of material fact. (Ibid.)
 
Discussion
 
Sixth Affirmative Defense –
Third-Party Dispute Resolution Process
 
Defendant’s sixth affirmative answer states that Defendant
has a third-party dispute resolution process under Civil Code section 1793.22,
subdivision (c), and that Plaintiff has made no effort to use such process. Civil
Code section 1793.22, subdivision (c) requires buyers to partake in a qualified
third-party dispute resolution process before asserting the “reasonable number
of attempts” presumption under section 1793.22, subdivision (b).
 
In this Motion, Plaintiff argues Defendant does not maintain
a qualified third-party dispute resolution process because Defendant’s program,
the National Center for Dispute Settlement (“NCDS”) program, is not certified
by the California Department of Consumer Affairs (“DCA”) as required by Civil
Code section 1793.22, subdivision (d)(9). (UMF Nos. 3-10.) Defendant concedes
that the NCDS program is uncertified by the DCA. Civil Code section 1793.22,
subdivisions (d)(1)-(9) set forth requirements for “qualified third-party
dispute resolution process[es].” Subdivision (d)(9) requires any such process
to obtain “certification by the Department of Consumer Affairs pursuant to
Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 472) of Division 1 of the Business and
Professions Code.”
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has met her burden in establishing
that Defendant does not have a “qualified” dispute resolution process under Civil
Code section 1793.22.
 
In an attempt to meet its burden, Defendant argues there is
a dispute of material fact as to whether the NCDS program is in “substantial
compliance” with Civil Code section 1793.22. Defendant cites language from Civil
Code section 1794, subdivision (e)(2), which states the following: “If the
manufacturer maintains a qualified third-party dispute resolution process which
substantially complies with Section 1793.22, the manufacturer shall not
be liable for any civil penalty pursuant to this subdivision.” (Italics added.)
Defendant argues that the NCDS program effectuates the legislative intent of
the Song-Beverly Act—to provide a fair and timely method to address warranty
issues outside of court and to limit civil liability for manufacturers that
provide such program. (DF No. 4.) Defendant argues that despite its lack of
certification by DCA, the NCDS program meets critical requirements under
section 1793.22 such as “binding arbitration decisions, specific timelines for
compliance, and cost-free consumer access.” (Mot. p. 5, lines 27-28; DF Nos. 4,
7, 8, 9.)
 
The Court finds Defendant has not met its burden in
establishing a genuine issue of material fact. The cases cited by Defendants, Dyna-Med,
Inc. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 1379, 1386 and Spicer
v. City of Camarillo (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1423, do not pertain to the
Song-Beverly Act at all. Although Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc.
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094 is a Song-Beverly Act case, it does not speak to the
requirements of Civil Code section 1793.22.
 
The language of Civil Code section 1793.22, subdivision (d)
is clear that “(d) [a] qualified third-party dispute resolution process shall
be one that does all of the following: (9) Obtains and maintains
certification by the Department of Consumer Affairs. . .” (Italics added.) Business
and Professions Code section 472, subdivision (c) defines a “qualified
third-party dispute resolution process” as a process “which operates in
compliance with subdivision (d) of Section 1793.22 of the Civil Code and this
chapter and which has been certified by the [DCA] pursuant to this chapter.”
Such language indicates certification by the DCA is a key requirement to be a
“qualified” dispute resolution process. 
 
Statutory language suggests that DCA’s certification process
was created to ensure compliance with Civil Code section 1793.22. Business and
Professions Code section 472.2, subdivision (b) states that the DCA “. . .
shall determine whether the third-party dispute resolution process is in
substantial compliance with subdivision (d) of Section 1793.22 of the
Civil Code and this chapter. If the department determines that the process
is in substantial compliance, the department shall certify the process.” Such language
suggests that the legislature intended the DCA, not courts, to determine
whether a dispute resolution process substantially complies with Section
1793.22. Defendant has thus failed to meet its burden in proving a genuine
dispute of material fact as to the whether is maintains a qualified dispute
resolution process. 
 
The motion for summary adjudication as to the sixth
affirmative defense is GRANTED.  
 
Seventh Affirmative Defense 
 
Defendant’s seventh affirmative defense states that
Defendant possesses a “qualified third party dispute resolution process,”
barring Plaintiff from recovering “any civil penalty.” 
 
Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (e)(2) states the
following: “If the manufacturer maintains a qualified third-party dispute
resolution process which substantially complies with Section 1793.22, the
manufacturer shall not be liable for any civil penalty pursuant to this
subdivision.”
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant does not maintain a
qualified third-party dispute resolution process.  Plaintiff also argues that even if Defendant
maintained a qualified dispute resolution process, such process would not
shield Defendant from any civil penalties for willful conduct under
Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (c). 
 
Civil Code section 1974, subdivision (c) states the
following: “If the buyer establishes that the failure to comply was willful,
the judgment may include. . .a civil penalty.” Plaintiff argues that
maintaining a qualified dispute resolution process would only shield Defendant
from civil penalties for non-willful conduct under Civil Code section 1794,
subdivision (e)(2). Plaintiff cites Jernigan v. Ford (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 488, 492 to support the contention that a dispute resolution
process precludes plaintiffs from recovering civil penalties for non-willful
conduct under Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (e)(2), but it does not
preclude plaintiff from recovering civil penalties for willful conduct under
Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (c).
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden. Plaintiff
has made a prima facie showing that Defendant does not maintain a “qualified
third-party dispute resolution process” that would shield it from any civil
penalty under Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (e)(2). The seventh
affirmative defense fails on that ground alone. 
 
Further, Plaintiff has made a prima facie showing that even
if Defendant maintained a qualified third-party dispute resolution process,
Plaintiff would not be precluded from collecting civil penalties for willful
conduct under Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (c). Jernigan v. Ford
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 488, 492 interprets the language of Civil Code section
1794, subdivision (e)(2):
 
“Under that language, where there is a
dispute resolution process “the manufacturer shall not be liable for any civil
penalty under this subdivision.” (Italics added.) Consistent with usage
throughout the Act, “subdivision” can refer only to subdivision (e) of section
1794. By use of the phrase “under this subdivision,” the Legislature limited
the exemption. It applies only to the civil penalties for nonwillful
violations recoverable under section 1794, subdivision (e), and does not apply
to penalties which may be available under another subdivision, i.e., 1794,
subdivision (c).”
 
(Italics added.)
 
Defendant argues that the NCDS program “substantially
complies” with the requirements of Civil Code section 1793.22, subdivision (d),
and thus it is a qualified third-party dispute resolution process. The Court
has rejected this argument above. 
 
Defendant further asserts there is a genuine issue of
material fact as to whether “[Defendants]’s NCDS program substantially complies
with the Act, whether [Defendant] acted in good faith, and whether its conduct
rises to the level of willfulness.” (Opp., p. 8, lines 11-13.) Defendant
essentially asserts that civil penalties for willful conduct are not warranted
where it acted in good faith to comply with the requirements of Civil Code
section 1793.22, subdivision (d). 
 
Defendant confuses the issues here. The issue is not whether
Defendant acted willfully in failing to certify its dispute resolution program.
The issue of willfulness goes to whether Defendant intentionally violated the substantive
provisions of the Song-Beverly Act. The Court notes that Plaintiff’s claim
for a willful violation pursuant to Civil Code section 1794, subdivision (c) is
based on Defendant’s willful failure to promptly repurchase or replace
Plaintiff’s vehicle. (Reply, p. 1, fn.1.) Plaintiff, through this Motion, seeks
to prove that Defendant does not have a qualified third-party dispute
resolution process, and thus, it has no protection for civil liability of
non-willful conduct. Plaintiff argues that even if Defendant has such a
process, Plaintiff would not be precluded from seeking civil penalties under Civil
Code section 1794, subdivision (c) for willful conduct. The Court agrees.
Whether Defendant willfully or non-willfully complied with the requirements for
qualified third-party dispute resolution processes is irrelevant. 
 
The Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the seventh
affirmative defense is GRANTED.  