 Case Number:  23NWCV00436    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  C GONZALEZ v. DIAMOND ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES, L.P., ET AL.CASE NO.: 23NWCV00436HEARING: December 3, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m.#10TENTATIVE ORDERPlaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One Nos. 15.1 and 17.1 are GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. Part of the motion is continued to January 14, 2025 at 10:30.Plaintiff is awarded $1,875.00 in sanctions.Plaintiff to give notice.BackgroundThis is a premises liability action. On February 9, 2023, Plaintiff Hermelinda Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Diamond Environmental Services, L.P. (“Diamond”) and Does 1 to 50. On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff amended the Complaint to add Nuconcepts, Interstate Batteries, Inc., and Clarios International, Inc.as Doe Defendants. The Complaint alleges a battery device contained in a portable restroom exploded, causing Plaintiff’s injuries. The Complaint asserts three causes of action: 1) General Negligence, 2) Premises Liability, and 3) Products Liability.On June 28, 2023, Diamond filed a Cross-Complaint against Nuconcepts, Interstate Batteries, Inc., and Clarios International, Inc.On September 8, 2023, Andy Gump, Inc., dba Nuconcepts (erroneously sued as Nuconcepts) filed a Cross-Complaint against Diamond, Interstate Batteries, Inc. and Clarios, LLC (erroneously sued as Clarios International, Inc.).On September 14, 2023, Interstate Batteries, Inc. filed a Cross-Complaint against Diamond, Andy Gump, Inc., and Clarios, LLC.On December 21, 2023, Clarios, LLC filed a Cross-Complaint against Diamond, Interstate Batteries, Inc., and Andy Gump, Inc.On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories, Set One to Andy Gump, Inc. (“Gump”). (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.) Plaintiff granted Gump’s requests for an extension to respond by November 22, 2023. (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶ 4.)On November 22, 2023, Gump served verified responses to the Form Interrogatories, Set One. (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶ 5; Exh. 2.)Following a meet and confer letter from Plaintiff, on January 26, 2024, Gump again served further verified responses, providing objections. (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Exhs. 3, 4.) After multiple meet and confer attempts as to Form Interrogatories, Set One Nos. 15.1 and 17.1, and multiple deadline extensions, Gump refused to provide the requested further responses, suggesting Plaintiff make a supplemental discovery demand as discovery develops. (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 7-9; Exh. 6, 7.) Gump has not provided further responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 15.1 and 17.1.Plaintiff now moves to compel further responses from Gump to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 15.1 and 17.1. Plaintiff also request monetary sanctions.Legal StandardOn receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that (1) an answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete, (2) an exercise of the option to produce documents under Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate, or (3) an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).) California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345 requires the moving party to file a separate statement containing factual and legal reasons to compel further responses. The responding party has the burden of justifying the objections thereto. (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) ¿¿Where general boilerplate objections are made, courts have authority to compel further responses (but not to find a waiver of privilege objections).¿(Best Products, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2004) 119 Cal.App. 4th 1181, 1189.)¿¿The court shall impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (d).)¿¿California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348 states that a “court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed.”Meet and ConferA motion to compel further responses to interrogatories must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (b).)Plaintiff’s counsel has sent two meet and confer letters detailing deficiencies with Gump’s responses and further responses. (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Exhs. 3, 5.) On March 15, 2024, after Plaintiff once again offered to extend the time for Gump to provide further responses, Gump suggested that Plaintiff “make a supplemental demand as discovery moves down the road.” (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 7-9; Exhs. 6, 7.) Considering the parties could resolve this dispute despite attempts to meet and confer, the Court finds the meet and confer requirement has been met.DiscussionForm Interrogatory No. 15.1Plaintiff moves to compel further as to Form Interrogatory, Set One, No. 15.1, which reads as follows:“Identify each denial of a material allegation and each special or affirmative defense in your pleadings and for each:a) state all facts upon which you base the denial or affirmative defenseb) state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those facts; andc) identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your denial or special affirmative defense, and state the name, ADDRESS and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.”(Zurita-Cruz Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. 1.)Plaintiff particularly seeks to elicit further responses regarding the facts, witnesses, and documents supporting Gump’s Fourth Affirmative Defense for Contribution/Comparative Fault, Eighth Affirmative Defense for Intervening/Superseding Cause, Fourteenth Affirmative Defense for Complete Performance, Fifteenth Affirmative Defense for Unintended/Abnormal Use, Sixteenth Affirmative Defense for Misuse/Modification, Twenty-Third Affirmative Defense for Spoliation, Twenty-Fourth Affirmative Defense for Reasonable Care, Twenty-Ninth Affirmative Defense for Act of God, Thirtieth Affirmative Defense for No Liability for Doe Defendants, and Thirty-Second Affirmative Defense for Joinder.Although Defendant has not filed an opposition, the Court will consider Gump’s general objections and responses as to each affirmative defense. Gump argues that Plaintiff has not been deposed and has not undergone a medicalexamination, so the interrogatories are premature. Gump argues the interrogatories seek information that would violate attorney-client privilege and work-product privilege. Gump further argues that discovery is ongoing, and it reserves the right to provide further information as discovery continues.The Court finds that Gump’s general objections and further responses are inadequate. Gump’s objections based on attorney-client privilege and work product privilege are unclear as how they apply to any responsive documents. Gump’s objections that such responses are premature lack merit. Gump’s responses state that each defense is based on Gump’s “information and belief” but fails to state facts upon which its belief is grounded in. If Gump does not have the sufficient personal knowledge to respond, it shall state so, but also shall make a “a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220.) Gump’s responses that “Discovery is continuing” are insufficient.Plaintiff also seeks further responses for the phone number and address of Thomas Field, the person identified with personal knowledge of such facts supporting the affirmative defenses. Gump’s further responses state the following: “Thomas Field; who may be reached through Tharpe & Howell, LLP; 15250 Ventura Blvd, Sherman Oaks, CA 91403; (818) 205-9955.” Based on Gump’s general objections to the Form Interrogatories, Set One and the meet and confer emails, it seems Gump is objecting to providing Field’s address due to privacy reasons. (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 5-7; Exhs. 2, 4, 6.)Plaintiff must avail herself of this method to contact Thomas Field. This portion of the motion is continued to January 14, 2025 at 10:30 for an update and a continued hearing on the motion to compel. If plaintiff is dissatisfied with her ability to reach Thomas Field, then the responding party may be required to provide its last known contact information. Phone numbers and addresses of witnesses are relevant and commonly discoverable. (See People v. Dixon (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 414, 443 (“The disclosure of the names and addresses of potential witnesses is a routine and essential part of pretrial discovery.”); see also Puerto v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1253 (finding witnesses’ phone number and addresses, “while personal, [are] not particularly sensitive, as [they are] merely contact information” and are “generally discoverable”); see also Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010 (“Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter.”).) Gump has filed no opposition providing reasons for why Field’s right to privacy would be severely intruded upon. Further, Plaintiff has agreed not to contact Thomas Field without first contacting Gump’s counsel. (Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; Exhs. 3, 5.) The Court finds Field’s contact information is discoverable, but defers ruling on this portion of the motion.The Court grants the rest of the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatory, Set One, No. 15.1.Form Interrogatory No. 17.1Plaintiff moves to compel further as to Form Interrogatory, Set One, No. 17.1, which reads as follows:“Is your response to each request for admission served with these interrogatories an unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is not an unqualified admission:¿¿a. state the number of the request;¿b. state all facts upon which you base your response;¿c. state the names, ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of¿those facts; and¿e. identify all DOCUMENTS and other tangible things that support your response and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or thing.”(Zurita-Cruz Decl., ¶ 3; Exh. 1.)Plaintiff argues that Gump has failed to adequately respond to subdivision (c) in its responses, which requires Thomas Field’s address and phone number. As discussed previously, the Court finds that Field’s contact information is discoverable, but defers ruling on this issue.The Court continues the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatory, Set One, No. 17.1 to January 14, 2025 at 10:30.SanctionsPlaintiff’s counsel requests $2,250.00 in sanctions. Plaintiff’s counsel seeks attorney’s fees for 9 hours of work (2 hours to draft two meet and confer letters, 3.5 hours to prepare this Motion, .5 hours to review the opposition, 1 hour to prepare the reply, and 2 hours for court appearance) at counsel’s rate of $250.00 per hour. The Court reduces the hours by 2.5 hours because no opposition or reply was filed, and the court appearance will take no longer than 1 hour. The Court thus awards sanctions in the amount of $1,875.00 (7.5 hours x $250.00).