 Case Number:  23STCV30186    Hearing Date:   July 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ELIZABETH SHUAI WONG, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FLIPFIT,
  f.k.a. HUMANS, INC., a Delaware
corporation,
  NOORULDEEN ALAARIF,
a.k.a. NOOR
  AGHA, an individual, and
DOES 1 to 100, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV30186
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
  FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS, SET ONE
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
  INTERROGATORIESS, SET ONE
 
Date: July 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Elizabeth Shuai
Wong (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Flipfit, fka
Humans, Inc. (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is a representative action filed by
Plaintiff on December 11, 2023, seeking recovery of civil penalties under the
Private Attorneys General Act of 2004, California Labor Code §2698, et seq.
(“PAGA”), for alleged Labor Code violations of:  failure to pay minimum wage, failure to pay
overtime wages, failure to provide all required meal periods, failure to
authorize or permit all required rest periods, failure to pay all earned wages
each pay period, failure to provide accurate wage statements, failure to pay
vested vacation wages, failure to reimburse necessary business expenditures,
failure to pay all wages due upon separation of employment, failure to maintain
an effective Injury and Illness Prevention Program and retaliation for use of Covid-19
supplemental sick pay.
 
            On April 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Defendant’s
Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production, Set One (the “RFPs Motion”),
and a Motion to Compel Defendant’s Responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One (the “SIs Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions”).  Defendant filed a consolidated opposition to
the Motions on July 9, 2024, and Plaintiff filed a reply on July 15, 2024.
 
DISCUSSION
SIs Motion
Under Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section
2030.290, subdivision (b), when a party directs interrogatories towards a party,
and that party fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.  (CCP § 2030.290, subd.
(b).)  A party who fails to provide a
timely response waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work
product.  (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  The moving party need only show that the interrogatories
were served on the opposing party, the time has expired to respond to the
interrogatories and no responses have been served in order for the court to
compel the opposing party to respond.  (Leach
v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 906.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff served Defendant with Special
Interrogatories, Set One (“SIs”) on January 30, 2024.  (Declaration of Leonard H. Sansanowicz in
Support of SIs Motion, ¶ 3.)  Defendant had not served responses
to the SIs as of the date of filing of the SIs Motion on April 22, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 11.)
 
On June 7, 2024, however, Defendant responded to all
discovery requests served by Plaintiff, without objections.  (Declaration of Matthew Theriault (“Theriault
Decl.”), ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff does not
dispute, and in fact, acknowledges that Defendant did provide objections-free
responses to the SIs on June 7, 2024.  (Supplemental
Declaration of Leonard H. Sansanowicz in Support of Plaintiff’s Reply (“Sansanowicz
Supp. Decl.”), ¶ 22.)  
 
Accordingly, since responses to the SIs, without
objections, have now been served, the SIs Motion is MOOT.  To the extent that Plaintiff contends that the
responses are insufficient or not otherwise complete or Code-compliant,
Plaintiff has forty-five days from the date of this order to file a Motion to
Compel Further Discovery Responses.
 
RFPs Motion
When a
party fails to serve a timely response to an inspection demand, the party
making the demand may move for an order compelling a response to the inspection
demand.  (CCP § 2031.300, subd. (b).)  A party who fails to provide a timely response
waives any objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Id.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff served Defendant with Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One (“RFPs”) on January 30, 2024.  (Declaration of Leonard H. Sansanowicz in
Support of RFPs Motion, ¶ 3.)  Defendant had not served responses
to the RFPs as of the date of filing of the RFPs Motion on April 22, 2024.  (Id., ¶ 11.)
 
On June 7, 2024, however, Defendant responded to all
discovery requests served by Plaintiff, without objections.  (Theriault Decl., ¶ 10.)  Additionally, on July 9, 2024, Defendant
produced documents.  (Id.)  Plaintiff does not dispute, and in fact,
acknowledges that Defendant did provide objections-free responses to the RFPs on
June 7, 2024.  (Sansanowicz Supp. Decl.,
¶ 22.)  
 
Accordingly, since responses to the RFPs, without
objections, have now been served, and documents have been produced, the RFPs
Motion is MOOT.  To the extent that
Plaintiff contends that the responses and documents produced are insufficient
or not otherwise complete or Code-compliant, Plaintiff has forty-five days from
the date of this order to file a Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses.
 
Monetary Sanctions
Nevertheless, the question of sanctions still
remains before the Court. “[P]roviding untimely responses does not divest the
trial court of its authority [to hear a motion to compel responses].”  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 407.)  Even if the untimely response “does not
contain objections [and] substantially resolve[s] the issues raised by a motion
to compel responses…the trial court retains the authority to hear the motion.”  (Id., at pp. 408-409.)  This rule gives “an important incentive for
parties to respond to discovery in a timely fashion.”  (Id., at p. 408.)  If “the propounding party [does not] take the
motion off calendar or narrow its scope to the issue of sanctions,” the trial
court may “deny the motion to compel responses as essentially unnecessary, in
whole or in part, and just impose sanctions.”  (Id. at p. 409; Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1348, subd. (a) [“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act
in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed”].)
 
            “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response
to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
“[T]he
court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Id., §
2031.300, subd. (c).)
 
In this
case, Defendant asserts that the delayed responses were caused by unexpected
medical issues experienced by the previous attorney handling the case. The
Court also acknowledges that there have been multiple changes in the counsel
representing Defendant. Furthermore, Plaintiff agreed to an extension for Defendant
to provide responses by June 7, 2024, and Defendant complied with this
deadline.  (Sansanowicz Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 17-22;
Theriault Decl., ¶¶ 8-10.)
 
Thus, the
Court finds that, under the circumstances, there is substantial justification
for the delayed responses and that monetary sanctions are not warranted.  Accordingly, no sanctions are imposed.
 
RULING
            The Motions are DENIED as moot.  The requests for monetary sanctions are also
DENIED.
            
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 22nd day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



