 Case Number:  20STCV08923    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  B Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT B
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JOANNA
  SZE CHEN,   
         vs.
 
ANNE
  MAUREEN GUTIERREZ.
 


 Case No.:  20STCV08923
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 4, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s motion
to transfer venue is granted.  
 
Plaintiff Joanna Sze Chen
(“Plaintiff”) moves for an order transferring venue of this action filed against
Defendant Anne Maureen Gutierrez (“Gutierrez”) and DOES 1 to 10 (“DOES”)(collectively
“Defendants”) from the Los Angeles County Superior Court Van Nuys East
Courthouse to the Los Angeles County Superior Court Pasadena Courthouse,
pursuant to Cal. Codes of Civ. Proc. § 395(a).
 
Procedural
History
 
This case arises from an August 3,
2018, motor vehicle collision, in which Plaintiff alleges Gutierrez negligently
operated her motor vehicle and caused Plaintiff personal injury and damages. On
March 3, 2020, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants alleging two
causes of action: (1) motor vehicle negligence; and (2) general negligence. 
 
The case was originally
assigned to the Honorable Judge Jon R. Takasugi in Department 31 at the Spring
Street Courthouse.
 
On June 7, 2024, the case was reassigned
to the Honorable Judge Karen Moskowitz in Department B at Van Nuys East
Courthouse. The case reassignment occurred after the closure of the personal
injury hub at Spring Street.
 
On July 29, 2024, the parties filed
a stipulation to transfer venue from Van Nuys East to Pasadena.
 
On August 26, 2024, the Court
denied the stipulation on the grounds that venue transfer must be requested
through a properly noticed motion. 
 
On August 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion to transfer.
 
On September
20, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition.
 
Motion to
Transfer Venue
 
“The court may, on timely motion,
order transfer of an action ‘[w]hen the court designated in the complaint is
not the proper court.’ [Citations] The moving party must overcome the
presumption that the plaintiff has selected the proper venue. [Citation] Thus,
‘[i]t is the moving defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff’s
venue selection is not proper under any of the statutory grounds.’ [Citation]
In opposing the motion to change venue, ‘[t]he plaintiff may bolster his or her
choice of venue with counter-affidavits consistent with the complaint’s theory
of the type of action but amplifying the allegations relied upon for venue.’
[Citation]” (Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830,
836.)
 
C.C.P. §395(a)
provides, in pertinent part, as follows: “Except as otherwise provided by law
and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as
provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the defendants
or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court
for the trial of the action… Subject to [C.C.P. §395(b)], if a defendant has
contracted to perform an obligation in a particular county, the superior court
in the county where the obligation is to be performed, where the contract in
fact was entered into, or where the defendant or any defendant resides at the
commencement of the action is a proper court for the trial of an action founded
on that obligation, and the county where the obligation is incurred is the
county where it is to be performed, unless there is a special contract in writing
to the contrary…”
 
Here, Van Nuys
East is the proper venue for the instant action under CCP § 395(a). Van Nuys
East is a Los Angeles County Superior Court courthouse. The Los Angeles County
Superior Court is the proper venue for this action since Defendant resided in
Los Angeles County at the time of the underlying incident. (Mashney Decl. ¶¶
4-5.)
 
However,
Plaintiff’s motion can still be granted. The Local Rules of the Los Angeles
Superior Court govern the assignment of cases between its districts and
departments. (CCP § 402.) LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2) authorizes departments to
transfer civil cases from one judicial district to another via a noticed motion
on three enumerated grounds: (1) when the case was filed in an improper
district; (2) for the convenience of witnesses; or (3) to promote the ends of
justice. (LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2).)  
 
The motor
vehicle collision at the heart of the action occurred in Arcadia, California. (Mashley
Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.) Plaintiff states that the case was only brought to Spring Street
because, at the time, Spring Street was the personal injury hub for the Los
Angeles County Superior Court system (Ibid. at ¶ 6.) Plaintiff also
states that the case was transferred to Van Nuys East because of the closure of
Spring Street’s personal injury hub. (Ibid. at ¶ 7.) Plaintiff notes
that Van Nuys faces an influx of personal injury cases after this closure. (Memorandum
of Points and Authorities, II.b.) Therefore, Plaintiff argues, transfer would
promote judicial efficiency. (Ibid.) Furthermore, both parties agree to
the transfer. (Mashley Decl. ¶ 8.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, transferring the action to Pasadena promotes the ends of justice
under LASC Local Rule 2.3(b)(2). Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion to transfer is
GRANTED.
 