 Case Number:  23PSCV01147    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiffs Kelly
Chu and Ken Chu
Defendant Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center’s Motion to Strike
Portions of Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiffs Kelly Chu and Ken Chu
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Pomona Valley
Hospital Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint and
Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Second Amended Complaint is CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
Defendant’s
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel regarding
the Demurrer and Motion to Strike and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the
next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer and Motion to Strike.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for dependent adult abuse. On April 28, 2022, Plaintiff Kelly Chu was
admitted to Defendant Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (PVHMC)’s intensive
care unit (ICU) after suffering a stroke. To prevent the formation of deep vein
thrombosis, PVHMC staff began to utilize a sequential compression device. From
April 29 to April 30, Kelly Chu alleges PVHMC staff failed to ensure the
sequential compression device did not cause injury or discomfort to Kelly Chu. As
a result, Kelly Chu alleges the sequential compression device caused a medical
device-related pressure injury to form.
On
April 18, 2023, Kelly Chu and Ken Chu filed a complaint against PVHMC and Does
1-250, alleging the following causes of action: (1) dependent adult
abuse/neglect, (2) negligence, and (3) loss of consortium.
On
September 14, 2023, the Chus filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the
same Defendants alleging the same causes of action. On November 30, the court
sustained PVHMC’s demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend.
On
December 6, 2023, the Chus filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the
same Defendants alleging the same causes of action.
On January
12, 2024, PVHMC filed the present demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to
filing on January 3, PVHMC’s counsel set a meet-and-confer letter to the Chus’s
counsel. (Hayati Decl., ¶ 5.) PVHMC’s counsel also discussed the case in emails
with Chu’s counsel on January 8 and January 9. (Hayati Decl., ¶ 6.)
A hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike is set for March 11, 2024, along with a
case management conference/status conference re: ADR.
ANALYSIS
PVHMC
demurs to Kelly Chu’s first cause of action for dependent adult abuse and
neglect. For
the following reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and
confer.
Legal
Standard
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), prior to filing a
demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” This section further provides
that “the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action
that it believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the
basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
While
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a)(4) makes clear failing
to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer, courts “are not
required to ignore defects in the meet and confer process” and if the court
determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or concludes further
conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains discretion
to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye toward
reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer, and to
continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn. 3.)
Discussion
In this case, PVHMC’s counsel filed a declaration
stating counsel attempted to meet and confer by sending a letter and emails to the
Chus’s counsel. (Hayati Decl., ¶ 5-6.) Because Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.41 places the burden to meet and confer telephonically or
in-person on PVHMC’s counsel, the court finds this attempt insufficient as PVHMC’s
counsel does not state counsel attempted to reach out to the Chus’s counsel
over the telephone or in-person and a letter is not a code-compliant form of
meeting and conferring. Thus, the court finds a continuance of the hearing on PVHMC’s
demurrer and motion to strike is appropriate.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, PVHMC’s demurrer and motion to strike are CONTINUED to a
date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).PVHMC’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with the Chus’s counsel regarding the demurrer and motion to strike and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing on the demurrer and motion to strike. 