 Case Number:  23PSCV03740    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Maserati North America, Inc.’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s
Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Heqian Zhang
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Maserati North America, Inc.’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint
is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at
the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. In July 2023, Plaintiff Heqian
Zhang allegedly entered into a warranty contract with Defendant Maserati North
America, Inc. (Maserati) by purchasing a 2023 Maserati Grecale. Subsequently,
Zhang alleges the vehicle exhibited numerous defects and nonconformities. Zhang
then alleges Maserati failed to adequately repair or replace the vehicle.
 
On December 4, 2023, Zhang filed a complaint against
Maserati and Does 1-10, alleging (1) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2,
subdivision (d); (2) violation of Civil Code section 1793.2, subdivision (b);
(3) breach of express warranty; (4) breach of implied warranty; and (5)
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200.
 
On February 5, 2024, Maserati filed the present demurrer.
Prior to filing the present demurrer, Maserati’s counsel attempted to meet and
confer by sending a letter to Zhang’s counsel on January 31. (Brignoni Decl., ¶
3.)
 
A hearing on the present demurrer is set for March 11,
2024, with a case management conference on May 21.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Maserati demurs to Zhang’s fifth cause of
action for violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200. For the following reasons, the court finds
parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Maserati’s
counsel filed a declaration stating counsel attempted to meet and confer by
sending a letter to Zhang’s counsel. (Brignoni Decl., ¶ 3.) Because Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41 places the burden to meet and confer telephonically or in-person on Maserati’s
counsel, the court finds this attempt insufficient as Maserati’s counsel did
not attempt to reach out to Zhang’s counsel over the telephone or in-person and
a letter is not a code-compliant form of meeting and conferring. Thus, the
court finds a continuance of the hearing on Maserati’s demurrer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Maserati’s demurrer is CONTINUED
to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Maserati’s
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Zhang’s counsel
regarding the demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such
meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled
hearing on the demurrer.