  Case Number:  22STCV21554    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  11 McGhee (22STCV21554)
 
Tentative Ruling
Re: Objections Re: Motion for Class Certification
 
Date:                           12/6/24
Time:                          1:45
pm
Objecting Party:       Harold
Levall McGhee (“Plaintif”)
Objecting Party:       E.B. Bradley Co. and West Coast
Laminating, LLC (collectively “Defendants”)
Department:              11
Judge:                         David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s Objections
 
Nelson Declaration
 
Objection 1 = sustained as to
the fourth sentence.
 
Objection 2 = sustained as to
the second through fifth sentences.
 
Objection 3 = same as objection
2 plus sustained as to paragraph 14.
 
Objection 4 = sustained as to
the first through third sentences.
 
Objections 5 and 6 = overruled.
 
Objection 7 = sustained as to
the first and second sentences.
 
Objection 8 = sustained as to
the second, third, and fifth sentences.
 
Objection 9 = sustained as to
the first through third sentences.
 
Selmon Declaration
 
Objections 1 through 5 =
overruled.
 
Defendants’ Objections
 
Lopez Declaration
 
Objection 1 = sustained.
 
 
McGhee Declaration
 
Objections 1 and 4 = sustained.
 
Objections 2, 3, and 5 =
overruled.
 
Woolfson Declaration
 
Objections 1 through 4 =
sustained.
 
Villalba Declaration
 
Objections 1 and 2 = sustained.
 
Uribe Declaration
 
Objections 1 and 3 = overruled.
 
Objection 2 = sustained.
 
Objection 4 = sustained as to
“the companies policies”.
 
Objections 5 through 17 and 19 =
overruled.
 
Objection 18 = sustained.
 
Vargas Declaration
 
Objection 1 = sustained.
 
Objections 2 through 6 = moot.
 
Watkins Declaration 
 
Objection 1 = sustained.
 
Objection 2 = overruled.
 
Schmal Declaration
 
Objection 1 = sustained.
 
 McGhee (22STCV21554) Tentative Ruling
Re: Motion for Class Certification Date:                           12/6/24 Time:                          1:45
pm Moving Party:           Harold
Levall McGhee (“Plaintif”) Opposing Party:        E.B. Bradley Co. (“EB Bradley”) and West
Coast Laminating, LLC (“West Coast Laminating”) (collectively “Defendants”) Department:              11 Judge:                         David
S. Cunningham III________________________________________________________________________ TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff’s
motion for class certification is denied. The
Court sets an order to show cause regarding Plaintiff’s counsel adequacy. If
Plaintiff’s counsel survive the order to show cause, the Court intends to grant
Plaintiff leave to name new class representatives. If
Plaintiff’s counsel do not survive the order to show cause, the Court intends
to deny Plaintiff’s motion with prejudice. BACKGROUND Plaintiff used to be a truck driver for EB Bradley.  He claims EB Bradley and West Coast
Laminating jointly employed him, and he alleges that they subjected him and
other current and former employees to multiple wage-and-hour violations.  (See Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”), ¶¶ 14,
26-114.) Here, Plaintiff moves to certify one class and five subclasses. LAW The plaintiff bears the burden of
demonstrating that class certification is proper.  (See City of San Jose v. Superior Court
(1974) 12 Cal.3d 447, 460; see also Caro v. Procter & Gamble Co.
(1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 644, 654.)  To do
so, [t]he party advocating class treatment must
demonstrate the existence of an ascertainable and sufficiently numerous class,
a well-defined community of interest, and substantial benefits from
certification that render proceeding as a class superior to the alternatives.”  (Brinker Restaurant Corp. v. Superior
Court (2012) 53 Cal.4th 1004, 1021 (“Brinkder”).)   DISCUSSION Adequacy Plaintiff fails to prove the
adequacy prong.  “The
class representative, through qualified counsel, must be capable of ‘vigorously
and tenaciously’ protecting the interests of the class members.”  (Edmon & Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civ. Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2023 Update) ¶ 14:36.)  “The prospective
[] representative must file a declaration stating that he or she desires to
represent the class and understands the fiduciary obligations of
serving[.]”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s declaration contains the
requisite information (see McGhee Decl., ¶¶ 15-24), but his deposition
testimony tells a different story.  He
did not know that his case alleges class claims on behalf of all EB Bradley
employees; he did not know what a class representative is; he did not know that
he is the named representative; and it was not his intent to bring a class
action: Q.   Are you aware,
Mr. McGhee, that this lawsuit is a class action filed on behalf of all
employees? A.   All employees? Q.   At EB Bradley,
correct. A.   No. Q.   Do you have
any understanding, Mr. McGhee, that you in this lawsuit are seeking to
represent all employees, all hourly employees at EB Bradley? A.   No. * * * Q.   Do you know
what a class representative is? A.   No.  Q.   Are you aware
that you're a class representative in this case? A.   No. Q.   Okay.  Do you have any interest in pursuing a
lawsuit on behalf of all hourly employees at EB Bradley?  A.   Am I
interested? Q.   Is that your
intent? A.   Oh, intent? Q.   Yes.  A.   No. (Schwob
Decl., Ex. 1, pp. 48, 70 [attaching Plaintiff’s deposition transcript].)  Moreover, his understanding was that this is
a wrongful-termination case (there are no wrongful-termination claims asserted
in the SAC) (see SAC, ¶¶ 26-114); he was unaware of any other claims being
alleged; and he did not know what is being sought for recovery: Q.   Okay.  Do you have an understanding of what this
lawsuit is about? A.   Yes. Q.   And what is
your understanding of the lawsuit? A.   Can you
rephrase that question. Q.   Sure.  You understand that a lawsuit has been filed
on your behalf against EB Bradley and West Coast Laminating? A.   Yes. Q.   Do you have an
understanding of what that lawsuit is about? A.   Yes. Q.   What is your
understanding? A.   I was
wrongfully terminated. Q.   Is it your
understanding that you're pursuing a claim for wrongful termination in this
case? A.   Yes. Q.   Do you have an
understanding of anything else that you're claiming in this case? A.   No. Q.   Do you have
any understanding of what you're seeking to recover in this lawsuit? A.   Please
rephrase that. Q.   Sure.  So it's your understanding that this lawsuit
is about your termination from EB Bradley? A.   Yes.  My understanding, yes. Q.   Okay.  And do you have an understanding of what
you're trying to recover or get from this lawsuit? A.   My
understanding, no. * * * Q.   Are you aware
that this lawsuit has nothing to do with your termination from EB Bradley? A.   Say that
again, please. Q.   Sure.  Are you aware that this lawsuit has nothing
to do with your termination from EB Bradley? A.   No. Q.   Well, does it
surprise you that this lawsuit is not about your termination from EB Bradley? A.   Yes. (Id.
at Ex. 1, pp. 33-34, 48.)  The testimony
demonstrates that Plaintiff does not want to represent the putative class as to
the wage-and-hour claims and that he does not understand the fiduciary duties
of a class representative. There
is more.  Plaintiff never worked for West
Coast Laminating; he only worked as a truck driver for EB Bradley; and he does
not have knowledge of the other EB Bradley job positions: Q.   So you worked
at EB Bradley as a truck driver. Correct?  A.   Yes. * * * Q.   When did you
start looking -- let me ask you this. What is your understanding of who you worked for in terms
of EB Bradley or West Coast Laminating? A.   I was working
for EB Bradley.  West Coast Laminating I
believe is a subsidiary company of EB Bradley. Q.   Do you have
any understanding of what the difference is between EB Bradley and West Coast Laminating? MS. TOSCANO: 
Objection, assumes facts not in evidence. BY MR. MAGNANIMO: Q.  
You can answer. A.   No.  Q.   Do you know
what kind of business EB Bradley is engaged in?  A.   Lamination.  Q.   And when you
say "lamination," can you just explain that a little bit more to me?  A.   Tile, table
toppings, tops.  That's it. Q.   Okay.  You were delivering EB Bradley product. Is
that right?  A.   Yes.  Q.   And those
products were laminates?  A.   Yes.  Q.   Do you have
any understanding of what West Coast Laminating does as a business? A.   Lamination.  Q.   Do you know,
though, are they distributors? Are the manufacturers? A.   No. Q.   Do you have
any idea?  A.   No, I don't.  Q.   Okay.  Do you know how many employees work for West
Coast Laminating?  MS. TOSCANO: 
Objection, lacks foundation and assumes facts not in evidence.  THE WITNESS:  No. BY MR. MAGNANIMO: Q.  
Have you ever worked for West Coast Laminating?  A: No. * * * Q.   Okay.  Do you have any experience working as a
warehouse employee at EB Bradley? MS. TOSCANO: 
Objection, vague; ambiguous; lacks foundation as to "warehouse
employee." THE WITNESS:  Not
that I recall, no. Q.   Okay.  Are you aware whether EB Bradley has office
employees? A.   Yes. Q.   What is your knowledge
of what positions they have in terms of an office? A.   Supervisorial,
payroll. Q.   Okay.  Have you ever worked at EB Bradley as an
office employee? A.   No. Q.   So it would be
correct to say that your experience at EB Bradley is limited to your duties as
a truck driver? A.   Yes.  Q.   Okay.  Do you have any knowledge, as you sit here
today, whether warehouse employees were allowed to take meal or rest breaks? A.   Repeat that,
please. Q.   Sure.  Let me ask it a different way.  Do you have any knowledge, as you sit here
today, as to how the warehouse employees at EB Bradley performed their duties? A.   No.  Q.   Do you have
any knowledge as to the schedules of the warehouse employees? A.   No. Q.   Do you have
any knowledge as to whether warehouse employees at EB Bradley were able to take
rest breaks? A.   No. Q.   Do you have
any knowledge as to whether EB Bradley warehouse employees were able to take
meal breaks? A.   No. * * * Q.   Okay.  When you worked at EB Bradley, did you have
any knowledge as to whether the warehouse employees were able to take meal or
rest breaks?  MS. TOSCANO: 
Objection, asked and answered.  MR. MAGNANIMO:  Let
me ask it a different way. I'm sorry.  Q.   Did you ever
speak to any warehouse employees about their ability or inability to take meal
or rest breaks?  A.   No.  Q.   What about the
office employees, did you ever speak to any office employees at EB Bradley
about their ability or inability to take meal or rest breaks? A.   No. (Id.
at Ex. 1, pp. 15, 34-35, 41-43, 47.)  At
minimum, these facts render him incapable of representing the non-truck-driver
employees. And
his reply declaration fails to change the result.  Plaintiff declares: 1. I am a named Plaintiff in the matter of Harold
Levall McGhee v. E.B. Bradley Co., et al., Case Number 22STCV21554. 2. I am over eighteen years old and I make this
declaration based on my own personal knowledge. I am making this Declaration in
support of Plaintiff’s Motion for Class Certification. 3. I have personal knowledge of the matters stated herein
and could and would competently testify thereto, and for matters stated on
information and belief, as I believe them to be true.  4. I now understand that any claims I may have or had for
wrongful termination relating to my employment with the defendants in this case
are excluded from this class action lawsuit.  (McGhee
Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 1-4, underlined case name added.)  The four paragraphs do not show that
Plaintiff was involved in the decision to exclude the wrongful-termination
claims or that he agrees with the decision. 
Nor do they refute the testimony showing his disinterest in being class
representative and his apparent ignorance of the duties and obligations. Bottom
line, the differences between Plaintiff’s declarations and his testimony are
too stark to satisfy the adequacy prong. 
The Court finds that he is inadequate. Plaintiff’s
counsel also could have an adequacy problem. 
To reiterate, the attorneys did not include Plaintiff’s
wrongful-termination claims in the SAC (seemingly without his knowledge and
perhaps to his detriment [has the statute of limitations run?]), and, contrary
to the initial declaration that they filed under his name, his testimony
suggests that he does not want to pursue wage-and-hour class claims.  The attorneys are trying to use a class
representative who (1) appears confused about the nature of the case, and (2)
testified that he did not intend to serve as a class representative.     The
Court believes an order to show cause should be set to further assess Plaintiff’s
counsel’s adequacy and to determine whether sanctions or some other punishment
should be imposed.  The Court favors this
option because, in addition to the problematic evidence related to their
representation of Plaintiff, another of Plaintiff’s declarants – putative
member Santiago Villalba – has complained that the
attorneys doctored his declaration.  (See
Villalba Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  An order
to show cause would allow the Court to evaluate whether counsel could
adequately represent the class through new class representatives.   Notably,
there already was another class representative named Roberto Lopez.  His claims were sent to arbitration after the
Court granted Defendants’ motion to compel. 
(See 4/15/24 Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration; see also 6/3/24
Minute Order.) Nevertheless,
this is the first certification attempt, so, if Plaintiff’s attorneys do
survive the order to show cause, Plaintiff would be entitled to receive a
chance to name new representatives. 
Plaintiff would need to find class representatives for each job position
given that Defendants have multiple positions at multiple locations.  The differing job duties, policies, and
experiences tend to indicate that a single new representative would not be
sufficient to represent all employees. 
(See, e.g., Opposition, pp. 9-12.)[1] In
summary: *
Plaintiff’s motion for class certification is denied because Plaintiff is
inadequate; * the
Court is setting an order to show cause concerning Plaintiff’s counsel’s
adequacy; and,  * depending
on whether counsel survive the order to show cause, the Court would either
grant Plaintiff leave to name new class representatives or deny Plaintiff’s
motion with prejudice. Other
Certification Prongs It is
unnecessary to reach the other certification prongs. As a
matter of guidance, though, the Court offers the following thoughts. Ascertainability
and Numerosity A class is “ascertainable when it is defined ‘in terms of objective
characteristics and common transactional facts’ that make ‘the ultimate
identification of class members possible when that identification becomes
necessary.’”  (Noel v. Thrifty
Payless, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 955, 980.) “The
class must be ‘numerous’ in size.  But
there is no fixed minimum or maximum number . . . The numerosity analysis is
limited to how many individuals fall within the class definition and
whether their joinder is impracticable, not how many ‘net’ class members there
might be after considering affirmative defenses.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:21,
emphasis in original.)  Plaintiff asks the Cout to
certify one class and five subclasses: • Class: All
current and former non-exempt employees employed by Defendants from January 8,
2018 through the date of class certification . . . who did not sign an
arbitration agreement prior to July 5, 2022 (“Class Period”). o Meal Period
Subclass: All Class Members who were not paid meal period premiums when
their records showed meal period violations during the Class Period.  o Rest Break
Subclass: All Class Members who worked at least one shift of 3.5 hours or
more during the Class Period.   o Waiting Time
Subclass: All Class Members whose employment with Defendants ended at any
time from January 8, 2019 through the date of class certification.  o Facial Wage
Statement Subclass: All Class Members who received a wage statement from
Defendants lacking the rate of pay at any time from January 8, 2019 through the
date of class certification.  o Wage Statement
Subclass: All Class Members who received a wage statement from Defendants
at any time from January 8, 2021 through the date of class certification. (Motion, pp. 13-14, bold in
original.) Plaintiff contends the putative
members “can self-identify based on the objective class definition, and
Defendants, as their employer, ha[ve] their contact information.”  (Id. at p. 15.) Defendants assert:  Plaintiff cannot
show an ascertainable class because the evidence reflects that Defendants had
compliant policies and practices, and there is no admissible evidence to
establish that putative class members are owed compensation for rest break
violations or, for that matter, meal break violations—particularly in light of
the fact that Plaintiff has not, and reasonably cannot, offer any method for
identifying those employees within the putative class who may have viable
claims, absent conducting highly individualized inquiries into each employee’s
specific circumstances (e.g., if they took a late or short break, why it was
short, whether it was by their own choice, etc...). (Opposition, p. 17.) The Court agrees with Plaintiff
that the class is ascertainable.  The
facial definition includes adequate objective
characteristics and transactional facts, and it is undisputed that the
putative members can be ascertained from Defendants’ records.   Four of the subclass definitions
need to be amended.   The Meal Period Subclass
definition raises a legal issue – whether the records show meal-period
violations.  The definition requires
legal analyses to be performed prior to putative members being identified.  Self-identification would not be possible. The Rest Break Subclass
definition is overbroad.  As drafted, it
covers people who took rest breaks. The Waiting Time Subclass and
Wage Statement Subclass definitions are also overbroad.  They cover all employees, regardless of
whether they suffered waiting-time and wage-statement violations. The Court’s inclination is to let
the Facial Waiting Time Subclass definition stand.  It appears objective. Defendants’ argument goes to the
merits. Turning to numerosity, Plaintiff
argues that there are at least 67 putative members (see Motion, pp. 2, 14-15),
maybe 209 (see Reply, pp. 2-3), whereas Defendant claims there are merely
26.  (See Opposition, pp. 16-17.) Even if 26 is the correct number,
it is enough for the class.  (See Edmon
& Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:21.1 [instructing that “[n]o minimum number of
plaintiffs is required as a matter of law for maintenance of a state court
class action”]; see also id. at ¶ 14:21.3 [finding a class of 10 permissible]; Hendershot
v. Ready to Roll Transportation, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
1213, 1222-1223 [reversing denial of a nine-member class].) Plaintiff remains obligated to
show what the actual number is.  He fails
to show how many members belong not only to the class but also to each
subclass.  (See Motion, pp. 14-15; see
also Reply, pp. 2-3.)  These defects
would need to be fixed before certification could be granted. Commonality “[T]he proponent of certification
must show, inter alia, that questions
of law or fact common to the class predominate over the questions affecting the
individual members[.]” (Washington Mutual Bank, FA v. Superior Court
(2001) 24 Cal.4th 906, 913.) This means “each member must not be
required to individually litigate numerous and substantial questions to
determine his [or her] right to recover following the class judgment[.]”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶
14:11.6.)  “[T]he issues which may be
jointly tried, when compared with those requiring separate adjudication, must
be sufficiently numerous and substantial to make the class action advantageous
to the judicial process and to the litigants.” (Ibid.) Meal Period Subclass An employer shall
not employ an employee for a work period of more than five hours per day
without providing the employee with a meal period of not less than 30 minutes,
except that if the total work period per day of the employee is no more than
six hours, the meal period may be waived by mutual consent of both the employer
and employee.  An employer shall not
employ an employee for a work period of more than 10 hours per day without
providing the employee with a second meal period of not less than 30 minutes,
except that if the total hours worked is no more than 12 hours, the second meal
period may be waived by mutual consent of the employer and the employee only if
the first meal period was not waived. (Cal. Labor Code § 512, subd.
(a).) “Employers
need not ‘ensure’ that no work is performed during a meal period.  So long as the employer relieves the employee
of all duties, the employer is not liable for a meal period premium if the
employee chooses to work (unless the employer deters or discourages the
employee from taking the meal period).” 
(Chin, et. al., Cal. Prac. Guide: Employment Litigation (The Rutter
Group 2022) ¶ 11:829.18, emphasis in original.)  Plaintiff
claims Defendants’ July 2020 meal-period policy violated California law in two
ways – it required no meal period if employees worked less than six hours, and
“it failed to allow a second meal period until employees work[ed] 14 hours[.]”  (Motion, p. 9.) Defendants
disagree.  They contend Plaintiff’s
citation to the July 2020 policy omits the fact that Defendants had
California-specific policies that complied with California law.  (See Opposition, p. 14.) Plaintiff’s
argument seems to be based on a citation to a July 2020 Oregon meal-period
policy.  (See ibid.; see also Selmon
Decl., Ex. 8, p. EBB_McGhee-047355; id. at Ex. 13, p. Lopez_EBB-000161.)   By
contrast, Defendants’ August 2018 employee handbook and July 2020 California
meal-period policy appear to have been compliant.  (See Selmon Decl., Ex. 5, p.
EBB_McGhee_000149; see also id. at Ex. 6, p. EBB_McGhee_000227.)   However,
Defendants’ person most knowledgeable (“PMK”) did testify that, for a portion
of the class period, a document bearing contents identical to the Oregon policy
was provided to putative members.  (See
Kaur Decl., Ex. A, pp. 51-52.) In
light of the PMK’s testimony, additional evidence needs to be submitted.  Defendants’ July 2020 California policy
existed at the same time as the Oregon policy. 
What is unclear is how many putative members received the Oregon policy,
how many received the California policy, and how many received both.  The current record is ambiguous and does not
establish commonality as to this issue. Next,
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ 2014 and 2018 employee handbooks “only
allowed [] second meal periods to be taken ‘at the start of the tenth hour of
work’, rather than within the first ten hours of work[.]”  (Motion, p. 7; see also Brinker,
supra, 53 Cal.4th at 1041 [requiring a second meal period no later
than the end of the tenth hour of work].) Defendants
contend the argument fails because the July 2020 California policy was
compliant, and numerous employees filed declarations stating that “the were
free to take their second meal periods.” 
(Opposition, p. 15.) The
Court agrees with Plaintiff.  The 2014
and 2018 employee handbooks predate the July 2020 California policy.  If nothing else, there is a common legal
issue regarding the facial validity of the 2014 and 2018 employee handbooks
vis-à-vis second meal periods.  This
issue is common for the part of the class period when the 2014 and 2018
employee handbooks were in effect (Plaintiff needs to show the in-effect
dates). An issue class would be suitable
to resolve the facial-validity legal issue. 
Defendants’ employee declarations go to common harm and damages.  They do not bear on whether 2014 and 2018 employee handbooks were facially valid. On
the current record, a normal class is not appropriate.  Plaintiff’s own declarants admit that they
might have signed meal-break waivers. 
(See McGhee Decl., ¶ 9 [declaring that he “may have signed one”]; see
also Watkins Decl., ¶ 9 [same]; Vargas Decl., ¶ 10 [same]; Lopez Decl., ¶ 9
[same]; Villalba Decl., ¶ 9 [same]; Schmal Decl., ¶ 10 [same]; Uribe Decl., ¶
11 [same].)  Ostensibly, Plaintiff’s
expert does not account for the waivers in his analysis.  (See Motion ,p. 11 [assuming a violation if a
meal break is not recorded]; see also Woolfson Decl., ¶ 40 [same].)  This could make his numbers and conclusions
unreliable (see Nelson Decl., ¶ 16), so the Court would be inclined to either
find that individual issues predominate with respect to common harm or require
the expert to testify under oath at a live hearing. Rest Break Subclass Where mandated by “a state law” (including statutes,
regulations, standards and orders of the IWC, the Occupational Safety and
Health Standards Board and the Division of Occupational Safety and Health),
employers must provide rest and recovery periods that “shall be
counted as hours worked” and “for which there shall be no deduction from
wages.” [Citation.] In general, employers must provide paid rest periods of a
specified minimum duration (generally 10 minutes of rest for every 4 hours
worked). For shifts of less than 4 hours, employees are entitled to a
10-minute rest period after 3 1/2 hours. [Citations.] Rest periods are to be permitted in the middle of
the shift “insofar as practicable” [citations]. According to one California
opinion, “departure from the preferred schedule is permissible only when the
departure (1) will not unduly affect employee welfare and (2) is tailored to
alleviate a material burden that would be imposed on the employer by implementing
the preferred schedule.” [Citation.] (Chin, supra, at ¶¶ 11:829.5, emphasis in original.) “An
employer who fails to provide compliant rest periods must pay the employee one
additional hour of pay at the employee’s ‘regular rate’ for each day that a
rest period was not provided.”  (Id. at ¶
11:829.9.) Plaintiff
contends the 2014 and 2018 employee handbooks illegally required employees “to
stay on [the] premises during their rest breaks.”  (Motion, p. 7.) The
Court disagrees in part.  The plain
language of the 2014 employee handbook does not mandate on-premises rest
breaks: “All non-exempt Associates may take their rest periods in a place away
from their normal work area but in a place to ensure an Associate can promptly
resume work at the end of the rest period. . . .”  (Kaur Decl., Ex. A at Ex. 10, p. 20.)[2] The
2018 employee handbook does create a common issue.  It states that “[a]ll non-exempt Associates
may take their rest breaks in a designated area away from their normal work
area, but not off the work premises.” 
(Id. at Ex. A at Ex. 3, p. McGhee_WCL 000043; see also id. at Ex. A at
Ex. 4, p. EBB_McGhee_000149 [same].)  Per
case law, “[d]uring required rest periods, employers must relieve their
employees of all duties and relinquish any control over how employees spend
their break time.”  (Chin, supra, at ¶
11:829.6 [quoting Augustus v. ABM Security Services, Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.5th
257].)  On-premises rest breaks have only
been permitted for special job positions – e.g., paramedics, security guards,
and “employees in safety-sensitive positions at petroleum facilities[.]”  (Ibid.) 
Since Defendants fail to show that this case involves such positions,
the Court believes the facial validity of the 2018 employee handbook is a
predominating common legal question.  The
class period for this issue is the years and months when the 2018 employee
handbook was in effect (Plaintiff must establish the in-effect dates). Again, the Court could use an
issue class to resolve the facial-validity legal issue.   The reliability of Plaintiff’s
expert’s analysis is questionable and does not support a finding of common
harm.  At this time, the Court finds a
normal class inappropriate. Facial Wage Statement
Subclass The liability theory of the
Facial Wage Statement Subclass is that Defendants’ wage statements “fail to
list rates of pay for regular hours and overtime hours.”  (Motion, p. 13.) Plaintiff fails to show
commonality.  His support for this theory
is a single check that Defendants issued to him on his last day of work.  (See ibid.; see also McGhee Decl., Ex. A, p.
EBB_McGhee_000011.)  Yet he ignores many,
many other wage statements that do state the rates of pay.  (See Selmon
Decl., Ex. 11, pp. EBB_McGhee_000001-EBB_McGhee_000009; see also id. at Ex. 14,
pp. EBB_McGhee_000310-EBB_McGhee_000339.) 
The overwhelming majority of the evidence goes against this theory. Waiting Time Subclass and
Wage Statement Subclass The Waiting Time Subclass and
Wage Statement Subclass subclasses are derivative.  Because Plaintiff fails to demonstrate common
harm, he fails to meet his burden. The Court would not certify issue
classes for these subclasses. Typicality “The ‘test
of typicality is whether other members have the same or similar injury, whether
the action is based on conduct which is not unique to the named plaintiffs, and
whether other class members have been injured by the same course of conduct.’”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:29
[quoting Martinez v. Joe’s Crab Shack Holdings (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th
362, 375].) “That
the purported class representative's claims must be ‘typical’ does not mean
they must be identical to the claims of other class members.  It is sufficient that the representative is
similarly situated so that he or she will have the motive to litigate on behalf
of all class members.”  (Id. at ¶
14:29.2.)  “Thus, it is not necessary
that the class representative have personally incurred all of the
damages suffered by each of the other class members.”  (Ibid., emphasis in original.) The
class representative’s claim is atypical “if it is subject to ‘factually
intensive or legally complex unique defenses that pose any significant risk
of diverting [plaintiff’s] attention from class
issues.’”  (Id. at ¶ 14:35.10 [citing Fireside
Bank v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 1069] emphasis in
original.)  Defendants’ opposition brief does
not address typicality.  (See Opposition,
pp. 6-20.) The Court finds that Plaintiff is
typical as to the facial-validity legal issues. The typicality prong is moot as
to the other issues since Plaintiff fails to show common harm. Manageability
and Superiority “The
proponent of class certification must demonstrate that the proposed class
action is manageable [citation].”  (Edmon
& Karnow, supra, at ¶ 14:11.10.)  “This
requires the trial court ‘to carefully weigh the respective benefits and
burdens of a class action, and to permit its maintenance only where
substantial benefits will be accrued by both litigants and the courts alike.’  [Citation.]” 
(Ibid., emphasis in original.)   “In certifying a class action,
the court must also conclude that litigation of individual issues, including
those arising from affirmative defenses, can be managed fairly and
efficiently.”  (Duran v. U.S. Bank
Nat. Assn. (2014) 59 Cal. 4th 1, 28-29.) 
“Trial courts must pay careful attention to manageability when deciding
whether to certify a class action.  In
considering whether a class action is a superior device for resolving a
controversy, the manageability of individual issues is just as important as the
existence of common questions uniting the proposed class.”  (Id. at 29.) “A class action is not ‘superior’ where there are numerous and substantial questions affecting each class
member's right to recover, following determination of liability to the class as
a whole.”  (Edmon & Karnow, supra, at
¶ 14:46, emphasis in original.) Defendants challenge Plaintiff’s trial plan.  (See Opposition, p. 19.) The Court does not need to go there.  Commonality is limited to the facial-validity
legal issues.  Those issues could be
decided via issue classes.  If the Court
ends up granting Plaintiff leave to name new class representatives, the
issue-class method would be manageable and superior. Plaintiff’s Declarations Defendants move to strike Plaintiff’s declaration and the
declarations of putative members Cleven Watkins, Juan Vargas, Santiago
Villalba, Cody Schmal, and Diana Uribe. 
Defendants contend:  * Plaintiff and Watkins testified inconsistent with their
declarations; * Vargas asked to withdraw his declaration at his deposition; * Villalba wants to withdraw his declaration because it is
different than what he told Plaintiff’s counsel; * the defense attorneys were unable to subpoena Schmal; and * Uribe did not appear for her deposition. Defendants’ request is denied.  The Court considered the declarations and
found them unhelpful to Plaintiff.  The
Court believes they should remain in the record. The exceptions are Vargas’s declaration and Villalba’s
declaration.  If they still want to
withdraw them, the Court would allow them to be withdrawn.         

