 Case Number:  20STCV05486    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO VACATE
Hearing Date: 12/5/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV05486 DENISE DUPLESSIS
vs JOSHUA REEVES
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
On July 25, 2024, the
Court issued an order requiring Plaintiff to file a default judgment or a
declaration at least five days before the next court date. The order stated
that failure to do so would result in dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 581(g), 583.410 and California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(g).
On September 4, 2024, the
Court noted that no default judgment or declaration was filed as requested in
the minute order dated 7/25/24 and dismissed the case. Plaintiff now moves the
court to set aside/vacate the dismissal pursuant to CCP 473.
Plaintiff filed the
present motion on November 4, 2024, within the 60-day period for a motion to
vacate under Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b).
Second, Plaintiff
contends that he complied with the Court’s July 25, 2024, order by filing a
request prior to the hearing, in which he sought a continuance of 60–90 days to
file a default judgment, citing the need to await necessary documentation from
the bank to complete the filing.  Plaintiff
did, in fact, file a written request for a continuance 5 days prior to the
September 5, 2024, hearing as requested by the court. This request demonstrates
Plaintiff’s intent to comply with the Court's order and informed the Court of
the circumstances necessitating an extension. Although the Court specifically
requested a declaration, Plaintiff’s written request, while not formally titled
as a declaration, effectively served the same purpose by providing the
necessary information regarding the reasons for the delay and Plaintiff’s
ongoing efforts to file the default judgment.
Given that Plaintiff
acted within 60 days and that the dismissal arose from a technical mislabeling
of the document rather than willful or negligent disobedience of the Court’s
order, the Court grants the motion.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 