 Case Number:  20STCV46634    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 12/5/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV46634 SUZANNE
STANFORD-KRAFT vs CITY OF LOS ANGELES et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Defendant City of Los
Angeles
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: Granted In Part
 
Background
On December 7, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present case against Defendant City of Los Angeles,
ViacomCBS, CBS Television Studios, and CBS Studios, Inc. Trial is scheduled for
March 24, 2025. Plaintiff moves the Court for sanctions against Defendant City
of Los Angeles for its failure to comply with two prior court orders.
Written Discovery
Responses
On October 6, 2023, the
Court ruled on Plaintiff’s discovery motions and granted the following relief:
1.  Motion
to Compel Responses: The Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Responses
for Request for Production, Set Two, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Form
Interrogatories, Set Two. Defendant City of Los Angeles was ordered to provide
verified and objection-free responses to these discovery requests.
2.  Request
for Admissions: The Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Order Deeming Request
for Admission, Set One, as admitted. As a result, all statements in Plaintiff’s
Request for Admissions, Set One, were deemed admitted against Defendant City of
Los Angeles.
The Court directed
Defendant to provide the verified discovery responses and pay the sanctions
within 20 days of the October 6, 2023, order.
PMK Deposition
On January 16, 2023,
Plaintiff served the first notice of deposition for Defendant’s PMK. Between
January and October 2023, Plaintiff rescheduled the PMK deposition multiple
times, often due to Defendant’s last-minute unavailability.
On October 18, 2023,
Plaintiff filed and served a Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s
PMK. However, based on the Court’s October 19, 2023, ex parte order,
Plaintiff took the motion off calendar.
On October 20, 2023,
the Court granted a continuance of Defendant’s summary judgment hearing due to
Defendant’s failure to respond to discovery and produce its PMK. The Court
ordered the PMK deposition to take place within three weeks of this date.
On March 15, 2024,
Plaintiff served a sixth notice of deposition for Defendant’s PMK, scheduling
it for March 25, 2024.
On April 29, 2024,
Plaintiff served a seventh notice of deposition for Defendant’s PMK, scheduling
it for May 28, 2024.
Plaintiff alleges that
she has not been able to take the deposition of Defendant City of Los Angeles’
Person Most Knowledgeable due to Defendant’s failure to appear or,
alternatively, provide different dates for a deposition to move forward.
Plaintiff still has not received verifications to the aforementioned discovery
responses as previously ordered by this court.
Legal Standard¿ 
The Civil Discovery Act
provides for an escalating and “incremental approach to discovery sanctions,
starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate sanction of
termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York,
Inc.¿(2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)¿Discovery sanctions
should be appropriate to and commensurate with the misconduct, and they “should
not exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party
entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “If a lesser sanction fails to curb misuse, a
greater sanction is warranted: continuing misuses of the discovery process
warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until the sanction is reached that will
curb the abuse.” (Ibid.; see also, e.g.,¿Mileikowsky
v. Tenet Healthsystem¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
262, 279-280.)¿“Generally,
‘[a] decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly.  But where a violation is willful, preceded by a
history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.’”
(Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390
[citation omitted].)    
               
The primary purpose of
discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil Discovery Act and
the Court’s orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v. Super. Ct. (1995)
40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613; Ghanooni v.
Super Shuttle of Los Angeles (1993)
20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery sanction should not create a “windfall”
for a party or place a party in a better position than it would have been if
the opposing party had simply complied with its obligations under the Court’s
orders and the Civil Discovery Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015)
238 Cal.App.4th 1164, 1194; see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶ 8:2214-2220.) “[T]the trial court has broad
discretion in selecting the appropriate sanction, and we must uphold the trial
court's determination absent an abuse of discretion.” (Dept. of Forestry & Fire Protection
v. Howell (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 154, 19.) 
Discussion
Defendant filed a late
opposition, but the bulk of its arguments focus on Plaintiff’s alleged
discovery misconduct in failing to provide dates for her second deposition.
However, this motion concerns Defendant’s actions, not Plaintiff’s. Any alleged
misconduct by Plaintiff should be raised in Defendant’s own motion.
As for the discovery
responses, Defendant states: "With respect to the discovery responses, as
noted in the moving papers, substantive, albeit unverified discovery responses
were provided long ago." However, unverified responses are tantamount to
no responses at all (Appleton v. 
Sup.  Ct.  (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636-37). and
cannot be used to oppose motions for summary judgment. Furthermore, the Court
explicitly ordered Defendant to provide objection-free and verified responses,
a requirement that has not been fulfilled. Defendant does indicate any intent
to provide the required verified, objection-free responses to Plaintiff's
discovery requests or monetary sanctions as ordered by the court. 
Second, the Court
ordered Defendant to produce its PMK by November 2023, yet Defendant has failed
to comply with this order for over a year. This failure to produce its PMK has
caused significant delays, undermining Plaintiff’s ability to adequately prepare
for trial and respond to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment (MSJ). The
MSJ, initially set for November 2023, was continued because Plaintiff was
unable to depose Defendant’s PMK. Despite repeated continuances and multiple
notices of deposition, Defendant has not produced its PMK for deposition. 
Defendant, in its
opposition, provides no meaningful response for this delay. Defendant argues
that Plaintiff has not complied with the Court's prior order to appear for the
second session of her deposition and claims that Plaintiff's deposition was
ordered to occur first, relying on a discovery order issued on March 1, 2023.
However, the March 1, 2023 order does not state that Plaintiff’s second
deposition is to occur before Defendant’s PMK deposition. Moreover, as
previously stated, this motion concerns Defendant’s misconduct. Plaintiff’s
alleged misconduct may be addressed in a separate motion brought by Defendant.
As to Defendant’s failure to produce its PMK, Defendant has provided no
justification. Additionally, the gravity of the depositions differs: Defendant
has already deposed Plaintiff once and filed its MSJ, while Plaintiff has not
deposed Defendant’s PMK and requires this deposition to oppose Defendant’s MSJ,
which is the primary reason the MSJ has been continued multiple times. For
these reasons, the Court finds sanctions appropriate under the circumstances.
However, the Court
finds that terminating sanctions and evidentiary sanctions are inappropriate at
this time. This is Plaintiff’s first motion for sanctions, and discovery
sanctions are to be imposed in an escalating method, with compliance, not
punishment, as their purpose. If, following this order, Defendant continues to
refuse to comply, such conduct will leave the Court with no choice but to
conclude that Defendant’s actions constitute willful disobedience of its
orders, warranting more severe sanctions. Simply, further non-compliance will
not be tolerated.
Additionally, the
motion for summary judgment is set for hearing on January 29, 2025, providing
ample time for Plaintiff to depose Defendant’s PMK before the hearing.
Terminating sanctions or evidentiary sanctions at this stage would result in a
disproportionate remedy, creating a windfall for Plaintiff by placing her in a
better position than she would have been if Defendant had simply complied with
its discovery obligations. 
Plaintiff requests
monetary sanctions in the amount of $5,290.00. However, a portion of this
amount includes time spent drafting the PMK deposition notices, which occurred
prior to the Court’s order compelling the PMK deposition. Additionally,
amending deposition notices and meeting and conferring on deposition
availability are routine litigation activities. Therefore, the Court, in its
discretion, reduces the sanctions to $4,000, representing the amount Plaintiff
expended in drafting the present motion against Defendant and its counsel
Lillian Harwell[1],
jointly and severally within 15 days of today.
The Court further
orders Defendant’s PMK deposition to take place within 15 days of this order
and further orders Defendant to produce the outstanding discovery responses and
pay the monetary sanctions within the same 15-day period.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.


