 Case Number:  23BBCP00117    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 21, 2024

MOTION TO
COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES/PRIVILEGE LOG

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCP00117




 
MP:  


 
David Minkin (Claimant)




RP:  


United Financial Casualty Company
  (Respondent)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
David
Minkin (Claimant) brings this uninsured motorist action against his insurer United Financial Casualty Company (Respondent). This action
stems from an accident where claimant was struck by an uninsured motorist on April
17, 2018. 
 
Before the Court is a
motion brought by Claimant requesting that the Court issue an order compelling
Respondent to provide a privilege log. Claimant asserts that Respondent must be
compelled to provide this log in accordance with the privileges claimed in their
responses to Claimant’s Request for the Production of Documents (RFPD). Respondent
opposes the motion and Claimant replies.  
 
A review of the
moving papers shows that Claimant also requests further responses be compelled
to their RFPD No. 16 and 17 pursuant to C.C.P. § 2031.310. Accordingly, the
Court construes Claimant’s motion as one to compel further responses. The Court
will also consider whether a privilege log is required pursuant to C.C.P. § 2031.240(c).

 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
A motion
to compel further responses to RFPD may be brought based on: (1) incomplete
statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive, or incomplete claims of
inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(C.C.P. § 2031.310(c).) 
 
A motion
to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good cause
justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See C.C.P. §
2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing that there
“a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the discovery sought
will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to other evidence
that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.”  If the moving party
has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden is on the
objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95
Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Timeline 
 
This motion stems from a
set of RFPD which were originally served upon Respondent on March 28, 2023. (Kim
Decl. ¶ 2.) On May 8, 2023, Respondent served its initial responses to the
RFPD, which Claimant found insufficient. (Kim Decl. ¶ 4.) What ensued was
roughly a year of back and forth in which Respondent served several sets of
amended responses and Claimant maintained that each amended response was
insufficient. (Kim decl. ¶¶ 6-13.) Having failed to come to a resolution
via informal meet and confer, the parties requested an Informal Discovery
Conference (IDC) with the Court. (Kim Decl. ¶ 11, Goldberg Decl. ¶ 9.) 
 
On March 9, 2024, the
parties participated in the IDC. (Id.) The Court memorialized the
proceedings at the IDC in a formal minute order, the relevant content of which
is reproduced below: 
 
As to Request for Production 16 and 17, the Court suggested the following:
Respondent should comply with the request; however, the following items may be
excluded: (1) any written communication, including but not limited to email and
written correspondence which originates from an attorney or is addressed to an
attorney. This exclusion does not include any written communication in which an
attorney is simply what was formerly known as “carbon copy” (i.e. cc) or “blind
carbon copy” (i.e. bcc), or documents attached to any written communication
regardless if addressed directly to an attorney. Exclusion for any of those
documents shall be subject to the creation of a privilege log pursuant to
applicable discovery rules. Furthermore, the request for the
“claims/investigative file” shall not include any discovery previously provided
to date or any publicly available pleadings on this legal case.
 
On April 17, 2024,
Respondent served its Fourth Amended Responses to Claimant’s RFPD. (Kim Decl.
¶ 15.) Claimant maintains that the responses remain insufficiently
responsive to RFPD Nos. 16 -17, and that Respondent furnished no privilege log
despite maintaining the attorney work product privilege. 
Requests & Fourth
Amended Responses 
 
For purposes of clarity, the Court
reproduces Claimant’s RFPD and Respondent’s objections in their Fourth Amended
Responses below. 
 
·        
RFPD No. 16: United
Financial Casualty Company[’s] entire claims file of the claim of David Minkin
for claim number 18-5921365 for the injuries which he sustained in the
collision which is the basis of this claim.
 
·        
Objection: This
demand is overbroad, uncertain, remote as to time, indefinite, vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible, and violates the attorney-work product
privilege. However, without waiving the aforementioned objections, and in the spirit
of good faith and cooperation, this responding party responds: Attached hereto
is each document responsive to this demand.
 
·        
RFPD No. 17:
United Financial Casualty Company’s entire investigations file of the claim of David
Minkin for claim number 18-5921365 for the injuries which he sustained in the
collision which is the basis of this claim.
 
·        
Objection: This
demand is overbroad, uncertain, remote as to time, indefinite, vague,
ambiguous, and unintelligible, and violates the attorney-work product
privilege. However, without waiving the aforementioned objections, and in the
spirit of good faith and cooperation, this responding party responds: Attached
hereto is each document responsive to this demand.
 
Discussion
 
Privilege Log 
 
As a preliminary matter,
the Court addresses Respondent’s refusal to provide a privilege log in their
amended responses. C.C.P. § 2031.240(c) provides: 
 
If the responding party
objects to the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item
or category of item, the response shall do both of the following:
 
(1)   If an objection is based on a claim of privilege
or a claim that the information sought is protected work product, the response
shall provide sufficient factual information for other parties to evaluate the
merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a privilege log.
 
(2)   It is the intent of the Legislature to codify
the concept of a privilege log as that term is used in California case law.
Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to constitute a substantive
change in case law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Here, it does not appear
that Respondent’s objections provide anything in the way of explanation as to
their attorney-work product objections. In the Court’s experience such
explanation is usually provided via privilege log, which has also not been
produced here. 
 
Respondent’s refusal to
provide a privilege log appears to stem from the perceived burden that
producing one would present. This much is clear in Respondent’s email exchange
to Claimant which stated, “It was made clear to the judge that one of our
offices chief concerns along with the protection of privileged documents was
the burden on our office to memorialize each privileged correspondence.”
(Goldberg Decl. Exh. B.) 
 
In Riddell, Inc. v. Superior
Court, the Second District Court of Appeal found that a party could not
object to an order compelling a privilege long on grounds that creating that
log would be too burdensome. (Riddell, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 14
Cal.App.5th 755, 772.) The Riddell court noted that where documents were
already identified and withheld on the basis of privilege, the burden to
produce a privilege log stating the same could not be too great. (Id.)
The Court finds the holding of Riddell instructive in this case. In
order to make their claim of privilege in good faith and thereafter withhold
documents, logic dictates that Respondent has already conducted a review of the
requested documents and identified those subject to privilege. As such, the
Court finds no great burden is imposed in compelling a privilege log in this
case. 
 
RFPD Nos. 16 & 17
 
The Court first addresses Claimant’s
argument that Respondent’s Fourth Amended Responses are not code complaint.
Claimant states that Respondent has failed to identify which of their produced
documents are responsive to the corresponding RFPD. Claimant argues this
production is in violation of C.C.P. § 2031.280(a). Upon review of the moving
papers, the Court notes that the documents served with Respondent’s Fourth
Amended Responses are not attached. Without the attachment of these documents,
the Court is unable to verify Claimant’s argument that they do not identify an
RFPD to which they are responsive. Accordingly, the Court finds Claimant has
not shown good cause for further production on these grounds. 
 
As concerns further
production on grounds of improper objection, the Court finds Claimant has
adequately demonstrated good cause for further production. Claimant has
demonstrated that the contents of Respondent’s claim and investigation files
are indispensable in the prosecution of his case. As Claimant correctly points
out, Respondent’s entire defense in this uninsured motorist action is based on
the contents of its claims and investigation files. As such, any non-privileged
documents present in those files are relevant to proving/disproving a disputed
fact of relevance in this action. In short, the Court finds good cause has been
shown. 
 
The only
objection which is briefed in Respondent’s opposition is the objection on
grounds that production of their entire files is overly burdensome. Generally,
objections on the ground of burden require the objecting party to produce
evidence of (a) the propounding party’s subjective intent to create burden or
(b) the amount of time and effort it would take to respond. (See West Pico
Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles County
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such evidence is necessary where
discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)  
 
Here, the
Court finds Respondent has provided insufficient evidence that Claimant’s RFPD is
overly burdensome. Respondent has provided scant evidence regarding the amount
of time it would take to respond to these requests. Respondent’s only showing
on this front is the statement of their counsel that the requests would require
Respondent to analyze over 350 files and identify each correspondence therein to
see if it is responsive to the request. (Goldberg Decl. ¶ 12.) While 350
files is a substantial amount of documentation, the Court does not view the
number alone as establishing the presence of an onerous burden. As previously
stated, logic dictates that a review of the responsive documents has already
occurred in some capacity such that Respondent could determine its objections had
merit. Without further showing as to the hours of labor estimated in reviewing
these files, the Court does not find the RFPD to be burdensome to the point of
objection. 
 
As a last
matter, the Court notes that there are some documents which would otherwise be
responsive to Claimant’s request which are undoubtedly the subject of
privilege. The Court’s exclusion of “any written communication, including but
not limited to email and written correspondence which originates from an
attorney or is addressed to an attorney” in its IDC recommendation was intended
to address this reality. The Court maintains that such documents may be
excluded from Respondent’s further production, with the caveat that they be included
in the privilege log provided. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion to compel further responses to RFPD Nos. 16 & 17 are GRANTED
subject to the limitation that Respondent may exclude any written
communication, including but not limited to email and written correspondence
which originates from an attorney or is addressed to an attorney. The motion to
compel Respondent to provide a privilege log is GRANTED. 
 
Sanctions

 
The court shall impose a monetary sanction
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel a further response, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (C.C.P. §¿2030.300(d).) 
 
Here, the Court finds Respondent has not opposed this motion
without substantial justification. While the Court ultimately disagrees with
Respondent, it does not follow that its arguments were entirely without merit. Respondent
correctly points out that the informal recommendations of the Court at the IDC
were not a formal order of the Court. As such, Respondent appropriately opposed
this motion on the grounds of its objections. Accordingly, the Court declines
to grant sanctions. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
David Minkin’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses came on regularly for
hearing on June 21, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows:  
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO RFPD NOS. 16 & 17 ARE GRANTED SUBJECT
TO THE LIMITATION THAT RESPONDENT MAY EXCLUDE ANY WRITTEN COMMUNICATION,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO EMAIL AND WRITTEN CORRESPONDENCE WHICH ORIGINATES
FROM AN ATTORNEY OR IS ADDRESSED TO AN ATTORNEY. 
 
THE
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONDENT TO PROVIDE A PRIVILEGE LOG IS GRANTED. 
 
FURTHER
PRODUCTION TO OCCUR WITHIN 30 DAYS.
 
CLAIMANT’S
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS DENIED.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: June
21, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 