 Case Number:  24STCV00744    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 21, 2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24STCV00744

 



MP:  


Obsidian Development, LLC (Defendant)




RP:  


Christina & Gene Chung Ching
  (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Christina and Gene
Chung Ching (Plaintiffs) bring this action against Obsidian Development, LLC
(Defendant). Plaintiffs alleges that Defendant was hired to construct a quadraplex
on a property they own. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendant deficiently constructed
the building in violation of code and in breach of the parties’ contract. 
 
On March 15, 2024, default
was entered against Defendant. 
 
Before the Court is a
Motion to Set Aside Default brought by Defendant. Plaintiffs oppose the motion;
Defendant has filed no reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 473(b) has both a discretionary relief provision and a
mandatory relief provision. (Jackson v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals,
Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 166, 173.) 
The discretionary provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b), in
pertinent part, reads as follows: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…
 
The
mandatory provision of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) reads, in pertinent
part, as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of this
section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or
her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in
fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. 
 
The
purpose of Code of Civil Procedure § 473(b) is to promote the
determination of actions on their merits. (Even Zohar Construction
& Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th
830.) Under this statute, an application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault
attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect of the moving party
or its attorney. (C.C.P., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business Solutions
(2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
C.C.P. §
473(b) provides in part that, “Application for this relief
shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be
filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted…” Upon review of
Defendant’s moving papers, the Court is unable to locate a proposed responsive
pleading. As Defendant has included no proposed responsive pleading, the motion
must be denied as a matter of statute. Given that this denial comes by way of
procedural defect, the Court denies the motion without prejudice. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to
Set Aside Default is DENIED without prejudice. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Obsidian Development,
LLC’s Motion to Vacate came on regularly for hearing
on June 21, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for
said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and
there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT IS DENIED
WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PLAINTIFFS TO
GIVE NOTICE.  
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 21, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 