 Case Number:  22BBCV00949    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 21, 2024

MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00949

 
MP:     Ford Motor Company (Defendant)
RP:     Dionisio
Alcala (Plaintiff)
 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Dionisio
Alcala (“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Ford
Motor Company (FMC) on November 8, 2022 for claims
arising out of the purchase of a 2019 Ford F-150 from Sunrise Ford (Dealer).
The Complaint contains five causes of action against FMC: (1) Violation of
Civil Code § 1793.2(d), (2) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(b), (3) Violation
of Civil Code § 1793.2(A)(3), (4) Violation of the Implied Warranty of
Merchantability, and (5) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment. 
 
FMC now moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the fifth cause of
action for Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment on the grounds that Plaintiff has
not pled sufficient facts to establish the elements of his claim and has failed
to allege a transactional relationship to establish a duty to disclose. FMC
also moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the fifth cause of action on
grounds that Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the pure economic loss rule.
Plaintiff opposes the motion and FMC replies. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
A defendant may bring a statutory motion for judgment on
the pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction over the subject of the cause
of action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (C.C.P. §
438(c)(1)(B).) A non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made
any time before or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100
Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) “Such motion may be made on the same ground as those
supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Id.)
 
“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (C.C.P. § 452; see also Stevens
v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “When a court evaluates
a complaint, the plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts
pled.” (Duval v. Board of Tr. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) “In
deciding or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material
facts are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or
inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) 
 
“In the case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any reasonable
possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v.
Mullikin Medical Ctr. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)
 
II.                
MEET
& CONFER 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer. Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were
met. (Liu Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
III.             
MERITS 
 
Economic Loss Rule 
 
FMC argues Plaintiff’s fifth COA is barred by the economic loss rule. The
California Supreme Court has held that fraudulent inducement is an exception to
the economic loss rule when affirmative misrepresentation/fraud/deceit is pled.
(See Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp (2004) 34 Cal.4th 979,
989-993.) Plaintiff argues the holding in Robinson was limited to a
cause of action for fraudulent inducement by way of affirmative misrepresentation
and is thus silent on causes of action for fraudulent inducement by way of
concealment. (See Id. at 993 [“Our holding today is narrow in scope and
limited to a defendant's affirmative misrepresentations on which a plaintiff
relies and which expose a plaintiff to liability for personal damages
independent of the plaintiff's economic loss.”].) 
 
From this Court’s reading of Robinson, the California Supreme
Court did not expressly hold that the only exception to the economic loss rule
is for fraudulent inducement by way of affirmative misrepresentation. The Robinson
court also did not expressly opine that fraudulent inducement by way of concealment
is not an exception to the economic loss rule.  The rationale would equally apply to
fraudulent inducement by way of concealment as well as to an affirmative
fraudulent inducement.  Rather, the Robinson
court held that it need not address whether concealment constitutes an
independent tort because it had already concluded an exception to the economic
loss rule existed on affirmative misrepresentation grounds. (Id. at
991.) 
 
 
This matter was addressed by the California
First District Court of Appeal in Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. The California Supreme Court
granted review of Dhital on February 1, 2023, however, the request for depublication
was denied. Since review is pending and the Supreme Court did not otherwise
order Dhital depublished it  does
not have binding effect, however, “it may be cited for potentially persuasive
value only.” (CRC, Rule 8.1115 (e)(1).) Regardless,
the Court finds the analysis in Dhital persuasive. 
 
“Robinson left
undecided whether concealment-based claims are barred by the economic loss
rule. What follows from its analysis, however, is that concealment-based claims
for fraudulent inducement are not barred by the economic loss rule. The
reasoning in Robinson affirmatively places fraudulent inducement by
concealment outside the coverage of the economic loss rule.” (Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 841.) The Dhital court
went on to state that, in their view, the nature of a fraudulent inducement
claim was that of an intendent tort regardless of intentional concealment or
affirmative misrepresentation. (Id.) This is because a defendant’s
conduct in fraudulently inducing someone to enter a contract is separate from
their later breach, regardless of the method employed to induce. (Id.) 
 
The Court agrees with
the reasoning in Dhital. The Court does not read Robinson’s
silence on concealment to mean the California Supreme Court intended to
expressly exempt fraudulent inducement claims on the basis of affirmative
misrepresentation. It is clear that the Robinson court’s refusal to
discuss concealment was a matter of mootness, not of merit. Further, the Court agrees
with Dhital that there is no substantive difference between claims for
concealment and claims of affirmative misrepresentation that would have any
bearing on the independence of the tort. It does not stand to reason that one
would be exempt from the economic loss rule and the other would not.
Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff’s claims are not barred by the economic
loss rule.  
 
Insufficient Factual Allegations 
 
The elements of a fraud claim based on concealment are: “(1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the
intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of
the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or
suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg,
Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311 [“Bigler-Engler”].)
 
There are “four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Id.
at 311.) If a fiduciary relationship does not exist, but the latter three
circumstances are present, Plaintiff must still show “the existence of some
other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant from which a duty to
disclose can arise.” (Id.)
 
Specificity of Pleading
 
As concealment is a species of fraud, it must also be pled with
specificity. (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown Sunnyvale, LLC (2008)
162 Cal.App.4th 858, 878.) Less specificity is required where the defendant
necessarily possesses the information. (Committee on Children's Television,
Inc. v. General Foods Corp. (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216.) Furthermore, as
noted by one court, it is not practical to allege facts showing how, when and
by what means something did not happen. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
Sys. Planning Assn. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) However, if the
concealment is based on providing false or incomplete statements, the pleading
must at least set forth the substance of the statements at issue. (Id.)
 
Here, the Court finds the Complaint pleads sufficient facts as to concealment.
Plaintiff’s claim is not based on any statements made to him, rather it is
based on the failure of FMC to disclose a defect to which only they were privy.
Plaintiff alleges that FMC knew the transmissions of the type installed in
Plaintiff’s vehicle were defective and in fact issued several internal
Technical Service Bulletins regarding the defect. (Compl. ¶ 58, 29-31.) The
Court finds these allegations are sufficient to sustain Plaintiff’s cause of
action based in concealment. 
 
Transactional Relationship & Duty to Disclose
 
FMC also argues that Plaintiff has not alleged a relationship between himself
and FMC sufficient to establish FMC’s duty to disclose. This argument primarily
on the decision in Bigler-Engler which held the following: 
 
“In transactions which do not involve
fiduciary or confidential relations, a cause of action for non-disclosure of
material facts may arise in at least three instances: (1) the defendant makes
representations but does not disclose facts which materially qualify the facts
disclosed, or which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are
known or accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known
to or reasonably discoverable by the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively
conceals discovery from the plaintiff.”[Citation].
 
A duty to disclose may arise as a result of a
transaction between the parties. However, the transaction “…must necessarily
arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot
arise between the defendant and the public at large.” 
 
(Bigler-Engler supra, 7 Cal.App.5th 276 at 311-312.) 
 
The Court notes this issue was also addressed
by Dhital. The Dhital plaintiffs alleged claims under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and a common law fraud claim alleging that
Nissan fraudulently concealed the defects and induced them to purchase a car. (Dhital
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th 828 at 838). Dhital remains on
review and has no precedential value. Regardless, the Court finds its analysis
persuasive. The Dhital court held plaintiffs sufficiently alleged a
transactional relationship because they alleged that they bought the car from a
Nissan dealership, that the car was backed by a Nissan warranty, and that
Nissan dealerships are authorized agents. (Dhital supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at 844.) 
 
Here, it does not appear the
Complaint sufficiently alleges any relationship between the Dealer and FMC such
that a duty to disclose has been established. Although the Dealer was originally
included as a defendant in these proceedings, it does not appear the Complaint alleges
their involvement in any way. In fact, the Complaint is entirely silent as to
how Plaintiff came into possession of the vehicle. Presumably Plaintiff
purchased the vehicle from the Dealer, but the same is not alleged on the face
of the Complaint. While Plaintiff is not required
to allege evidentiary facts supporting the existence of an agency relationship,
they must still allege the ultimate fact that such agency exists. (See Quelimane
Co. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26, 47). An allegation
of agency is an allegation of ultimate fact that must be accepted as true for
purposes of ruling on a demurrer. (Dones v. Life Ins. Co. of North America (2020) 55
Cal.App.5th 665, 685.)
Here, there is simply no
allegation establishing that the entity who presumably sold the vehicle had any
agency relationship with FMC. Without these allegations, it cannot be said that
Plaintiff has pled that any transaction has occurred between FMC and Plaintiff
which creates a duty to disclose.  
 
Accordingly,
the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days’ leave to
amend. 
---
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
Ford Motor Company came on regularly for
hearing on June 21, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute
order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did
then and there rule as follows:
 
THE
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS IS GRANTED WITH 30 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, FMC TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  June
21, 2024                               
_______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 