  Case Number:  20BBCV00748    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 21, 2024

MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT 

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 20BBCV00748

 
MP:     First National Bank of Omaha
(Plaintiff)
RP:     None

 
NOTICE:
 

The Court
IS requesting oral argument on this matter for the limited issue of costs of
suit as set forth in this tentative.  A discrepancy exists between the
declaration provided and the proposed judgment, which is discussed herein under
“Conclusion.”
 
If
Plaintiff’s counsel fails to appear, the Court will modify the proposed
judgment to reflect the court costs set forth in the declaration and not the
larger amount requested in the proposed judgment.
 
CASE HISTORY
 
On April 5, 2021 a Stipulation for Entry of Judgment in the Event of
Default was entered into between the parties. 
Thereafter, on April 30, 2021 a Request for Dismissal was filed and
denied by the clerk as the request subject to CCP 664.6 required judicial
determination.  A noticed OSC Re
Dismissal after Settlement was set for May 4, 2021.  On May 4, 2021, Judge W.D. Stewart reviewed
the Stipulation for Judgment and dismissed the case without prejudice subject
to CCP 664.6, retained jurisdiction.
 
On April 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Set Aside the Dismissal and
Enter Judgment.  The Court set the matter
for hearing for Defendant to contest the allegation that he was in breach of
the settlement agreement.   He declined
to do so.  On June 11, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a Notice of No Response or Opposition to Motion to Set Aside the
Dismissal.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Plaintiff asserts that Hovik Oganesyan
(Defendant) is in violation of the settlement agreement and Stipulation for
Judgment.  Plaintiff provides the
declaration of James MacLeod, Plaintiff’s attorney.  Defendant’s last payment was made on December
11, 2023, and since the settlement has made payments totaling $19,296.00 with a
balance due of $6,423.52 plus litigation costs of $530.64.   ON
January 3, 2024 Plaintiff notified Defendant of the default, and on February
12, 2024 Plaintiff returned a payment check to Defendant because he they failed
to bring their payment current by January 13, 2024 which resulted in the
termination of the payment plan.  A
subsequent payment was sent that was applied against the outstanding balance,
but Plaintiff did not reinstate the payment plan as indicated in Exhibit D to the
declaration.
 
Attached to the MacLeod declaration is the
signed settlement agreement.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
Code of Civil Procedure 664.6
permits the Court to dismiss a civil action subject to the continued
jurisdiction of the Court for enforcement of any settlement agreement.  Furthermore, failure to file an opposition to
the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is
meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Code of Civil Procedure 664.6
permits the Court to dismiss a civil action subject to the continued
jurisdiction of the Court for enforcement of any settlement agreement.
 
The Court has reviewed the
Settlement Agreement and Release attached to the McLeod declaration, as well as
the McLeod declaration itself.   The
Court notes that no opposition has been received to Plaintiff’s motion.  Failure to file an opposition to the motion
indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC
Rule 8.54(c)
 
III.             
 CONCLUSION
 
The Plaintiff has met its burden
to show the existence of a settlement agreement, breach of that agreement and
continued jurisdiction retained by the Court pursuant to CCP 664.6.  However, the proposed judgment includes costs
of $1,073.71 rather than $530.64 as set forth in the declaration.  As such, the Court will modify the proposed
judgment to reflect costs supported by the declaration or Plaintiff may
resubmit a new declaration supporting the additional costs and a revised
proposed judgment.
 
The motion to set aside the
dismissal and enter judgment is GRANTED. 

---
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the Court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the Court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
First National Bank of Omaha’s Motion to Set
Aside Dismissal and Enter Judgment  came on regularly for hearing on June 21,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the Court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows:
 
THE MOTION IS GRANTED.   THE DISMISSAL IS VACATED AND JUDGMENT
ENTERED FOR PLAINTIFF FOR $6,423.52 PLUS COSTS.
 
PLAINTIFF TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATE:  June
21, 2024                                    _______________________________
                                                                   
    F.M. Tavelman, Judge
                                                                        Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 