 Case Number:  22STCV21262    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 21, 2024

MOTIONS
TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22STCV21262

 



MP:  


Emma Amosh Mirzaian and Edwin
  Baltazar (Moving Defendants)




RP:  


The City of La Cañada Flintridge
  (Plaintiffs)



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Wayneider Singh Anand
(Plaintiff) brings this action against the City of La Cañada Flintridge
(Flintridge), Emma Amosh Mirzaian (Mirzaian), and Edwin Baltazar (Baltazar) in
connection with a December 4, 2021 incident which claimed the life of Plaintiff’s
wife. Plaintiff alleges Flintridge failed to maintain safe conditions for a
crosswalk located at Foothill Boulevard and Union Street. Plaintiff alleges
that because of this failure, his wife was struck by a vehicle while crossing
the street. Mirzaian is alleged to be the driver of the vehicle and Baltazar
the owner.  Plaintiff’s Second Amended
Complaint has four causes of action: (1) Dangerous Condition of Public
Property, (2) Tortious Acts of Employees, (3) Wrongful Death, and (4)
Survivorship.  The Plaintiff’s prayer for
relief requests: (1) general damages, (2) funeral expenses, (3) economic
damages for financial support, (4) medical, hospital and related expenses, (5)
loss of earnings, (6) interest on all economic damages, (7) costs of suit, and
(8) such other relief the Court deems proper. 
The City filed a cross-complaint against Moving Defendants.
 
Before the Court are
two motions to quash deposition subpoenas filed by Mirzaian and Baltazar
(Moving Defendants). These subpoenas, issued by Flintridge, request the
production of medical records and were issued to medical providers for both Moving
Defendants. Moving Defendants object to the subpoenas on grounds that they are
impermissibly violative of their rights to privacy. Flintridge opposes the motions
and Moving Defendants reply.  
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a
subpoena when necessary.  C.C.P. § 1987.1 states, “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the
court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”   
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
On April 9, 2024,
Flintridge served two subpoenas on John Rezapour, M.D. and Leon N. Partamian,
M.D. requesting Mirzaian’s medical records. (Mirzaian Mot. Exh. C.) The
contents of these two subpoenas are identical and request the following:  
 
Any and all records, documents, medical reports, including
doctor's entries, nurse's notes, progress reports, x-ray reports, MRI reports,
lab reports, physical therapy records, case history, emergency records,
diagnosis, prognosis, condition, admit and discharge records from first date of
treatment to the present. 
 
Complete radiological images of any sort from the first date of
treatment to the present, including but not limited to any items that may be
stored digitally and/or electronically: x-rays, MRl's, CT's, myelograms,
tomograms, MRA's, PET scans, CAT scans, fluoroscopy, documents including
sign-out sheets or communications which demonstrate that any items were checked
out from or removed from your facility, radiology reports, x-ray reports, MRI
reports, CT reports, myelogram reports, and any other radiology reports. All
approved radiological images must be produced on a DICOM compliant CD. In the
event a DICOM compliant CD is not available, radiological images may be
produced on film. Prior to duplication, please provide your production cost and
a breakdown of all radiology images in your possession, custody, or control.
All emails between physicians and the patient regarding physical complaints,
symptoms, and treatment, including secure messages.
 
(Mirzaian Mot. Exh. C., p. 33.) 
 
On April 10, 2024,
Flintridge served a subpoena on City of Hope Medical Center, City of Hope
Center/Billing Department and City of Hope Medical Center/Radiology Department
requesting Mr. Baltazar's medical records. (Baltazar Mot. Exh. C.) This subpoena
requests the following: 
 
Any and all records, documents, medical reports, including
doctor's entries, nurse's notes, progress reports, x-ray reports, MRI reports,
lab reports, physical therapy records, case history, emergency records,
diagnosis, prognosis, condition, admit and discharge records from first date of
treatment to the present. To include any and all records from aka City of Hope;
Andrew Artz, M.D.; and Division of Leukemia.
 
(Baltazar Mot. Exh. C., p. 31.) 
 
The Court notes that these
subpoenas appear to have been subsequently withdrawn by Flintridge. Flintridge
states that, on April 22, 2024, it agreed to withdraw the subpoenas with
respect to both Mirzaian and Baltazar. (Opp. Exh. 1, p. 4.) It appears that
Flintridge’s counsel considered the objections of Moving Defendants and agreed
to withdraw and issue revised subpoenas. (Id., p. 3.) 
 
A review of the
subsequently issued subpoenas reveals that, on May 21, 2024, Flintridge issued
subpoenas to both John Rezapour, M.D. and Leon N. Partamian, M.D. (Mirzaian
Oppo. Exh. 9.) On the same day Flintridge served a subpoena on City of Hope
Medical Center. (Baltazar Oppo. Exh. 9.) 
 
Moving Defendants argue
that the current motions should be decided on the merits of their privacy
objections. Moving Defendants reason that the reissued subpoenas still raise the
privacy concerns addressed in their briefing. While the Court agrees that the
subsequently issued subpoenas appear to raise many of the same objections as
the April subpoenas, this does not change the fact that the May 21 subpoenas
are not the subject of the instant motions. Moving Defendant’s noticed a motion
asking that the Court quash the original subpoenas. Briefing then occurred
based on this noticed motion. For the Court to disregard the withdrawal of the
April subpoenas would be to eschew the proper procedures for notice and
briefing which facilitate the Court’s understanding of the case. In short, the
Court cannot quash subpoenas which have been withdrawn. Accordingly, the Court
finds the motions to quash are MOOT. 
 
While there is no
requirement that a party meet and confer before filing a motion to quash a
subpoena served on a non-party, the Court encourages the parties to engage in
talks prior to the bringing of subsequent motions to quash. From the Court’s
review of the exhibits, it appears that no substantive meet and confer has
occurred up to this point after the April 22 agreement to withdraw the
subpoenas. Should the parties be unable to reach an understanding as to the May
subpoenas, the Court invites further motions to quash from Moving Defendants. 
 
Notwithstanding the above,
the Court does note that when an individual's right of privacy conflicts with
the need for discovery in litigation, the Court must balance the competing
interests. Even where the balance weighs in favor of disclosure of private
information, the scope of the disclosure must be narrowly circumscribed and "must
be drawn with narrow specificity." (Moskowitz v. Superior Court
(1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 313, 315-316) disapproved on other grounds in Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.  The Court will permit only what is necessary
for a fair resolution of the lawsuit. (Id.).  
 
The parties may wish to participate in
a remote Informal Discovery Conference with the Court, which may be scheduled Monday
through Thursday at 4:00.   In the alternative they may renew their motion
based upon on new subpoena’s that were issued.
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
The City of La Cañada
Flintridge’s Motion for Protective Order came on
regularly for hearing on June 21, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted
in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTIONS TO QUASH ARE MOOT. 
 
CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE IS SET FOR OCTOBER
22, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS NOTICE
IS WAIVED BY ALL PARTIES, FLINTRIDGE TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 21, 2024
                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 