 Case Number:  24BBCV00242    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
JUNE 21, 2024

MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCV00242

 



MP:  


Mercedes Benz USA, LLC. (Defendants)




RP:  


Leonard Zora (Plaintiff) 



 
NOTICE:
 

The Court is not
requesting oral argument on this matter.  The Court is guided by
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) whereby notice of intent to appear
is requested.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling,
no argument is requested and any party seeking argument should notify all other
parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the
party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become
the ruling of the court if no argument is received.   
 
Notice may be given
either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Leonard
Zora (Plaintiff) brings this action against Mercedes Benz USA, LLC. (Mercedes) for
claims arising out of the purchase of 2021 Mercedes-Benz GLC300W. The Complaint
alleges several causes of action for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act. Plaintiff has dismissed Defendant Calstar Motors, Inc.(Calstar),
the dealership which sold him the vehicle, from this action. 
 
Before
the Court is a joint motion by Mercedes to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims against them. Plaintiff opposes and Mercedes replies. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
C.C.P. §
1281.2 states: “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging
the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a
party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement arbitrate the controversy exists.” 
 
A party
seeking to compel arbitration has the initial burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, the existence of a valid and enforceable
arbitration agreement. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997)
15 Cal.4th 951, 972.) If the moving party has met its initial burden, then the
burden shifts to respondents to prove the falsity or unenforceability of the
arbitration agreement. (Id.) 
 
“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
RJN 
 
Mercedes requests the Court
take judicial notice of the Complaint filed in this matter. The Court possesses
a true and correct copy of the Complaint, it is not reasonably subject to
dispute, and it is capable of immediate and accurate determination. Therefore,
the Court may take judicial notice of the complaint; however, generally the
truth of the contents may not be judicially noticed. (Evid. Code §§ 452 (d) and
(h).)  
 
Plaintiff requests the
Court take judicial notice of the following: 
 
·        
Ford
Motor Warranty Cases (Cal.
Ct. App. Apr. 4, 2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, review granted. 
 
·        
Rosanna
Montemayor et al. v. Ford Motor Company, 92 Cal.App.5th 958 (Cal. Ct. App. June 26, 2023) (“Montemayor”),
review granted.  
 
·        
Kielar v.
The Superior Court of Placer County, 94 Cal.App. 5th 614 (Cal. Ct. App. August 16, 2023).  
 
·        
California
Court of Appeal, Third Appellate District’s August 28, 2023 Response to
Petition for Writ of Mandate in Campos et al. v. The Superior Court of Butte
County, No. C098848. 
 
·        
California
Court of Appeal, Third Appellate District’s August 28, 2023 Response to
Petition for Writ of Mandate in Ortiz et al. v. The Superior Court of
Sacramento County, No. C099135. 
 
·        
Yeh v.
Superior Ct. of Contra Costa Cnty., 95 Cal.App.5th 264 (Cal. Ct. App. Sept. 6, 2023), review
granted.
 
It is the view of the Court
that there is no need to request judicial notice of published appellate decisions
when the purpose is to present the decision as persuasive legal authority. The
Court does not consider unpublished cases nor superior court trial court orders
as neither is citable authority pursuant to the California Rules of Court.  The Court declines to endorse the overused
practice of filing requests for judicial notice simply to cite published
decisions.
 
Motion to Compel 
 
The basis of Merecedes’
motion is the Lease Agreement (“Lease”) signed by Plaintiff on June 6, 2021.
(Ameripour Decl. Exh. 2.) The Lease is Plaintiff and Calstar. (Id.) The Lease
contained an arbitration clause (“Arbitration Agreement”) that reads, in
relevant part, as follows: 
 
1. If either you or we choose, any dispute between you and us will
be decided by arbitration and not in court. […] Any claim or dispute, whether
in contract, tort or otherwise (including any dispute over the interpretation,
scope, or validity of this lease, arbitration section or the arbitrability of
any issue), between you and us or any of our employees, agents , successors or
assigns, which arises out of or relates to a credit application, this lease, or
any resulting transaction or relationship arising out of this lease shall, at
the election of either you or us, or our successors or assigns, be resolved by
a neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. Any claim or dispute
is to be arbitrated on an individual basis and not as a class action.
 
(Ameripour Decl. Exh. 2, p.
7.)
 
The Court notes that “You”
is defined in the Lease as the lessee/co-lessee and “We” or “Us” is defined as
the lessor. (Id., p.1.) 
 
Although they are not a
party to the Lease, Mercedes argues that it can enforce the arbitration
agreement between Plaintiff and Calstar because it is a contemplated third
party within the meaning of the Arbitration Agreement. Mercedes’ primary
authority for this argument is the Fourth District Appellate Court decision in Felisilda
v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486. Felisilda concerned
arbitration clauses in dealership contracts which are nearly identical to those
used by various dealerships, including the one in this case. For some time, Felisilda
was the only on-point precedent in these matters, and many courts employed
its holding to compel arbitration of automobile manufacturer claims based on
dealership contracts. 
 
However, on July 19, 2023,
the Second District Appellate Court rendered an opposite decision in Ochoa
v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324.  Ochoa disagreed with Felisilda and
found manufacturers could not compel arbitration under equitable estoppel or as
third party nonsignatories. 
 
On July 19, 2023, the
California Supreme Court granted review of the ruling in Ochoa. In
granting review, the Supreme Court held that the decision in Ochoa may
be cited for its persuasive value and to show a conflict in authority which
would allow trial courts to exercise discretion in ruling on such motions. (Ochoa
v. Ford Motor Co. (In re Ford Motor Warranty Cases) (July 19, 2023,
No. S279969) [2023 Cal. LEXIS 4235].) “Where there is more than one appellate
court decision, and such appellate decisions are in conflict the superior court
can and must make a choice between the conflicting decisions” (Auto Equity
Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court (1962) 57 Cal.2d 450, 456, citations and
quotation marks omitted.) 

The Court notes the arbitration clauses in Felisilda, Ochoa, and this
case are virtually identical.
 
The rulings in Felisilda
and Ochoa present conflicting opinions from the Fourth and Second
Appellate districts respectively. Ultimately, the Court finds the reasoning in Ochoa
to be more persuasive in deciding whether to compel arbitration. 
 
Mercedes’ argument in
support of its right to compel arbitration asserts the right under both
equitable estoppel and their status as a third-party nonsignatory. The Court
will address both of these in turn. 
 
Equitable Estoppel 
 
Under both California and
federal case law, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to
compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of action
against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the
underlying contract obligations.” (Felisilda supra, 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
495.) “Where the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has
a right to enforce the arbitration agreement.” (Id. at 496.)
 
The Felisilda court
found equitable estoppel applied because the plaintiff’s claims were intimately
founded in and intertwined with the dealership contract. The Felisilda court
explained, “[t]he Felisildas’ claim against FCA directly relates to the
condition of the vehicle that they allege to have violated warranties they
received as a consequence of the sales contract. Because the Felisildas
expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the
vehicle - even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract - they
are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against FCA.” (Id.
at 497.)
 
The Ochoa court disagreed
with  Felisilda’s finding that the
plaintiff’s claims were “founded in or intertwined with” the dealership sales
contracts. The court “disagree[d] with Felisilda that ‘the sales
contract was the source of [FCA’s] warranties at the heart of this case.’” (Ochoa
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th at 1334.) Instead, the Ochoa court held
plaintiff’s claims were “…based on FMC’s statutory obligations to reimburse
consumers or replace their vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with
its warranty,” and not “on any express contractual language in the sale
contracts.” (Id. at 1335.) The Ochoa court further reasoned
“The sale contracts include no warranty, nor any assurance regarding the
quality of the vehicle sold, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies in
the event problems arise.  To the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim
any warranty on the part of the dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any
warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer may
provide.’  In short, the substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to
sale and financing and nothing more.” (Id.)   
 
The Court is of the same
opinion as Ochoa that Plaintiff’s claims are not “intimately founded in
and intertwined” with the substantive terms of the lease contract. Here, as in Ochoa,
the dealership sales contract contains no aversion to a manufacturer warranty
and in fact disclaims any warranty explicitly. (Ameripour Decl. Exh. 2, pg. 4.)
The Court further agrees Plaintiff’s claims are based on statutory obligations
under Song-Beverly, rather than the contractual relationship between Plaintiff
and Calstar. No language in the contract serves as the source Plaintiff’s
claims against Calstar, absent extrapolation from the third-party non-signatory
language. As will now be discussed, the Court feels this language is not
intended to allow third parties to compel arbitration. 
 
Third-Party Nonsignatories 
 
The Court similarly agrees
with Ochoa’s interpretation of the “third-party nonsignatory” language
employed in the dealership contract. 
 
At issue in Felisilda an
Ochoa was the contract language “between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out
of or relates to your… purchase or condition
of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third
parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at [Plaintiff’s] or
[Dealer’s] election be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a
court action…” 
 
The court in Felisilda
read the above language to mean that third parties could compel arbitration in
disputes relating to the purchased vehicle. (Felisilda supra, at 498.)
The Ochoa court instead read the language as “a further delineation of
the subject matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to
arbitrate.”  (Ochoa supra, at 1335.) 
 
Ochoa clearly distinguishes between (1) the parties
to the claims or disputes and (2) the subject matters of the claims or
disputes. Here, the parties are defined as “…you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns”. The subject matter of the claim is “…any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract.)”. If there was a dispute between
Plaintiff and the dealership that arose out of or related to a resulting
transaction or relationship with a third party, then Plaintiff and the
dealership could arbitrate that dispute.  However, based on the
arbitration provision’s language and Ochoa’s clear interpretation
thereof, there is no agreement requiring Plaintiff to arbitrate a claim or
dispute between himself and a non-signatory third-party. 
 
The Court notes that the
reasoning in Ochoa was echoed by Division Seven of the Second Appellate
District in Montemayor v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958.
Review in Montemayor was granted and is also pending. The same can be
said for the decision in Yeh v. Superior Court (2023) 95
Cal.App.5th 264 by Division Four of the Fourth Appellate District. Both of
these cases ultimately denied the manufacturer’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 
The Court finds Ochoa’s interpretation
of the arbitration language to be the most logical. The language indicates the
clause intends to allow arbitration of claims arising out of interaction with
third party non-signatories by either Plaintiff or the dealership. The clause
simply does not contemplate manufacturers, or any third party for that matter,
as having the right to compel arbitration under the terms of the agreement. 
 
Accordingly, Merecedes’
motion to compel arbitration is DENIED. 
 
Arbitration Stay 
 
Once arbitration has been
compelled, in whole or in part, a stay of proceedings is mandatory if the
issues in the arbitration and the pending action overlap. (C.C.P. § 1281.4 (if
a court “has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in
an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in
which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to
such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration
is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as
the court specifies.”)) 
 
“The purpose of the
statutory stay [under section 1281.4] is to protect the jurisdiction of the
arbitrator by preserving the status quo until arbitration is resolved. In the
absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in the trial court
disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them ineffective.” (Federal
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1370, 1374-1375 (citations
omitted).) 
  
As the Court denies the
motion to compel arbitration in its entirety, its motion to stay proceedings is
moot.  
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Mercedes
Benz USA, LLC.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration came on regularly for hearing on June 21,
2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said
hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there
rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS DENIED AND THE
MOTION TO STAY PROCEEDINGS AGAINST IT IS MOOT.
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SCHEDULED FOR JUNE
26, 2024 IS ADVANCED AND CONTINUED TO OCTOBER 21, 2022 AT 9:00 A.M. 
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, MERCEDES TO
GIVE NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 
DATE: 
June 21, 2024                            _______________________________ 
                                                                   
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge 
Superior Court of California 
County of
Los Angeles 
 
 