 Case Number:  21PSCV00721    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  G Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
Respondent: Cross-Complainants Esteban Cruz and Ruth Cruz
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Cross-Defendants Carlota G. Cruz and Dora Cruz’s
Demurrer to the First Amended Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with ten
(10) days leave to amend as to the second and third causes of action, and
OVERRULED IN PART as to the first cause of action.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an action arising from a dispute over a family
trust. In September 1998, Carlota G. Cruz[1] and Carlota’s husband, Antonio V. Cruz, formed The Antonio
V. Cruz and Carlota G. Revocable Trust (Cruz Trust) and are trustees of the
Cruz Trust. In December 2012, Carlota and Antonio amended the Cruz Trust. All
of Carlota and Antonio’s assets and real property were allegedly placed under
the Cruz Trust. Due to their advanced age and medical conditions, Carlota and
Antonio became more dependent on their family members and currently live in
Pomona with Dora Cruz, their daughter. Carlota and Antonio also have a son
named Esteban Cruz who is married to Ruth Cruz. Through Esteban and Ruth,
Carlota and Antonio also have a granddaughter named Wendy Cruz.
 
Esteban and Ruth allegedly reside in residential property
owned by Carlota and Antonio and have allegedly failed to (1) pay for property
insurance on the residence and (2) pay property taxes. In March 2021, Carlota
learned Antonio had made changes to Antonio’s health plan, allegedly at the
behest of Esteban and Ruth. Carlota also learned Antonio had closed bank
accounts and changed his mailing address to Esteban and Ruth’s address.
Previously in February 2021, Carlota and Antonio had agreed that Esteban would
assist in collecting rent from rental homes belonging to the Cruz Trust.
However, Esteban, Ruth, and Wendy allegedly began managing the properties and
intimidating tenants to force tenants to move out or pay rent.
 
On September 1, 2021, Carlota, as an individual and trustee
of the Cruz Trust, filed a complaint against Esteban, Ruth, Wendy, and Does
1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) elder abuse, (2) conversion,
(3) accounting, (4) restitution, and (5) declaratory relief.
 
On July 21, 2022, Esteban and Ruth (collectively, Cruz Defendants)
filed a cross-complaint against Carlota and Dora (collectively, Cruz Trustees)
as trustees of the Cruz Trust, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
defamation, (2) elder abuse, and (3) intentional interference with right of
inheritance.
 
On August 29, 2022, the Cruz Trustees filed a First Amended
Complaint (FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On September 13, 2022, the Cruz Defendants filed a First
Amended Cross-Complaint (FACC) against the Cruz Trustees and Roes 1-10,
alleging the same causes of action.
 
On January 30, 2023, the Cruz Trustees filed the present
demurrer. Prior to filing on November 28, 2022, and on December 14, counsel for
the Cruz Trustees and the Cruz Defendants attempted to meet and confer by
exchanging letters. (Ruiz Decl., ¶ 4.) On March 30, the court continued the
scheduled hearing so counsel could sufficiently meet and confer. On April 5,
counsel met and conferred telephonically but were unable to come to a
resolution. (Ruiz Suppl. Decl., ¶ 2.)
 
A
hearing on the present demurrer and a case management conference are set for
October 23, 2023.
 
ANALYSIS

The Cruz Trustees demur to the entire FACC on
the grounds of subject matter jurisdiction and to each of the three causes of
action for failing to state sufficient facts to state a claim. For the
following reasons, the court SUSTAINS
their demurrer to the Cruz Defendants’
second and third causes of action with leave to amend and OVERRULES their demurrer as to the first cause of action.
 
Legal Standard

A party may demur to a complaint on the
grounds that it “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747
(Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded
facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068,
1078.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF
Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra,
at p. 747.)
 
Subject Matter Jurisdiction

The Cruz Trustees argue the court lacks
subject matter jurisdiction because the FACC involves the internal affairs of a
trust. The court disagrees.
 
In arguing the court lacks subject matter jurisdiction,
Cross-Defendants quote Estate of Bowles (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 684 (Bowles),
stating “the probate court has exclusive jurisdiction . . .  concerning
the internal affairs of the trust.” (Id., at p. 696.) But in the
preceding paragraphs, the court noted “subject matter jurisdiction, in the
strict sense, is not at issue.” (Id., at p. 695.) This is because “[e]ven though a superior
court is divided into branches or departments, pursuant to California
Constitution, article VI, section 4, there is only one superior court in a
county and jurisdiction is therefore vested in that court, not in any particular judge
or department. Whether sitting separately or together, the judges hold but one
and the same court.” (Glade v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441, 1449.)
 
In Bowles, the court further noted that “the
authority of a probate department to resolve the merits of the civil action
along with the first amended section 17200 petition was not a proper basis for
sustaining the demurrer to the complaint.” (See Bowles, supra,
169 Cal.App.4th at p. 696.) Similarly here, this issue is not an appropriate
basis for sustaining a demurrer and must instead be resolved in accordance with
this court’s local rules. (See ibid.)
 
Defamation (First Cause of Action)
 
Carlota contends the Cruz Defendants’ first
cause of action for defamation fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim.
The court disagrees.
 
“The elements of a defamation claim are (1) a
publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a
natural tendency to injure or causes special damage.” (Wong v. Jing (2010)
189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1369.)
 
In this case, Carlota contends the FACC is
insufficiently pled because it does not state when Carlota allegedly made the
defamatory statements and how the Cruz Defendants became aware of such
statements. But Carlota fails to point to any authority that requires such
specificity. And such specificity is not required where “the allegations
indicate that ‘the defendant must necessarily possess full information
concerning the facts of the controversy’” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto.
Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 158, quoting Bradley v. Hartford Acc.
& Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825) or if “the facts lie more
in the knowledge of the opposite party.” (Ibid, quoting Turner v.
Milstein (1951) 103 Cal.App.2d 651, 658.)
 
Carlota also contends the allegedly
defamatory statements were constitutionally protected opinions pursuant to Medical
Marijuana, Inc. v. ProjectCBD.com (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 869, 884. There,
the court noted that defamation law distinguishes between statements of fact
and statements of opinion with the latter receiving constitutional protection.
(Ibid.) But Carlota fails to develop this point and explain how statements
regarding the paternity of Ruth’s children are opinions and not facts.
 
Accordingly, Carlota’s demurrer to the Cruz
Defendants’ first cause of action is OVERRULED.
 
Financial Elder Abuse (Second Cause of
Action)
 
The Cruz Trustees maintain Esteban’s second
cause of action for financial elder abuse fails because Esteban does not have
standing. The court agrees.
 
In maintaining Esteban lacks standing, the
Cruz Trustees cite to Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30,
subdivision (d), which defined an elder or dependent adult’s representative as “[a]
conservator, trustee, or other representative of the estate of an elder or
dependent adult” or “[a]n attorney-in-fact of an elder or dependent adult who
acts within the authority of the power of attorney.” Upon the death of an
elder, an elder abuse claim must be brought by the elder’s personal
representative unless none has been appointed. (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15657.3, subd. (d)(1).) But if the personal representative is the one accused
of elder abuse, the right to bring an action then passes to any of the
following: (1) “[a]n intestate heir whose interest is affected by the action,”
(2) a successor in interest defined by Code of Civil Procedure section 377.11,
or (3) an “interested person” defined in Probate Code section 48. (Welf. &
Inst. Code, § 15657.3, subd. (d)(1).)
 
In opposition, Esteban maintains that Esteban
has standing because the FACC alleges the Cruz Trustees are the abusers, that
they have been named Antonio’s personal representatives, and Esteban has an
interest in Antonio’s estate. But Esteban fails to provide the actual location
of these allegations in the FACC. Esteban fails to allege that the Cruz
Trustees are also the personal representatives of Antonio’s estate or that
there is no personal representative.
 
Accordingly, because Esteban failed to allege
facts establishing standing pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code section
15657.3, subdivision (d), the Cruz Trustees’ demurrer to this cause of action
is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Intentional Interference with Right of
Inheritance (Third Cause of Action)
 
The Cruz Trustees argue Esteban’s third cause
of action for intentional interference with right of inheritance fails to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim because it is an attempt to contest the Cruz
Trust. The court agrees.
 
A plaintiff cannot recover for intentional
interference with right of inheritance if “an adequate probate remedy exists.”
(Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1056; see Munn v.
Briggs (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 578, 587 [“Our independent research also
confirms that when a party has an adequate remedy in probate, the party
generally will be precluded from recovering in tort for interference with an
expectancy.”].)
 
In this case, the Cruz Trustees argue Esteban
has an adequate probate remedy in the form of Probate Code section 17200,
subdivision (a), which allows a beneficiary of a trust to petition a probate
court for issues involving the internal affairs or existence of the trust. In
response, Esteban argues the FACC is not seeking to invalidate any provision of
the Cruz Trust or its First Amendment. But while Esteban avoids alleging this
directly, the gravamen of Esteban’s cause of action is a challenge to the validity
and internal affairs of the Cruz Trust.
 
Esteban brings this action as an alleged
beneficiary of the Cruz Trust. (FACC, ¶ 21.) Esteban alleges Antonio promised
Esteban that Esteban would receive title to one of the Cruz Trust’s properties
in Pomona upon Antonio’s death. (FACC, ¶ 38-39.) But at the time, the Cruz
Trust’s terms allegedly directed the Pomona property to be distributed to
Antonio’s daughters. (FACC, ¶ 41.) Esteban alleges the Cruz Trustees interfered
with Esteban’s inheritance by refusing to execute documents on Antonio’s behalf
that would transfer the Cruz Trust property to Esteban. (FACC, ¶ 47.) Esteban
also alleges the Cruz Trustees breached their fiduciary duties by failing to
provide a copy of the trust when Esteban requested it. (FACC, ¶ 43-44.)
 
Esteban incorporates allegations from the
second cause of action which claim the Cruz Trustees obtained the First Amendment
to the Cruz Trust through undue influence. (FACC, ¶ 24, 45.) These allegations involve
the internal affairs of the Cruz Trust which include “[d]etermining the
existence or nonexistence of any immunity, power, privilege, duty, or right”
(Prob. Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(2)), “[d]etermining the validity of a trust
provision” (Prob. Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(3)), “[i]nstructing the trustee”
(Prob. Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(6)), “[c]ompelling the trustee to . . . [p]rovide
a copy of the terms of the trust” (Prob. Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(7)(A)), and
“[c]ompelling redress of a breach of the trust by any available remedy” (Prob.
Code, § 17200, subd. (b)(12)).
 
Thus, the court finds an adequate probate
remedy existed which bars Esteban’s intentional interference with right of
inheritance claim. While the FACC specifically alleges there is no adequate
probate remedy (FACC, ¶ 50), the court is not required to accept Esteban’s
legal conclusions. (Shusha, Inc. v. Century-National Insurance Company (2022)
87 Cal.App.5th 250, 259.) And while both parties suggest the probate remedies
may now be barred by the applicable statute of limitations, that does not change
the fact that these remedies were available to Esteban.
 
Last, to the extent Esteban asserts
interference with Esteban’s inheritance outside of the Cruz Trust, Esteban failed
to adequately allege this cause of action. The only alleged inheritance to
which Esteban specifically referred was the Pomona property held in the Cruz
Trust. (FACC, ¶ 38.) While Esteban references property held by Antonio outside
of the Cruz Trust, Esteban failed to allege and specify what that property was.
(FACC, ¶ 48.) In fact, even Esteban’s description of Antonio’s promise is vague
as Esteban claims Antonio allegedly promised “all of his assets would be left
to [Esteban].” (FACC, ¶ 46.) It is unclear if these assets included those held
by the Cruz Trust or if it was limited to Esteban’s individual assets.
Ultimately, Esteban’s confusing pleading and use of vague term “estate plan”
instead of more specific terms like a will or the Cruz Trust render this cause
of action ripe for revision.
 
Accordingly, the Cruz Trustees’ demurrer to
this cause of action is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, the Cruz Trustees’ demurrer to the Cruz Defendants’ FACC is SUSTAINED
IN PART with ten (10) days leave to amend as to the second and third causes
of action. The demurrer is OVERRULED IN PART as to the first cause of
action.


