  Case Number:  22STCV22998    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant County of Los Angeles’s Motion
for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues
            Defendant County of Los Angeles
moves for summary judgment of this action by plaintiff Leo Simi or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication of unspecified issues.
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes 17 objections to
defendant’s evidence.  All 17 objections
are overruled.
            Defendant makes 26 objections
(labeled A-Z) to plaintiff’s evidence. 
Objections B, C, E, G-K, M, O, V, and Z are sustained.  Objections A, D, F, L, N, P-U, and W-Y are overruled.
Summary
Judgment or Adjudication
            Defendant did not properly move for
summary adjudication.  “[A] motion for
summary adjudication cannot be considered by the court unless the party
bringing the motion for summary judgment duly gives notice that summary
adjudication is being sought as an alternative to summary judgment, in the
event summary judgment is denied.”  (Motevalli
v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 97, 114; accord Jimenez
v. Protective Life Ins. Co. (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 528, 534.)  “If summary adjudication is sought, whether
separately or as an alternative to the motion for summary judgment, the
specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of
duty must be stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated,
verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b).)
Defendant’s notice of motion states
it moves “for entry of summary judgment, or in the alternative summary
adjudication of issues, in favor of Defendant County of Los Angeles and against
Plaintiff Leo Simi.”  (Notice, p.
2.)  It further provides, “This Motion is
made on the grounds that there are no disputed genuine issues of material fact,
and that as a matter of law, the County is entitled to judgment against Mr.
Simi.”  (Ibid.)  The notice does not identify any “issues” or
causes of action for which defendant seeks summary adjudication.  It only nominally refers to “summary
adjudication of issues.”  Substantively,
defendant did not move for summary adjudication of anything.  The court therefore must either grant summary
judgment of the entire action or deny the motion.    
Statutes
of Limitations
Defendant contends all of plaintiff’s
causes of action are untimely.  Triable
issues of material fact preclude summary judgment based on statutes of
limitations.  Plaintiff filed a claim
under Government Code section 815.2 on February 8, 2022.  (Thompson Decl., Ex. N.)  He filed an administrative complaint with the
Department of Fair Employment and Housing on July 12, 2022.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff filed the complaint in this action
on July 18, 2022.  (Id., Ex. M.)  Defendant contends plaintiff’s claims are
untimely because the last adverse employment action occurred in 2019.  Plaintiff opposes this argument on several
grounds, including that he suffered an adverse employment action on August 19,
2021, or that past adverse employment actions did not reach a degree of
permanence until then.  If so, his
government claim, administrative complaint, and civil action were timely.
            Plaintiff’s argument relies on the
following evidence: he submitted a grievance form complaining about “[r]emoval
of supervision duties” on May 7, 2019. 
(Streich Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. H.) 
Karen Streich sent plaintiff a “grievance response letter” on August 19,
2021, over two years later.  (Id.,
Ex. I.)  The letter states the “nature of
grievance” was that “the removal of [plaintiff’s] supervision duties” violated
the collective bargaining agreement “and all other relevant articles, rules,
codes, policies, and laws.”  (Ibid.)  It continues, “As a remedy, you requested to
be made whole by restoring supervision duties and all other relevant
remedies.”  (Ibid.)  The “response” section states, “After careful
consideration of all the information available to me, I do not have the
authority to grant or deny your request.  Your current assignment at the Rio Hondo Hub
is a reasonable accommodation due to a permanent disability.  …  In
response to the assertion that your supervisory duties were removed in
retaliation for your participation in the IPM process, these allegations could
not be substantiated.”  (Ibid.)
            A reasonable factfinder could
conclude that, had Streich found his complaints “substantiated,” defendant could
have restored plaintiff’s supervision duties or reassigned him as a remedy for
his grievance.  If so, defendant engaged
in a formal process by which it could have reversed course, meaning the action
had not acquired a degree of permanence.
Moreover, even if the actions of
reassigning plaintiff and stripping plaintiff’s supervisory duties had already
acquired a degree of permanence before the 2021 response letter, the evidence
in the record permits a trier of fact to apply the doctrine of equitable
tolling.  “Equitable tolling reflects ‘ “a
general policy which favors relieving [a] plaintiff from the bar of a
limitations statute when, possessing several legal remedies he, reasonably and
in good faith, pursues one.” ’ ”  (Brome
v. California Highway Patrol (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 786, 794.)  The doctrine applies “to the voluntary
pursuit of alternate remedies against public defendants.”  (McDonald v. Antelope Valley Community
College Dist. (2008) 45 Cal.4th 88, 102 (McDonald).)  Equitable tolling requires “three elements: ‘timely
notice, and lack of prejudice, to the defendant, and reasonable and good faith
conduct on the part of the plaintiff.’ ” 
(Ibid.)
The same evidence discussed above presents
a triable issue of fact on whether plaintiff reasonably pursued an alternative
remedy through the internal grievance process. 
Based on the record before the court, a reasonable trier of fact could
conclude plaintiff meets all three elements for equitable tolling.
Defendant’s motion argues plaintiff’s
grievance was untimely because he did not submit it within 10 days of his
permanent assignment to the Rio Hondo Hub. 
(Memo, p. 10.)  The “timely
notice” requirement for equitable tolling means the defendant must “be ‘fully
notified within the [statute of limitations] of plaintiffs’ claims and their
intent to litigate.’ ”  (Saint Francis
Memorial Hospital v. State Department of Public Health (2020) 9 Cal.5th
710, 726, alterations in original.)  The
notice must be within the statute of limitations—e.g., three years for FEHA
violations—not within the limits established by the defendant’s internal
administrative process.  
Moreover, not only did defendant take
over two years to respond to the grievance, but also the response does not
assert the grievance was untimely.  (Streich
Decl., Ex. I.)    To the contrary, the
response letter indicates defendant did investigate the facts underlying
plaintiff’s grievance.  (Ibid.)  Defendant could have told him right away that
the grievance was untimely.  It offers no
reason for raising that issue for the first time in its motion for summary
judgment in 2024.
Disability Discrimination
            Triable issues of material fact
exist regarding plaintiff’s disability discrimination claim.  In employment discrimination cases, “[a]n
employer defendant may meet its initial burden on summary judgment, and require
the employee plaintiff to present evidence establishing a triable issue of
material fact, by presenting evidence that either negates an element of
the employee’s prima facie case, or establishes a legitimate nondiscriminatory
reason for taking the adverse employment action against the employee.”  (Swanson v. Morongo Unified School Dist.
(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 966.)  Once
the defendant does so, the plaintiff “need only present evidence establishing a
triable issue on the specific element the [defendant] challenges.”  (Id. at p. 968.)
A. Administrative Exhaustion
            Defendant
argues plaintiff failed to exhaust his administrative remedies because he did
not file a grievance within 10 days of adverse employment action.  (Memo, pp. 9-10.)  That is an internal grievance procedure, not
an administrative remedy.  The
administrative remedy is filing a complaint with the Department of Fair
Employment and Housing (now the Civil Rights Department).  The requirement to exhaust “internal
grievance procedures” applies “where the Legislature has not specifically
mandated its own administrative review process, as in the FEHA,” but does not
apply “where an employee [brings] a claim under FEHA or another statutory scheme
containing its own exhaustion prerequisite.” 
(Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1092.)  Failing to submit an internal grievance
within 10 days does not mean plaintiff failed to exhaust his administrative
remedies.  
B. Adverse Employment Action
            Defendant
argues it never subjected plaintiff to an adverse employment action.  An adverse employment action must “materially
affect the terms and conditions of employment.” 
(Yanowitz v. L'Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1036.)  “[I]n determining whether an
employee has been subjected to treatment that materially affects the terms and
conditions of employment, it is appropriate to consider the totality of the
circumstances and to apply the ‘continuing violation’ doctrine.”  (Ibid.)  This test “looks to ‘the entire spectrum of employment
actions that are reasonably likely to adversely and materially affect an
employee’s job performance or opportunity for advancement in his or her
career,’ and the test ‘must be interpreted liberally ... with a reasonable
appreciation of the realities of the workplace... .’ ”  (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School
Dist. (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1389, overruled on other grounds by Lawson
v. PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703.)
            Defendant argues reassigning
plaintiff “to the Rio Hondo Hub” was not an adverse employment action because
its “reasons for” doing so “were non-discriminatory.”  (Memo, p. 11.)  This argument conflates two distinct elements
of disability discrimination: adverse employment action and causation.  
Plaintiff contends removing his supervisory duties was an adverse
employment action.  Even without a pay
cut or other concrete harm, relieving an employee of “prestigious” duties may
constitute an adverse employment action. 
(Simers v. Los Angeles Times Communications, LLC (2018) 18
Cal.App.5th 1248, 1279.)  Supervising
others is a sign of career status.  A
reasonable trier of fact could conclude that removing plaintiff’s supervisory
duties materially affected his opportunity for career advancement or was
otherwise a materially adverse consequence.
Defendant presents evidence showing plaintiff “has maintained all of
his supervisory duties.”  (Memo, p.
11.)  Karen Streich testifies, “No
supervisory duties were taken away” (Streich Decl., ¶ 9) and “he maintains all
his supervisory duties.”  (Id., ¶
11.)  Mary Marx testifies, “His
supervisory duties were not taken away.  His
duties were accommodated to the best efforts of the DMH in consideration of his
medical restrictions.”  (Marx Decl., ¶
10.)  
The record, however, includes other evidence establishing a triable
issue of material fact as to whether defendant removed plaintiff’s supervisory
duties.  Defendant’s evidence includes an
email dated April 11, 2018, from Jennifer Williams, an “ADA coordinator” at the
County’s Department of Mental Health, stating “The movement of the staff Mr. Simi supervised was
done at the time Mr. Simi went out on leave.  The movement was not a part of the
accommodation.  Ms. Marx stated that the
staff were re-assigned and she did not want to move them at this time.”  (Marx Decl., Ex. L, p. 13.)  Similarly, plaintiff testifies, “Ms. Marx
verbally told me that she did not want to assign the staff back to me because
she was unsure if I would go back on another medical leave.”  (Simi Decl., ¶ 12.)  This evidence permits a reasonable trier of
fact to conclude that defendant reassigned staff that Simi supervised (i.e.,
removed supervisory duties) and did not return them to him.       
C. Discriminatory Motive
            Finally,
defendant argues it did not act with any discriminatory motive.  (Memo, pp. 11-12.)  But discriminatory motive is not required for
disability discrimination.  “[D]isability discrimination claims are fundamentally
different from the discrimination claims based on the other factors listed in
section 12940, subdivision (a).”  (Wallace
v. County of Stanislaus (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 109, 122.)  An employer discriminates “by taking an
adverse employment action against an employee ‘because of’ the employee’s
physical disability even if the employer harbored no animosity or ill will
against the employee or the class of persons with that disability.”  (Id. at p. 128.)  “ ‘California law does not require an
employee with an actual or perceived disability to prove that the employer’s
adverse employment action was motivated by animosity or ill will against the
employee.  Instead, California’s
statutory scheme protects employees from an employer’s erroneous or mistaken
beliefs about the employee’s physical condition.’ ”  (Glynn v. Superior Court (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 47, 54.)  
            The evidence
discussed above presents a triable issue of fact on whether defendant removed
plaintiff’s supervisory duties because he was on a leave of absence due to his
physical disability.  Regardless of defendant’s
motives, if plaintiff could perform those supervisory duties, removing them
from him because of his absence may constitute disability discrimination.  And rather than presenting evidence plaintiff
was unable to perform his supervisory duties, defendant argues he never stopped
performing them.
The purpose of a medical leave of
absence is to permit the employee to return to the same working conditions as
before.  For example, under the
California Family Rights Act, “The employee is entitled to the same position or
to a comparable position that is equivalent (i.e., virtually identical) to the
employee's former position in terms of pay, benefits, shift, schedule,
geographic location, and working conditions, including privileges, perquisites,
and status. The position must involve the same or substantially similar duties
and responsibilities, which must entail substantially equivalent skill, effort,
responsibility, and authority.”  (Cal.
Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11089(b).) 
Reasonable accommodations of disability can include “holding a job open
for an employee on a leave of absence or extending a leave provided by the
CFRA, the FMLA, other leave laws, or an employer’s leave plan.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, § 11068(c); see
also Jensen v. Wells Fargo Bank (2000) 85 Cal.App.4th 245, 263.)  Reassigning staff formerly under plaintiff’s
supervision may constitute failing to return him to a position with the same
duties and responsibilities and instead giving him a position with less
responsibility and authority.
A reasonable trier of fact could
conclude: (a) reassigning the staff under plaintiff’s supervision constituted an
adverse employment action, and (b) defendant did that because of plaintiff’s
disability.  Defendant therefore has not
shown it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on plaintiff’s entire
complaint.  The court must deny the
motion.
Disposition
            Defendant County
of Los Angeles’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of unspecified issues, is denied. 