  Case Number:  23TRCV00271    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Monday,
May 20, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 10
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
            Hermosa Pier, LLC v. Karmic Energy, Inc., et al. 
            23TRCV00271
1.      Karmic
Energy, Inc. and Caroline Londergan’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Karmic Energy, Inc. and Caroline
Londergan’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint is denied.   
 
            Background
 
            Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on February 1, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts.
Defendants breached the lease with respect to commercial premises located at 1332
Hermosa Ave., Suite 4, Hermosa Beach, CA 90254. 
 
            Meet
and Confer
  
            Defendants set forth a meet and confer
declaration in sufficient compliance with CCP § 435.5.  (Decl. Kevin Hermansen.) Plaintiff argues
that the meet and confer declaration is misleading because the actual meet and
confer discussions consisted of Defendants’ request for Plaintiff to remove all
references to both rent and interest owed. The email thread appears to
acknowledge this. Defense counsel is reminded that the meet and confer
discussions should be focused on the actual issues that are addressed in the
motion itself. Here, the motion only addresses interest and not rent.
 
            Motion to Strike  
 
            The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.  CCP § 436(a).  The court may also strike all or any part of
any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a
court rule, or an order of the court. 
CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.  CCP § 436. 
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading
or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
            Defendants
move to strike the following portions of the Complaint:
 
            ““Defendants
are also liable for interest as specified in the Lease on past due amounts,
which will be calculated at time of judgment.” Complaint, p. 3, ¶13.  “By reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff is
entitled to recover from Defendants damages in an amount in excess of
$31,411.66, plus interest, attorneys' fees, costs of suit and any other
consequential damages permitted under the Lease, according to proof at time of
trial, all within the jurisdiction of this Court.”  Complaint, p. 3, ¶13.  Plaintiff’s Prayer for Relief for “interest.”  Complaint, p. 4, ¶ 2.”  (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 4-11).
 
            Defendants
refer to The Los Angeles County Moratorium, effective March 2020 through March
31, 2023 - the COVID-19 Tenant Protections Resolution, which states at Section
8: “VIII. Pass-Throughs or Other Fees Prohibited. Landlords shall not impose
any passthroughs otherwise permitted under Chapters 8.52 and 8.57 of the County
Code, or charge interest or late fees on unpaid rent or other amounts otherwise
owed, from March 1, 2020, through March 31, 2023. Landlords are prohibited from
retroactively imposing or collecting any such amounts following the termination
or expiration of this Resolution.”  Los
Angeles County Moratorium, ¶VIII.
 
            However,
the Court also acknowledges the definition of commercial tenant set forth in
Section IV(P) as follows: “Tenants of commercial property, as defined in
subdivision (c) of Section 1162 of the Civil Code, including, but not limited
to, a commercial tenant using a property as a storage facility for commercial
purposes. The following tenants of commercial property are excluded from these
Protections: a. Effective June 1, 2020, commercial tenants that are multi-
national, publicly-traded, or have more than 100 employees. b. Effective
September 1, 2020, commercial tenants of space or property located at airports.”
 
            Factual
issues exist as to whether Defendants are a commercial tenant as defined in the
Moratorium and/or if the Defendants are excluded under this provision.
 
            Therefore,
the motion to strike is denied. 
 
            Defendants
are ordered to file and serve an Answer within 10 days of this date.
 
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.