  Case Number:  21VECV01059    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
   Chelato Chacon,
 
     Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
   Zeyad Elalami, et al.
 
          Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
 21VECV01059                  107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
 
(1) Leave to
  Amend Complaint
(2) Compel
  Responses to Requests for Production
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING
IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I. BACKGROUND
This is a
landlord-tenant case. The following factual allegations are drawn from the
Complaint (as defined below).
 

Factual

 
In November 2014,
plaintiff Chelato Chacon (“Plaintiff”) entered a lease agreement (the “Lease”)
regarding a certain residential real property (the “Property”) with its prior
owner (the “Original Owner”). (Complaint p. 2.) Between then and 2021,
Plaintiff and the Original Owner made verbal alterations to the Lease,
including rent increases; Plaintiff made timely rent payments, performed under
the Lease, and made repairs to the Property without any rent offsets; and many
habitability issues arose at the Property, including pest infestations and
problems with heating. (Id. at pp. 2–3.) 
 
On January 20,
2021, Plaintiff learned that defendant Zeyad Elalami (“Elalami”) and the
corporation in which Elalami holds multiple officer positions, defendant Luxor
Funding Group, Inc. (“Luxor” and, together with Elalami, “Defendants”), had acquired
the Property from the Original Owner, making Defendants the new owners of the
Property. (Complaint pp. 1, 3.) The same day, Elalami informed Plaintiff that he
was immediately increasing Plaintiff’s monthly rent by approximately 47.14%
although Elalami did not provide Plaintiff with proper notice of any rent
increase. (Complaint p. 3.) Plaintiff protested that such a rent increase
violated rent control and stabilization laws governing the Property and
continued to timely pay rent at his previous rate. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Elalami
accepted such payment for the months of February 2021, March 2021, and April
2021, but thereafter returned Plaintiff’s attempted payments to him. (Ibid.)
Elalami made verbal and written implied threats to damage Plaintiff’s FICO
credit score. (Id. at p. 3.) On February 1, 2021, Elalami attempted to issue
Plaintiff a three-day notice to pay or quit via text message, alleging that
Plaintiff had failed to make timely rent payments. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Elalami
told Plaintiff that he has “no lease for the Property” and Plaintiff received
notice that an unlawful detainer action had been filed. (Id. at p. 4.) 
 

Procedural

 
On August 11,
2021, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the
warranty of habitability, (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (4)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (5) retaliatory eviction in
violation of Civil Code section 1942.5, (6) declaratory judgment, and (7)
injunctive relief.
 
On September 20,
2021, Defendants answered the Complaint.
 
On August 8, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a motion (the “Motion to Amend”) for leave to amend the
Complaint.
 
On August 18,
2023, Plaintiff filed a motion (the “Motion to Compel” and, together with the
Motion to Amend, the “Motions”) to compel responses to requests for production
from Elalami and seeking sanctions in the amount of $5,911.65. 
 
On March 25, 2024,
Elalami filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to each of the Motions, and on
March 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed replies (the “Replies”) to each of the
Oppositions.
 
II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS
 

The Motion to Amend

 
In the Motion to Amend, Plaintiff seeks leave to file a first amended
complaint (the “FAC”) and attaches to the Motion to Amend the proposed FAC.
(Motion p. 4.) Plaintiff contends that Defendants will not be prejudiced by the
filing of the FAC because it primarily alters or adds legal theories based on
facts already pled in the Complaint and that denial of the Motion to Amend will
prejudice Plaintiff by resulting in duplicative lawsuits based on substantially
similar facts. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that he only confirmed that he
had the cause of action he seeks to add after his deposition of Elalami on
August 3, 2023. (Id. at p. 5.) Plaintiff contends that the Motion to
Amend is timely sought because Plaintiff “took action to seek leave to amend”
“immediately” after the August 3 deposition. (Id. at p. 10.) Plaintiff
argues that Defendants will not be prejudiced by the filing of the FAC because
the new facts it learned at the deposition arise from the same transactions and
occurrences as the Complaint, this is “not an ‘eve of trial’ type scenario,”
and even if trial must be delayed, Defendants would not be prejudiced as Elalami
wants to move trial to accommodate vacation plans anyway. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff argues that the FAC will not cause Defendanst unfair surprise or
additional costs and that it is permissible for an amended complaint to expand
the scope of litigation while discovery is ongoing. (Id. at pp. 10–11.) 
 
In opposition, Defendants argue that all additional allegations and the
additional cause of action that the FAC seeks to add are protected litigation
activity “and would therefore be subject to a SLAPP Motion to Strike.”
(Opposition p. 2.) Defendants contend that the new cause of action in the FAC does
not specify what allegations violate the ordinance and that “the proposed
amendment itself alleges the purpose of the entry [by Defendants into
Plaintiff’s residence at the Property] was… clearly [for] a ‘lawful purpose.’”
(Id. at p. 3.) Finally, Defendants state that if the Motion to Amend is
granted, Defendants intend to file both a “SLAPP Motion to Strike” and a
demurrer, intend to conduct additional discovery, “and potentially move for
summary judgment.” (Id. at p. 4.) Defendants therefore request that if
the Motion to Amend is granted, the currently set trial date be vacated. (Ibid.)
 
In reply, Plaintiff requests that this court decline to consider the
Opposition to the Motion to Amend because Plaintiff was not served with a copy
of such. (Reply p. 3.) Plaintiff only became aware of the Opposition to the
Motion to Compel on March 29, 2024 when he searched the case number on the
court’s docket and was therefore unable to respond to the substance of the
Opposition to the Motion to Amend. (Ibid.)
 

The Motion to
     Compel

 
In the Motion to
Compel, Plaintiff alleges that he served a notice of deposition of Elalami on
Defendants on May 3, 2023 that included certain requests for production.
(Motion p. 1.) Plaintiff alleges that Parties agreed to a deposition date of
May 30, 2023 in response thereto, but Plaintiff cancelled that deposition on
May 26, 2023. (Id. at p. 2.) On July 14, 2023, Plaintiff served a second
notice of deposition of Elalami on Defendants that included the same certain
requests for production, and on August 3, 2023, Plaintiff deposed Elalami. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges he inquired as to Elalami’s response to the requests for
production a couple times thereafter but as of the filing of the Motion to
Compel, has not received any such production nor a reason or excuse for
Elalami’s failure to produce discovery responses. (Id. at pp. 2–4.)
Plaintiff argues that he properly served Elalami with the notice of deposition
that included requests for production and that by failing to respond to such,
Elalami has waived any right to object to those requests. (Id. at p. 4.)
Plaintiff observes that he may move for an order to compel discovery responses
when none are produced by the discovery recipient and that he may seek an order
compelling Elalami to attend a second deposition. (Id. at pp. 5–6.) Plaintiff
contends that this court must monetary sanctions in the amount of Plaintiff’s
reasonable expenses in bringing the Motion to Compel and in taking a second
deposition of Elalami. (Id. at pp. 7–8.)
 
In opposition, Elalami
alleges that he responded to Plaintiff’s written discovery, including a request
for production of documents, which Elalami attaches to the Opposition to the
Motion to Compel, on May 3, 2022. (Opposition pp. 2–3.) Elalami further alleges
that the notice for deposition “does not state any specific time or place to
deliver the requested documents.” (Id. at p. 3.) Elalami contends that he was
not required to produce the requested documents before the scheduled
deposition. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Elalami argues that the Motion to Compel does not
show good cause for the production of documents and that “documents that would
have been responsive to the document request in the deposition notice were
already produced in response to [the May 3] written request for documents.”
(Id. at p. 4.) Elalami argues that there is no factual showing that additional
documents not already produced would be relevant and that the request for
documents is too broad. (Id. at p. 5.) Finally, Elalami contends that
Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer before the filing of the Motion to
Compel were insufficient and that Defendants never refused a second deposition.
(Ibid.) 
 
In reply,
Plaintiff alleges further incidents of harassment that have occurred since
Plaintiff filed the Motion to Compel. (Reply pp. 1–2.) Plaintiff contends that Elalami’s
argument that he has already produced the requested documents in response to a
prior discovery request is irrelevant because the prior discovery request was
directed at his co-defendant Luxor. (Id. at p. 2.) Plaintiff also alleges that
her has served new discovery requests on Defendants, to which Defendants have
failed to timely respond. (Id. at pp. 2–3.) Plaintiff states that the
deposition notice was clear that it was to be taken virtually over Zoom and
that the requested documents should be produced simultaneously and could have
been sent by e-mail. (Id. at p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that any objections Elalami
might have made were waived three days before the scheduled deposition. (Id at
pp. 4–5.) Plaintiff contends argues that he does not need to show good cause
for his document requests because that requirement only applies to motions to
compel further and not in cases where the deponent has failed to produce any
responses. (Id. at p. 5.) Plaintiff further contends that Parties were not
required to meet and confer prior to the filing of the motion to compel because
that requirement only applies to motions to compel further. (Id. at p. 6.)
Plaintiff then reiterates his request for monetary sanctions against Elelani,
which he argues is mandatory and should be considered in the context of
Defendants’ other failures to respond to discovery requests and previously
alleged continued harassment of Plaintiff. (Id. at pp .7–8.)  
 
III. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

The Opposition to the Motion to Amend

 
Along with the Oppositions, Defendants filed two identical proofs of
service, which purport on the first page to confirm service of the Opposition
to the Motion to Amend but which contradictorily purport on the second page to
confirm service of the Opposition to the Motion to Compel and the accompanying
McCone Declaration. There is no proof of service attached to the Opposition to
the Motion to Amend. Plaintiff filed with his Reply to the Opposition to the
Motion to Amend a declaration by his attorney (the “Brockmeier Declaration”),
which states that the Opposition to the Motion to Amend was never served on
Plaintiff and never received by either of his attorneys. (Brockmeier Decl.
¶¶ 4, 6, 8, 10.) Plaintiff only learned of the Opposition to the Motion to
Amend on March 29, 2024, which is five court days before the hearing on April
8, 2024 and therefore the date by which Plaintiff’s Reply to the Opposition to
the Motion to Amend was due. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Plaintiff was
consequently unable to file a timely reply that addressed the substance of the
Opposition to the Motion to Amend. (Reply p. 3.) Plaintiff therefore requests
that this court decline to consider the Opposition to the Motion to Amend,
construe Defendants’ consequent lack of an opposition an admission that the
Motion to Amend is meritorious, and grant the Motion to amend without a hearing
on its merits. (Notice of Reply p. 2; Reply p. 4.) 
 
Per
California Code of Civil Procedure section¿1005, subdivisions (b) and (c),
opposition papers to a motion should be filed at least nine court days before
the motion is set for hearing, and the same should be served on the other
parties to the lawsuit “not later than the close of the next business day after
the time the opposing papers… are filed.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿1005, subds.
(b)–(c).) Nine court days before the Motion to Amend’s April 8, 2024 hearing
was March 25, 2024. Because Elalami timely filed the Opposition to the Motion
to Amend on that day, he should have also served it on Plaintiff by the close
of the next business day, March 26, 2024. Furthermore, per California Rules of
Court Rule 8.817, subdivision (a)(1), “[b]efore filing any document, a party
must serve… one copy of the document on the attorney for each party separately
represented.” (Cal. Rules Court Rule 8.817, subd. (a)(1).) Thus, Elalami should
have served Plaintiff with the Opposition to the Motion to Amend before filing
it. “A trial court has broad discretion under rule 3.1300(d) of the Rules of
Court to refuse to consider papers served and filed beyond the deadline without
a prior court order finding good cause for late submission.” (Bozzi v.
Nordstrom, Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 755, 765.)
 
Based
on the sworn statements in the Brockmeier Declaration and the error in the list
of documents served in the proofs of service filed by Plaintiff, we believe
that although the Opposition to the Motion to Amend was timely filed with this
court, it was never served on Plaintiff and Plaintiff thereby remained unaware
of its filing until a few days later, on March 29, 2024. We additionally
believe that Plaintiff was thereby deprived of a fair chance to consider and
respond to the substance of the Opposition to the Motion to Amend in a timely
manner. We therefore decline to consider the Opposition to the Motion to Amend.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
A motion to compel
document production requested in a deposition notice “shall be accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration” that “state[s] facts showing a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2016.040, § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).) While Plaintiff asserts that
no meet and confer requirement exists in this case because this is a motion to
compel, not a motion to compel further, and no responsive documents were
produced by Elalami at his deposition, California Code of Civil Procedure section
2016.450, subdivision (b)(2) only excuses the moving party of a motion to
compel from the meet and confer requirement when the deponent has failed to
make any appearance at the scheduled deposition. In this case, while Elalami
did not produce any of the requested documents, he did appear at his
deposition, and therefore Plaintiff was required to meet and confer with
Defendants in good faith before the filing of the Motion to Compel.
 
Plaintiff does not attach to or file concurrently with the
Motion to Compel any meet and confer declaration. We remind Plaintiff of his
obligation to meet and confer with Defendants in good faith.
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 

The Motion to Amend

 
“The court may…, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding….” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §¿473, subd. (a)(1).) “A trial
court has wide discretion to allow the amendment of¿pleadings, and generally
courts will liberally allow amendments at any stage of the proceeding.” (Falcon
v. Long Beach Genetics, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1280.) “The
policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial
of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego
(2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) “Time and knowledge are important factors
to be considered when granting or denying a¿motion¿to¿amend.” (Stockton v.
Ortiz (1975) 47 Cal.App.3d 183, 194.) “If the¿motion¿to¿amend¿is timely
made and the granting of the¿motion¿will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to¿amend¿and where the refusal also results in a
party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a
meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of discretion.” (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) A court may grant leave to amend to add new causes of
action, except an amendment may not be permitted where “an attempt is made to
state facts which give rise to a wholly distinct and different legal obligation
against the defendant” and “a change is made in the liability sought to be
enforced against the defendant.” (Klopstock v. Superior Court in and for the
City and County of San Francisco (1941) 17 Cal.2d 13, 20.) 
 
Plaintiff seeks to add new background facts about events that
took place between August 10, 2021 and August 4, 2023. Facts that occurred
after the filing of the Complaint on August 11, 2021 should be filed in a
supplemental pleading under California Code of Civil Procedure section 464,
subdivision (a), not an amended pleading. However, “a judgment will not be
reversed for technical defects in the pleadings” and “courts regard substance
and not labels in determining the sufficiency of a pleading.” (Starkweather
v. Eddy (1927) 87 Cal.App. 92, 96; Hutnick v. U.S. Fidelity &
Guaranty Co. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 456, 464, fn. 6.) Thus, this court may treat
that which is labelled as an amended complaint as a supplemental complaint.
Like with amended pleadings, “[i]t is the general policy that courts should
exercise liberality in permitting the filing of supplemental pleadings when the
alleged ‘occurring-after’ facts are pertinent to the case.” (Flood v.
Simpson (1975) 45 Cal.App.3d 644, 647; see also Louie Queriolo Trucking,
Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern County (1967) 252 Cal.App.2d 194, 297.) As
the facts which Plaintiff seeks to add relate to existing causes of action,
this court has broad discretion both to liberally grant leave to amend the
Complaint for those facts which occurred before the filing of the Complaint,
and to liberally grant leave to file a supplemental pleading to the Complaint
for those facts which occurred after the filing of the Complaint.
 
Plaintiff also seeks to add a new cause of action for
violation of Los Angeles Anti-Tenant Harassment Ordinance (Ord. no. 187109 sec.
45.30, et seq.) based on the same set of facts already pled in the Complaint.
While an amended complaint may add a new cause of action, a supplemental
complaint may not. (Flood v. Simpson, supra, 45 Cal.App.3d 644,
647.) Thus, to the extent the new cause of action relies on new facts pled in
the supplemental complaint, it is not permissible. However, the new cause of
action largely relies on general facts already pled that will not “give rise to
a wholly distinct and different legal obligation” against Defendants, and is
thus permissible. Moreover, Plaintiff pleads that he only became aware of the
facts underlying this cause of action after he deposed Elalami, after which he
promptly moved to amend the Complaint. Thus, there is minimal delay in
Plaintiff’s seeking to add the new cause of action.
 
Finally, Plaintiff
seeks to change the phrasing of its request for attorney’s fees in the
Complaint’s prayer for relief and to add a sentence to the beginning of each of
the Complaint’s causes of action re-alleging all previously asserted
paragraphs. These edits are largely clerical and do not change the nature of
the legal obligations being brought against Defendants.
 
This court has
broad discretion to liberally grant leave to amend or leave to supplement so
long as such amendment or supplement does not prejudice the other party. Here,
the case remains several months from the set trial date and the changes that
Plaintiff seeks to make to the Complaint do not change the nature of the legal
obligations being brought against Defendants. We find that no prejudice to the
other party will result from the proposed amendments in this case. 
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion to Amend.
 

The Motion to Compel

 
A motion to compel
document production requested in a deposition notice may be brought when a
party fails to produce for inspection any document described in a deposition
notice following service of the deposition notice without that party having
served a valid objection under California Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2025.410. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a).) Any such
motion that seeks document production “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production,” and if production of electronically
stored information is sought, the burden falls on the party opposing the motion
to show that “the information is from a source that is not reasonably
accessible because of the undue burden or expense.” (§ 2025.450, subds. (b)–(c).)

 
Plaintiff properly
bring the Motion under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (a) because the
Motion to Compel follows Elalami’s failure to produce documents requested in
the deposition notice at his deposition, which followed service of the
deposition notices without Elalami having served any valid objections under
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410. However, Plaintiff does not include any
specific facts or argument showing good cause to justify such production. 
 
Accordingly, the
Motion to Compel is DENIED.
 

Sanctions

 
Sanctions are
mandatory in favor of the moving party and against the deponent, or the party
affiliated with the deponent or both, whose failure to produce documents at the
deposition necessitated the motion to compel “unless the court finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1); see also Cal. Rules of Court R. 3.1348(a) [The
court can award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party seeking
to compel discovery even though no opposition was filed, the opposition was
withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after
the motion was filed.].) “If the party seeking a
monetary sanction meets its burden of proof, the burden shifts to the
opposing party attempting to avoid a monetary sanction to show that
it acted with ‘substantial justification.’” (Doe v. United States
Swimming, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1424, 1436.) “‘[S]ubstantial justification’
as used in the above statutes means a justification that is ‘well-grounded in
both law and fact.’” (Diepenbrock v. Brown (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 743,
747.) Behavior during discovery that is intended “for purposes of delay or
harassment, or [is] otherwise unreasonable,” for example, would point against a
finding of substantial justification. (Union Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 1, 15.) “As to the amount
of sanctions, Cal. C. Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a) authorizes
the trial court to impose an amount representing ‘the reasonable expenses,
including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result’ of a party's misuse
of the discovery process. (Parker v. Wolters Kluwer United States, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 285, 294.)
 
Here, however,
since we deny the Motion to Compel, we do not believe that it was necessary and
therefore sanctions are not warranted.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
request for sanctions against Plaintiffs is DENIED.
 
 
Dated:             April
8, 2024   
                                                                                                Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court