 Case Number:  22VECV01369    Hearing Date:   April 8, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
  STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




Darryl MacDonald 
 
         Plaintiff,
   v.
 
Precision Escrow Inc., et al.
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case Number             Department
   22VECV01369                        107




 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
 
(1) Demurrer
(2) Motion to Strike
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
I. BACKGROUND
A.  
Factual
 
The following factual
background consists of allegations drawn from the SAC (as defined below).
 
In June 2019, plaintiff
Darryl MacDonald (“Plaintiff”) and non-party Sarkis Minasyan (“Minasyan”)
entered into an agreement, brokered by defendant Legions Capital, Inc.
(“Legions”), whereby Plaintiff would lend Minasyan $40,000.00, which loan (the
“Loan”) would be secured by a second deed of trust on Minasyan’s real property
(the “Property”). (SAC ¶ 9.) Accordingly, shortly thereafter, defendant
Precision Escrow Inc. (“Precision”) prepared a note secured by a second deed of
trust (the “Note”) and a short form deed of trust and assignment of rents (the
“Deed”), which identified Plaintiff as the beneficiary. (Id. at
¶¶ 10–11.) Minasyan executed the Note on June 7, 2019 and the Deed on June
11, 2019. (Id. at ¶¶ 12–13.) Plaintiff wire transferred $40,000 to
Precision sometime in June 2019. (Id. at ¶ 14.) Precision orally
promised to record the Note and Deed with the Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder and defendant Isaac Nouri (“Nouri” and, together with Legions,
the “Demurring Defendants” and the Demurring Defendants, together with Precision,
“Defendants” and Defendants, together with Plaintiff, “Parties”), an employee
of Legions, assured Plaintiff that the Note and Deed would be recorded with the
Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder. (Id. at ¶ 15.) However, the
Note and Deed were never recorded. (Id. at ¶ 19.) Nonetheless, in
late June 2019, Nouri represented to Plaintiff that the Note and Deed had been
recorded with the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder. (Id. at
¶ 20.)
 
On April 20, 2020, the
holder of the first deed of trust on the Property completed a foreclosure sale
of the Property, which was sold below its fair market value. (SAC ¶ 16.) The
foreclosure sale extinguished Plaintiff’s junior lien. (Id. at
¶ 23.) Plaintiff did not receive notices of default and sale before the
April 20 foreclosure sale, and did not learn about the foreclosure sale until
he was told about it by Minasyan in August 2020. (Id. at
¶¶ 17–18.) Minasyan promised to pay back the Loan throughout 2020 but
failed to do so by 2021. (Id. at ¶ 19.) Plaintiff first learned
that the Note and Deed had never been recorded when his attorney ran a title
search in November 2021. (Ibid.)
 
B.  
Procedural
 
On
September 16, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the
“Complaint”). On September 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amended complaint (the
“FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2)
negligence, (3) constructive fraud, (4) breach of oral agreement, (5) breach of
implied agreement, (6) violations of California Business and Professions Code
section 17200, et seq. The Demurring Defendants demurred to the FAC, and their
demurrer was sustained as to the second and fifth causes of action on January
3, 2024 on the grounds that these causes of action were barred by each’s
applicable statute of limitations. On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
second amended complaint (the “SAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) breach
of fiduciary duty, (2) negligence, (3) constructive fraud, (4) breach of oral
agreement, and (5) violations of California Business and Professions Code
section 17200, et seq.
 
On
March 1 or 5, 2024, the Demurring Defendants filed the instant demurrer (the
“Demurrer”) and a motion to strike (the “Motion”). On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff
filed oppositions (the “Oppositions”) to the Demurrer and the Motion, and on
April 2, 2024, the Demurring Defendants replied to the Oppositions.
 
II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS
 
A.   The Demurrer
 
The Demurring Defendants
demur to the second and fourth causes of action of the SAC on the grounds that
they each fail to state a cause of action against the Demurring Defendants.
(Notice of Demurrer p. 3.)
 
The Demurrer observes
that this court agreed with the Demurring Defendants in its January 3 ruling on
their first demurrer to the FAC that the statute of limitations began to run in
July 2019. (Demurrer p. 2.) The Demurring Defendants argue that the additional
allegations pled in the SAC over the FAC are insufficient to show Plaintiff’s
delayed discovery of his claims. (Id. at pp. 3–4.) The Demurrer argues
that conclusions of law are subject to a demurrer and observes that a pleading
must state the ultimate facts of the case to withstand a demurrer. (Id.
at pp. 4–5.) The Demurring Defendants state that the statute of limitations
period for negligence is three years and is two years for breach of an oral
contract. (Id. at p. 5.) The Demurring Defendants state that the delayed
discovery rule only delays accrual of a cause of action until the plaintiff
has, or should have, notice of its elements of wrongdoing, causation, and harm,
and that a plaintiff must conduct a reasonable investigation to become aware of
an injury. (Id. at p. 6.) Thus, the Demurring Defendants argue that a
plaintiff relying on the discovery rule to bring a cause of action must
specifically plead facts showing both the time and manner of discovery and its
inability to make an earlier discovery of the facts. (Id. at pp. 6–7.)
The Demurring Defendants contend that the second and fourth causes of action in
the SAC “contain little to no information regarding the delayed discovery.” (Id.
at p. 7.) They observe that the Deed was to be returned to Plaintiff after
recording but that he took no action when he did not receive it. (Ibid.)
They also argue that Plaintiff waited over a year and a half after learning
from Minasyan that the property had been sold to bring this lawsuit. (Ibid.)
Thus, the Demurring Defendants contend that all of Plaintiff’s causes of action
accrued more than three years before the filing of this lawsuit. (Ibid.)
Finally, the Demurring Defendants argue that leave to amend should not be
granted. (Id. at pp. 7–8.)
 
In the Opposition to the
Demurrer, Plaintiff agrees that the statute of limitations period for
negligence is three years. (Opposition p. 3.) Plaintiff argues that his claim
for negligence falls within this three-year time period because it takes the
Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder up to three months to process and return
recorded instruments, Plaintiff “could not have known prior to the end of
September 2019 that his instruments were not recorded.” (Ibid.) In the
alternative, Plaintiff argues that, in the alternative, his claim for
negligence is not barred by the statute of limitations because it was tolled
for his claim for 180 days by the Covid-19 Emergency Rule 9. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
acknowledges that the Deed provides that the instrument is to be mailed to him
after recording but argues again that given that he could not know how diligent
the Demurring Defendants would be in doing so and the months-long delays in
recording, he could not have expected to receive the Deed for months after June
2019. (Id. at p. 4.) Plaintiff further argues that he was entitled to
rely on Nouri’s assurances that the Deed had been recorded because Nouri is a
loan broker. (Id. at pp. 4–5.) Plaintiff therefore contends that he has
alleged his inability to make an earlier discovery of his claims. (Id.
at p. 5.)
 
In reply to the
Opposition to the Demurrer, the Demurring Defendants argue that the SAC’s cause
of action for negligence is barred by the statute of limitations because
Plaintiff was on notice of his claim when he failed to receive any loan
payments from Minasyan in July 2019, when he failed to receive written
confirmation that the Note and the Deed had been recorded, and when he was
notified of the foreclosure on the Property. (Reply p. 3.) The Demurring
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s argument that the Covid-19 Emergency Rule 9
tolled the statute of limitations fails because the case Plaintiff cites does
not make such analysis in its ruling and Plaintiff did not proffer this
argument in response to the first demurrer. (Ibid.) The Demurring
Defendants argue that Plaintiff failed to investigate the recording of the Note
and the Deed and that the SAC “does not allege facts sufficient to support a
cause of action for negligence as timely filed.” (Id. at p. 4.) “Moreover,
MacDonald apparently does not contest the two-year Statute of Limitations for
the Oral Agreement fourth Cause of Action has lapsed.” (Ibid.)
Additionally, the Demurring Defendants content that the case Plaintiff cites to
support his contention that he was entitled to rely of Nouri’s representations
that the Note and the Deed had been filed does not support his position. (Id.
at pp. 4–5.) “[Plaintiff] does not dispute that he must state the basis for his
alleged delayed discovery and the factual basis for the same, including what
reasonable diligence he undertook to discover his alleged claims.” (Id.
at p. 5.) The Demurring Defendants argue that facts about what Plaintiff did to
discover that neither the Note nor the Deed were recorded “between June 2019
and late 2021” are “completely absent” from the SAC. (Ibid.) “Plaintiff was able
to easily discover all the facts from which the basis for all his claims
against Defendants by merely performing a search of the subject property's
title history….” (Ibid., emphasis original.) Finally, the Demurring
Defendants argue that leave to amend should not be granted because “[Plaintiff]
has already had two attempts to cure these defects.” (Id. at p. 6.)
 
B.   The Motion to Strike
 
Demurring Defendants move
to strike from the FAC (1) the lines constituting the entire second cause of
action on the grounds that it is not drawn in conformity with the law and that
it is an irrelevant, false, or improper matter; (2) the lines constituting the
entire fourth cause of action on the grounds that it is not drawn in conformity
with the law and that it is an irrelevant, false, or improper matter; (3) two
instances of the sentence “[i]n breaching their fiduciary duty to Plaintiff, []
Precision, [] Legions and [] Nouri acted with malice and oppression and with a
conscious disregard of Plaintiffs rights, making them liable for punitive damages”
on the grounds that it is not drawn in conformity with the law and that it is
an irrelevant, false, or improper matter; and (4) Plaintiff’s prayer for
punitive or exemplary damages on the grounds that it is not drawn in conformity
with the law and that it is an irrelevant, false, or improper matter. (Notice
of Motion pp. 2–3.)
 
In the Motion to Strike,
Demurring Defendants first observe that this court has the power to grant a
motion to strike and that it “is the proper procedure to strike the
conclusionary and descriptive adjectives.” (Motion pp. 2–3.) They argue that
they “seek to strike several conclusions of law, hyperbole, and rhetoric that
are pled in a generalized, legalese nature and baseless.” (Id. at p. 3.)
Demurring Defendants argue that the cause of action for negligence fails as a
matter of law because they did not owe Plaintiff a duty of care. (Id. at pp.
3–4.) Demurring Defendants contend that a claim for punitive damages has not
been pled and that fraud must be pled specifically. (Id. at pp. 4–5.) Finally,
Demurring Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s claims for attorney’s fees are
unwarranted. (Id. at p. 5.)
 
In the Opposition to the
Motion to Strike, Plaintiff argues that a duty to care did exist between
Demurring Defendants and Plaintiff as Demurring Defendants brokered the loan
between Plaintiff and Minasyan and made representations that the instruments
had been recorded. (Opposition pp. 2–3.) Plaintiff argues that by failing to
argue their motion to strike as to the fourth cause of action, Demurring
Defendants waive the issue. (Id. at p. 3.) Plaintiff argues further that
Demurring Defendants’ motion to strike punitive damages should be denied
because this court previously denied a similar request by Precision. (Id. at p.
3.) “In addition, it is indisputable that punitive damages are recoverable in
breach of fiduciary duty and constructive fraud cases – both of which have been
asserted against [Demurring] Defendants.” (Id. at p. 4.) Plaintiff contends
that Demurring Defendants’ request to strike attorney’s fees should be denied
because it was not included in the Notice of Motion and because it is
recoverable under Business & Professions Code § 17200, et seq. (Id. at p.
4.)
 
In the Reply to the
Opposition to the Motion to Strike, Demurring Defendants argue that the second
cause of action must be stricken because there is no duty between Demurring
Defendants and Plaintiff and because it is barred by the statute of limitations.
(Reply p. 3.) They further argue that the fourth cause of action must be
stricken because it is also barred by the statute of limitations. (Ibid.)
Demurring Defendants argue that Plaintiff fails to plead in the SAC facts
showing “malice, fraud, or oppression” so as to support a claim for punitive
damages. (Id. at p. 4.) Finally, Demurring Defendants contend that because this
is the second amended complaint being challenged, leave to amend should be
denied. (Id. at p. 5.)
 
III. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 
A.  
The Meet and Confer
Requirement
 
California
Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.41(a) and §¿435.5(a)
require parties to “meet and confer” in good faith before the filing of a demurrer or a motion to
strike, respectively, to attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in
the demurrer or the motion to strike. The Demurring Defendants submit with the
Demurrer a declaration by their attorney stating that Parties met and conferred
over the phone but were unable to resolve the issues raised in the Demurrer.
(Borchard Decl. ¶¶ 6–7.) We are therefore satisfied that this requirement
has been met.
 
B.  
Timeliness of Filings
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure §¿430.40(a), a demurrer to
a complaint should be filed within 30 days after service of the complaint. 
 
Per California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005(b), moving papers
should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing,
oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set
hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court
days before the set hearing. Judges have discretion as to whether to consider
or strike an untimely demurrer or pleading. (McAllister v. County of
Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281; Tuck v. Thuesen (1970) 10
Cal.App.3d 193, 196 (disapproved on other grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney,
Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand (1971) 6 Cal.3d 176).) We are therefore
satisfied that all filings in this matter were timely.
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
A.  
The Demurrer
 
As a general
matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) A complaint is
sufficient if it contains “[a] statement of
the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise
language.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint
ordinarily is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”
(Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)
 
1.    
The Second Cause of Action for
Negligence
 
The
only argument raised on demurrer against the second cause of action relates to
the statute of limitations. Parties agree that the applicable statute of
limitations period for the SAC’s second cause of action for negligence is three
years. Parties disagree as to when Plaintiff’s cause of action accrued,
triggering the statute of limitations period to begin to run, and as to whether
the statute of limitations period was ever tolled since it accrued. 
 
Emergency¿Rule¿9¿was adopted
by the Judicial Council during the COVID-19 pandemic and, as amended, reads: “(a) Tolling
statutes of limitations over 180 days [¶] Notwithstanding any
other law, the statutes of limitations and repose for civil causes of action
that exceed 180 days are tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 1, 2020.” (People
v. Financial Casualty & Surety, Inc.¿(2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 879, 885.) “The
Advisory Committee comment explains the application of the¿rule: ‘Emergency¿rule¿9¿is intended to apply
broadly to toll any statute of limitations on the filing of a pleading in court
asserting a civil cause of action.’” (Ibid.) “The
Judicial Council [further] explained the background of¿Emergency¿rule¿9, and the reasons for
amending it, in a¿Circulating¿Order.” (People
v. Financial Casualty & Surety, Inc.¿(2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 33, 39.) The
Circulating Order begins with a sentence that explains that Emergency Rule 9
was adopted “[t]o protect parties who have a civil cause of action that accrued
before or during the state of emergency related to the COVID-19 pandemic.”
(Circulating Order No: CO-20-09, available at
https://www.alameda.courts.ca.gov/system/files?file=co-20-09.pdf p. 1.) Under a
heading about clarifying the scope of the rule, the Circulating Order declares
that “the rule applies to all statutory limitation periods for a civil cause of
action.” (Id., p. 6.) Thus, the Circulating Order clarifies that the
application of Emergency Rule 9 is not meant to be limited to only some
litigants but rather that it should “broadly apply” to all litigants who had
not yet made their initial filings on claims for which the statute of
limitations period was running during the COVID-19 pandemic. 
¿ 
Thus, Emergency Rule 9 tolled the statutes
of limitations for Plaintiff’s causes of action between April 6, 2020, until
October 1, 2020, affording him 178 extra days to file his causes of action.
Therefore, the second cause of action for negligence is timely so long as it is
filed within two years and 178 days of the date such cause of action accrued.
Even assuming that the cause of action accrued at the earliest possible date
either of the Parties suggest, on June 11, 2019, when Minasyan executed the
Deed after having already executed the Note, Emergency Rule 9 therefore makes
Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence timely so long as it was filed by
December 6, 2022. As the Complaint was filed on September 16, 2022, this cause
of action is timely.
 
The Demurring Defendants argue that People
v. Financial Casualty & Surety, Inc.¿(2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 879 (hereafter, People)
“does nothing to support Plaintiff’s contention that the negligence claim is
tolled 180 days in this matter and the court in People does not make any
such analysis in its ruling.” (Reply p. 3.) However, we rely on People
neither for its holding that Emergency Rule 9 does not toll the appearance
period for vacating forfeitures of bail bonds nor for our finding that
Emergency Rule 9 does toll the statute of limitations period for negligence
claims. Rather, we cite People merely for the background context it
provides for Emergency Rule 9 and the Circulating Order, the texts of which we
rely on in making our finding. The Demurring Defendants additionally raise that
“this is the second [d]emurrer filed against Plaintiff and the negligence cause
of action, yet this is the first time this argument is proffered by Plaintiff.”
(Ibid.) However, as this is a different demurrer to a different amended
complaint than the Demurring Defendants’ prior demurrer to the FAC, Plaintiff
is not here beholden to the arguments he raised in opposition to that demurrer
and this observation by the Demurring Defendants is irrelevant to our finding.
 
Accordingly, this court OVERRULES the
demurrer to the SAC’s second cause of action for negligence.
 
2.    
The Fourth Cause of Action for
Breach of Oral Contract
 
Plaintiff does not challenge
the Demurring Defendants’ contention that the statute of limitations period for
breach of oral contract is two years. Plaintiff argues that his discovery of
his claim was delayed because (1) it takes the Los Angeles County
Registrar-Recorder up to three months to process and return recorded
instruments; and (2) Nouri made affirmative representations to Plaintiff that
the Note and Deed had been recorded, which reassurances Plaintiff was entitled
to rely on because Nouri is an expert. Additionally, Emergency Rule 9 would
have tolled the statute of limitations period for 180 days.
 
Even taking both the
three-month delay for registration and the 180-day tolling period of Emergency
Rule 9 into account, the two-year statute of limitations period would have
expired by mid-March 2022, before the filing of the Complaint and thus barring this
cause of action. Thus, to overcome the Demurrer, Plaintiff must show that he
was entitled to rely on Nouri’s representations that the Note and Deed had been
recorded.
 
“Under the discovery
rule, suspicion of one or more of the elements of a cause of action, coupled
with knowledge of any remaining elements, will generally trigger the statute of
limitations period.” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35
Cal.4th 797, 807.) “The discovery rule does not encourage dilatory
tactics because plaintiffs are charged with presumptive knowledge of an
injury
if they have information of circumstances to put them on inquiry or
if they have the opportunity to obtain knowledge from sources open
to their investigation. In other words, plaintiffs are required to conduct a
reasonable investigation after becoming aware of an injury, and are charged
with knowledge of the information that would have been revealed by such an
investigation.” (Id. at 807–08, emphasis original, internal citations
omitted.) However, “[a] defendant's fraud in concealing a cause of action
against him will toll the statute of limitations, and that tolling will last as
long as a plaintiff's reliance on the misrepresentations is reasonable.” (Grisham
v. Philip Morris U.S.A., Inc. (2007) 40 Cal.4th 623, 637.) “The recipient
of a fraudulent misrepresentation of fact is justified in relying upon its
truth, although he might have ascertained the falsity of the representation had
he undertaken an investigation.” (Weatherly v. Universal Music Publishing
Group (2004) 125 Cal.App.4th 913, 919 (hereafter, Weatherly), quoting
El Pollo Loco, Inc. v. Hashim (9th Cir. 2003) 316 F.3d 1032, 1039
[applying California law].) Moreover, “[w]here no duty is imposed by law
to make inquiry, and where, under the circumstances, a prudent man would not be
put on inquiry, the mere fact that means of knowledge are open and not availed
of does not operate to give constructive notice of the facts.” (Baker v.
Beech Aircraft Corp. (1974) 39 Cal.App.3d 315, 321–22.) For example,
plaintiff’s right to conduct an audit of defendant’s records was not sufficient
to put plaintiff on inquiry, at least where defendant's misrepresentations
“hindered” plaintiff's discovery of facts. (Weatherly, supra, 125
Cal.App.4th at 920.) 
 
Demurring Defendants
argue that because Plaintiff could have conducted a title search at any time
and discovered that the Note and Deed had never been recorded, he was on
constructive notice from the time they should have been recorded, immediately
after they were executed by Minasyan in June 2019. However, Plaintiff alleges
that one of the Demurring Defendants, Nouri, an employee of the other Demurring
Defendant, Legions, made an affirmative representation to him in his capacity
as a broker that the Note and Deed had been recorded. Like the defendant’s
misrepresentations in Weatherly, this misrepresentation of fact by the
Demurring Defendants hindered Plaintiff’s discovery of his injury and prevented
him from being put on inquiry. Although Plaintiff could have done a title
search at any time, he had no reason to because of the misrepresentations made
to him by Demurring Defendants.
 
Demurring Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff was on constructive notice that the Note and Deed had not
been recorded because Minasyan did not make his payments due to Plaintiff on
time. However, while this certainly would have put Plaintiff on notice of his
injury by Minasyan, which is the failure to pay back the money owed, it would
not necessarily have put him on notice of his injury by Demurring Defendants,
which is the failure to record the Note and the Deed.
 
Demurring Defendants also
argue that Plaintiff should have been put on notice by the time Minasyan
informed him that the Property had been sold in August 2020. Given that
Plaintiff had not received notice of the sale before the Property was sold, we
agree with Demurring Defendants. Thus, we find that Plaintiff was first put on
constructive notice of his cause of action and the two-year statute of
limitations period began to run in August 2020.
 
As we found above,
Emergency Rule 9 applies to the causes of action in the instant lawsuit and
would have tolled the statute of limitations for 180 days. Thus, Plaintiff’s
cause of action is timely so long as it was filed within 2 years and 180 days
of August 2020. Assuming that Plaintiff learned of the Property’s sale on
August 1, 2020, the statute of limitations period for this cause of action
expired on January 28, 2023. Because this lawsuit was filed on September 23,
2022, and this cause of action relates back to the original causes of action,
it was therefore timely filed.
 
Accordingly, this court OVERRULES
the demurrer to the SAC’s fourth cause of action for breach of an oral
contract.
 
B.  
The Motion to Strike
 
1.    
The Second Cause of Action for
Negligence
 
Parties dispute whether
Demurring Defendants owed Plaintiff a duty as a matter of law and whether the
second cause of action for negligence is barred by the statute of limitations.
As addressed above in our ruling on the demurrer to the same cause of action,
we find that the second cause of action is not barred by the statute of
limitations. Plaintiff does not allege that Demurring Defendants, as brokers,
owed them any statutory duty of care, but only that they owed him a common law
duty of care arising from the general law of agency. Demurring Defendants deny
owing Plaintiff any fiduciary duties.
 
“Under common law,
generally any person who performs professional services owes
a duty of care to all persons within the area of
foreseeable risk.” (Greif v. Sanin (2022) 74 Cal.App5th 412, 428.) “The
standard of care imposed on a [] broker thus is higher than that
applicable to a layperson. The broker is subject to a duty of skill,
care, and diligence commensurate with the professional standards that the []
industry has held out to the public and that the public reasonably can expect.”
(Ibid.) This includes a duty that runs to third parties in a transaction where
the broker does not have privity with the third party or owe fiduciary duties
to the third party. (Id. at 429.)
 
Thus, while we agree with
Demurring Defendants that Plaintiff does not plead any fiduciary duties owed by
Demurring Defendants to Plaintiff merely because Plaintiff was involved in a
transaction brokered by Demurring Defendants, we do believe that Demurring
Defendants, as professionals brokering a transaction to which Plaintiff was a
party, nonetheless owed Plaintiff the duty of care to act with the skill, care,
and diligence commensurate with the professional standards of the industry. We
believe that the filing and misrepresenting the filing of the Note and the Deed
could be found to fall within that duty of care.
 
Accordingly, this court
DENIES the Motion to Strike as to the second cause of action for negligence.
 
2.    
The Fourth Cause of Action for
Breach of Oral Contract
 
Demurring
Defendants move to strike the fourth cause of action on the grounds that it is
barred by the statute of limitations. As addressed above in our ruling on the demurrer
to the same cause of action, we find that the fourth cause of action is not
barred by the statute of limitations.
 
Accordingly, this court
DENIES the Motion to Strike as to the fourth cause of action for breach of an
oral contract.
 
3.    
Punitive Damages
 
A motion to strike is appropriate to
attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984)
157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation
of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief
must be pled by a plaintiff.¿In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges
read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all
parts in their context, and assume their truth.” (Clausen v. Superior
Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations omitted).)
“Further, even though certain language pleads ultimate facts or conclusions of
law, such language when read in context with the facts alleged as to
defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil motive requisite to recovery
of¿punitive¿damages.” (Monge v.
Superior Court (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 503, 510.) 
 
“In order to state a prima facie claim for¿punitive¿damages, a complaint must
set forth the elements as stated in the general¿punitive¿damage¿statute,¿Civil Code
section 3294.” (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191
Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery
of punitive damages “[i]n an action for the
breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear
and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression,
fraud, or malice….”  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In order to justify an
award of punitive¿damages, the
defendant must be guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. He must act with the
intent to vex, injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the
plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462
(internal citations omitted).) “[M]alice in fact is required rather than
implied malice.¿However,
malice does not require actual intent to harm.¿Conscious disregard for the safety of
another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to
avoid such consequences.” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228
(internal citations omitted).) “In order to justify an award of punitive
damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the defendant was
aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his¿conduct, and that he
wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895–96.)  
 
“Punitive¿damages¿may not be¿pleaded¿generally.” (Today’s
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of¿punitive¿damages.” (Grieves,
supra at 166.) And, “conclusory characterization of defendant's conduct
as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of
“oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,” within the meaning of¿section 3294.” (Brousseau
v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves, supra
at 166; Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority, supra at 1193 [“In addition to the requirement that the
operative complaint set forth the elements as stated in¿section 3294, it must
include¿specific¿factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for¿punitive¿damages.”].) 
 
Plaintiff’s SAC alleges
facts sufficient to support that Demurring Defendants misrepresented that
Precision recorded the Note and Deed as orally instructed by Plaintiff.
Furthermore, the SAC alleges facts to support that Demurring Defendants
concealed the fact that the Note and Deed had not been recorded as Plaintiff
alleges that he only discovered they were not recorded in late 2021. Therefore,
these allegations in the SAC taken together support the potential imposition of
punitive damages, at least on the basis of fraud. Moreover, these facts support
the inference that Demurring Defendants acted willfully in failing to file the
Note and Deed and then subsequently making affirmative representations to
Plaintiff to the contrary, while their professional status as brokers gives
rise to the inference that they were aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of this conduct for Plaintiff. Thus, these allegations in the SAC
also support the potential imposition of punitive damages on the basis of
malice.
 
Accordingly, this court
DENIES the Motion to Strike as to the lines related to and the prayer for
punitive damages.
 
 
 
Dated:                    April
8, 2024                               ___________________________                                                                                                    Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge of the Superior Court