 Case Number:  24STCV05062    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los
Angeles DEPARTMENT 17 TENTATIVE RULING 


VIG PRIVATE LENDING
  
        
  vs.
 
ILAN KENIG 

 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV05062   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 23, 2024


 Plaintiff’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. On 2/29/2024,
Plaintiff VIG Private Lending, Inc (Plaintiff) filed an unlawful detainer
action against Defendant Avivit Kenig (Defendant). On 4/24/2024, Plaintiff
filed a first amended unlawful detainer complaint. (FAC).              On
8/30/2024, Plaintiff moves for summary judgment, or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication of its Complaint.              The
motion is unopposed.  Discussion              Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment, or alternatively, summary adjudication, of the
following issues:  1.     
Plaintiff is the owner of the property
at 1355 Berea Place, Pacific Palisades, CA 90272, County of Los Angeles (the
“Property”);  2.     
Plaintiff properly served Defendants
with a valid notice to quit on March 12, 2024; and 3.     
The daily fair market value of the
property at the Property is at least $1,000.00. Plaintiff
argues that it is entitled to judgment because there are no materials facts in
dispute. More specifically, Plaintiff argues that neither title, service of
Notice, market value, or affirmative defenses are in dispute here. As for title,
where, as here, the unlawful detainer action is brought under CCP section
1161a, a plaintiff must prove his acquisitions of title by purchase at the
sale. Under CCP § 1161a, unlawful detainer lies “(3) Where the property has
been sold in accordance with Section 2924 of the Civil Code, under a power of
sale contained in a deed of trust executed by such person, or a person under
whom such person claims, and the title under the sale has been duly perfected.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1161a.) Thus, the only issue before this court is
compliance with Section 2924. No other section is relevant for the purposes of
determining immediate right to possession in this action. In a
nonjudicial foreclosure sale, a trustee exercises a power of sale contained in
a deed of trust. The purchaser at a nonjudicial foreclosure sale takes title by
a trustee’s deed. (Nguyen v. Calhoun (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 428, 441.)
When the deed that the trustee delivers to the buyer at a foreclosure sale
recites that all procedural requirements for the default and sale notices have
been met, a rebuttable presumption that these notice requirements have been
satisfied applies. If the buyer is a bona fide purchaser, the presumption
becomes conclusive. (Civ. Code § 2924.)  Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that a foreclosure sale was held on January 17,
2024, at which Yarden Consulting LLC (Yarden) purchased the Property and
subsequently received title pursuant to a Trustee’s Deed Upon Sale. (UMF ¶ 1.)
Plaintiff submitted evidence that it is the authorized agent of Yarden
regarding the Property, with authority to, inter alia, bring the instant
action on Yarden’s behalf. (UMF ¶2.) Plaintiff
submitted evidence that the Trustee’s Deed upon Sale states, “All requirements
of law regarding the mailing of copies of notices or the publication of a copy
of the Notice of Default or the personal delivery of the copy of the Notice of
Default and the posting and publication of copies of the notice of a Sale have
been complied with.” (RJN #1). Therefore, unless Plaintiff had actual knowledge
or constructive notice of some irregularity in the sale proceedings at the time
of the sale, this statement is conclusively binding on Defendant as against
Plaintiff. Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Defendant to show any purported irregularity in the sale
proceedings at the time of the sale.  Defendant did
not oppose the motion, and thus did not raise a triable issue as to this
issue.   As for
Service of Notice, service carried out by a registered process server, as here,
“establishes a presumption, affecting the burden of producing evidence, of the
facts stated in the return.” (Evid. Code § 647.) “The effect of a presumption
affecting the burden of producing evidence is to require the trier of fact to
assume the existence of the presumed fact unless and until evidence is
introduced which would support a finding of its nonexistence, in which case the
trier of fact shall determine the existence or nonexistence of the presumed
fact from the evidence and without regard to the presumption.” (Evid. Code §
604.)  Here,
Plaintiff submitted evidence that: -        
On March 12, 2024, the notice to quit
in this action was served upon Defendants by a registered process server. (UMF
¶ 3.)  Plaintiff’s
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Defendant was properly served in
this case. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Defendant to show a triable issue
as to service. Notably, the simple denial of service is insufficient to
overcome the statutory presumption of Evidence Code section 647. (Palm
Property Investments, LLC v. Yadegar (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th
1219, 1428.) Defendant must produce affirmative evidence sufficient to both
rebut and overcome the presumption of service. (Ibid.) Defendant did
not oppose the motion, and thus did not raise a triable issue as to this
issue.   As for market
value, pursuant to Evidence Code section 813(a), “The value of property may be
shown only by the opinions of any of the following: (1) witnesses qualified to
express such opinions; (2) the owner or the spouse of the owner of the property
or property interest being valued; or (3) an officer, regular employee, or
partner designated by a corporation, partnership, or unincorporated association
that is the owner of the property or property interest being valued, if the
designee is knowledgeable as to the value of the property or property
interest.” Here,
Plaintiff submitted a declaration by a qualified expert witness regarding the
market value of the Property. Vladimir Valsky is a real estate professional
with over 10 years of experience managing similar rental properties. He is
familiar with residential property valuation in Pacific Palisades, California.
According to Mr. Valsky, the Property’s fair market monthly rental value is
$39,500.00, and its daily rental value of at least $1,000.00. Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Defendant to disclose a triable issue as to market value.  Defendant did
not oppose the motion, and thus did not raise a triable issue as to this
issue.    Finally, as
for affirmative defenses, Plaintiff submitted evidence that prior to this
action, Defendants repeatedly stated, including in sworn declarations under
oath, that they are not occupants and would not occupy the Property. (UMF, ¶¶  12-18, see ¶¶  14 and 16 for sworn declarations.) As such,
Plaintiff contends that:            Therefore, it
is undisputed that defendants are unlawful holdover occupants following a
foreclosure sale, not tenants. Consequently, the purported affirmative defenses
asserted by Defendants are inapplicable because those affirmative defenses
apply to tenants, including but not limited to the not breach of the warranty
of habitability, repair and deduct, California Tenant Protection Act of 2019
(AB 1482), Los Angeles Rent Stabilization Ordinance (“LARSO”), and City of Los
Angeles Just Cause for Eviction Ordinance (LAMC §§ 165.00, et seq.)             (MSJ,
9: 10-15.)              Moreover,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s tenancy claims are contradictory and thus do
not create a triable issue. (See, e.g., California Medical Assn. v. Aetna
Health of California Inc. (2023) 14 Cal.5th 1075, 1095 ([“a party opposing
summary judgment cannot create an issue of fact by a declaration that
contradicts the party's prior discovery responses”]; Minish v. Hanuman
Fellowship (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 437, 449 [a party may not defeat summary
judgment by means of declarations or affidavits which contradict that party's
deposition testimony or sworn discovery responses]  Here,
Defendant claims in discovery that they are tenants of the Property’s former
owner, non-party 1355 Berea LLC pursuant to a written lease. Moreover,
Defendant claims their purported tenancy pursuant to said lease began March 21,
2023. However, Plaintiff submitted evidence that three weeks after this
purported lease start date, Defendants signed a loan application under oath on
April 11, 2023 that contradicts this claim.  Accordingly,
the burden shifts to Defendant to disclose a triable issue as to market value.  Defendant did
not oppose the motion, and thus did not raise a triable issue as to this
issue.   Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is granted.  It is so ordered.  Dated:  September   
, 2024                                                                                                                                                              Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court   Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.   













































































































































































 