 Case Number:  23STCV25626    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MURAL MEDIA, LLC 401 K PLAN 
  
        
  vs.
 
LINDA J. MAULTSBY, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV25626   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 20, 2024




 
Plaintiff’s motions to compel discovery are GRANTED.
Defendant is sanctioned $350 per motion. Defendant’s motion for a protective
order is DENIED.
 
On 10/20/2023, Plaintiff Mural Media, LLC 401 K. Plan
(Plaintiff) filed an unlawful detainer action against Linda J. Maultsby
(Defendant).
 
Now, Plaintiff moves to compel responses to six sets of
discovery. Plaintiff seeks a protective order.
 
For ease, the Court has consolidated its analysis into a
single ruling. 
 
Discussion

 
            Plaintiff moved to compel responses
from Defendant Linda Maultsby to the following sets of discovery: (1) Special
Interrogatories (Set One); (2) Requests for Production (Set One); (3) Form
Interrogatories—Unlawful detainer (Set One); (4) Requests for Admission (RFAs)
(Set One); (5) Form Interrogatories—General (Set One); and (6) Demand for
Inspection (Set One). 
 
            Plaintiff served all of the
discovery in question on Defendant on 7/26/2024. To date, no responses have
been provided, and did Defendant oppose any of Plaintiff’s motions.
 
            In a separate motion, Defendant
moved for a protective order from Plaintiff’s discovery, arguing that Plaintiff
lacks standing to sue. However, as noted in the Court’s ruling on Defendant’s
demurrer, this contention is without merit. Accordingly, the Court finds no
good cause to grant Defendant’s request for a protective order. 
 
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motions to compel discovery are granted. Defendant is sanctioned $350 per
motion. ($350/hr x 1 hr.) Defendant’s motion for a protective order is denied. 
 
            
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 