  Case Number:  23AHCV00149    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



EMPLOYEE RETENTION BENEFITS, INC., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ATLAS
   VOLUNTARY BENEFITS FINANCIAL & INSURANCE SOLUTIONS, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV00149
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO REQUEST
   FOR PRODUCTION, SET ONE; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   9, 2024




 


)


 



 
On July 15, 2024, defendants Atlas
Voluntary Benefits Financial & Insurance Solutions, Inc. (“Atlas”) and
Marisol Flores (“Flores”) (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this motion for an
order compelling plaintiff Employee Retention Benefits, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) to serve
further responses, without objections, to Request for Production, Set One, RFP
Nos. 1, 4-11, 13-18, 20-21. 23, 25-26, 28-33, and 35, and imposing sanctions in
the sum of $2,860 against Plaintiff and counsel of record. 
Plaintiff served objection-only responses
on April 3, 2024, and after meeting and conferring by letter and phone,
Plaintiff served “supplemental” responses on April 19, 2024. The Court notes
that the parties refer to these subsequent responses interchangeably as supplemental
or further responses. But supplemental demands and supplemental responses are
different from further responses and are governed by Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.050, not section 2031.030. Supplemental discovery is specifically
propounded to obtain any later acquired documents or information that was not
previously available at the time the responses were prepared and served.
Therefore, to clarify, the appropriate term for the type of responses Defendant
is seeking is “further responses”, not “supplemental” responses.  
Defendants argue that further responses
are required because Plaintiff’s objections are meritless and too general.
(Motion, pp. 10-11.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that further responses are
not required and that its objections are justified. Plaintiff also claims that Defendants’
motion should be denied because the parties already agreed that: (1) Plaintiff
would produce responsive documents on a rolling basis and (2) Defendants’
45-day deadline to file a motion to compel further would begin once production
was complete. 
In their reply brief, Defendants deny
having agreed to a rolling production and argue that the purported agreement
would violate the Code of Civil Procedure’s requirement that any extension to
the deadline to file a motion to compel further identify a specific date. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300.)  The Court
agrees that Plaintiff’s proposed extension to Defendants’ deadline to file a
motion to compel further in exchange for a rolling production is invalid. Also,
even if the parties agreed to a rolling production in July 2024, Plaintiff has not
produced any documents in the last five months. 
The separate statements filed by the
parties are of limited value beyond identifying Defendants’ requests for
production and Plaintiff’s response. Both separate statements only include
boilerplate language. Defendants do not identify specific facts evidencing good
cause for any of the documents demanded (nor is there any discussion of good
cause in their memorandum of points and authorities) and Plaintiff does not
substantiate any specific objections. However, upon review of the requests for
production, the Court concludes the following:
-     
Plaintiff’s
statement of compliance in response to RFP Nos. 1, 4-10, 13-15, 17-18, 20-21, 23,
26, 28-29, and 32-33 is not acceptable because Plaintiff qualifies its
agreement to produce documents “to the extent that they exist.” Documents
either exist or they do not. If they do not exist, Plaintiff must state the
reason for their nonexistence. These requests were propounded in February 2024
and Plaintiff has had ample time to search its records. 
-     
Defendant’s
use of the phrase “financial documents” in RFP Nos. 4-5 is vague and ambiguous
and Plaintiff’s objection on that ground is sustained. Defendants must specify
the type of “financial documents” which are being sought. 
-     
RFP
Nos. 6-7, 9, 11, 13-15, 21, 23, 25, 32-33, and 35 are overly broad because they
either fail to identify the timeframe for the communications demanded or the
person(s) with whom the communications were made. The Court sustains
Plaintiff’s objections to these RFPs. Similarly, RFP Nos. 26 and 30 demand
documents regarding “complaints” without specifying a timeframe or the identity
of the person making a complaint. 
In light of both parties’ failure to
provide any meaningful analysis in their briefs or separate statements (indeed,
the term “good cause” does not appear even once in Defendants’ memorandum of
points and authorities), the Court CONTINUES the hearing to ___________ at 8:30
a.m. so that the parties may meet and confer to clarify the scope of the
documents which need to be produced. If Plaintiff agrees to produce documents
as it represents, it is strongly urged to serve further responses that contain
statements of compliance in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure. If the
issues raised by the motion are resolved prior to the hearing, the motion
should be taken off calendar. Given that the parties’ requests and responses are
both riddled with problems, no sanctions should be expected. 
The Court further ORDERS the parties to
provide a joint statement no later than 5 court days before hearing. The joint
statement shall consist of 4 columns. One column will identify the number and
text of the RFP, one column will identify the response, and Defendants and
Plaintiff may each provide a short explanation for why a further response is or
is not necessary. These explanations MUST NOT be copied and pasted throughout
but instead should be referenced where necessary, i.e., See Argument For RFP
No. 5. 
The Court additionally notes that Defendants’
requests were served over nine months ago on February 29, 2024, but Plaintiff
has yet to produce a single document. This is unacceptable considering
Plaintiff’s proclaimed interest in cooperating with the discovery process. In
the interest of judicial economy, and to avoid further motion practice (and the
attendant risk of sanctions associated with a motion to compel compliance), the
parties are ORDERED to meet and confer to agree on a date when document
production will be complete, and to be prepared to provide such date to the
Court at the hearing. The document production should occur no later than
January 31, 2025. If an agreement cannot be reached, or if the production
cannot be completed by January 31, 2025, the parties should be prepared to justify
their positions with specific facts. 
Dated
this 9th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 