 Case Number:  24GDCV00235    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GERMAN PEREZ GARCIA, et al., 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
FORD
   MOTOR COMPANY, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24GDCV00235
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S
   PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   9, 2024




 


)


 



 
          This action
arises from the purchase of a 2022 Ford F-150 (“Subject Vehicle”) by Plaintiffs
German Perez Garcia and Andrea Martinez Negrete (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on
April 11, 2022. Plaintiffs allege that the Subject Vehicle does not conform to
the warranty issued by its manufacturer, Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”) and served
a deposition notice for Defendant’s “person most knowledgeable”/“person most
qualified”. The notice at issue in this motion identifies five matters of
examination (referred to as “Categories”) and eight requests for production
(“RFPs”). The Court rules on Plaintiffs’ motion to compel as follows:
          Category No.
1: GRANTED in part, but only with respect to policies, procedures, and
guidelines in effect from April 11, 2022, to the date of suit (February 6,
2024).  
          Category Nos.
2-5: DENIED. There is no evidence, such as a declaration, that either plaintiff
called Defendant’s “1-800 customer assistance number.” Therefore, the recording
policies, tasks or duties of the company handling Defendant’s “1-800 customer
assistance service number” and Defendant’s relationship with said company are
not relevant.
          RFP Nos. 1, 5:
DENIED. With respect to RFP 1, the phrase “entire original file” is vague and ambiguous.
For both RFP Nos. 1 and 5, Plaintiffs do not describe what other documents they
are seeking besides those which have already been produced and identified by
Defendant. 
          RFP No. 2:
GRANTED in part. Defendant’s privilege and work product objections are sustained,
and Defendant must provide a privilege log. Defendant must produce only its policies
and procedures for its authorized repair facilities pertaining to consumer
complaints about defective vehicles that were in effect from April 11, 2022, to
the date of suit (February 6, 2024).
          RFP Nos. 3-4:
GRANTED, in part. Defendant must produce its non-privileged communications with
Galpin Ford Service and Sunrise Ford regarding the Subject Vehicle from April
11, 2022, to the date of suit. Defendant’s privilege/work product objections
are SUSTAINED; Defendant is to provide a privilege log. 
          RFP No. 6: GRANTED
in part. The phrase “regarding Plaintiffs” are vague and ambiguous and make
this RFP overly broad. Also, there is no evidence that Plaintiffs made any
calls to Defendant. However, the Court will compel the production of call logs
insofar as they are records made of emails between Defendant and Plaintiffs. Production
of records pertaining to phone calls made between Defendant and Plaintiffs
would be compelled, but as stated above, Plaintiffs provide no evidence that
any phone calls to Defendant were made. 
          RFP No. 7:
GRANTED in part. Defendant’s privilege and work product objections are
SUSTAINED; Defendant must provide a privilege log. 
          RFP No. 8:
GRANTED in part. Defendant must produce the training materials provided to
Defendant’s employees regarding the handling of consumer requests for a vehicle
repurchase that were in effect for the period of time during which Plaintiffs’
Subject Vehicle was eligible for repurchase. Defendant’s privilege and work
product objections are SUSTAINED; Defendant must provide a privilege log.
          Plaintiffs’
motion to compel is GRANTED in part as outlined above. No sanctions shall be
issued. 
Dated
this 9th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 