 Case Number:  EC066608    Hearing Date:   December 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



KCB TOWERS, INC., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ANGELES
   CONTRACTOR, INC., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  EC066608
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: ANGELES CONTRACTOR, INC.’S MOTION TO REOPEN TRIAL  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
December
   9, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
On September 6, 2024, Angeles
Contractor, Inc. (“Angeles”) filed this motion to reopen trial to allow
testimony from three witnesses. The motion was originally scheduled to be heard
on October 15, 2024. On October 2, 2024, KCB Towers, Inc. (“KCB”) filed an
opposition brief and evidentiary objections. On October 8, 2024, Angeles filed
its reply brief. On the afternoon of October 11, 2024, Angeles filed a
Supplemental Declaration of John Paul Cosico. Angeles did not explain why this
declaration could not be filed along with its reply brief. On October 14, 2024,
the following Monday, Angeles filed a request for judicial notice. KCB filed objections
to all these late-filed documents on October 14, 2024. Due to these late-filed
documents, the Court continued the hearing from October 15, 2024, to October
21, 2024. 
At the hearing on October 21, 2024, the
Court heard oral argument and continued the hearing to December 9, 2024. The
Court permitted the parties to submit supplemental briefs not to exceed 5 pages
and ordered them to lodge a transcript of the hearing. The parties stipulated
to a briefing schedule and filed their supplemental briefs simultaneously on
November 19, 2024. On December 6, 2024, KCB filed evidentiary objections to the
declarations of John Paul Cosico, James Potts, and William Syrkin. 
In its motion, Angeles argues that
trial should be reopened so that three witnesses may testify: (1) Daniel
Martinez (“Martinez”), (2) Robert Roginson (“Roginson”), and Robert Lucas
(“Lucas”). Angeles contends that these three witnesses’ testimony would (1) rebut
the testimony of KCB’s expert, Philip Vermeulen (“Vermeulen”), on the issue of
licensure, and (2) substantiate Angeles’s claims for compensation related to
corrective work performed by Genisa Iron, Inc. (“Genisa”). 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Trial courts have broad discretion in
deciding whether to reopen the evidence. (Horning v. Shilberg (2005) 130
Cal.App.4th 197, 208.) “A motion to reopen a case for further evidence can be
granted only on a showing of good cause. (Ensher, Alexander & Barsoom,
Inc. v. Ensher (1964) 225 Cal.App.2d 318, 326.) A motion to reopen a case
for the purpose of introducing further evidence must be made on affidavit
stating what the moving party expects to prove, the character of the evidence
proposed to be introduced, the diligence exercised to introduce the evidence
during the trial, and the reasons justifying the failure to offer it at that
time. (Westerholm v. 20th Century Ins. Co. (1976) 58 Cal.App.3d 628, 634.)
A motion to reopen is subject to a diligence requirement. (Broden v. Marin
Humane Society (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1212, 1222.) 
III.       
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
The Court overrules KCB’s objections to
the Declarations of Mark Feldman, Daniel Martinez, Robert Roginson, and Robert
Lucas filed on July 25, 2024, the Supplemental Declarations of Mark Feldman and
Robert Lucas filed on September 6, 2024, the Supplemental Declarations of John
Paul Cosico filed on October 11, 2024, Angeles’s Request for Judicial Notice
filed on October 14, 2024, and the Declarations of John Paul Cosico, William
Syrkin, and James Potts filed on November 19, 2024. However, as discussed
further below, the Court does not find any of the declarations sufficient to establish
that Angeles acted with diligence in seeking to reopen the trial. 
IV.        
DISCUSSION
As a threshold matter, the Court must
consider whether Angeles acted diligently in making its request to reopen trial
and introduce evidence from Martinez, Roginson, and Lucas. Angeles claims it
acted with diligence because it objected to the Court’s proposed statement of
decision, issued on June 14, 2024, and filed declarations from the proposed
witnesses prior to a status conference scheduled on July 26, 2024. (Motion, p.
6.) Although trial concluded on October 18, 2023, Angeles argues that it first realized
that the Court relied on KCB’s expert, Vermeulen, and that Angeles should have
been given an opportunity to present a rebuttal to Vermeulen’s testimony
regarding KCB’s licensure when Angeles received the proposed statement of
decision. Angeles emphasizes that Vermeulen’s testimony was incorrect and prejudicial
because it was introduced at the last minute. In addition, Angeles claims it
came to the realization that it should have had an opportunity to explain
Genisa’s Time and Material (“T&M”) tickets, which would have “explained to
the Court why Angeles was entitled to an award of compensation related to
Genisa’s corrective work.” (Motion, p. 6.) Angeles further states that it recently
discovered evidence that KCB had a lapse in workers’ compensation coverage and
was therefore unlicensed during the project and unable to collect compensation.
(Motion, p. 6.) 
In opposition, KCB persuasively argues that Angeles
did not act diligently in making this motion. KCB points out that although
trial concluded on October 18, 2023, the trial transcripts were available by
November 2023 and Angeles had opportunities to review them while preparing its
closing arguments brief, which was submitted on February 9, 2024. Additionally,
Angeles submitted a reply in support of its closing arguments on March 24, 2024,
and submitted a proposed statement of decision on May 15, 2024. Despite having
these opportunities to review the transcript and prepare multiple briefs, Angeles
apparently never considered that its presentation of evidence was inadequate
until six months after the conclusion of trial when the Court issued its
proposed statement of decision. (Horning, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th
at p. 209 [no abuse of discretion denying motion to reopen trial brought nearly
six months after the close of evidence].) Accordingly, the Court denies the
motion on the grounds that Angeles did not act with diligence. 
But even if Angeles had timely moved to
reopen trial, Angeles does not provide any reasonable justification for failing
to introduce at trial the evidence it now seeks to present. A failure to
introduce evidence due to a “knowing and voluntary tactical decision” is not
grounds to reopen trial. (Horning, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th 197; Rosenfeld,
Meyer & Susman v. Cohen (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1052-53.) 
Angeles claims that it was unable to
introduce evidence from witnesses about KCB’s licensure because KCB’s expert, Vermeulen,
was never disclosed as a witness until the day before he was called to testify
and was allowed to testify thirty minutes before the trial ended. (Motion, p.
8.) However, Angeles did not, at any point, object or ask for the ability to
present evidence to rebut Vermeulen’s testimony. (Opp., p. 6.) 
Also, Angeles claims it could not provide
Mr. Martinez’s testimony to explain the work completed by Genisa because of a
purported “hard-stop” date; but there was no such date. (Opp., p. 6.) Instead,
the purported “hard stop” was due to the possibility of an interruption due to
congestion of the Court’s trial calendar. (KCB Supp. Brief, Ex. A, 10/21/2024
Transcript, 7:11-8:5.) KCB also points out that Angeles chose to present a
witness who was not previously on its witness list, John Wilson, further
demonstrating that Angeles’ failure to present a rebuttal expert to Mr. Vermeulen,
or Mr. Martinez’s testimony, was a tactical decision. (Opp., p. 6.) 
Last, the Court rejects Angeles’
contention that trial should be reopened because Angeles discovered “new facts”
regarding KCB’s licensure after the proposed statement of decision was issued.
The only case Angeles relies on, Marriage of Olson (1980) 27 Cal.3d 414,
is inapposite because it involved facts which had changed after the decision
was announced and a statute which required the court to valuate community
assets and liability “as near as practicable to the time of trial.” (Id., pp.
419. 422.) Here, the alleged gap in licensure occurred around the end of
February of 2017, three months before this action was filed. Angeles even
admits in its moving papers that the CSLB website “currently shows that KCB had
a gap in its workers compensation history.” (Motion, pp. 14-15.) Yet, Angeles
fails to explain why any “recently-discovered” evidence about KCB’s purported
licensing issues could not have been discovered before trial even though Angeles
purportedly had “the licensure issue front and center, since [it] answered
[KCB’s] complaint.” (Motion, pp. 10-11.) Instead, Angeles apparently only discovered
after trial that KCB had a one-day lapse in its workers’ compensation coverage
and the certified license history produced by KCB during trial that did not
reflect this lapse. (10/11/2024 Cosico Decl., ¶ 2.) Specifically, Angeles
received a copy of the CSLB’s “complete files” for KCB on August 14, 2024, and Angeles’s
counsel, in his review of these files, discovered that KCB’s insurance
(provided by BBSI) was terminated on February 28, 2017, at 12:01 a.m. and that
the replacement insurance policy was not effective until March 1, 2017, at
12:01 a.m. (Supp. Feldman Decl., ¶ 5.) There is no explanation for why the
CSLB’s files could not have been obtained and reviewed earlier or, even why the
dates of coverage, which were available on the CSLB’s website, were not
examined. (Supp. Feldman Decl., Ex. 7.) Even at the hearing on October 21,
2024, the Court asked Angeles’s counsel, Mark A. Feldman, why the issue of
workers’ compensation coverage was not “flushed out during discovery.” Mr.
Feldman stated, “That, I don’t have any answer for, except that I did ask for
documents in discovery, and there were new documents that were produced at the
trial that had never been seen before.” (KCB Supp. Brief, Ex. A, 14:22-27.) However,
Angeles never specifies which documents were requested from KCB, and whether
new documents produced at trial were part of those which were requested (and
therefore improperly withheld). 
Ultimately, Angeles does not
sufficiently explain why the issue of the lapse in coverage could not have been
determined sooner and raised at trial. Angeles’ supplemental brief refers to
workers’ compensation policies that were introduced as exhibits at trial, and
therefore, the information about this gap in licensure was available during
trial. (Angeles Supp. Brief 11/19/2024, 4:2-3, 9-10.) The fact that Angeles did
not realize the importance of this information until after it received the
proposed statement of decision and conducted a postmortem examination of its
trial strategy does not demonstrate diligence and, therefore, the Court
exercises its discretion to deny the motion to reopen trial. 
V.          
CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, Angeles’
motion to reopen trial is DENIED. 
 
Dated
this 9th
day of December, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.