 Case Number:  22STLC03999    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MAHMUD REZA SIAMIZADE, an individual and as
  representative of the Estate of Mahzar Sedghi 
 
        
  vs.
 
STEVEN MEIER, et al.

 


 Case
  No.:  22STCL03999  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: September 12, 2024



 
            Defendants’
demurrer to the SAC is OVERRULED.
 
            Defendants’ motion to strike is
GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART. Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED as to
Exhibits A-C and G. Defendants’ motion is GRANTED as to Exhibit D-F.
 
On 6/15/2022,
Plaintiff Mahmud Reza Siamizade, as an individual and on behalf of himself and
as representative of the Estate of Mahzar Sedghi, (Plaintiff) filed suit
against Steve Meier M.D. and Meier Orthopedic Sports Medicine, and LA Peer
Surgery Center. On 12/21/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC).
On 6/7/2024, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (SAC) alleging: (1)
refusal to provide medical records to Plaintiff; and (2) refusal to provide
medical records to counsel. 
 
            On
7/5/2024, Defendants Steven Meier M.D. and Steven W. Meier M.D., Inc. dba Meier
Orthopedic Sports Medicine (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff’s second
cause of action. Defendants also moved to strike portions of the SAC. 
 
Discussion 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, Defendants indicate that, despite having been advised by
the Court multiple times that he cannot serve his own documents as he is a
party to this case, Plaintiff once again served the Second Amended Complaint
directly rather than having a non-party do so. The Court will strike all future
filings that are improperly served. 
 
Defendants
argues that the second cause of action is duplicative of the first cause of
action. 
 
After review,
the Court disagrees. 
 
In Flowers
v. Torrance Memorial Hospital Medical Center (1994) 8 Cal.4th 992, the
California Supreme Court held that “as to any given defendant, only one
standard of care obtains under a particular set of facts, even if the plaintiff
attempts to articulate multiple or alternate theories of liability.” As such,
while a plaintiff can allege multiple theories of a duty violation, a plaintiff
cannot recover for multiple breaches of the same duty. 
 
However,
here, Plaintiff’s causes of action are based upon different statutory grounds.
Plaintiff’s first cause of action is based on the duty defined by Health and
Safety Code section 123100(b)(1), and applies to an individual’s right to
access medical records. The second cause of action is based on the duty created
by Evidence Code section 1158, which applies to a medical provider’s obligation
to provide medical records when requested by counsel. As such, while the duties
are similar in that they both concern medical records, they are not coextensive
and are each created by statute.
 
Accordingly,
the Court cannot conclude at the pleading stage that Plaintiff’s two claims,
which are based on duties created by two different statutes, are duplicative. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action is
overruled.
 
Motion to Strike 
 
 
            Defendants
argue that the Court should strike the following from Plaintiff’s SAC:
 
1. Exhibit
“A” Letter to Dr. Meier 
2. Exhibit
“B” E-mails between Plaintiff and Dr. Rahbar 
3. Exhibit
“C” E-mails and Letters to Dr. Meier’s Office 
4. Exhibit
“D” Cease and Desist Letter with Exhibits 
5. Exhibit
“E” November 9, 2021 Reporter’s Transcript 
6. Exhibit
“F” Correspondence to Plaintiff from his Former Attorney 
7. Exhibit
“G” Correspondence to La Peer Surgery Center and Correspondence to and from
Plaintiff and his Former Attorney
            
Pursuant to
CCP section 436(a), the Court may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in the pleading. 
 
After review,
the Court finds Exhibits D-F to be improperly attached here. Plaintiff claims
exhibit D demonstrates Defendants’ attempt for malicious prosecution, but there
is no malicious prosecution claim here. 
Plaintiff claims that Exhibit E demonstrates perjury committed by Steven
Meier resulting in emotional distress, but Plaintiff does not have operative
claims for perjury or emotional distress. Similarly, Plaintiff ties Exhibit F
to malicious prosecution and emotional distress, but does not have operative
claims for either.  
 
However, the
Court finds Exhibits A-C and G, which are more directly linked to the claims
actually asserted in the SAC, to be sufficiently relevant at this time.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendants’ motion to strike is granted in part, denied in part.
Defendants’ motion to strike is denied as to Exhibits A-C and G. Defendants’ motion
is granted as to Exhibit D-F. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  August   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 