 Case Number:  BC716696    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GORJI ASHRAF
                           
         vs.
 
KOLAH FARANGI, et al. 
 
                                         
  Defendants. 
 


 Case No.: 
  BC716696
 
 
 
 Hearing Dated: September 12, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to amend judgment is DENIED. 
 
On August 6,
2018, Plaintiff Gorji Ashraf (Plaintiff) filed suit against Kolah Farangi, Inc.
(KF, Inc.), Mansour Simanian, Joseph Simanian, Robert Simanian, and Michael
Simanian, alleging: (1) discrimination in violation of FEHA; (2) failure to
accommodate in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to engage in the interactive
process in violation of FEHA; (4) failure to prevent FEHA violations; (5)
retaliation in violation of FEHA; (6) wrongful termination in violation of
FEHA; (7) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (8) failure to pay
minimum wages; (9) failure to pay overtime; (10) failure to pay earned wages;
(11) waiting time penalties; (12) failure to provide rest periods; (13) failure
to provide meal periods; (14) failure to provide itemized wage statements; (15)
unfair competition; (16) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (17)
failure to render aid. 
 
On August 15,
2022, Plaintiff obtained a Judgment against Defendant Kolah Farangi, Inc (KFI).
 
Now,
Plaintiff seeks to amend the judgment to add JRDM International, Inc. as a
judgment debtor. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that JDRM International, Inc. is the alter-ego of Defendant KFI and
should be added as a judgment debtor, based on evidence obtained in
post-judgment interrogatories propounded on KFI. 
            
            CCP
section 187 provides:
When jurisdiction is, by the
Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court or
judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; ¿and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of
proceeding be not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any
suitable process or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most
conformable to the spirit of this code.
 
Under section 187, the trial court is
authorized with the authority to amend a judgment to add additional judgment
debtors. (Greenspan v. LADT, LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508.) “As a general rule, ‘a court may amend its judgment at
any time so that the judgment will properly designate the real defendants.’....
Judgments may be amended to add additional judgment debtors on the ground that
a person or entity is the alter ego of the original judgment debtor....
‘Amendment of a judgment to add an alter ego “is an equitable procedure based
on the theory that the court is not amending the judgment to add a new
defendant but is merely inserting the correct name of the real defendant....
‘Such a procedure is an appropriate and complete method by which to bind new
... defendants where it can be demonstrated that in their capacity as alter ego
of the corporation they in fact had control of the previous litigation, and
thus were virtually represented in the lawsuit.’ ” (Id.)
 
            In
support of his contention that JDRM International, Inc. is the alter-ego of Defendant
KFI Plaintiff submitted evidence that:
 
-        
JRDM INTERNATIONAL, INC. was
incorporated on 1/11/2017. (Response to RFA No. 1) This happens to be the very
same year that KFI’s alleged income “dropped” from $122,070, to $20,000, to
“zero.” (Articles of Incorporation, filed 1/11/17)
 
-        
During the past five years, the only
source of revenue for JRDM INTERNATIONAL INC. has been the proceeds from the
Kolah Farangi restaurant, located at 9180 West Pico Blvd., Los Angeles.
(Response to RFA No. 3)
 
-        
At no point in the past five years did
JRDM INTERNATIONAL Inc. provide KFI any kind of consideration for moneys that
were transferred from KFI’s bank accounts to JRDM INTERNATIONAL, INC.’s bank
accounts. (Response to RFA No. 5)
 
-        
On 5/11/2017, it was resolved in the
Minutes of JRDM “to begin taking over Kolah Farangi, Inc. operation. It was
Resolved that JRDM take ownership of Kolah Farangi Inc.’s Assets, loan and rent
liabilities” (Declaration of Rabin Saidian, ¶ 6; Exh. E).
 
-        
On 5/15/2018, there was a complete
transfer of assets from KFI to JRDM. (Declaration of Rabin Saidian, ¶ 6; Exh.
E).
 
-        
While KFI maintained a zero balance in
its bank accounts, JRDM maintained sums randing between $114,229.36 and
$52,867.68 throughout the time period of 10/31/2022 and 6/30/23. (Declaration
of Rabin Saidian, ¶ 5; Exh. D)
 
A transfer of
assets made by a debtor is fraudulent as to a creditor, whether the creditor's
claim arose before or after the transfer, if the debtor made the transfer (1)
with an actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor, or (2) without
receiving reasonably equivalent value in return, and either (a) was engaged in
or about to engage in a business or transaction for which the debtor's assets
were unreasonably small, or (b) intended to, or reasonably believed, or
reasonably should have believed, that he or she would incur debts beyond his or
her ability to pay as they became due. (Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004)
33 Cal.4th 642, 648-49.)
 
In
opposition, Defendant submitted evidence that Plaintiff has since passed away,
noting that “On May 8, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed Defendant’s counsel
and Judge Fruin that he believed Plaintiff had passed away and he had not heard
from the Plaintiff for some time. Plaintiff’s counsel further advised Judge
Fruin that he had not heard from Plaintiff’s family either.” (7, 13-15.)
Clearly, Plaintiff’s counsel has no standing to bring the current motion or to
perform legal work on behalf of Plaintiff if he is, in fact, deceased. Rather,
CCP section 686.010 provides, “[a]fter the death of the judgment creditor, the
judgment may be enforced as provided in this title by the judgment creditor's
executor or administrator or successor in interest.” As such, only Plaintiff’s
estate would have standing to pursue this relief. 
 
Moreover,
Defendant submitted evidence that JRDM is not the alter-ego of KFI:
 
-        
JRDM was incorporated on January 11,
2017. This was nineteen (19) months before Judgment Creditor filed his lawsuit
against Judgment Debtor.  (Exh. 1.) 
 
-        
 The
minutes of JRDM show that the purchase of the assets of KFI took place on May
11, 2017, which was fifteen (15) months before Judgment Creditor filed this
Complaint.
 
-        
Judgment Creditor’s lawsuit was not
filed until August 6, 2018, which is three (3) months after completion of the
purchase of KFI. 
 
-        
Judgment Creditor alleged in his
lawsuit that the four original shareholders of KFI were all alter ego of KFI. However,
through discovery, Judgment Creditor did not find any evidence to support his
allegation and consequently, he dismissed the four shareholders and obtained a
judgment only as to KFI.
 
As such, even
setting aside the issue of standing, the preponderance of evidence does not
support a finding of alter-ego liability at this time. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to amend judgment is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 