  Case Number:  21STCV36897    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



KAMRAN SADEGHIAN, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
ARIAN EGHBALI, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  21STCV36897
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 12, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s
motion for summary adjudication of the third cause of action is DENIED.
 
            On
10/6/2021, Plaintiffs Kamran Sadeghian and Shima Nikfarjam (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed suit against Arain Eghbali, Enrich Financial, Inc., and Peak
Foreclosure Services, Inc.
 
On 5/2/2024,
Plaintiff first a first amended complaint (FAC), alleging: (1) quiet title; (2)
cancellation of written instrument based upon fraud; (3) cancellation of
written instrument based upon non-delivery; (4) recission; (5) slander; (6) fraud;
(7) violation of California Business and Professions Code; (8) declaratory
relief; and (9) injunctive relief.
 
            Now,
Plaintiff Shima Nikfarjam (Plaintiff) moves for summary adjudication of the
third cause of action for cancellation of written instrument based upon
non-delivery.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that she is entitled to summary adjudication of her cause of action for
cancellation of written instrument because she did not sign the grant deed
conveyed to Defendant Eghbali, and the signature of both spouses is required to
convey or encumber community real
property. 
 
            On 5/25/203, the Court denied
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication, primarily on the basis that
Plaintiff’s motion was predicated on theories not pled in the third cause of
action (the only cause of action being challenged). 
 
            Now, Plaintiff renews her motion for
summary adjudication, having filed a FAC which incorporated new allegations. 
 
            However, in its previous ruling, the
Court wrote:
 
Here, Plaintiff
failed to address all elements of the third cause of action, and “[a] motion
for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a
cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.” (C.C.P., Section 437c(f)(1).) As such, the Court could not properly
grant summary adjudication of the third cause of action.
 
However, it
is important to note that, even setting aside this issue, the Court would still
conclude a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether or not the grant
deed was void. While it is generally true that the execution of both spouses is
required for an encumbrance of real property, where one spouse has acted as the
agent for the other spouse in the scope of authority, the requirement of both
spouses’ signature is dispensed with. (32 Cal. Jur. 3d Family Law § 550 [“...If
a spouse acts as the agent of the nonparticipating spouse, the statute
requiring both spouses, either personally or by duly authorized agent, to join
in executing any instrument encumbering community real property is not
violated....”]
 
Here,
Defendant submitted evidence to show that Shima was involved in the decision to
execute the deed of trust, and that Plaintiff Kamran was acting on behalf of
himself and as an agent on behalf of Plaintiff Shima when he signed. (See
Arian Decl., ¶ 23; Shima Decl. ¶ 7.) Whether or not an agent relationship
exists is primarily a question of fact, as is the question of whether or not
Plaintiffs should be estopped from denying an agent’s authority (Associated
Creditors' Agency v. Haley Land Co. (1966) 239 Cal.App.2d 610, 614 [49
Cal.Rptr. 1, 4; 1 Cal. Real Est. § 1:89 (4th ed.) [“An estoppel may arise when
a party has changed his or her position or has parted with value in reliance on
the oral promise of the other party and the promisor will be unjustly enriched
or the promisee will suffer substantial hardship if the promise is not
enforced. This defense may be available against a principal whose agent has
executed a written document without written authorization.”]
 
            (5/25/2023
Minute Order)
 
            As
such, the Court’s prior ruling did not rest solely on the fact that Plaintiff’s
arguments were not contained in the allegation. Rather, the Court expressly
stated that triable issues existed as to whether or not the deed was void.
Plaintiff implicitly acknowledges this, stating that the previous ruling was
“largely because” her argument was not set forth in the Complaint. (MSA:
4:3-4.) 
 
            In
her motion, Plaintiff again argues that Defendant is precluded by arguing that
Shima was acting as her agent, citing the equal dignities rule. (See Cal.
Civ. Code § 2309 (If a contract must be in writing, then authority to enter
into such a contract must also be given in writing).) Here, Plaintiff submitted
evidence that she never gave Shima written authorization.  However, as already noted by the Court, where
one spouse has acted as the agent for the other spouse in the scope of
authority, the requirement of both spouses’ signature is dispensed with. (32
Cal. Jur. 3d Family Law § 550.) Defendant has submitted evidence that Shima was
involved in the decision to execute the deed of trust, and that Plaintiff
Kamran was acting on behalf of himself and as an agent on behalf of Plaintiff
Shima when he signed. (See Eghbali Decl.) As such, there are triable
issues of material fact as to the existence of agency. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication of the third cause of
action is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  September   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 