  Case Number:  22TRCV00666    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                     Tuesday, January 30, 2024
Department B                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 10   



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Lawren
C. Bocock, et al. v. General Motors, LLC, et al.
22TRCV00666
1.     
Lawren C. Bocock,
et al.’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, and Request for Sanctions 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Lawren C. Bocock, et al.’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for Sanctions
is denied, in part, and granted, in part.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed their Complaint on August 4, 2022. This
is a “Lemon Law” case brought by Plaintiffs concerning a 2018 Cadillac XT4. Plaintiffs
allege that the vehicle suffers from widespread defects, including electrical
defects, engine defects, transmission defects, and non-conformities. Defendant
has been unable to repair their vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts.
Plaintiffs allege violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“Song-Beverly Act”). 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
A party responding to an inspection demand shall
respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party believes the responding party
responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)    
 
Meet and Confer
 
            Plaintiffs set forth a meet and
confer declaration in substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Nino Sanaia, ¶¶ 24-33.)
 
            Motion to Compel 
 
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request for
Production of Documents Nos. 1, 2, 3, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 22, 25, 32, 33,
42, 43, 51, 56, 58, 59, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 82, 91, 92, 93, and 94. 
 
As to Requests 1, 2, and 7, the motion is denied.
These requests essentially seek every document related to or “issued for” the
subject vehicle with no limitations. The requests are overly broad, burdensome,
and oppressive.
 
As to Request 3 and 9, the motion is granted. The
responses are not compliant with CCP § 2031.230 which states: “A representation
of inability to comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable
inquiry has been made in an effort to comply with that demand. This statement
shall also specify whether the inability to comply is because the particular
item or category has never existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced,
or stolen, or has never been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or
control of the responding party. The statement shall set forth the name and
address of any natural person or organization known or believed by that party
to have possession, custody, or control of that item or category of item.” As
to Request 9, Defendant merely refers to documents obtained from dealerships
but does not state whether it did a diligent search and reasonable inquiry to
look for all responsive documents.
 
As to Request 11, the motion is denied. The request
seeks every “communication” concerning the vehicle. The request is very overly
broad, vague, and burdensome.
 
As to Request 12, 17, 18, 22, 25, 32, 33, 42, 43, 51, 82,
and 91, the motion is denied. The request is not limited to the subject vehicle
or vehicles with the same year, make, or model of the subject vehicle, but all vehicles
“like” the subject vehicle, or all Cadillac vehicles. Thus, the requests are
overly broad, vague, and burdensome.
 
As to Request 13, the motion is denied. The motion
seeks to compel a further response to Request 13, but the separate statement
fails to address this request at all. Therefore, the motion to compel a further
response to Request 13 is denied.
 
As to Request 56, the motion is denied. The request
seeks essentially all documents, related to every vehicle, utilized to evaluate
claims made under the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act with no limitation.
The request is incredibly overly broad, excessive, burdensome, and oppressive.
 
As to Request 58, the motion is denied. The request
seeks essentially every document concerning the training of every employee of
Defendant with respect to the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act with no
limitation. The request is incredibly overly broad, excessive, burdensome, and
oppressive.
 
As to Request 59, the motion is denied. The request
seeks essentially every warranty policy and procedure manual concerning every
vehicle since 2018 with no limitations. The request is incredibly overly broad,
excessive, burdensome, and oppressive.
 
As to Request 76, the motion is denied. The request
essentially seeks every document exchanged between any governmental entity
regarding transmission defects in every Cadillac vehicle with no limitations. The
request is incredibly overly broad, excessive, burdensome, and oppressive.
 
As to Request 77, the motion is denied. The request
seeks “[a]ll communications with and DOCUMENTS provided to or received from the
supplier of the 9- speed transmission in CADILLAC VEHICLES regarding an actual
or suspected 9-speed transmission condition, issue, problem, or defect.” The
request is overly broad as it is not limited to the subject vehicle, or the
same year, make, or model as the subject vehicle.
 
As to Request 78 to 80, and 91, the motion is denied.
The requests are overly broad as it concerns every Cadillac vehicle with no
limitation to make, model, and year, and with no time limitations.
 
As to Requests 92 to 94, the motion is denied. The
requests seek documents regarding the purported “effectiveness” of certain
recalls. The requests are overly broad, vague, and not limited to the subject
vehicle, or the same year, make, or model as the subject vehicle.
 
Therefore, Defendant is ordered to serve further verified
responses to Requests 3 and 9, within 10 days of this date. As to all other
Requests, the motion is denied. 
 
Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.