  Case Number:  24STCV11083    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Guadalupe
Inchaurregui’s Special Motion to Strike Complaint
Defendant Guadalupe Inchaurregui specially moves to
strike the entire complaint by plaintiffs Luis Macias and Maria Macias.
Request for Judicial Notice
            Defendant
requests judicial notice of one exhibit: the complaint in another action, Guadalupe
Inchaurregui, et al. v. Luis Macias, et al., Case No. 24NWCV02252.  The complaint’s existence, contents, and
legal effects are subject to judicial notice under Evidence Code § 452(d).
            The
court grants defendant’s request for judicial notice.
Legal Standard for Anti-SLAPP Motion
Courts
use a two-step process for resolving anti-SLAPP motions under Code of Civil
Procedure section 425.16: “First, the court decides whether the defendant has
made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising
from protected activity.”  (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th
82, 88 (Navellier).)  The defendant must show “the cause of action
is based on the defendant’s protected free speech or petitioning
activity.”  (Id. at p. 89.)  
Second,
once the defendant establishes the first element, courts “must then determine
whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the
claim.”  (Navellier, 29 Cal.4th at p. 88.) 
“[T]he plaintiff need only have stated and substantiated a legally
sufficient claim.”  (Ibid., internal quotes and citations omitted.)  “[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit
may proceed.”  (Id. at p.
94.)  “Put another way, the plaintiff
‘must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient and supported
by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if
the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is credited.’ ”  (Wilson v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002)
28 Cal.4th 811, 821.)
Step One: Protected Activity
Defendant meets
her burden of showing the entire complaint seeks to hold her liable for protected
activity.  Protected activity
includes “any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law.”  (CCP § 425.16(e)(2).)  This provision is “construed broadly, to
protect the right of litigants” and applies to a communication “if it has ‘
“some relation” ’ to judicial proceedings.” 
(Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.)  “[A] statement is
‘in connection with’ litigation under section 425.16, subdivision (e)(2) if it
relates to the substantive issues in the litigation and is directed to persons
having some interest in the litigation.” 
(Neville v. Chudacoff (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1255, 1266.)  This provision also applies to statements in
connection with “anticipated litigation.” 
(Bel Air Internet, LLC v. Morales (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 924,
943.)
Plaintiffs allege eight causes of action: 1.
Abuse of Process; 2. Fraudulent Misrepresentation & Deceit; 3. Negligent
Misrepresentation; 4. Defamation – Libel; 5. Defamation – Slander; 6.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 7. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress; and 8. Declaratory Relief. 
Each cause of action seeks to hold defendant liable for the same events.  Plaintiffs hired defendant’s late husband,
Francisco Inchaurregui, to do construction work.  (Comp., ¶¶ 10-23.)  Francisco Inchaurregui died the day he began the
work on plaintiffs’ property.  (¶
24.)  Plaintiffs allege his death “was
completely unrelated to any wrongful acts or overly demanding work stipulated
under the Contract” for construction.  (¶
25.)  
Plaintiffs allege, “Following the
incident, Mr. Francisco Inchaurregui's widow, Mrs. Guadalupe Inchaurregui, initiated
actions against Luis Macias and Maria Macias, alleging wrongful death.”  (Comp., ¶ 26.)  They further allege defendant “initiated
false insurance claims for wrongful death.” 
(Id., ¶ 27.)  These factual
allegations are directly connected to the lawsuit defendant anticipated and
ultimately filed on July 24, 2024.  (RJN,
Ex. C.)  
The fifth cause of action for slander
alleges a separate basis for liability: “Mrs. Guadalupe Inchaurregui, through
oral communications to third parties, engaged in the making of false statements
about the Plaintiffs, Luis and Maria Macias.  Specifically, she made statements that
suggested the Plaintiffs were responsible for the wrongful death of Mr.
Francisco Inchaurregui, allegations that were unfounded and malicious.”  (Comp., ¶ 62.)  Those statements are also protected.  They are connected to the issues in
defendant’s wrongful death lawsuit.
Step Two: Probability of Prevailing on the
Merits
            Plaintiffs
bear the burden of showing a probability of prevailing on the merits of their eight
causes of action.  They did not file a
timely opposition to this motion.  They
filed an opposition brief on September 23, only two court days before this
hearing.  The court exercises its
discretion not to consider the untimely opposition.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)  Even if the court considered the untimely
opposition, plaintiffs would not meet their burden of opposing this motion.
Plaintiffs do not meet their burden of
showing a probability of prevailing on the merits of any of their eight causes
of action.  “[A] plaintiff seeking to
demonstrate the merit of the claim ‘may not rely solely on its complaint, even
if verified; instead, its proof must be made upon competent admissible
evidence.’ ”  (Sweetwater Union High
School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940.)  Several cases have held that granting an
anti-SLAPP motion was proper where the plaintiff “failed to offer any
admissible evidence to establish a prima facie case.”  (San Diegans for Open Government v. San
Diego State University Research Foundation (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 76, 109
[citing two prior cases].)  
The only purported evidence plaintiffs
submitted with their untimely opposition is the declaration of their
counsel.  His declaration makes various
legal assertions and attests to the procedural history of this case, his
communications with defendant’s counsel, and the wrongful death action filed by
defendant.  (Saunders Decl., ¶¶ 1-10.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel presents no evidence
supporting the elements of any of plaintiffs’ causes of action against
defendant.  Even if he had, he presents
no foundation showing he has personal knowledge of those facts.
            Regardless
of whether plaintiffs filed an opposition or submitted any evidence, the
litigation privilege bars all of plaintiffs’ claims.  “A plaintiff cannot establish a probability
of prevailing if the litigation privilege precludes the defendant’s liability
on the claim.”  (Digerati Holdings,
LLC v. Young Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 888 (Digerati).)  “ ‘[T]he privilege applies to any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects
of the litigation; and (4) that [has] some connection or logical relation to
the action.’ ”  (Action Apartment
Assn., Inc. v. City of Santa Monica (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1232, 1241.)  Every cause of action seeks to hold defendant
liable for pursuing an insurance claim and a lawsuit against plaintiffs or for
making statements in connection with those claims.    
The
complaint also fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action
for several claims.  For example, for fraud
and negligent misrepresentation, the complaint does not allege plaintiffs did
anything in reliance on the purported misrepresentation or that they suffered
damages resulting from something they did in reliance on the
misrepresentation.  For fraud, the
plaintiff’s damages must be “caused by the actions he took in reliance on the
defendant’s misrepresentations.”  (Beckwith
v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1064.)  
The
complaint alleges, “Plaintiffs, Luis and Maria Macias, justifiably relied on
the legal processes and the expectation that claims made against them would be
truthful and valid, which aligns with the typical procedural trust in judicial
and insurance systems.  Their reliance
was manipulated to potentially cause them significant financial and
reputational harm, as evident from the unwarranted legal and insurance
proceedings initiated against them.”  (¶
42.)  Plaintiffs simply allege defendant
sued them and brought an insurance claim against them.  Plaintiffs do not allege they did anything in
reliance on any misrepresentation that resulted in them being sued.  Suing people does not require their consent.  Defendant’s husband died before defendant
made any of the alleged misrepresentations. 
Plaintiffs did not rely on the purportedly false claims against them. 
Attorney
Fees
            Defendant’s memorandum in support of
this motion requests that the court schedule a hearing on a motion for attorney
fees.  Defendant may reserve a hearing
using the Court Reservation System.
Disposition
            Defendant Guadalupe Inchaurregui’s special motion to strike
plaintiffs’ complaint is granted. 
The court hereby strikes the entire complaint by plaintiffs Luis
Macias and Maria Macias without leave to amend. 