  Case Number:  21STCV13615    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  17  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



AVE
  I GROUP, LLC 
                           
         vs.
 
EQUITY
  PARTNERS, LTD, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV13615  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  December 12, 2024



 
 
            The
Court awards Plaintiff reasonable attorney fees as follows:
 
-        
$25,000 Equity LTD
-        
$25,000 Richie P.C.
-        
$25,000 Lee,
individually, and 
-        
$25,000 Richie,
individually.
 
On 4/9/2021,
Plaintiff Ave I Group, LLC (Plaintiff) filed suit against Equity Partners, LTD
and Christopher Lee, alleging: (1) breach of lease and (2) breach of guaranty
of lease. 
 
Defendants
asserted a Cross-Complaint for: (1) Breach of Lease; and (2) Detrimental
Reliance. 
 
On 8/22/2023,
the Court granted Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant’s motion for summary adjudication
of the issue of reformation, and Defendants/Cross-Complainants claim for
detrimental reliance.
 
            On
5/3/2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves for attorney fees as follows: (1) $25,00.00, Equity LTD; (2)
$52,144.00, Lee, individually; (3) $25,000.00, Richie P.C., and (4) $73,241.00
Richie, individually.
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
argues that it is entitled to award of the fees in accordance with Code of
Civil Procedure sections 1021, 1033.5(a)(10)(A) and Civil Code section 1717, as
both the Leases and Guarantees each contain attorney’s fee provisions. In
particular, the Equity LTD and Richie P.C. Leases have identical fee provisions
that provide as follows:
 
31.
Attorneys’ Fees. In accordance with California Civil Code section 1717, If any
Party or Broker brings an action or proceeding involving the Premises whether
founded in tort, contract or equity, to enforce the contractual rights
established by this Lease or to declare right hereunder, the Prevailing Party
(as hereunder defined) in any such proceeding, action, or appeal thereon, shall
be entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees. Such fees may be awarded in the same
suit or recovered in a separate suit, whether or not such action or proceeding
is pursued to decision or judgment. The term, “Prevailing Party” shall include,
without limitation, a Party or Broker who substantially obtains or defeats the
relief sought, as the case may be, whether by compromise, settlement, judgment,
or the abandonment of the other Party or Broker of its claim or defense. The
attorneys’ fees awarded shall not be computed in accordance with any court fee
schedule, but shall be such as to fully reimburse all attorneys’ fees
reasonably incurred. In addition, Lessor shall be entitled to attorneys’ fees,
costs and expenses incurred in the preparation and service of notices of
Default and consultations in connection therewith, whether or not a legal
action is subsequently commenced in connection with such Default or resulting
Breach ($200 is a reasonable minimum per occurrence for such services and
consultation). Hourly rates for attorneys exceeding $375 shall be deemed
unreasonable, and under no circumstances shall attorney’s fees exceed $25,000.
 
(See AOE,
Exhs. A, B, the Leases at § 31, emphasis added.)
            
The
Guarantees signed by Lee and Richie also had identical attorney’s fee
provisions. However, unlike the fee provisions in the Leases, there was no
express cap on the amount of fees and no maximum hourly rate. The Guarantees
provide as follows: 
 
In the event
any action be brought by said Lessor against Guarantors hereunder to enforce
the obligation of Guarantors hereunder, the unsuccessful party in such action
shall pay the prevailing party therein a reasonable attorney’s fee. The
attorney’s fee award shall not be computed in accordance with any court fee
schedule, but shall be such as to fully reimburse all attorney’s fees
reasonably incurred.
 
(See AOE, Exhs.
A, B, the Guarantees attached to the Leases.)
 
In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs motion is not in accordance with
these agreements. 
 
The Court
disagrees and agrees in part. 
 
Defendants
are correct that the Leases and Guarantees are separate contracts. There is no
dispute that the Leases cap attorney’s fees at $25,000. In accordance with
this, Plaintiff seeks an award of attorney’s fees against Equity LTD in the
amount of $25,000 and a separate award of attorney’s fees against Richie P.C.
in the amount of $25,000.
 
The
Guarantees, in turn, render the Guarantors, Lee and Richie, liable for all
obligations under the Leases, including attorney’s fees capped at $25,000. (See
Central Building, LLC v. Cooper (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1058.)
Specifically, the Guarantees provide as follows: [I]n consideration of the
execution of said Lease by Lessor and as a material inducement to Lessor to
execute said Lease, Guarantors hereby jointly, severally, unconditionally and
irrevocably guarantee prompt payment by Lessee of all rents and all other sums
payable by Lessee under said Lease and the faithful and prompt performance by
Lessee of each and every one of the terms, conditions and covenants of said
Lease to be kept and performed by Lessee. (See AOE, Exhs. A, B., the
Guarantees.) 
 
The
Guarantees separately go on to entitle the “Lessor,” here Ave I, recovery of
all reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in the enforcement of the Guarantees.
The Guarantees also place no cap on the hourly rates to be charged by Ave I’s
attorneys. And, unlike the Leases, the Guarantees expressly provide that “[t]he
attorney’s fee award shall not be computed in accordance with any court fee
schedule, but shall be such as to full reimburse all attorneys’ fees
reasonably incurred.” (Emphasis added.)
 
The
obligation of Guarantors to pay Ave I’s reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in
the enforcement of the Guarantees (with no cap on the hourly rate) is an
additional obligation imposed upon them under the Guarantees. (Security-First
Nat. Bank of Los Angeles v. Chapman (1940) 41 Cal.App.2d 219, 221 [“A
contract of guaranty gives rise to a separate and independent obligation from
that which binds the principal debtor.”].)
 
Defendants
contend that Plaintiff’s claims on the Guarantees were “separate and distinct”
from its claims on the Leases, and that Plaintiff must distinguish between fees
incurred enforcing the Leases versus the Guarantees. However, when a guarantor
enters into a guarantee, the guarantor is contracting in reference to an
underlying contract; here, the Leases. (Central Building, LLC, supra,
127 Cal.App.4th at p. 1058.) To successful prosecute a claim on a guarantee,
the beneficiary of the guaranty must first prove a breach of the underlying
guaranteed obligation; here, the Leases. (See Gray1 CPB, LLC v. Kolokotronis
(2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 480, 486.)
 
Attorney’s
fees need not be apportioned when fee and nonfee claims are so inextricably
intertwined that it would be impractical or impossible to apportion attorney’s
fees. (Abdallah v. United Savings Bank (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1101, 1111;
Hoffman v. Superior Ready Mix Concrete, L.P. (2018) 30 Cal.App.5th 474,
485.) In this case, Plaintiff’s prosecution of its claims on the Guarantees was
inextricably intertwined with its prosecution of its claims on the Lease. The
Guarantees expressly entitle Plaintiff to recovery of all attorney’s fees
incurred prosecuting its claims on the Guarantees, which inextricably involved
its claims on the Leases. 
 
The cases
cited by Defendants to argue otherwise are distinguishable. For example, Super
7 Motel Associates v. Wang (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 541did not involve the
breach of a guaranty. Rather the issue was whether a non-signatory broker could
enforce a fee provision contained in a separate real estate purchase agreement
between the purchaser of the property and the seller. (Id. at pp.
545-546.) Since the broker was not a party to the purchase agreement, the
broker could not enforce the fee provision against the purchaser who sued the
broker and the vendor of the property for fraud. (Id.) Here, by
contrast, the Guarantors were parties to the Guarantees. 
 
Next,
Defendants cite El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007)
154 Cal.App.4th 1337, 1365-1366 for the position that Ave I’s claims on the
Leases and Guarantees were “easily separated out and distinguished.” However,
in El Escorial Owners’ Assn. the issue was whether attorney’s fees could
be apportioned between the contractual claims, which were covered under the fee-shifting
provision of certain indemnity agreements, and non-contractual claims, such as
tort and toxic mold issues, which were not covered by the fee provision. The
court of appeals in El Escorial Owners’ Assn. concluded that the trial
court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the tort issues were
severable from the indemnity issues. (Id. at 1365.) Here, as set forth
above, the Court agrees that Plaintiff’s prosecution of its claims in the
Guarantees were inextricably intertwined with its prosecution of its claims on
the Leases.
 
As such, the
Court finds Plaintiff’s requests for attorney fees to be consistent with what
it is allowable under the contract. 
 
However, the
Court finds only $25,000 to be reasonable as to both Lee and Richie individually,
and reduces the amount accordingly. This is for several reasons:
 
 First, while the Court agrees with Plaintiff
that the prosecution of its claims in the Guarantees were inextricably
intertwined with its prosecution of its claims on the Leases, it is also true
that the billing records do not include a single hour that specifically
reference the guarantees. This is because, like Plaintiff said, “a guaranteed
obligation is much like the prosecution of a case within a case.” (Motion, 4:
18-19.) As such, Plaintiff needed to establish the liability of Ritchie
Litigation and Equity Partners, and this, in turn, established the underlying
liability of the Guarantors.  
 
This means
that the actual litigation work in this case was to establish the liability of
Equity LTD and Richie PC. While, of course, Plaintiff is still entitled to
recover from Lee and Richie individually on the basis of their individual
Guarantees under those Leases, it would be counterintuitive and unreasonable to
award the higher attorney fees sought for the prosecution of claims
against individuals where it has been acknowledged that little to no actual
work was incurred to actually litigate those claims. 
 
The Guarantee
provides that fees incurred enforcing those Guarantees can be recovered. While
the Court agrees that the claims here are inextricably intertwined to an extent
that separating out the hours billed would be impractical, the Court still must
do its best to determine what fees were reasonably incurred enforcing those
guarantees. Otherwise, the fact of intertwinement would essentially be
weaponized as a windfall provision.   
 
Utilizing the
“case within a case” analogy offered by Plaintiff, the Court cannot conclude
that more attorney fees were incurred in the litigation of the individual
claims, when the majority (if not all) of the actual work involved litigation
of the claims against the entities. Given that, by agreement, only $25,000 was
reasonably incurred in the litigation of those cases, and an hourly rate
exceeding $375 was deemed unreasonable, the Court concludes, after review, that
that those same rates apply here. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court awards legal fees as follows:
            
1)    
$25,00.00 Equity LTD 
2)    
$25,00.00 Lee, individually.
3)    
$25,000.00 Richie P.C.
4)    
$25,00.00 Richie, individually.
 
The Court
concludes that this amount, as for the individual Defendants, best approximates
what the Guarantee actually provided—i.e., fees incurred to enforce the
guarantees.  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 