  Case Number:  20STCV32746    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  WESTLAKE SERVICES, LLC,Plaintiff, vs. HITHAM AHMED,Defendant.  Case No.:  20STCV32746 Hearing Date:  October 4, 2023   [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:   PLAINTIFF WESTLAKE SERVICES’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEFENDANT HITHAM AHMED’S RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES (SET TWO)The motion is DENIED.Moving party to give notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThis is an action for breach of contract. Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC alleges that it entered into a contract with Defendant Hitham Ahmed to sell a vehicle to Ahmed. Ahmed failed to make payments as required by the parties’ contract.PROCEDURAL HISTORY On August 27, 2020, Plaintiff Westlake Services, LLC filed its Complaint against Defendant Hitham Ahmed dba Inline Auto Sale, Inc.On November 18, 2021, Defendant filed his answer.On November 18, 2021, Defendant filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff.On January 11, 2022, Plaintiff answered Defendant’s Cross-Complaint.On May 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel Defendant’s responses to requests for written discovery.DISCUSSION Plaintiff moves for orders to compel Defendant to respond to its Special Interrogatories (“SROGs”), Set Two.Within 30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response. (Code Civ. Proc. section 2030.260, subd. (a).)If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc section 2030.290, subd. (b).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no responses have been served. All that needs be shown in the moving papers is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)A party waives its objections to a discovery request when it does not serve a timely response to the request. (Code Civ. Proc., section 030.290(a)) Even if objections do not need to be verified, objections will be waived if the responding party “fails to file any response within the statutory time period.” (Food 4 Less Supermarkets, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 651, 658.)Failure to timely move to compel further responses within the specified period constitutes a waiver of any right to compel a further response. The 45–day rule to bring a motion to compel is mandatory and jurisdictional “in the sense that it renders court without authority to rule on motions to compel other than to deny them.” (Sexton v. Superior Ct. (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  Here, Plaintiff’s Counsel testifies that he served Defendant with Special Interrogatories, set two on October 12, 2022. (Friedman Decl., ¶2.) On October 26, 2022, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed a meet and confer letter to Defendant’s counsel. (Id., ¶3.) On May 1, 2023, the parties participated in IDC and were unable to resolve their discovery disputes. As of the date of filing this motion, Defendant has not served responses to Plaintiff’s SROGs. (Id., ¶6.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s motion is improper, untimely, and constitutes an abuse of the discovery process. Defendant alleges that on March 1, 2022, Plaintiff propounded its first set of SROGs on Defendant. (Park Decl., ¶2.) On April 28, 2022, Defendant provided responses without objections. (Id., ¶3.) On October 12, 2022, Plaintiff propounded another set of SROGs (the ones at issue here) that contained four interrogatories identical to questions already asked in the first set. (Id., ¶4, Exh. C.) Interrogatories 11 through 35 also seek information about the facts that exist that support Defendant’s affirmative defenses to Plaintiff’s Complaint, which Defendant argues it already answered in Interrogatory 4 of the first set of SROGs. (Id.) Defendant alleges that the second set of SROGs contained only 6 new interrogatories. (Id., ¶4.) On September 20, 2023, Defendant served its response to the second set of SROGs objecting to the interrogatories on the grounds that the request was duplicative of the first set of SROGs. (Id., ¶5.) Defendant argues that it already served responses to the first set of SROGs and the deadline for Plaintiff to file a motion to compel further responses has passed. Defendant alleges that in serving an identical set of SROGs, Plaintiff is attempting to circumvent the deadline to file a motion to compel further responses. Defendant cites Professional Career Colleges, Magna Institute, Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 490, 493 in support of Defendant’s position. In Professional Career Colleges, the court there ruled that a party propounding discovery who failed to bring a motion to compel further after the statutory deadline may not reset the clock by propounding the same discovery again. (Id.)In reply, Plaintiff argues that second set of SROGs is not duplicative of the first set because the questions delve into each and every one of Defendant’s affirmative defenses. Additionally, Plaintiff argues that questions 36-41 are entirely unique.Plaintiff’s SROGs (Set Two) numbers 7-9 are identical to SROGs (Set One) numbers 1-3. Questions 11-35 are duplicative of question 4 from the first set of SROGs because question 4 sought facts supporting all of Defendant’s affirmative defenses. It makes no difference that the second set of SROGs sought information about each affirmative defense individually because the SROGs seek the same information as Defendant already provided in the first set of SROGs. The proper procedure for these questions was to file a motion to compel further after Defendant served its responses to the first set of SROGs. The deadline to file a motion to compel further as to the first set of SROGs has already passed. The Court no longer has jurisdiction to rule on a motion to compel further responses as to the first set of SROGs.Because Plaintiff served responses to the new SROGs before the hearing on this motion, the motion to compel initial production of responses is denied. With respect to sanctions, Plaintiff’s motion was denied. Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2030.290(c). Here, Plaintiff made this motion after Defendant failed to provide timely responses and the parties could not resolve their disputes over the discovery requests. Because Defendant served responses in September 2023, nearly one year after the deadline to serve responses had passed, the Court finds that Plaintiff was substantially justified in making this motion. Sanctions are denied.DATED: October 4, 2023 ____________________________ Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court 