  Case Number:  19SMCV02073    Hearing Date:   September 28, 2023    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   GEORGE KOPEK, et al.,    Plaintiffs, v.  BAGRAM MARDIROSSIAN, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  19SMCV02073     Hearing Date:  September 28, 2023   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   DEFENDANT CASA GATEWAY    HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION’S    MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFFS’    SECOND MOTION FOR SUMMARY    ADJUDICATION       MOVING PARTY:  Defendant Casa Gateway Homeowners Association   RESPONDING PARTY:  Plaintiffs Toni Kopek and Richard S. Lee   BACKGROUND This case involves a dispute over parking spaces.  Plaintiffs George C. Kopek, Toni Kopek and Richard Lee live in a condominium building in Pacific Palisades and claim ownership of two parking spaces, G114 and G116.  They contend Defendants Bagram and Susanna Mardirossian are illegally occupying the spaces.  They have also sued their homeowners association, Casa Gateway Homeowners Association (“HOA”), for failing to enforce bylaws and a Declaration of Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&R’s).   The operative complaint alleges claims for ejectment, preliminary injunction, trespass, nuisance, quiet title and enforcement of “governing documents”.   The HOA is a defendant in two causes of action: eleventh cause of action for failure to enforce governing documents, and twelfth cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties.   In its answer, the HOA asserted an eighteenth affirmative defense that the HOA “owe[s] no duty to Plaintiffs and did not cause plaintiffs’ injuries” and a twenty sixth affirmative defense that it “has committed no violation or breach of By-Laws CC&Rs and/or the Davis-Stirling Act as alleged in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint.”   Plaintiffs filed a motion for summary adjudication against HOA, seeking adjudication of the eighteenth and twentieth affirmative defenses.  Plaintiffs argued that the CC&R’s and other governing documents obligated HOA to enforce all parking restrictions and the HOA failed to do so, thereby breaching its duty. The Court denied the motion for summary adjudication based on a procedural defect that the separate statement failed to identify all material facts.  Plaintiffs have now renewed their motion for summary adjudication against the HOA. This hearing is on the HOA’s motion to strike Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication.  The HOA argues that the renewed motion is an “improper attempt to rehear issues that have already been adjudicated without presenting anything new or different that would justify the wasteful time and resources caused by this rehearing.”           DISCUSSION The HOA moves to strike Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b).  Any party may file a timely notice of a motion to strike the whole or any part of a pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b).)  For the purpose of a motion to¿strike, the Code of Civil Procedure defines a “pleading” as a demurrer, answer, complaint or cross-complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(a)(2).)  Because a motion to strike is limited to pleadings, it is not a proper vehicle to strike a motion for summary adjudication. The HOA next argues that Plaintiffs’ motion for summary adjudication is improper under Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(f)(2).  That section provides that “[a] party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless the party establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.”  This section does not apply where as here the Court denied the motion for summary judgment based on a procedural defect, rather than on the merits.  The Court’s denial was without prejudice to Plaintiffs’ ability to renew the motion with a code-compliant separate statement.   In any event, the issues asserted in the prior motion are different from the issues asserted in the present motion.  The previous motion sought adjudication of two affirmative defenses– HOA’s 18th and 26th affirmative defenses.  The present motion no longer seeks adjudication on the affirmative defenses.  Instead, it seeks adjudication on issues of liability, including the existence of fiduciary and other duties.     The HOA also argues that Plaintiffs failed to meet the requirements for a motion for reconsideration under Code Civ. Proc. § 1008.  Section 1008 provides “[w]hen an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend or revoke the prior order.  The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances or law are claimed to be shown.”   Here, Plaintiffs have not filed a motion for reconsideration, but rather a renewal of a motion for summary judgment that was denied based on a procedural defect that was subject to cure.  In any event, there are different facts alleged in the separate statement of facts, which are designed to cure the defects noted by the Court in its prior ruling.  (Marshall v. County of San Diego (2015) 238 Cal. App. 4th 1095, 1107 (a trial court has authority to permit a party to file a successive motion for summary judgment and/or adjudication supported by evidence that was not presented in connection with a prior motion); Patterson v. Sacramento City Unified School District (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 821, 827 (allowing a second motion for summary judgment noting that the two motions were not identical and involved different legal theories).) CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES HOA’s motion to strike Plaintiffs’ renewed motion for summary adjudication.    IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: September 28, 2023    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 