 Case Number:  23STCV27404    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  74 Living the
Dream v. Hargrove et al.
Defendants / Cross-Complainants’ Motion
for an Order Compelling Plaintiff to Return Cross-Complainants’ Security
Deposit or, Alternatively Deposit It With the Court
 
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff
Living the Dream, a California Corporation, sued defendants Steven Hargrove and
Jessica Hargrove on November 8, 2023, asserting a single cause of action for
breach of a written lease. Plaintiff alleges it leased Defendants a property
located at 526 Chalette Dr., Beverly Hills, (“the Property”), for a term of one
year beginning May 11, 2023. (Compl., ¶¶ 9-10; Cross-Compl., ¶ 1.)
Defendants agreed to pay monthly rent of $39,000.00. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Defendants
also posted a security deposit of $117,000. (Id., ¶ 11.) As alleged,
Defendants vacated the rented property (“Property”) in August 2023 and stopped
paying rent. (Id., ¶¶ 16-17.) Also, upon retaking possession of the
Property, Plaintiff discovered the Property had suffered damage in excess of
the $117,000.00 security deposit. (Id., ¶¶ 17-19.) Plaintiff
sued.
            On
February 23, 2024, Defendants cross-complained against Plaintiff for (1) breach
of the implied warranty of habitability, (2) breach of the covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, (3) constructive eviction, (4) fraud and deceit,
(5) negligent misrepresentation, and (6) unlawful retention of a security
deposit. Defendants argue Plaintiff misrepresented the Property as a luxury
rental with numerous amenities. (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 8-9.) But when Defendants
moved in, they discovered many or most of the advertised amenities were not
present or not properly maintained. (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 10-19.) The Property also
allegedly suffered from susbtandard conditions such as leaky plumbing and
exposed electrical wiring. (Ibid.)
            On
May 21, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion for an order compelling
Plaintiff to return their security deposit to them or deposit it with the
Court. Defendants argue the security deposit was delivered to Plaintiff as
trustee and Plaintiff’s right to retain it has not been perfected, so it should
be returned or deposited pending a dispositive ruling.
            On
June 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition. On July 1, 2024, Defendants replied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            “When it is
admitted by the pleadings, or shown upon the examination of a party to the
action, that he or she has in his or her possession, or under his or her
control, any money or other thing capable of delivery, which, [1] being the
subject of litigation, is held by him or her as trustee for another party, or
which [2] belongs or which is due to another party or which [3] should,
under the circumstances of the case be held by the court pending final
disposition of the action, the court may order the same, upon motion, to be
deposited in court or delivered to such party, upon those conditions that may
be just, subject to the further direction of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 572,
bracketed numerals and emphasis added.)
 
DISCUSSION  
            It
is undisputed that Plaintiff refused to return Defendants’ $117,000 security
deposit based on the unpaid rent and property damages Plaintiff alleges in its
complaint.
            Defendants
argue Plaintiff could have withheld their security deposit on this basis
if it had complied with the procedures prescribed in Civil Code section 1950.5.
But Plaintiff admits it did not; because it did not, it lost its right to
withhold, and it must return the deposit and seek damages independently after
it returns Defendants’ deposit.
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants cannot satisfy any of the three
disjunctive conditions in Code of Civil Procedure section 572.
            The
Court finds Defendants have satisfied at least the second condition in section
572: that Defendants have demonstrated, or Plaintiffs have conceded, a present
right to the security deposit at issue.
Defendants
have demonstrated, via admissions in Plaintiff’s complaint and in its responses
to discovery, that Plaintiff failed to comply with Civil Code
section 1950.5. Section 1950.5 governs a landlord’s right to withhold a
deposit, which reads (as relevant here):
“No later than 21 calendar days
after the tenant has vacated the premises, ... the landlord shall furnish the
tenant, by personal delivery or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, a copy of
an itemized statement indicating the basis for, and the amount of, any security
received and the disposition of the security, and shall return any remaining
portion of the security to the tenant.”
(Civ. Code, § 1950.5(g)(1).)
            Plaintiff
concedes in its Complaint that it withheld Defendants’ deposit. (Compl., ¶ 19
[seeking damages “less the amount of the security deposit”].) In its discovery
responses, submitted by Defendants in support of their motion, Plaintiff
confirms that it sent them the itemized statement described in section 1950.5
(“1950.5 Statement”) on September 22, 2023, no less than twenty-two days after
Defendants vacated the premises. (See Mot, Exh. C, 4:19-20 [“[T]he itemized
statement of damages was deposited with the US Postal Service on September 22,
2023.”].)
            “If,
within the specified period, the landlord has not provided the tenant with a
written accounting of the portion of the security deposit he plans to retain,
the right to retain all or part of the security deposit under section 1950.5,
subdivision (f), has not been perfected, and he must return the entire deposit
to the tenant.” (Granberry v. Islay Investments (1995) 9 Cal.4th 738, 745
(Granberry).)
            Granberry,
supra, affirms that a landlord may assert a claim for damages – as
Plaintiff does here – whether or not it withholds a deposit. (Ibid.) But
as relevant to this motion, it also holds that the landlord must return the
deposit in the interim if he fails to provide a 1950.5 Statement, whether or
not he decides to sue. Plaintiff did not provide a timely 1950.5 notice; it
must return the deposit, even though it has also sued Defendants.
            As
an evidentiary matter, Plaintiff claims Defendants cannot avail themselves of
Code of Civil Procedure section 572 unless they show Plaintiff “ ‘clearly
admitted ... in [its] pleading’ ” that Defendants are entitled to the deposit.
(Ex parte Elias (1962) 209 Cal.App.2d 262, 273.) Not so. Defendants may
show either that Plaintiff admitted their right to the deposit in his
pleading, or if it has been otherwise “shown in some proceeding in the
cause[.]” (Ibid.)
            Defendants’
evidence shows – and Plaintiff does not factually contest – that Plaintiff did
not provide a timely 1950.5 Statement. Although Plaintiff may eventually
recover as much as or more than the security deposit in damages, it has forfeited
its right to hold the deposit in the interim.
            Defendants’
motion is granted. The Court will order Plaintiff to deliver the balance of
Defendants’ deposit to Defendants and/or their counsel within thirty (30) days
of this ruling.
CONCLUSION 
Defendants’
motion is granted. Plaintiff ordered to deliver the balance of the security
deposit to Defendants and/or their counsel within thirty (30) days of this
ruling.
Plaintiff
shall give notice.