  Case Number:  20STCV03304    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  74 MOVING PARTY:                Defendants
RRM Properties, Ltd. and Robertson’s Ready Mix, Ltd.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority

 
Motion for Leave to Supplement List
of Expert Witnesses
 
The
court considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply in connection with
this motion.
BACKGROUND 
            Plaintiff
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority filed its complaint in
eminent domain against defendants RRM Properties, Ltd.; H.D. Nogle & Sons,
Inc.; Helena A. Hartfield; Frank K. Lyon; Ben Shiffman; William G. Isaac;
Consolidated Rock Products Co.; Calmat Co.; Roberts Ready Mix, Ltd.; and all
persons known or unknown, on January 27, 2020.
            Plaintiff
seeks to acquire various property interests belonging to Defendants according
to its power of eminent domain under the Public Utilities Code, section 130050
et seq., “for the Rosencrans/Marquardt Grade Separation Project and for public
transportation purposes and all uses necessary, incidental or convenient
thereto.” (Compl., ¶ 3 and Exh. 1 [description of property interests].)
            Three
defendants did not answer, and five have been dismissed. The remaining two, RRM
Properties, Ltd. and Robertson’s Ready Mix, Ltd. (together “Defendants”)
answered on March 11, 2020.
            Jury
trial is set for August 19, 2024.
            On
May 23, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion for an order granting leave
to supplement its list of expert witnesses. They seek to designate Michael
Orozco, P.E., a civil engineer employed by RRM, as an expert witness for
examination at trial.
On
June 24, 2024, Plaintiff opposed. On July 1, 2024, Defendants replied.
            
LEGAL STANDARD 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1258.290 governs the amendment of an expert witness
list post-exchange in an eminent domain proceeding. The section permits the
court to grant leave for such an amendment “if the court finds that such party
has made a good faith effort to comply with Sections 1258.210 to 1258.260,
inclusive, that he has complied with Section 1258.270, and that by the date of
exchange he:
(1) Would not in the exercise of
reasonable diligence have determined to call such witness or discovered or
listed such opinion or data; or
(2) Failed to determine to call such
witness or to discover or list such opinion or data through mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1258.290(a).)
            “In
making a determination under [section 1258.290], the court shall take into
account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert
witnesses and statements of valuation data and will be prejudiced if the
witness is called or the testimony concerning such opinion or data is given.” (Id.,
subd. (b).)
            
DISCUSSION  
            1.
Compliance with Sections 1258.210 through 1258.260
            Defendants
argue they made good-faith efforts to comply with Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1258.210 through 1258.260 and have complied with section 1258.270.
Plaintiff does not directly contest their actual compliance prior to the date
of the hearing, and it is not necessary for the Court to examine their
compliance to dispose of this motion. Plaintiff prevails on other grounds – in
particular, Defendants’ failure to exercise diligence, discussed below.
            2.
Reasonable Diligence or Mistake
The
Code requires the Court to find that Defendants could not have uncovered the
need for their proposed expert with due diligence, or that they failed to
initially designate their expert due to mistake, inadvertence, etc. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1258.290(a)(1)-(2).)
Defendants
have not shown either.
Defendants
repeatedly argue they would have produced Orozco as their person most
knowledgeable for deposition, but Plaintiff did not proceed with that
deposition, which Defendants contend shows Defendants “complied in good faith
with the expert exchange statutes”. (Mot., 2:25; Madueno Decl., ¶ 24.) But
Defendants’ willingness to produce Orozco as a PMK (a fact witness) is not the
same as designating him as an expert. Defendants do not explain why Plaintiff
had to take Orozco’s deposition in order for Defendants to identify him as an
expert.
Defendants’
counsel’s declaration establishes that numerous depositions took place – and,
in particular, depositions of other expert witnesses – from at least January 4,
2023. (Madueno Decl., ¶ 10 [“I took the deposition of Metro’s designated
fixtures and equipment appraisal expert”].) Defendants do not explain why, if
as they anticipate Orozco will be testifying as a fact witness, and they had
considered which experts will testify, they did not further designate Orozco as
an expert witness, or did not move to supplement earlier.
In
short, Defendants could have uncovered the need for Orozco’s designation
earlier by exercising due diligence.
Defendants
have also not shown mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
Counsel testifies “[n]either [she] nor [her] office intentionally or knowingly
failed to designate” Orozco as an expert. (Madueno Decl., ¶ 23.) This is not
the standard. Lack of intent is not the same as excusable neglect.
The
Court must make one of the findings described in section 1258.290, subdivisions
(a)(1) and (2), in order to grant Defendants’ motion. The Court cannot do so.
Defendants’ motion must be denied.
 
            3.
Reliance and Prejudice
                        a.
Reliance
            The
statutory date for expert exchange was November 16, 2022, more than eighteen
months ago. Plaintiff has spent a year and a half preparing for trial while
relying on Defendants’ designation list. This reliance is substantial,
particularly given that the case is set for trial only forty-one (41) days from
the date of this ruling.
                        b. Prejudice
            Defendants
apparently intend to call Orozco at trial based on his percipient knowledge of
relevant facts. But Defendants have already designated an expert – James
Roberts – to testify to the opinions he formed based on Orozco’s personal
knowledge. If Orozco is also permitted to testify to the same, Defendants will
be permitted to duplicate their expert testimony and bolster the credibility of
a fact witness, to Plaintiff’s detriment and on short notice.
CONCLUSION
            Based
on the foregoing, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of this ruling.