  Case Number:  19STCV34640    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



JOSE R. ROCALEON, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
HARLEY-DAVIDSON
   MOTOR COMPANY, Inc., et al.
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV34640
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SEAL EVIDENCE IN SUPPORT OF MOTION FOR SUMMARY
   JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   9, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On September 30, 2019, plaintiff Jose
R. Rocaleon (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against defendant Harley-Davidson Motor
Company Group, LLC (“Harley-Davidson”) (erroneously sued as Harley-Davidson
Motor Company, Inc.), TMCHB, Inc. dba Huntington Beach Harley-Davidson
(“TMCHB”) (erroneously sued as The Motorcycle Company, LLC), and Precision
Performance, LLC dba TNT Cycle Works. 
On October 11, 2023, Harley-Davidson
and TMCHB (collectively, “Defendants”) filed this motion to seal evidence
submitted in support of their motion for summary judgment/summary adjudication.
Defendants also filed a redacted version of their motion for summary
judgment/summary adjudication. 
On January 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a brief
opposing this motion to seal. 
On January 11, 2024, Defendants filed a
reply brief in support of their motion to seal. 
On January 19, 2024, the Court
continued this hearing to February 9, 2024, so that Defendants could lodge an
additional copy of the proposed materials to be sealed and file supplemental
evidence. Defendants lodged and filed the Declaration of Leah Orloff and a
supplemental brief on February 2, 2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Pursuant
to California Rules of Court Rule 2.550 the court may seal a record “only if it
expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest
that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding
interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) 
A
“reasoned decision about sealing or unsealing records cannot be made without .
. . (1) identifying the specific information claimed to be entitled to such
treatment; (2) identifying the nature of the harm threatened by disclosure; and
(3) identifying and accounting for countervailing considerations. The burden of
presenting information sufficient to accomplish the first two steps is
logically placed on the party seeking the sealing of the documents, who is
presumptively in the best position to know what disclosures will harm and how.”
(H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 879, 894.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendants
state that “[c]ourts should find business information confidential and entitled
to protection from public view where the party asserting confidentiality has
taken measures to guard the information’s secrecy and where the material
contains information valuable to the business or its competitors.” (Motion, p. 4.)
Defendants
filed a supplemental declaration from Leah Orloff which attached five exhibits
(“Supplemental Orloff Declaration” or “Supp. Orloff Decl.”). In the Supplemental
Orloff Declaration, Leah Orloff, a Principle Engineer in Product Integrity at
the Harley-Davidson Product Development Center, describes multiple documents
which she states contain proprietary instruction, including: a pre-delivery
inspection checklist for the motorcycle at issue in this action (2018 FXLR)
regarding the preparation of motorcycles for delivery (Ex. AA), engineering
drawings and seat renderings for the 2018 FXLR (Ex. BB-CC), and a durability
test report for the 2018 FXLR (Ex. EE). Orloff states that these documents are
highly sensitive and would place Harley-Davidson at a competitive disadvantage
if they were available in the public record. (Supp. Orloff Decl., ¶ 4.) Orloff
also states that certain information regarding Harley-Davidson’s manufacturing
process, design, and warranty search refer specifically to the sequential steps
that are taken to develop the 2018 FXLR and bring the motorcycle to market. (Supp.
Orloff Decl., ¶ 5.) Orloff states that the information and evidence is
maintained with the strictest confidence within the Harley-Davidson
organization and by its manufacturers and suppliers, and that access to this confidential
information is limited to prevent it from entering the public domain. (Supp. Orloff
Decl., ¶ 8.) 
The
Court must identify the specific information to be sealed in order to grant
Defendants’ motion to seal. (H.B. Fuller Co. v. Doe (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 879, 894 [reasoned decision about sealing or unsealing records
cannot be made without identifying the specific information claimed to be
entitled to such treatment].) The notice of Defendants’ motion to seal
requested an order sealing unspecified “portions of” their summary judgment
motion’s memorandum of points and authorities and separate statement of
undisputed facts as well as the entire declaration of Leah Orloff in Support of
their summary judgment (“Orloff MSJ Declaration”) and the attached exhibits.
That is why the Court previously ordered Defendants to file an amended notice
identifying each proposed item to be sealed. The Court will not scour through more
than a hundred pages in search of a redaction, then cross-reference another
hundred pages to determine whether the proposed redaction is appropriate,
especially when the entire motion is submitted as one exhibit without physical
tabs or electronic bookmarks distinguishing the memorandum of points and
authorities, declarations and their exhibits, and the separate statement.  
But
even if an amended notice was filed, there are several substantive issues with
the motion to seal. First, the Supplemental Orloff Declaration is too
conclusory to justify a sealing order. Orloff provides no facts regarding the
steps purportedly taken to keep this information confidential or that access to
this information is actually limited, such as using password-protected
databases or requiring employees to nondisclosure agreements. 
Second,
the Court is unable to conclude that the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored.
For example, Defendants request “portions of” the Orloff MSJ Declaration to be
sealed, but there are entire pages of the declaration which are redacted. Similarly,
Exhibit AA is 28 pages long and is completely redacted. The Court and Plaintiff
cannot avoid referring to entire Exhibit AA or most of Orloff’s declaration when
discussing Defendants’ summary judgment motion. (CRC 2.551(c).) Defendants must
make some effort to identify the specific information which it truly finds confidential.
For example, whether the motorcycle seat is composed of one or several pieces
of foam is not “confidential and proprietary information”, whereas the
composition of that foam or the purpose of the seat’s design might qualify. The
Court will not permit large swathes of this dispositive motion to be filed
under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the parties. (CRC
2.551(a).) 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
In light of the foregoing, the hearing
is continued once more to _________________. Defendants are to file an amended
notice of motion identifying each particular item within their motion for
summary judgment and supporting documents which they propose to be sealed. The
notice of motion shall serve as an index for the Court to review the proposed
items to be sealed. Each item shall be described by document, page, and line
(or exhibit and line and Bates-number, if applicable). For example, if there
are specific lines in the separate statement of undisputed facts that are to be
sealed, Defendants shall state: Separate Statement, page number at line numbers.
A more substantive declaration from an individual with personal knowledge must
also be submitted to address each item specifically and explain why sealing of
that particular item is necessary. A proposed order incorporating this index
shall also be filed with the Court together with a version of that proposed
order in Word format.
At its next hearing the Court will address
whether the proposed items identified in this amended notice, and only such
items, should be sealed. If Defendants – in the course of their preparation of
this index – determine upon reflection that any part of their motion need not
or cannot be sealed, Defendants shall omit any description of that part from
the amended notice. 
If an amended notice of motion is not
filed least five days before the date of the hearing, the motion will be denied
without prejudice and all lodged copies will be returned to Defendants. (CRC
2.551(b)(6).) 
 
Dated
this 9th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances
at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the
final order or place the motion off calendar.
 