 Case Number:  22AHCV00871    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LYCO 1, LLC, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MICHAEL
   CHENG, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00871
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR AN OSC RE: CONTEMPT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
February
   9, 2024




 


 


 



 
          On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff Lyco 1,
LLC filed this motion for an order to Truong Ngoc (“Ngoc”) to show cause why
Ngoc should not be held in contempt for willfully disobeying a deposition
subpoena. The deposition subpoena was issued to Ngoc on August 30, 2023, and
personally served on her on September 7, 2023. The deposition was scheduled for
September 28, 2023. It is undisputed that Ngoc did not appear for her
deposition. 
On February 1, 2024, Ngoc filed a
“response” to this motion, in which her attorney, Dan Hogue, states that Ngoc’s
failure to attend the deposition was due to his understanding that the
deposition would not be proceeding. 
Mr. Hogue explains that on September
13, 2023, he conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel, Shun C. Chen, in preparation
of a joint status conference statement. (Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 7.) Mr. Hogue
states that he had informed Plaintiff’s counsel of a preexisting mediation
commitment on September 28, 2023, and that he would be unavailable for Ngoc’s
deposition. (Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 7.) Following this, the parties did not
discuss whether the deposition would proceed. (Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 8.) 
On November 21, 2023, Ngoc filed a
cross-complaint. 
On December 20, 2023, Mr. Chen sent an
e-mail to Mr. Hogue requesting to schedule the depositions of Ngoc and
defendant/cross-complainant Michael Cheng for January 5 and January 8, 2024. (Response,
Hogue Decl., Ex. D.) However, Mr. Hogue soon experienced various medical
issues. Following the week of Christmas, Mr. Hogue began experiencing flu-/cold-like
symptoms. (Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 11.) Mr. Hogue consulted with his primary
doctor because Mr. Hogue had a history of pneumonia and on January 3, 2024, Mr.
Hogue advised Mr. Chen of his condition and inability to accommodate the
depositions on January 5 and January 8, 2024. (Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 14.)
Mr. Chen acknowledged Mr. Hogue’s unavailability and wished him a swift
recovery. (Response, Hogue Decl., Ex. E.) On January 5, 2024, Mr. Hogue was
informed by his primary doctor that his symptoms were consistent with those for
respiratory syncytial virus (“RSV”) and instructed to limit his activities.
(Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 15.) 
Upon Mr. Hogue’s return to work, Mr.
Hogue learned that Michael Cheng had also been experiencing severe health concerns
including hospitalization for and recovery from abdominal surgery, with a
second surgery scheduled on February 2, 2024, for pancreatic cancer. (Response,
Hogue Decl., ¶ 16.) 
Mr. Hogue also states that Ngoc is an
82-year-old woman in poor health who has been advised by her cardiologist to
avoid unnecessary stress. (Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 17.) Mr. Hogue requests
that any scheduled deposition “show appropriate concern for her age and medical
condition, such as limited the number of hours per day she will be required to
testify.” (Response, Hogue Decl., ¶ 17.) 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief objecting to the untimeliness of Ngoc’s “response” and requesting
that the Court “order Ngoc to appear for a deposition on a date certain.”
(Reply, pp. 2-3.) Plaintiff states that reasonable accommodations will be
provided. (Reply, p. 3.) 
Personal service of any deposition
subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of California to:
personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any
specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the subpoena so
specifies. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).) A deponent who disobeys
a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the necessity of a
prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness. (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2020.240.)
          The Court
exercises its discretion to consider Ngoc’s untimely response and, as an
initial matter, questions the necessity of Plaintiff’s motion. The parties
apparently discussed whether Mr. Hogue’s was available on September 28, 2023, concluded
that he was not, and there is no indication of Plaintiff’s intent to proceed
with the deposition after this discussion. Furthermore, in early January, the
parties were already making efforts to schedule Ngoc and Michael Cheng’s
depositions. 
Therefore, instead of issuing an OSC
re: contempt, the Court orders Ngoc to comply with the deposition subpoena and
appear for her deposition within the next 30 days. The Court expects the
parties to meet and confer regarding a future deposition date for Ngoc and any
reasonable accommodations that may be required. If the parties fail to agree on
those accommodations, Ngoc may file a motion for a protective order. 
 
Dated
this 9th
day of February, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.