 Case Number:  23STCV15996    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
23, 2024                                                TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Alex Aguilera
v. We Pack It All, LLC, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV15996
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
WePackItAll, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Alex
Aguilera 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
In February 2020, WePackItAll, LLC[1]
hired Plaintiff Alex Aguilera (“Aguilera” or “Plaintiff”) as a mechanic.  WePackItAll hired Plaintiff through staff
agency Partners Personnel – Management Services (“PPMS”).  While employed with WePackItAll, Aguilera
suffered various hand injuries which required accommodations.  After the first injury, WePackItAll did not
accommodate Aguilera.  He continued
working in the same manner and fashion prior to the injury.  As a result, Aguilera suffered a second hand
injury.  WePackItAll did not offer Aguilera
any alternative light duty jobs. 
Aguilera later suffered a third, more serious hand injury.  Aguilera returned to work with work
restrictions.  However, instead of
accommodating Aguilera, WePackItAll terminated his employment on the grounds the
company could not accommodate Aguilera’s restrictions.  
On July 7, 2023, Aguilera filed a Complaint against
Defendants, WePackItAll and PPMS, alleging causes of action for:
1.     
Disability Discrimination (Govt. Code § 12940, et seq.)
2.     
Retaliation (Govt. Code § 12940(h)) 
3.     
Failure to Accommodate (Gov. Code §12940(m)) 
4.     
Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process (Govt.
Code § 12940(n)) 
5.     
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation
(Govt. Code § 12940(k)) 
6.     
Retaliation (Labor Code §1102.5 et seq.).            
On September 28, 2023, PPMS filed a motion to
compel arbitration.  The court granted
the motion on October 31, 2023 and stayed the action as to all parties pending
the arbitration.  In granting the motion,
the court found the arbitration agreement was not unconscionable. 
On January 23, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Proof of Personal Service indicated that WePackItAll was
served with the Summons and Complaint by personal service on January 9, 2024.  
On February 26, 2024,
WePackItAll filed its Answer to the Complaint. 
The Answer asserts an affirmative defense that Plaintiff’s claims are
subject to binding arbitration. 
On February 27, 2024,
WePackItAll filed this Motion to Compel Arbitration.  On March 15, 2024, filed an amended Motion to
Compel Arbitration which also requests an order consolidating the arbitration
between Plaintiff and WePack ItAll with the pending arbitration between
Plaintiff and PPMS.  
Plaintiff filed an
opposition.  WePackItAll replied. 
II.        DISCUSSION
            
WePackItAll
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims as a third party beneficiary
of the arbitration agreement, and for an order consolidating the arbitration
proceedings between Plaintiff, PPMS, and WePackItAll.  
There is no dispute WePackItAll is a third-party
beneficiary of the agreement or that the agreement covers Plaintiff’s claims
against WePackItAll.  And it is the same
agreement signed by and between PPMS and Plaintiff, which was the subject of
the litigation with PPMS.  
Plaintiff opposes
the motion on two grounds: the agreement is unconscionable and WePackItAll
waived its right to compel arbitration.  
 
Unconscionability

 
“Under California law, collateral
estoppel - issue preclusion-- applies only if: (1) the issue sought to be
precluded from relitigation is identical to that decided in a former
proceeding; (2) the issue was actually litigated in the former proceeding; (3)
the issue was necessarily decided in the former proceeding; (4) the decision in
the former proceeding [was] final and on the merits; (5) the party against whom
preclusion is sought [is] the same as, or in privity with, the party to the
former proceeding.”  (Lucido v.
Superior Court (1990) 51 Cal. 3d 335, 341.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff is precluded from
relitigating whether the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  On October 31,
2023, the court granted PPMS’s motion to compel arbitration.  In granting the motion, the court found that
a valid arbitration agreement existed which covered Plaintiff’s claims.  (See Minute Order, 10/31/23.)  The issue of whether the agreement was
unconscionable was litigated in this action .  The court considered Plaintiff’s
argument that the arbitration agreement was procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.  (Minute Order,
10/31/23.)  The court found “that the Agreement
possesses a moderate level of procedural unconscionability” and that “Plaintiff
has not shown any substantive unconscionability.”  (Id.)  The court concluded, “Because both substantive
and procedural components of unconscionability need to be present, Plaintiff
has not shown the contract was unconscionable.” 
WePackItAll now seeks to preclude Plaintiff (the same party) from relitigating whether this
arbitration agreement is unconscionable. 
All elements of issue preclusion are satisfied.   Plaintiff is estopped from arguing against the
enforceability of the arbitration agreement on the grounds of
unconscionability.   
            
            Waiver
 
            Plaintiff next argues that
WePackItAll waived its right to arbitrate by waiting nearly eight months after
the Complaint was filed to seek arbitration. 

In St. Agnes v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31
Cal.4th 1187, 1196, the California Supreme Court adopted a multi-factor test
from the Tenth Circuit opinion in Peterson v. Shearson/American Express,
Inc. (10th Cir. 1988) 849 F.2d 464 wherein a court may consider: (1)
whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2)
whether the “litigation machinery has been substantially invoked” and the
parties “were well into preparation of a lawsuit” before the party notified the
opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested
arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period
before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a
counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings: (5) whether
important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial
discovery procedures not available in¿arbitration] had taken place; and (6)
whether the delay affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party.¿ (Peterson,
supra, 849 F.2d at pp. 467-68; St. Agnes, at p. 1196.) ¿¿However,
following the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in Morgan, courts may no
longer condition a determination of waiver on prejudice.¿ (See Morgan, supra,
at p. 1713.)¿ The remaining Peterson factors are proper considerations
in the waiver inquiry.¿ (Davis, supra, at p. 963.)¿  
            Here, the court finds WePackItAll did
not waive its right to arbitrate.  First,
although nearly eight months separate the filing of this motion and Plaintiff’s
Complaint, Plaintiff did not serve WePackItAll with the Complaint until January
9, 2024.  This motion followed seven
weeks later.  In that short
period, WePackItAll filed its Answer, this motion, and the reply in support of this
motion.  Plaintiff does not show how such
scant activity “invokes the litigation machinery.”  The answer, of course, is that Defendant has not.  Plaintiff does not raise any other arguments
or provide any evidence to support a finding of waiver. 
 
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
WePackItAll’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED.  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.3, the arbitration between WePackItAll and Plaintiff is consolidated with
the arbitration proceedings between Plaintiff and PPMS.  
 
The Post-Arbitration Status Conference is CONTINUED to December
18, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. 
 
The Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default as to We Pack
it All, LLC is DISCHARGED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   April 23, 2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


