 Case Number:  22STCV15404    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  B 


DEPT: 
 


B




OSC DATE:
 


07/12/2024




CASE NAME/NUMBER:
 


22STCV15404 INTERINSURANCE
  EXCHANGE OF THE AUTOMOBILE CLUB




REQUEST FOR COURT JUDGMENT
  AGAINST [DEFAULTING PARTY]:
 


Gilbert Oscar Munoz



 
TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiff Interinsurance Exchange
of The Automobile Club (“Plaintiff”) filed this subrogation action against
defendants Gilbert Oscar Munoz, Bonnie Maureen Munoz and Does 1 through 10 for
damages Plaintiff paid to its insured, arising from a motor vehicle collision.
Plaintiff alleges that prior to commencing the action, it had paid to the
insured the sum of $38,348.27. 
 
Plaintiff has dismissed defendants
Bonnie Maureen Munoz and Does 1 to 10. Plaintiff now seeks court default
judgment against the sole remaining defendant, Gilbert Oscar Munoz
(“Defendant”), the principal amount of $38,348.27 for uninsured motorist benefits
paid/property damage, $4,758.34 in interest, and $575 in costs. Plaintiff
submits the declarations of its counsel, its insured, and its custodian of
records in support thereof. 
 
On April 18, 2024, the Court denied
default judgment for the following reasons: 
 
Plaintiff submits the declaration
of Dwight Clifford (“Clifford”) Clifford provides that he is the custodian of
records and subrogation examiner for State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance
Company (“State Farm”), which he refers to as the “Plaintiff” in this action.
However, the plaintiff in this action is Interinsurance Exchange of The
Automobile Club, not State Farm. There is no explanation provided regarding the
relationship between State Farm and Plaintiff, such that Clifford’s declaration
attesting to the damages incurred by State Farm would be applicable to
Plaintiff. 
 
Further, the Court notes the
complaint provides that Plaintiff’s insured was George Sansan, who was the
owner of the motor vehicle and under which a policy was issued by Plaintiff to
insured George Sansan and occupants. (Compl. at ¶ 4.) However, Plaintiff
submits the declaration of Jocelyn Perez Sasan, who declares she was driving
her vehicle, when Defendant rear-ended her. The declaration does not properly
explain the relationship between Jocelyn Perez Sansan, George Sansan alleged in
the complaint, and the relevant insurance policy. 
 
Plaintiff must resolve the
discrepancies before the Court is able to grant the request for default
judgment. 
 
The Court ordered Plaintiff to
submit a new default judgment package correcting these defects no later than
June 3, 2024. The Court stated, “[f]ailure to do so may result in the
imposition of sanctions, including monetary sanctions and/or dismissal.” 
 
Although past the June 3, 2024
deadline, on June 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the new default judgment
application. 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff has
corrected the deficiencies. For instance, Plaintiff filed an amended
declaration of the custodian of records, Dwight Clifford where he provides that
he is the custodian of records and subrogation examiner for Interinsurance
Exchange of the Automobile Club (“Interinsurance”), which he now refers to as
the “Plaintiff” in this action. 
 
Moreover, Clifford further states
“PLAINTIFF issued an automobile insurance policy to George Sasan
("INSURED"), more specifically known as policy number CAA076332069
(the "policy" ). The policy period covered the date of March 28, 2020.
Pursuant to the terms of the policy, PLAINTIFF was obligated to indemnify
INSURED for damages incurred to INSURED' vehicle and for bodily injuries
sustained by Jocelyn Perez Sasan ("JOCELYN").” (Clifford Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
Clifford also states “PLAINTIFF was
informed by INSURED that INSURED's vehicle was involved in an accident on March
28, 2020. At the tIme of the accident, INSURED's vehicle was operated by
JOCELYN. PLAINTIFF later ascertained that the other party involved in the
accident was Defendant Gilbert Oscar Munoz ("DEFENDANT"). PLAINTIFF
determined that DEFENDANT was the driver and the owner of the other vehicle,
based on information submitted by INSURED and the Traffic Accident Report.” (Id.
at ¶ 3.)
 
Nevertheless, the Court notes that
Plaintiff failed to file Proof of Service that the new default judgment
application was properly served. 
 
Accordingly, the default judgment
application is denied without prejudice for failure to provide Proof of
Service. 
 