 Case Number:  21STCV41938    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  B Tentative Ruling
Judge Karen moskowitz

Department B

Hearing Date:                         Friday, July 12, 2024
Case Name:                             Maria
Ventura Tzui v. Ricardo Garcia Majanc
Case No.:                                21STCV41938
Motion:                                   Motion to Set
Aside Default
Moving Party:                         Defendant Ricardo
Garcia Majanc
Responding Party:                   Unopposed
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motion
to Set Aside Default is GRANTED.
 
Defendant to give
notice.
 

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On November 11, 2021, Plaintiff
Maria Ventura Tzul (“Tzul”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Ricardo Garcia
Majanc (“Majanc”) for a single cause of action for negligence and praying for
relief for bodily injuries resulting from an alleged vehicular collision
occurring on November 14, 2019 in a Home Depot Parking lot. 
On March 15, 2024, Plaintiff Tzul filed a
CIV-100, requesting an entry of default against Defendant Majanc. Default was
subsequently entered on March 18, 2024.
On May 14, 2024, Defendant Majanc filed
the instant Motion to Set Aside Default which also requests a Motion to Quash
Service of Summons, and for Leave to Defend Action Pursuant to CCP 473(b) and
(d); 473.5(a), and 418.10(a)(1) (“Mot.”). Defendant also concurrently filed the
Declarations of Ricardo Garcia Majanc (“Majanc Decl.”) and Arnold J. Alban,
Defendant’s attorney (“Alban Decl.”), followed by filing a Proposed Order on
May 17, 2024.
No Opposition has been filed.
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
            Set Aside Default
 
CCP § 473.5 states:
 
(a) When service of a summons has not resulted
in actual notice to a party in time to defend the action and a default or
default judgment has been entered against him or her in the action, he or she
may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice of motion shall be
served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the
earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her;
or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered.
(b) A notice of motion to set aside a default
or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the
time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section
1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the
party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by
his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve
and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed
to be filed in the action.
(c) Upon a finding by the court that the
motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or
her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or
her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default
or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to
defend the action.
 
Further, a “default
judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the
manner prescribed by statute is void. Under § 473(d), the court may set aside a
default judgment which is valid on its face, but void, as a matter of law, due
to improper service.”  (Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
540, 544.)  Where service is challenged,
the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the facts requisite to an effective
service.  (Lebel v. Mai (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 1154, 1160.)
The California Supreme Court has held the
following: 
Section 473 is often applied liberally where
the party in default moves promptly to seek relief, and the party opposing the
motion will not suffer prejudice if relief is granted. [Citations.] In such
situations “very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in setting
aside the default.” [Citations.] [¶] Moreover, because the law strongly favors
trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be
resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. [Citations.] Therefore,
a trial court order denying relief is scrutinized more carefully than an order
permitting trial on the merits. (Elston
v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233-34.)
Application to Facts
In the instant
case, Plaintiff claims service occurred upon Defendant Majanc on August 29, 2023,
and that Proof of Service with respect to the same was filed with this court on
August 29, 2023. The Los Angeles Superior Court case summary reflects that
Proof of Service by Substituted Service was filed by Plaintiff Tzul on August
29, 2023. Subsequently, a responsive pleading was due in September 2023. However,
Defendant declares that although the subject accident occurred on November 14,
2019, Defendant Majanc purchased the vehicle from a Mr. Gregorio Gomez (now
deceased) during 2016 and was subsequently paying off the vehicle purchase from
him. (Majanc Decl., ¶ 2.) As such, the title remained unchanged with the
Department of Motor Vehicles until it was updated in April 2021. (Id.)
Majanc declares his address for the past twelve years is:
 1723 James M. Woods Boulevard, Apt 116, Los
Angeles, California, 90015. (Id.)
Yet, the Proof of
(Substituted) Service indicates service was made at:
 2175 Liberty St NE Salem, OR 97301-8353.
(Alban Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 2.)
 Majanc declares he has never lived in Oregon
and, thus, suspects that the summons and complaint were improperly served upon
subject vehicle’s prior owner, Gregorio Gomez. (Id.) Moreover, Majanc
denies any knowledge or notice of this action, the filing thereof or of
purported service at any time prior to the March 15, 2024, default. (Majanc
Decl., ¶ 2.) Accordingly, Defendant now requests the Court grant Defendant’s
motion for relief pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 473.5
because Defendant has received no actual notice of the action in time to defend
himself against Plaintiff’s action. (Mot., 6.) Defendant also requests that the
Court quash service of the summons due to lack of service and jurisdiction. 
Here, the Court
finds that Defendant has filed the instant motion within a reasonable time, not
exceeding either two years after entry or default on March 18, 2024, or 180
days after Defendant was served with written notice that the default judgement
had been entered. Thus, the instant motion is timely in accordance with CCP §
473.5. 
Secondly,
Defendant Majanc has properly accompanied the instant motion with an affidavit
demonstrating his lack of actual notice in time to defend himself from the
action and that such lack of actual notice was not due to avoidance of service
or inexcusable neglect. (See Majanc Declaration.) This is further evidenced by
the fact that the substituted service was made in Oregon at an address not
associated with Defendant. Moreover, Defendant has declared that his place of
residence has been in Los Angeles for the past twelve (12) years and that he
has never lived in Oregon. (Majanc Decl., ¶ 2.) Additionally, Defendant has
attached a copy of the Answer (Ex.3) and the Complaint (Ex. 1), along with the
POS-010 of the substituted service made at “2175 Liberty Ste NE, Salem, OR
97301-8353 (Ex. 1). (Majanc Decl., Exs. 1-3.)
Thus, Defendant
has made the necessary showings required under CCP 473.5. Moreover, the Court
finds that the law strongly favors a disposition of a trial on the merits.
Given Defendant contends prejudice will not result and that Plaintiff Tzul has
not opposed the instant motion, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion to Set
Aside Default and GRANTS Defendant Leave to defend the instant action.
With respect to
Defendant’s request for the Court to Quash Service of Summons, the Court
reminds Defendant that pursuant to Government Code § 70617(a)(4), a filing fee
and separate motion request is required for each motion application or any
other paper or request requiring a hearing. Nevertheless, the Court’s findings
on the instant motion effectively void Plaintiff’s proof of service of summons.
Thus, Defendant need not request or move the Court to quash service as summons,
as the instant ruling effectively does so. 
CONCLUSION
            The Motion to Set Aside Default is GRANTED.
Defendant Majanc to give notice.
            