  Case Number:  22STCV26437    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee
S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT¿AND SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
Hearing Date: 11/21/24 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV26437 EMILY CECILIA MCCUE vs CITY OF PICO
RIVERA
Moving Party: Defendant City of Pico Rivera 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: DENIED
 
Background
This case arises out of
a wrongful death that occurred on November 23, 2021, in which Decedent Craig
McCue ("Decedent") was riding his motorcycle along on Rooks Road in
Pico Rivera, California. Decedent lost control of his motorcycle after allegedly
encountering debris in the roadway and ultimately crashed into a stand-alone
and unprotected concrete K-rail. (See First
Amended Complaint at ¶ 11.) 
Legal Standard 
 
In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿(Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to
make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿(Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿A defendant moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿If the moving party
fails to carry its burden, the inquiry is over, and the motion must be denied.
(See Id.; see also Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.)¿Even if the moving
party does carry its burden, the non-moving party will still defeat the motion
by presenting evidence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849-50.) 
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot
be established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient
for the defendant to merely point out the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura
(2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿The defendant “must
also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain evidence to
support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The supporting
evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff
cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro
Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
 
The court must “liberally construe
the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”¿(Yanowitz v.
L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.) “On a summary judgment motion, the court must
therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder
could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the
evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function
is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is
in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna
Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿Further, “the trial
court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine
whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may the trial
court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility.
[Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.
Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding
motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence
but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and
draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
 
Evidentiary Ruling
 
The Parties did not make any objections to evidence
that were material to the Court’s ruling. (CCP § 437c(q).)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff presents two
theories under which the County could be held liable: the presence of debris in
the roadway and the placement of the K-rail. If either theory presents a
triable issue of fact, summary judgment is not appropriate.  
Liability Based on the
K-Rail
Defendant contends it
did not own or control the K-rail.  It
contends the K-rail is owned and controlled by the federal government. 
Defendant makes
seemingly contradictory allegations in its Separate Statement on the issue of
control. Defendant first argues that the City does not own, control or have any
record of placing the K-rails. (UMF 25-27.) Defendant further asserts that
Rooks Road, where the subject K-rail is located, is owned by the federal
government and is part of the Whittier Narrows Flood Control Basin. (UMF 29.)
However, Defendant then
states that the City had a lease agreement with the federal government to use
Rooks Road and other nearby areas for recreational purposes at the time of the
incident. (UMF 30.) Defendant acknowledges that the City agreed to maintain
Rooks Road as part of this lease agreement. (UMF 31.) Notably, the lease
agreement and license did not expire until September 5, 2022, which is well
after the incident occurred. (UMF 32.)
On one hand, then, Defendant
claims it lacked ownership or control over the area where the subject K rail is
located. On the other hand, it acknowledges a lease agreement granting it use
of and responsibility to maintain the subject location. 
Defendant has failed to
distinguish how its admitted duty to maintain Rooks Road does not constitute
control over the subject K-rail, which is located on Rooks Road. Defendant
offers no explanation as to how ensuring the proper placement of the K-rail or
providing protective measures at its end would fall outside its maintenance
obligations. The Court finds that Defendant had  control over the K-rail based on its
maintenance responsibilities. Defendant has thus failed to meet its initial burden.
Plaintiff’s Evidence Re
Triable Issue of Fact
Plaintiff provided evidence
shedding more light on Defendant’s duty to maintain the subject premises.
Paragraph 10 of the operative license agreement between the federal government
and the City of Pico Rivera states that the grantee, City of Pico Rivera,
“shall keep the Premises in good order and in a clean, safe condition by and at
the expense of the grantee.” (Mandell Dec. ¶ 3; Exh. 4 to Negrete Depo. [Exh.
A].)
Additionally, the
City’s person most knowledgeable (PMK), during her deposition, confirmed that
the City is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the roadway under
the lease agreement, including the subject K-rail.
When questioned about
the City’s authority to control the roadway, including the K-rails, the City’s
PMK testified:
Q: "I'm
simply saying in the judgment of the city. If, in the judgment of the city,
there was a dangerous condition along that roadway, including the placement or
positioning of those K-rails, the city was well within its rights, under that
lease agreement, to address it the way it deemed appropriate; true?"
A: "Yeah. As an example, if the K-rail was in the middle of the
roadway, yes, the city would definitely move that K-rail out of the roadway,
yes."
Q: "Okay. I’m
not asking for a specific instance. Okay. If the city – let’s just take the
K-Rails that are there, and if the city felt that the K-Rails should be moved,
for any reason, for any reason, the city had the right to do that; true?"
A:
"Per the agreement, yes." 
(Negrete Depo.
81:22-84:10.)
Based on the license
agreement and the City’s PMK testimony, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
raised a triable issue of fact regarding whether Defendant exercised control
over the subject K-rail. Because Defendant's sole argument against Plaintiff's
theory of liability on the basis of the placement of the K-rail rests on the
issue of control, summary judgment is denied.[1]
Summary Adjudication
In the alternative, Defendant
seeks summary adjudication on the following issues:

Issue
     No. 1: Plaintiff Emily McCue has not and cannot establish that Defendant
     City of Pico Rivera created the alleged dangerous condition or had actual
     notice of the alleged condition.
Issue
     No. 2: Plaintiff Emily McCue has not and cannot establish that Defendant
     City of Pico Rivera had actual notice of the debris.
Issue
     No. 3: Plaintiff Emily McCue has not and cannot establish that Defendant
     City of Pico Rivera had constructive notice of the debris.
Issue
     No. 4: Plaintiff Emily McCue has not and cannot establish that Defendant
     City of Pico Rivera owned or controlled the K-rails along Rooks Road.

Under Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c(f)(1), “[a] party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.”
The legislative history
of the summary adjudication statute is consistent with this limitation. Before
the 1990 amendment to the summary adjudication statute, parties could seek
summary adjudication on any issues raised in a case. The 1990 amendment
restricted such motions to causes of action, affirmative defenses, claims for
punitive damages, or issues of duty. This amendment was proposed by the
California Judges Association, which emphasized that “it is a waste of court
time to attempt to resolve issues if the resolution of those issues will not
result in summary adjudication of a cause of action or affirmative defense.” (Paramount
Petroleum Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 226, 241–242.)
Here, the four issues
raised by Defendant do not completely dispose of a cause of action, an
affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. Plaintiff has
introduced two theories of liability: one based on the K-rails and the other on
the debris. The Court has already determined that Defendant has failed to meet
its burden and Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact regarding the K-rails,
meaning that Plaintiff’s cause of action survives on this basis alone. As a
result, the issues raised by Defendant regarding the debris do not resolve the
entire issue of duty or completely dispose of Plaintiff’s cause of action. Accordingly,
Defendant’s request for summary adjudication on these issues is piecemeal in
nature and unnecessary for the court to resolve.
Conclusion
For the foregoing reasons, the motion for summary
judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication is denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of the email must
include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the
identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should assume that others may
appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 


